@@704628

txt The diplomatic struggle for political and economic control of the Balkans between the Allies and Germany has sharply increased in intensity this week . The importance of Southeast Europe as a possible alternative route for an Allied attack upon Germany has become clearer . And at the same time the Reich views this area as a continuingly vital source of supplies , enabling it to escape the worst hardships of the blockade . At this moment Germany is leading the struggle . ? The reason is that it has concentrated more attention and propaganda in the Balkans and the Danube basin . The Allies have only treated the Balkans-spasmodically and half-heartedly because of their greater interest elsewhere . Moreover , there was a long-held assumption in some official quarters that Germany might thus unobtrusively obtain the prestige it so vociferously demanded as a great power , and thereby become " satisfied " and settle down . New British Steps The British action yesterday in setting up the " English Commercial Corporation " as the spearhead of the new trade and barter drive in Southeastern Europe indicates the.seriousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be registered April 15 with Viscount Swinton , former Air Minister , as its Chairman . But there are three aspects of the Company 's operations which show the role which it will play . Although it will operate as an independent commercial entity , it will be financed by the Treasury . Its policies will be subject to general review by the Government . And it is envisaged not merely as a war measure , but as a permanent arm of British economic interest . The intensification , meanwhile , of the Nazi drive in Balkan capitals has brought clearly to Allied at , tention the fact that Germany 's effort is nothing less than an at , tempt to control Southeast Europe I without fighting . It is annexation without resort to arms . The main weapons used are diplomacy and propaganda  --  between which there 1 is but a very thin line in Nazi practice . Germany 's Setup Throughout Southeastern Europe Germany has established at each of its Embassies or Legations a number of special sections concerned with political , military , economic , propaganda , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutes in fact a kind of " shadow cabinet " which watches carefully every move in its particular country , judging it from viewpoint of Germany 's interests . Staffs at most Legations have been considerably increased in the last few months . For example , the German Legation in Bucharest formerly had a staff of 40 now has 250 . ' The influence of this type of " control " is often so great that word from the Legation to leaders of the country concerned has proved capable of producing either the abandonment of an announced policy or its alteration to pro-German ' ends . Close Check Made . In addition , a widespread espionage system extends through each individual country . Information is supplied by many non-diplomatic agents , including contact men in all important places , especially in propaganda centers such as local newspapers and radio stations . ThA disruptive work is helped considerably by the German minorities in all these countries , which are utilized to serve ends of the Third Reich . These ends are temporarily to keep the Balkans out of war and to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials which Germany can not import from other places because of the Allied blockade . The Nazis ' undoubtedly hoped that a joint German-Italb-Russian agreement on the essential importance of Balkan peace could have been proclaimed after the Hitler-Mussolini meeting at the Brenner Pass , and they believed that such a statement would have checked Allied activity there . Sympathy , But No Help Both Italy and Russia were sympathetic but unhelpful , and neither showed any enthusiasm for a joint declaration . Consequently , Germany is today more fearful of a fight on two fronts , a possibility which Herr Hitler 's own General Staff is anxious to avoid at all costs . It was to prevent such a possibility that the Russo-German Treaty of Aug. 24 , 1938 , was negotiated . But Herr Hitler must move very carefully , since any overstraining or pressure on these Balkan countries may well be a tactical mistake which would give the Allies an opportunity they could use to the fullest advantage . The German General Staff is seriously concerned lest a false move , might give the Allies an opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is known that the Allied armies in the Near East are a formidable force to be reckoned with . Meanwhile the British and French diplomatic representatives from Italy and the Balkans have been recalled to London and Paris for discussions on the situation in the Balkans . One outcome is expected to be more serious efforts to reduce the volume of Balkan exports to Germany . This is to be accomplished by the ' Allies- themselves buying more from these Balkan countries . It is difficult to see what else can be momentarily accomplished . Germany has been for generations the natural market for the products of Southeastern Europe . The industrial Reich could exchange its manufactures for Balkan agricultural produce to the benefit of both sides . Such development , if allowed to proceed naturally , could only be in the general interest . But with the accession to power of the Nazis it became a one-sided affair , especially when their concentration upon feverish rearmament impoverished the Third Reich and made its leaders resort to barter agreements , which chained the weaker partners to German policy as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these smaller and much weaker countriesis also enforced and continued by diplomatic and propaganda pressure , with ever-present threats of stronger measures and the example of Austria , Czechoslovakia , and Poland ever before their eyes . For the Balkan peoples have always feared that Germany will seek to realize its plans for extension of its " Lebensraum " throughout that part of the continent . Against this background the problem of plugging the holes in the blockade against Germany is seen as a difficult matter indeed . But if the new moves which the Allies are undertaking are to be effective in preventing supplies reaching Germany from neutral countries then , in the opinion of many observers here , the key point to the economic counter attack lies through Italy . ? Germany 's trade negotiator , Dr. Karl Clodius ; had his first interview with Finance Minister Mititza Constantinescu . They were understood to have discussed establishing a higher clearing value for the mark to give Germany more for its money , Support fOr Allies ANKARA , Turkey , April 5 ( MA Turkish newspaper said yesterday that Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from ultimate German domination . " If the democracies lose this war all small and middle-sized Nations of Europe will disappear , " said the newspaper Djumhuriyet , hailing the elevation of Winston Churchill to director of all Great Britain 's armed forces . " All neutrals must help alleviate the heavy burderis shouldered by the Allies engaged in the gigantic crusade against the destruction of civilization and against submission of the whole world to ' Nazi slavery . " Allied Unity LONDON , April 5 ( /P ) ? The possibility of a joint Parliament to cap growing British-French unity was mentioned today as the Allies drove forward with their plans to buy up German markets they can not bottle up by blockade . A front-page story in the Daily Mail said the idea of a British-French Parliament to deal with broad questions of common concern already had been taken up but that it still was in a visionary stage . Georges Monnet , France 's new Minister of Blockade , was due here today to confer with Ronald H. Cross , British Minister of Economic Warfare , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture . The Board of Trade disclosed they had reciprocated on increased facilities for importing the products of each other 's Empires . Education experts studied ways of teaching French to British children and English to French children . New Oil Fields BEIRUT , Lebanon , April 5 ( IP ) ? New petroleum fields , said by experts to be of " very great importance , " have been discovered in Northern Syria , in the Eldjesira region near Turkey , it was learned today . Wheat or Oil ? BUCHAREST , April 5 ( 1P ) ? Germany was reported authoritatively yesterday to have agreed to refrain from asking an increase in oil shipments to the Reich if Rumania would promise to send Germany $10,000,000 worth of wheat this year .                     