@@706652

txt " Fifth columnists " in the eastern United States have sought to aid enemy bombing planes by plowing and otherwise marking the ground with arrows and other directional signs pointing straight at vital air bases and aircraft factories , the First Air Force disclosed here today . ine markings , innocent-appearing from the ground , but visible from the air were spotted by aerial observers and have now been completely eradicated , it was announced . While no word was forthcoming as to who the guilty parties were , where they accomplished their deeds , or what punishment had been meted out to them , it was revealed that " proper action " had been taken following investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and intelligence officers of the First Air Force . Col. Dache M. Reeves , commanding officer of the First Air Support Command , made public aerial photographs which showed " V 's " and other signs plowed ' into the topography , hacked out of woodland or formed by carefully placed grain sacks . " You can rest assured that , although I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken , the treacherous work they exposed has been erased , " he said . " The same technique will help us expose the enemy in the battles to come . " Colonel Reeves paid particular tribute to the work done by Air Force observers whose sky patrols discovered the saboteurs ' invitation to enemy bombs , terming the aviator who operates the 0-47 observation plane " one of the most important man-units in the protective umbrella being spread over the Eastern Seaboard by the First Air Force . " The pictures released showed three types of markings , none of which , the First Air Force Command declared , are now in existence . One picture revealed a natural footpath which had existed in a rural section for years . Five hundred yards from the end of this lane , a large " V " had been made by clearing a new section of the earth . From the air , the harmless-appearing path , in conjunction with the newly made " V , " formed a perfect arrow pointing directly at a nearby air base . In a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a huge field had been plowed save for an arrow-shaped section in the middle which had been left fal16w . The untouched land , clearly visible against the plowed earth , aimed exactly toward a large aircraft factory . In the third picture , empty grain sacks had been left in an open field to form a huge figure " 9 , " the tail of which pointed toward a large airplane bomber factory only a few minutes ' flying distance away . Recognizing that further markings of this sort might be expected to appear before the Federal Bureau of Investigation had rounded up every potential " fifth columnist , " the Air Force statement accompanying the pictures disclosed that the aerial observation " umbrella " over the Eastern Seaboard was being extended . " Disdovery of this sort of ' fifth-column ' activity is just part of the job of the aerial observer  --  workhorse of the Army Air Forces , " the statement . said . " The observer is a man of many responsibilities . " An obscure roadway , In existence for several yea rs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when an inverted " V " was added , the two formed a distinct arrow  --  pointing to an eastern air base . The end of the path was 500 yards from the " V " so only from the air could the meaning be seen . This and other secret ground markers pointing the way for enemy bombers to vital war bases in the eastern part of the United States have been destroyed by obsery ers of the First Ground Mr Support Command .                     