@@711710

txt A group of Massachusetts Institute of Technology students is preparing to play host in 1949 to 80 graduate students from over seas for a summer of free study in MIT laboratories . This proposed second chapter fortythe Foreign Student Summer Project , which brought 62 students from 16 European nations to the MIT campus last year , will be expanded next summer . Earl W. Eames , Jr. , of Minneapolis , and Lloyd Haynes of Waco , Texas , who conceived of the idea in 1947 while riding on a Cambridge subway train , say they plan to include students this time from both the Near East and Asia as well as Europe . Applications Awaited Bolstered by the know-how of last year 's initial effort  --  plus the continued support of the MIT Corporation . which again is granting free tuition to the visitors ? Mr. Eames , Mr. Haynes , and their colleagues have already sent out 7,500 application forms and 15,000 personal endorsement blanks . Aiding in the preparation for the 1949 project is a nucleus of students who are veterans of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a selection of newcomers who have signed up to help see the undertaking through to a successful conclusion this year . " We are way ahead of where we were last year at this time , " according to Donald Eberly of Cortland , N. Y. , who this year , as last , is one of the workers overseeing the project . Last year there was so much office work to be done in so short a time that one student , Morris L. Wasserstein , dropped out of school to serve as executive secretary full time from March thro9gh the summer . Other students came close to failing courses in their efforts to share with young graduate ' students and teachers in Europe the facilities American students enjoy as a matter of course on an American campus . Main emphasis again is to be on providing instruction and research experience for graduate students and teachers who will be in a position to help rebuild the war-damaged cities of Europe . Students from such countries as China , Korea , Japan , the Philippines , Indonesia , Lebanon , Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the travel and other problems involved . Problems Learned By now , the students are well versed in the problems of finance involved in large-scale undertakings of this nature . But they will have raised the $30,000 needed to clear their 1948 books when two outstanding commitments are received . And for the 1949 project , they have set a goal of around $55 , - 000 and already have taken action to nail down a major portion of it . They hope to receive aid from individual and other groups . A four-man delegation went to New York soon after the project had taken leave of the visiting students , to contact foundations and organizations interested in financing international projects like this one . Contacts Renewed Previously , Mr. Eames and Mr. Haynes went to Washington and devoted a week to renewing contacts with European ambassadors and ministers , as well as establishing new contacts with the Near and Far East countries . When they first approached some of these officials last year , they were received , in some instances , with active suspicion or at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were well received by each of the 39 national representatives contacted . In addition , the MIT students ? all of whom are members of the MIT unit of the National Student Association , which is sponsoring the venture  --  hope to give each visitor approximately $100 to spend on individual sightseeing around the United States . Once again , the project will channel much of its overseas communication through the State Department in Washington and the International Union of Students . But they themselves will make the final selection , with availability of advice from the MIT faculty .                     