@@704981

txt FEW RESIGNATIONS IN GUARD EXPECTED BY OFFICERS HERE Commanders of Units Called Up Say Dependency Cases Have Been Thinned Out DRIVE FOR MORE MEN ON 4,000 Sought for 44th Division ? Drills to Be Continued Up to Time of Induction The various National Guard units in metropolitan New York and New Jersey designated in President Roosevelt 's mobilization order will hold regular drills and receive training in their armories between now and Sept. 16 , when their year , of active service begins . ? The actual induction into the Federal service will come on that day , when members of the Forty fourth Division units will report to their armories for new medical examinations , issuance of new equipment , checking of old equipment , and preparation of new service records . It was said these routine matters would require from a week to ten days , after which the troops would proceed to training areas . In the meantime , Lieut . Col. Frank A. Mathews Jr . of Riverton , N. J. , Judge Advocate General of the division staff , placed in charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4,000 enlisted men needed to round out the division to peacetime strength . Additional enlistments , it was said , also will be needed to replace those who resign because of dependents or continue in positions in essential defense industries . The number of such replacements was undetermined yesterday but was not expected to be large . Ranks Already Thinned Out " Our problem has not been one of losing men with dependents , but of gradually thinning such personnel from our organizations so we would not be confronted with any wholesale release of men such as would cause disorganization were the National Guard to be called into service , " one officer said . While withholding judgment until War Department orders are issued defining the - new law 's application to officers and men with dependents , some officers are inclined to interpret the recently adopted statute as placing a premium on claims of exemption . Several officers were critical yesterday of the provision that would permit commissioned officers with the grade of lieutenant to claim exemption . " It is the first time that we ever heard of any commissioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependence , " one officer declared . Those who desire to resign from the guard must submit their requests to the commanding officers of their units . After investigation those officer forward their reports with recommendations to the State Adjutant General , whose decision is final . Men asking dependency discharges must give the number of dependents . Men under 18 must submit birth certificates or baptismal records . For the last four years the National Guard has discouraged the enlistment of married men and all who were accepted during this period were required to sign a dependency-discharge , waiver . Men who married since joining the Guard and now asking for dependency discharge must list dependents . It was said yesterday that , while there were a number of requests for discharges , they were exceeded by the enlistments . Many men in the age group 21 to 31 , anticipating // FEW RESIGNATIONS IN GUARD EXPECTED // the draft , want to be in a unit among friends and also where they know its assignment to camp or training area. , To Be Quartered in Armories During the period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their armories , although in some instances , where men live close by , permission may be granted to " sleep out . " There were all sorts of rumors among officers and men as to eventual destinations . " You know how these Army rumors are , " an officer said . " We hear that we may be kept at Fort Dix for only two weeks or two months , after which we are to be transferred to some other place . One report had it we were to nerve in Tennessee , another at Fort Oglethorpe , Ga. ; another the Canal Zone and still another , Puerto Rico . " Actually we wo n't know until we get our orders . As it stands now there is nothing to indicate that our present assignment will be either temporary or permanent . " Fort Slocum , a seventy-acre Army post at David 's Island in Long Island Sound , could be used for training of conscripts but probably will be more useful for continued use as one of the three depots in this country for the shipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Rutlege , adjutant of the post , said yesterday . Although used during the World War for training purposes , the limited size of the post might exclude it from such service at this time , he explained . Moreover , it shipped 14,000 soldiers last year to Panama , Hawaii , the Philippines and Puerto Rico and now is speeding up its program to ship a larger number during 1940 , he ? said . Fort Slocum has accommodations for 2,400 men and has been filled to capacity for the last six months . Other overseas depots are Fort Moultrie on the South Carolina coast and Angel Island in San Francisco Bay . ty days to drop out while those under 18 years will be discharged whether they want to stay or not . Nucleus of Expanded Army Those who are left will be part of the Regular Army for a year and a nucleus with it of the enlarged defense force of 1,200,000 that is to be built up . During that year they will receive a complete course of training and may be employed for military duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessions , including the far-flung Philippines , or in the Western Hemisphere . Some of them are fresh from manoeuvres . The manoeuvres , according to letters from disgruntled participants as published by Washington newspapers gave rise to a heated controversy in army circles here . It was said they demonstrated that the guard  --  both officers and men  --  stood greatly in need of more prolonged and intensive training than they have hitherto received . Lack of knowledge , discipline and esprit were charged and denied . But now they will be subject to regular discipline and training and and it is estimated that in a year they will be able to master the modern soldier 's duties . 26 States Represented The 60,500 the President called out yesterday will come from twentysix States  --  New York , New Jersey , North Carolina , Tennessee , South Carolina , Georgia , Oklahoma , Arizona , New Mexico , ' Colorado , Washington , Idaho , Oregon , Montana , Wyoming , New Hampshire , Delaware , Illinois , Missouri , Massachusetts , Pennsylvania , Maine , Rhode Island , Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Guard has been ordered out since 1916 when they were called by the State Governors on the initiative of President Wilson to suppress Pancho Villa 's border raiding . They did not go into Mexico then but now they may be sent anywhere in the Western Hemisphere . The jobs the 60,500 leave behind them will be available immediately for others and so reduce the number of unemployed . But at the end of their year 's training they are entitled to get them back , except where it would be " impossible or unreasonable , " and may apply to the courts for redress if reinstatement is refused . two-story frame barracks as part of the government project to expand facilities at this 1917 training post will begin hiring masons , plumbers and laborers tomorrow . Completion is scheduled for Dec. 1 . Today 800 enlisted men of the Sixteenth and Eighteenth Infantry Regiments of the Army arrived from Fort Jay , Fort Wadsworth and Fort Hamilton for ten-day supplemental practice with combat weapons on the ranges here . Last Holiday as Civilians , Special to THE NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen soldiers from all over the United States celebrated today their last public holiday in civilian clothes for the period of at least one year . In the next two weeks they must ' say farewell to their jobs and their families and report on Sept. 16 for a year 's active duty with the Regular Army under the National Guard mobilization law signed by President Roosevelt last week . The 60,000 leaned up-60,500 to be exact  --  are a fourth of the National Guard at its present strength . Their number will be increased to peacetime par-76,689 ? by . voluntary enlistment as soon as possible , and as the weeks pass they will be joined by other guardsmen as they are called up by the President . But their strength will be depleted by resignations , since under the law guardsmen who have dependents in need of support and who are under the rank of captain will have twenMoore to Issue Order TRENTON , N. J. , Sept. 2 ( A ' 1 ? Governor A. Harry Moore said today he would issue " tomorrow or Wednesday " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Guard for a year 's training , starting Sept. 16 , under the defense plan placed into effect yesterday by President Roosevelt . Governor Moore , as commander of the State 's armed forces , must supplement the Presidential decree with a mobilization order of his own . Fort Dix to Be Expanded FORT DIX , N. J. , Sept. 2 GO ? Construction of wooden floors for 2,700 tents that will house temporarily the Forty-fourth Division of the New Jersey National Guard when it encamps here Sept. 20 for the start of its one-year active duty was begun today . Each tent will accommodate six men . Contractors who will erect 887                     