@@712348

txt While the search for the dead continued , provincial and municipal officials sought today to assess responsibility for the fire that early yesterday morning destroyed the Great Lakes steamer Noronic . Revised figures compiled by the Canadian Red Cross gave the total of passengers and crew as 685 instead of 690 , the total given out yesterday by Canada Steamship Lines , operators of the vessel . The total of known dead rose from 112 to 120 , with thirty-five victims officially identified . It was expected that of the 140 listed as " missing , " a final tally would determine that nearly all had survived . Mayor Hiram E. McCallum of Toronto said that a " full scale " inquiry was under way . This included , he said , a careful sifting of reports that wild drinking parties were held aboard the 6,905-ton steamer , largest on the Great Lakes , after she left Detroit last Wednesday night and Cleveland , the following evening . It was in these two cities that the steamer picked up virtually , all of her passenger complement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that was to have taken the Noronic to Prescott , Ont. , and the Thousand Islands . Inquiries thus far by municipal 1 authorities produced apparently reliable testimony that Capt . William Taylor , master of the vessel , and a skeleton crew of twenty to thirty men had tried to fight the fire with the ship 's own equipment for a considerable period before an alarm was telephoned from shore to the city 's fire department . The city 's investigation is being directed by Fire Marshal Sam Fire Chief Peter Herd and , . Dr. Smirle Lawson , Chief Coroner of York County . Dr. Lawson said he would hold an inquest next Thursday . At a meeting with municipal officials last night , Dana Porter , Attorney General - of Ontario , sought to determine whether there was evidence of criminal negligence . The Dominion Government 's inquiry , being conducted by Capt . W. N. Morrison for the marine division of the Department of Transport , will open formally here at 9 A. M. today . The sessions will be closed to the public and press , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " confidential inquiry " and that his findings would be presented to the Department of Transport " to determine if a formal public investigation will be made . " Divers worked in the  --  rain during most of the day but found no additional bodies . Two decks still lay . below the water at the stern and , the burned-out hulk listed even more sharply than it had the day before . Memorial Service Planned Memorial services will be held next . Sunday at 3 P. M. in the Coliseum Building at the Canadian National Exhibition . This is a short distance from the Horticultural Building , which was converted into a temporary morgue yesterday . Mayor Thomas A. Burke of Cleveland and Mayor Eugene I. Van Antwerp of Detroit have been invited by Mayor McCallum and are expected to attend the memo-1 rial . Tentative proposals were advanced-for the mass burial - in a common grave here of those victims who ' can not be identified . Mayor McCallum said he would defer to the wishes of the Mayors of Cleveland . and ' Detroit . Detectives and coroners from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local authorities in the grim task of seeking to identify the dead and to aid relatives of the victims . They included Dr. Samuel S. Gerber , coroner , and Lieut . David E. Kerr of the Cleveland police homicide squad and Dr. Albert E. Harris , Wayne County coroner , a homicide squad detective and a police photographer from Detroit . Lieutenant Kerr commended Toronto authorities for their cooperation and said the police department here was employing every scien ' tific aid in identifying the fire victims . Kerr Inspects Hull After inspecting the interior of the ' essel , Lieutenant Kerr said that , in his opinion , the fire had started in a stateroom on C deck near .. he bow . The condition of the room indicated that someone had tried to put out a burning mattress , had left the door open , and that this had resulted in a. flash fire , he said . The wind was blowing southeast at the time and this would have swept the flames to the stern , which gave evidence , on its lower decks at ' east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the doors of other cabins left open by their occupants , most of whom had been asleep , created a back draft that accounted for the swift spread of the flames . Mayor 's Version of Disaster The fire , first reported as having been discovered at 2:38 A. M. , had actually started , Mayor McCallum ' said today , at 2:30 A. M. , and perhaps earlier . In an interview at City Hall and later in a broadcast he said : " The information we get is that the crew attempted to ? fight the fire.themselves . That has been confirmed by our Fire Department , which found the ship 's fire fighting equipment ? on deck and the fire cocks were open when it got there . The Captain of the ship was on the bridge with , a hose- when his deck collapsed and he was thrown into the water . " The first city alarm was turned in at - 2:38 A. M. , and it was telephoned . from shore by a man whose name I was too excited to get . I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he saw a fire and that the front part of the boat was in flames . He rushed to a ? elephone and said that when he got back to the dock half the boat was afire . " Our apparatus from the Adelaide Street fire station got to the ship in three minutes and at 2:42 A. M. turned in a second alarm . The third was sent in at 2:46 A. M. " By the time our first firemen got there , the entire boat was in flames . It was that fast . " A representative of the steamship line fixed the time at which the fire had broken out at about ' 2:25 A. M. , when Captain Taylor , who was ashore , had boarded the steamer . He expressed the belief , however , that it probably had smouldered for as long as fifteen minutes before that . Mayor 's Account Denied He said the fire " definitely had been located in a passenger cabin on C deck about midship . " The skipper , he said , heard calls of " Fire ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choking smoke drove him back . He said Captain Taylor had made several trips from the ship to the pier and back again and denied Mayor McCullum 's report of the deck collapse . " He stayed with the ship until the deck went under and he got soaking wet up to the knees , " the spokesman said . The line 's representative said he believed that a cigarette , left burning in a stateroom which the occupants had ' left , had caused the fire . This was one of many theories advanced during the day . Officials of the line said the ship had been insured for $1,000,000 , but that it would cost $6,000,000 to replace . The insurance , they said , did not cover the passengers They surmised that the crew on active duty while the ship laid over in Toronto numbered netween twenty and thirty .                     