@@704502

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. ** current consultations with European neutrals are for the purpose of determining an equitable economic basis for peace after the war rather than of seeking an immediate cessation of hostilities in Europe , Secretary of State Cordell Hull said today . Soon after the Secretary of State issued this important clarification of the Administration 's peace activities in his press conference , President Roosevelt gave a patent indication that the Administration does not expect the war to end immediately by an obvious reference to Germany as " another dictatorship " allied with the Soviet Union . He made this reference in a speech before the American Youth Congress in which he attacked the Soviet Union and its invasion of Finland . It is commonly understood in Washington that several official observers , including William C. Bullitt , Ambassador to France , who conferred today with Secretary Hull and last night with the President , believe peace is not in sight at the moment . Official announcements yesterday that peace conversations with neutrals had been undertaken and that Sumner Welles , Under-Secretary of State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veiling conditions , led to a widespread belief , particularly in Europe , that this government would attempt to press for peace now . Mr. Hull asserted today , however , that for the present the entire emphasis of the conversations with neutrals is concentrated on the situation that will exist after the war ends . This country seeks commitments from neutral nations on principles and programs to serve as a basework for sound and stable international relations , once peace is restored , he said . The United States has long held that liberal economic relations and the progressive curtailment and reduction of armaments offer the only means of avoiding world economic totalitarianism , Mr. Hull said . Now the government is attempting to obtain the agreement of other nations on these points so that solidarity may exist when a peace conference comes . He emphasized that there are no plans now for discussion among the nations of anything but the postwar period . Conversations will be continued with diplomats here and through American diplomatic missions abroad to promote education , understanding and support of eco // POST-WAR PROGRAM PUT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarked . Mr. Welles is scheduled to visit Italy , France , Germany and Great Britain , but not the Soviet Union , on his trip . President Roosevelt 's outspoken attack on the Soviet system of government was not expected , therefore , to cause embarrassment in this connection . The President 's clear linking of Germany and Russia in the denunciation , coming just a day after the announcement of M. Welles 's journey , caused considerable surprise , however . " The Soviet Union , as a matter of practical fact , known to you and known to all the world , is a dictatorship as absolute as any other dictatorship in the world , " the President declared . " It has allied itself with another dictatorship and it has invaded a neighbor so infinitesimally small that it could do no injury to the Soviet Union and seeks only to live at peace as a democracy , and a liberal , forwardlooking democracy at that . " It has been recognized here for some time that relations between the United States and the Soviet Union are frigidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not include Russia in his itinerary was the knowledge that , on the basis of past experience , he probably would not be able to get any real information and perhaps not even courteous treatment . The President 's frank statement about the Stalin government 's dictatorial system and aggressive activities today and his remark that " American sympathy is 98 per cent with the Finns " was widely taken to ' indicate that , although this government sees certain advantages in maintaining diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union , it is under no illusions about the Soviet system and does not intend to hide its views , whatever the result may be on the mutual relations between Russia and the United States . The evasive and discourteous treatment to which Laurence A. Steinhardt , American Ambassador to Russia , was subjected during the City of Flint incident merely brought an existing condition into the open and crystallized growing official annoyance here with the Stalin government 's methods . " An indignant protest against the " lack of cooperation by the Soviet Government " in withholding official information about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first of several outspoken denunciations by American officials , including the President , of Soviet practices . On last Nov. 1 , Stephen Early , White House secretary , took cognizance of Soviet Premier Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff 's charge that President Roosevelt had meddled in Finnish-Russian relations , and two days later President Roosevelt himself accused Mr. Molotoff of bad manners . Hull Includes Russia WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 ( A ) ? The United States informally invited all neutral nations today to join in charting " the sort of world we are going to have after the war " and in formulating plans to guide the belligerents to an eventual peace of economic sanity . Secretary Hull said these were the aims of the discussions already under way with unnamed neutrals , and that the United States was ready to talk over these two vital questions with any other nation . This applies , he said in response to a question , to Russia . The Secretary told a press conference it was his intention to bring proposals concerning armaments and commercial policies to the attention of every government that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply to questions Mr. Hull said he had no information indicating that the discussions would lead to a conference of neutral nations , He pointed out that the American republics had been talking over policies involving disarmament and economic policies over a period of years , referring specifically to the Montevideo , Buenos Aires , Lima and Panama conferences .                     