@@709143

txt Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and his party for the conference of Big Three Foreign Ministers , which opens tomorrow , arrived at the Central Airport at 4:16 P. M. today in a thick , whirling snowstorml after his plane had been lost for anl hour and had been unable to locate any of the airports in the Moscow area . A landing under such wretched conditions seemed extremely dangerous . During the day messages had been sent to the plane advising it to turn back to Berlin , but the pilot was willing to take a chance of finding a landing place . For the last hour the plane circled Moscow , unable to find a hole in the clouds . Mr. Byrnes had decided it was time to turn back when the plane had a fuel margin of ten minutes . The plane was flying low . " I hope we do n't crash into mountains , " Mr. Byrnes remarked to Charles E. Bohlen , an assistant to the Secretary of State and an old Moscow hand . " There are no mountains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but you do n't know where here is , " Mr. Byrnes replied . Pilot Finds Field During the final ten minutes ' search the pilot saw buildings below , found the airport , landed in a spray of snow and taxied to the head of the field , where the party was welcomed by a delegation wrapped in furs , greatcoats and winter boots . Mr. Byrnes landed in a large American transport plane , The Associated Press reported . Presumably it was the four-engine plane in which he left Washington on Wednesday , piloted by Capt . Cletus Keating Jr. , of Locust Valley , L. I. An article in Pravda , Communist party mouthpiece , on the eve of the Big Three conference defended the presence of Red Army troops in Iran and pointedly questioned the right of and reasons for keeping British troops in the Middle East and American troops in China . Mr. Byrnes said in Moscow that if no formal announcement of an agreement followed the meeting of foreign ministers he would not regard it as a " bad sign . " " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact for an exchange of views rather that meet to make announcements , " he said . " I think great progress will have been made if we achieve a better understanding . " 3 Mr. Byrnes , wearing a gray felt hat , a tan covert coat and low shoes , stepped jauntily from the plane ladder and immediately made a wisecrack . Representing the Commissariat of Foreign Affairs , V. G. Dekanozoff welcomed him and expressed regret that he had had so much trouble finding Moscow . Quips About Germans " We had some trouble getting to Moscow , but we are not the only ones who have had trouble getting here , " Mr. Byrnes replied , alluding to the German Army . After a brief huddle in the driving snow and cold , for which no one in the American party was properly dressed , Mr. Byrnes and his associates drove off to Spasso House , where they will be guests of Ambassador W. Averell Harriman for the duration of the conference . The Secretary of State , who had been flying since 3:30 A. M. from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time he had been alarmed because of the final hour of the air journey . Turning to the conference , Mr. Byrnes reiterated the statement he had made in Washington , that the meeting would be informal and exploratory in the spirit of the Yalta agreement . " I am going to ask for another meeting of the three Ministers in Washington on March 11 , although , of course , I do not know what business there will be at that time , " he said . " People are making a mistake to regard the conference as a formal certification of business already transacted in diplo- matic channels . This is an attempt to see what problems the other fellows have and to see what we can do about them . " According to Mr. Byrnes , the Big Three meetings of foreign secretaries have been fruitful and the Russians at the Potsdam conference had specifically requested that the Big Five Council of Foreign Ministers should not supersede the Big Three meetings . Taking preliminary advice , Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Vice Commissar I of Foreign Affairs , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable distance from town . Geqrge F. Kerman , Minister at the American Embassy ; Sir Archibald Clark Kerr , British Ambassador ; Brig . Gen. Frank Roberts , United States Military Attach ? ; Admiral John Maples and Captain Ronald Allen , United States naval attaches , and others went to the central airport where the Russians had reported a plane at that moment in the air hunting for the airport . Russian and American flags were being raised in case the plane should find a place to land near by . After about ffteen minutes the plane broke through the clouds . 1Those present could see a dim gray shape slithering through the snow and then disappear . Another ten minutes passed before the drumming motors were heard and the plane landed at the distant end of the field . " When our Secretary wants to go anywhere , he goes , " one member of his party remarked somewhat bitterly after landing . " We were told not to take off at Frankfort this morning where the airstrip was frozen and there was danger of the plane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of us knew whether we were ever going to arrive here . " Sevin Stops in Berlin MOSCOW , Dec. 14 UP )  - -  - Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin of Britain had not arrived today for the conference . A Berlin dispatch said he had landed at Berlin 's Gatow Airport and would stay overnight . Mr. Byrnes said that he had talked in Berlin with Lieut . Gen. Lucius D. Clay and others about the situation in Germany , and said he believed civilian administration could be turned over to the Germans in the American zone by April 1 .                     