@@707979

txt Japanese forces isolated on Guam 's Grote Peninsula are battering desperately at the American steel ring holding them in , but they are trapped . On Monday night after the American line on Guam had been pushed into the promontory a few hundreds yards , obviously headed for the airport , Japanese forces made " desperate attempts to escape , " Admiral Chester W. Nimitz said in a six o'clock communique tonight . There was still a way open , a narrow gateway between the northern and southern American beachheads , but our patrols were already pushing across the one and one-half mile escape opening . Repeated enemy attempts failed and our lines were not penetrated . Then yesterday morning our forces counter-attacked , supported by heavy artillery and naval gunfire . Aircraft roared over and bombed ahead of our advance and the marines drove , in one push , about 3 , - 000 yards up the peninsula . The Tokyo radio said yesterday that an American carrier force had struck at Palau , about 500 miles from Mindanao , the Philippines , according to The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the supporting fire of the guns of a battleship and landbased aircraft hacked their way . across the island to win possession of the entire northern quarter , in- eluding the whole of the Ushi Point airfield . The Americans on Guam are now only 400 yards or so from the airport and approximately the same distance from the town of Sumay and the old headquarters of PanAmerican Airways . The advance gave us control of the entire southern or inner half of the peninsula and the remaining enemy defenders , whose strength has not been officially estimated , appeared to be doomed . The gap in our lines has now been irrevocably closed and the marines and Army forces on the 225-square-mile island now have a beachhead more than nine miles in length . In their attempt to escape the Japanese lost 400 dead and our marines destroyed at least twelve of their tanks . With supplies dwindling and their numbers being steadily reduced , their fate is sealed . When the peninsula is completely in our hands the entire strength of the American forces can then proceed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle has gone well for us there is still hard fighting ahead , particularly so in the region of Agana Town , where the left flank is still anchored as it was after the first day at Adelup Point . Fierce fighting pressure is being applied to the battered enemy defenders on Tinian Island , and the American forces , forging rapidly ahead , have captured the northern quarter of the island . Yesterday the Marines plunged forward in a full-scale attack , seizing the whole of the Ushi Point airport . Battleships and aircraft blasted the enemy with shells and fire bombs . They also strafed a rail junction , coastal guns and barracks . Our troops have counted 1,958 enemy dead . Admiral Nimitz this afternoon said that our Tinian lines are anchored below Faibus and San Hilo Point on the western coast and extend to Asiga Point on the east coast . Battleship action during the day came when their heavy guns were called to knock out several camouflaged blockhouses . Our aircraft are still bombing and strafing targets throughout the island along the hard pressed enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with the fact that the enemy has not once been able to meet our attack with anything much heavier than machine gun and rifle fire , excepting one feeble tank thrust that was quickly quelched , indicates that the Tinian landing was either unexpected or that the Japanese were unable to offer real resistance on both Guam and Tinian . It now appears possible that weft may attempt an all-out crushing of Tinian as quickly as possible . Before yesterday 's push we had only a deep wedge in Tinian 's west shore , and the marines in one day pushed clear across the island , cleared away the northern tip and started driving south along both coasts . Admiral Nimitz said the fire bomb and strafing attack on the enemy was made by Thunderbolts of the Seventh Army Air Force , and that other Thunderbolts had raided Pagan Island in the northern Marianas , scoring bomb hits on the airfield . The Guam battle is proceeding against a stiff enemy defense , with carrier planes attacking constantly and also keeping Rota Island neutralized . Ponape , Truk and Nauru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Foe Reports Palau Blow The Tokyo radio said yesterday that a United States task force , consisting chiefly of aircraft carriers , had penetrated to the vicinity of Palau Island , some 500 miles east of Mindanao in the Philippines , and that about thirty carrier-based planes had attacked that island . " Our ground units opened up an anti-aircraft barrage and shot down two of the enemy planes , " said the broadcast , which was recorded by The Associated Press . Tokyo also reported that American planes had raided Yap Island yin the Carolines east of Palau .                     