@@704513

txt No Inside : It 's disconcerting when the news is simple and straight-forward , when the facts are actually- what they appear to be ! A Washington correspondent ? does n't look very bright when he ca n't give the " inside , " let alone the " real inside " of the big news of the day . What is the secret mission on which the President has suddenly dispatched his Undersecretary of State , Sumner Welles , to Europe and what far-reaching plans for stopping the war will Mr. Welles have carefully tucked away in his portfolio when he boards the Rex on Saturday ? Such questions do not down and they are causing both false hopes and false fears  --  false hopes that an effort at peace through American mediation is under consideration ( it is n't ) and false fears that the United States is going to embarrass the Allies by helping Germany " negotiate " a successful war ( it wo n't ) . These two facts can be authoritatively put down from sources which are informed and trustworthy : First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals on his trip to Italy , Germany , France and Great Britain . Second , those who guide American foreign policy are convinced that it is impossible to negotiate a just and lasting peace with Herr Hitler and do not intend to put the United States in the position of seeking to deflect a tragic war Into a tragic and temporary peace . After the War : America is , however , looking ahead to the problems which must be faced at the close of the war . An illustration of the magnitude of the adjustments which will have to be made at that time is the fact that , according to estimates here , there are at least 70,000,000 to 80,000,000 people who have been completely - taken out of normal economic life in both the belligerent and neutral countries and placed in the services demanded by the war , either directly or economically . The reabsorption of these men and women into peacetime pursuits will be one of the colossal tasks of the future peace , its hardships and its success affecting every nation . Neutrality 's Cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harsh burden upon neutrals as well as belligerents . Switzerland is a pointed example . Here is a sturdy , peace-devoted nation , endangering no country but as determined as the Finns to resistaggression against its borders . In consequence , it is curtailing its standards of living , straining its finances and exhausting its reserves in order to make it uninviting for any nation to violate its neutrality . It is costing Switzerland at least $1,000,000 a day to keep 520,000 men under arms in time of " peace " ; in short , to keep the war from being brought to her . This is one reason why the future peace is a vital concern to neutrals ; this is one reason why Secretary Hull is keeping neutrals in touch with each other in order that their role in shaping the peace may be a useful and influential one . Less Goods , More Pacts : One more notation of the war . Just to record for what clue to the truth it may be , diplomats in Washington do not attribute economic importance to the new Soviet-German trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of propaganda and morale . It is reported that the Germans are themselves disillusioned and cynical about what help they can get from their Communist ally , but that they are maintaining appearances for political purposes . Less goods , more pacts . It is agreed that only Russian willingness to accept wholesale German technical manning of Soviet industry would produce the supplies the German war machine needs  --  and that only maybe . Two Fishermen : Yes , third-term questions are still being asked at the President 's Press conference , the Hyde Park taboo notwithstanding . Mr. Roosevelt is still not answering but he is varying the method of dismissal . After Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago had described in Washington last week the enthusiasm with which he had placed the President 's name In the Illinois primary , following which he called at the White House , and after the newspapers had carried large headlines announcing the entry of a slate of Roosevelt-pledged delegates in the Wisconsin primary , correspondents invited the President to comment . The President blandly replied that he had not seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for the Democratic nomination in both of these primaries if he does not ask to have his name withdrawn . He has until Feb. 24 to decide . The President has now gone fishing . Another President , Calvin CoOlidge , was fishing when he " chose " not to run in 1928 . Perhaps the parallel will be only the fishing . J. Roscoe Drummond                     