@@708809

txt The Allied forces , led by the might of the United States , are dealing such staggering blows to the tottering Japanese Empire that in the military field its end can now be forecast with mathematical certainty . The same thing , however , can not as yet be said in the political field . Indeed , as a result of some recent developments there has crept into our Pacific policy a note of uncertainty , not to say contusion , which urgently requires correction . And that correction can not come too soon , because the enemy is already explc:ting any evidence of uncertainty as a sign of weakness , as an effort on our part to buy a cheap compromise peace , with the obvious implication that all Japan has to do to escape defeat is to hold out for better terms . The most important of these developments is the move for a new " interpretation " of the unconditional surrender ultimatum , which finds its most dramatic expression in the broadcast of Captain Zacharias , an officer of the American tNavy but acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and addressing himself directly to the Japanese leaders , urging them to " terminate the war with honor " by surrendering immediately and enjoying the benefits of the Atlantic Charter ; or face " virtual destruction of Japan followed by a dictated peace . " According to some reports , more definite surrender terms , favored by various Government departments , are now in the hands of President Truman for possible consideration at the Potsdam Conference , but Captain Zacharias ' broadcast likewise touches on matters of high policy , which raises the question as to whether he really gives expression to a fixed American policy , and if so , how , when and by whom that policy was determined . For in his broadcast Captain Zacharias announces decisions which heretofore were believed to have been held in abeyance , and which will be news not only to the Japanese but also to the American people . Technically , Captain Zacharias bases himself on the Cairo Declaration and the Atlantic Charter as sources of American policy , which superficially might appear as unexceptionable . But by doing so he also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the latter , so much so , in fact , that under his terms Japan is promised not only " peace with honor " but also a preservation of the original Japanese Empire and all its institutions , including the Emperor . The Cairo Declaration already favored Japan over Germany in so far as it merely proposed to strip Japan of territories she had conquered or stolen , without dismembering Japan herself , as planned for Germany . Captain Zacharias extends to Japan the benefits of the Atlantic Charter from which Germany was expressly barred . Under the Atlantic Charter Japan would have the right to choose her own form of government , which under the circumstances means the preservation of the present theocracy under the God-Emperor and all that it implies . In many other respects as well , Japan would enjoy rights and privileges far superior to those of Germany and almost on a par with those of the victors . It is true that this offer is conditioned by Captain Zacharias on Japan 's immediate " unconditional surrender , " and there is something to be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save American lives . But the inducements held out by Captain Zacharias are of such a fundamental character that at the very least they demand a declaration from far more authoritative quarters  --  a declaration , in fact , that could come only from President Truman after full consultations with our allies in the war against Japan . Even then , there will remain a serious division of opinion as to the wisdom of such a policy . There are those who hold that our victory in the Pacific will be empty and that peace will remain precarious unless , in the words of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek , the Japanese are purged of all " the evil seeds of aggression in their traditions and creeds as well as in their political and economic institutions . " That certainly means a complete change in the political and economic set-up in Japan . But even as a means to shorten the war , such a policy remains a doubleedged sword . For the Japanese already exult that as a result of their fanatical resistance President Truman has been forced to make a radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Far East , while the effect of uncertainty on our own war effort exposes us to the danger of being caught in our own 11 propaganda .                     