@@704884

txt Prime Minister Winston Churchill put his seal on the British negotiations with Japan by announcing in the House of Commons today that an agreement had been reached whereby the Burma road would be closed for three months to the transit of arms , ammunition , gasoline , trucks and railroad supplies for China . The same agreement applies to Hong Kong , although Mr. Churchill said no arms , ammunition or any other goods that the Japanese Government had mentioned were now being exported to the Chinese Government from that Crown Colony . Mr. Churchill and Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , who made a similar statement in the House of Lords , were subjected to some crticism . The Prime Minister defended the government 's move on the ground that it provided two necessary things ? " time and relief of tension . " Notes Struggle to Survive Britain is " engaged in a life-ordeath struggle , " Mr. Churchill said . He declared that it was obvious that two factors were to be considered . One was the increasing tension between the British and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the other was that permanent closure of the route would be a default from British obligations as a power friendly to China , " What we have therefore made is a temporary arrangement , " Mr. Churchill said , " in the hope that the time so gained may lead to a solution just and equitable to both parties of the dispute and freely accepted by them both . " The Prime Minister added that Britain wished to see both Japan and China happy under a peace settlement . Britain will be quite willing after the conclusion of a SinoJapanese peace , he said , to negotiate the abolition of extraterritorial rights , the return of concessions and the revision of all treaties applicable to China . Wants Prosperous Japan " We wish to see Japan attain that state of prosperity which will ensure to her population the welfare and economic security which every Japanese naturally desires , " he added . " Toward the attainment of the aims of both these countries we are prepared to offer our collaboration as our contribution . But it must be clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a process of peace and conciliation , not by war or the threat of war . " Mr. Churchill did not bother to conceal from the world that Britain was playing for time in the Far East . In fact , when asked by former War Secretary Leslie HoreBelisha whether the concession to Japan would in fact obtain the good-will of that country , Mr. Churchill replied : " I can give no such assurance . I do n't know at all , and I think that all that happens to us in the Far East is probably likely to be very much influenced by what happens over here . " Mr. Churchill added in reply to questions that the decision on the Burma Road had not been reached without taking into consideration the attitudes of the United States and Russia . Lord Halifax was badgered in the House of Lords after he had made his statement , but he refused to go beyond Mr. Churchill 's answer . The British are obviously concerned over any accusations of " appeasement " that may be made as a result of the agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation and could not do anything else . At the same time they insist that it is only a temporary arrangement . Hull Takes Issue With Early Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , July 18 ? Secretary of State Cordell Hull took issue today with a statement that Stephen Early , secretary to the President , recently made at Hyde Park on the Far Eastern situation . In that statement Mr. Early suggested that Asiatic nations settle their differences among themselves in the same manner that American nations settle theirs under the Monroe Doctrine . Mr. Hull was asked whether he thought that Mr. Early 's statement might have been taken by the British as a cue for opening negotiations with the Japanese . The Secretary curtly replied that his own statement of July 5 constituted the only recent one pertaining to the Monroe Doctrine and its applications . There has been no other statement intended to deal with the question of policy , he emphasized . Mr. Hull refused to comment upon the explanation by Prime Minister Churchill in the British House of Commons that , concurrent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already aviounced , Britain would work for peace between China and Japan . Rumanian Army Plane Missing By Telephone to Tin : NEW YORK TIMES . BUCHAREST , Rumania , July 18 ? It was announced by the Navy Ministry today that a Rumanian military seaplane is missing . It left Constanta yesterday and has not returned to its base . It had a crew of five persons .                     