@@712260

txt The House voted decisively today , for a rise in the minimum wage from 40 to 75 cents but withdrew its appplication from many workers who are now covered . Final action was blocked until tomorrow but the roll-call , 225 to 181 , convinced leaders the action will stand . A coalition of Republicans and Southern Democrats was in full controL . The House never reached a vote on the Lesinski 75-cent bill , backed by Administration forces . The coalition forced through the Lucas substitute after inserting a flat 75-cent floor and making a half-dozen other changes . Originally the Lucas bill carried a movable floor starting at 65 cents . The showdown vote found the House leadership and the labor bloc voting against the 75-cent Lucas bill because of their objections to its coverage . Labor Department sources estimated the Lucas bill withdraws the wage and overtime protection from about 1,000,000 workers . About 75 per cent of these are affected by a change in the ? definition of " produced " so that those employes on the fringes of the production process are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would result in pay raises for many workers who remain covered and would stop some prospective pay cuts , notably among clothing workers . One authoritative source estimated the Lucas bill with a 65-cent floor would have raised the pay of 500,000 workers . No estimate of the additional workers affected by a 75-cent raise was available . Technically , the House vote came today on an " amendment in the nature of a substitute , " which is subject to a final passage vote before it goes to the Senate . The final passage roll call could have been taken today but Representative Vito Marca.ntonio , American Labor , of New York , blocked it on a technicality . He said he wanted to hear the views of labor leaders on the 75-cent Lucas bill . The amendment to raise the Lucas substitute from 65 to 75 cents was sponsored by Representative Monroe M. Redden , Democrat , of North Carolina . The Redden amendment carried , 186 to 116 . A major point of controversy lost by the Administration and the labor bloc deals with the definition of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is covered if he is engaged in an occupation or process " necessary " to production . The Lucas bill wou411 limit fringe coverage to those engaged in a " closely related " process or an occupatiojl " indispensable " to production . Representative Jacob K. Javits , Republican , of New York , tried to knock out the " indispensable " qualification , claiming the Lucas bill language would " uncover 750 , - 000 workers . " He lost , 133 to 91 . Another major test involved retail employe coverage . Representative Henderson Lanham , Democrat , of Georgia , tried to knock out exemptions for employes of retail establishments " notwithstanding that such establishment makes or processes the goods that it sells . " The Lanham amendment was rejected , 119 to 95 . An amendment exempting certain kinds of home workers from the wage and hour provisions was adopted but there was some doubt about its impact . The exemption applies to home workers in rural areas who buy raw material , make and sell articles , even though the articles are made " according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Jere Cooper , Democrat , of Tennessee . sponsored the home work exemption . Opponents feared clothing factories and the like could farm out work under such a provision and legally escape the wage and hour controls . Another change accepted would exempt small dailies , as well as weekly newspapers , with less than 5,000 circulation . The processing and canning of fish was brought within the coverage . The House also agreed to an amendment by Representative Christian Herter , Republican , of Massachusetts , incorporating the objectives of the overtime and portal-to-portal laws , previously enacted . Secretary of Labor Maurice Tobin , who was on hand when the House acted today , commented that he was " very much pleased " with the 75 cents , but was disappointed over the coverage . He said the Senate has a good bill pending and if passed in its present form " improvements " in the House bill can be made in conference .                     