@@705822

txt Scrap iron and steel will be put under full priority control within a few days , Office of Production Management officials indicated here . The scrap priority order will be unique . Not only will it seek to channel the flow of material so that defense needs are best served , but also it will attempt to enforce the scrap price schedule , which the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply has been unable to police . This is the first direct hookup between priorities and price control . The scrap price schedule , it is admitted at OPACS , is now - being violated 100% . " Scrap in some instances , it has been reported , is selling for as , much as lb above the Ceiling prices . The result has been a dislocation of the flow of scrap to steel mills which has accentuated the shortage . The distorted prices . OPM ? slid , have forced them to halt their scrap collection campaign altogether . Meanwhile , instances in which furnaces have suspended operations because they have no scrap are multiplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a knotty problem to OPM officials , inasmuch as this is the first attempt to use priorities to control prices . The final form of the order is expected to await a meeting of scrap and steel mill men with OPM and OPACS officials here Wednesday . The priority order may not actually refer to prices , but the effect of price control will result from its administration , OPM officials said . In general , the scrap iron and steel priority order , according to OPM officials , will provide that no sale of scrap may take place without authorization of the priorities division . Dealers may be told , for exampl , e , that they may sell only one month in advance . Before the month 's sales could be consummated , schedules would have to be submitted to the priorities division , with information regarding the price involved . Priorities officials would then authorize only certain sales to certain customers at prices at or below the ceiling . Considering Minor Revisions While this priority order la being worked out , OPACS is considering minor revisions . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the schedule has been that it does not provide enough leeway for freight charges , particularly from the southwest . The result has been that scrap , following the most profitable paths , has accumulated in areas where provision for shipping Is considered adequate at the expense of other sections of the country . Some revision of the schedule aimed at remedying this situation may be made , according to OPACS sources . Once the priority order is issued and the revisions made in the price schedule , both OPM and OPACS officials believe that the chorale scrap situation will right itself . They predict that within a couple of weeks general observance of the price schedule will be achieved and the flow of scrap will be more nearly in the direction of the greatest defense needs . Some- officials doubt , however , if the scrap price schedule can be enforced completely , no matter what action is taken . They point out that many violations are not actually in the form of higher prices but are subterfuges . One buyer of scrap , for instance , is reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunny day $1,000 that it- would rain in two minutes . but the actual " price " he paid conformed with the schedule . OPM officials are especially desirous that the price schedule be enforced so that their scrap collectior ? campaign can be resumed . At present , dealers are holding scrap off the market , it said , in anticipation of higher " bootleg " prices . OPM officials find themselves in the difficult position of not wanting to tell purchasers to violate the price schedule but , knowing at the same time , that unless they do they ca n't get any scrap . The Scrap Iron and Steel Institute reported yesterday that more scrap was used by mills and foundries in the first seven months of 1941 than in any entire year of the first world war , The July domestic melt , the Institute reported , was 4,415,000 gross tons , bringing the total for the seven-month period up to 30,948. - 000 tons . In all 1917 , the greatest scrap consumption year of the first world war , only 26,800,000 tons were melted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared , however , that " notwithstanding the alarm over the serap situation , very little actual production of steel and castings has been lost . " " Thus far . " he added , " the scrap industry has supported the defense program with a tonnage in seven months which has been exceeded in only seven entire years in the past three decades . "                     