@@705386

txt The government today applied a sweeping system of rationing to aluminum and machine tools , directing that military needs for those products be filled first . The order , issued to speed up the armaments program , meant n. stetts.n. sr. products for civilian use had been drastically reduced for the time being . Informed sources said . The rationing , known as a mandatory priority system , was announced by E. R. Stettinius Jr. , director of priorities in the Office for Production Management . It was the first such industry-wide rationing to be ordered since the start of the armament program , and OPM officials indicated similar orders soon would be applied to other industries . May Ration Other Materials . Nickel , nickel  --  steel , tungsten . and neoprene  --  a synthetic rubber  --  were among the commodities mentioned by officials as probably due for some degree of priority action . Today 's order was issued ? by Stettinius In a letter to aluminum producers and machine tool makers giving nil military orders a minimum priority rating of " A-2 " which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supply for civilian consumption had been decreased . The regulatory order compels aluminum manufacturers to submit to the Office for Production Management " once each month at least one week in advance of the beginning of the month your complete booking of orders for the ensuing month for our determination as to the relative preferences to be accorded your customers . " Orders Expire May 91 . Machine tool makers were flatly ordered to fill " defense orders In preference to any nondefense orders . " Both orders expire May 31 . By that time , Stettinius said , he hoped the hump in military needs would have been passed . Officials explained that under the act of congress of June 28 , 1990 , the Office for Production Management could enforce its orders by going into court and obtaining injunctions . It that procedure failed , they added , section 9 of the draft act could be invoked , giving the President authority to commandeer industrial resources . Two Reasons for Orders . Officials explained there were two reasons for the mandatory priorities : 1 . Necessity for speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Protection of Individual operators Who might be sued for breach of contract for failure to supply private customers unless they were protected by a formal order . The order was not expected at once to end the bottleneck in aluminum caused by hoarding of scrap aluminum , which officials have been studying for some weeks . While Stettinius described this as one of the major factors in the situ. ation , he said the only action taken as yet had been to ask companies with scrap to hold it for later return to the original source of supply . In discussing the priority order for aluminum , Stettinius said there had been a considerable increase in the civilian consumption of aluminum products . He said that substitutes must now be found for these civilian products . Prices May Rise Sharply . Asked if today 's orders might not mean a sharp rise in the price of aluminum products for civilian use , Stettinius said : " Possibly so , but that is a problem some one else must handle . " It was pointed out that the National Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reporters brought up the question whether the 1942 automobiles might be marked by a notable absence of change . Stettinius said that his guess 1Conlinued on page 25 , column 4 BEGIN RATIONING OF INDUSTRY TO RUSH ARMAMENT U. S. Cuts Civilian Use of Aluminum and Tools . // was that the changes would be con ? fined primarily to body styles . Ma. chine tools are a big factor in the annual changeover of automobile models . In Pittsburgh the Aluminum Company of America , which produces vir ? tually all of the nation 's raw alum ! num , welcomed the government 's supervision , a spokesman said to . night . " It will not materially change our present practice , but will clarify and improve the procedure , " the official said . The company has been recognizing the growing need for fast deliveries on government contracts which already has led to " some shortages " for civilian uses , he added . The com ? pany was represented as feeling the present " pinch " was a temporary matter due not only to regular customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industries were in many instances piling up stock . Produce 413 Million Pounds . Bureau of mining figures listed aluminum production last year at 413,000,000 pounds and present ached ? ules call for 600,000,000 pounds this year . By May or June , barring drouths that would hamper power production at Alcoa , Tenn. , and Van . couver , Wash. , production of alum . Inum Ingots will be stepped up con ? siderably by completion of new plants . In the northwest the corapany already is producing 60,000,000 pounds a year and will have In. creased that to 150,000,000 pounds by the end of the year . Meanwhile , the suggestion of Priorities Director Stettinius that plastics and other substitutes be used for domestic ware to conserve the aluminum supply drew the fire of Nicholas Zonarich , international president of the C. I. 0 . Aluminum Workers of America . " That would be a poor solution , " said the labor leader , " Instead of go . ing to the root of the problem , the priorities director Is advocating a measure that will inconvenience the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against that . " Calls It Leek or Foresight . Zonarich blamed the situation upon " the lack of foresight " on the part of those responsible for the adequate production of aluminum to provide for both domestic and defense needs . " lie said 300 workers already have been laid off in one section of the aluminum company 's New Kensington plant and others are expected to follow shortly . The aluminum company spokesman said there had been some " layoffs " recently as the big mills shifted from rolling lighter alloys for domestic users to heavier ones for armament needs . Ile termed that a " tempovary adjustment , " and said the overall employment has jumped from 26,000 , June 30 , 1939 , to 41,000 . Ile said he saw no prospects of an increase In the present price of virgin aluminum of 17 cents a pound , which compared to 35 cents during the first world war . Aluminum scrap has been selling at 20 to 21. cents . In the first world war it rose as high as 75 cents a pound . 