@@704496

txt While President Roosevelt 's latest peace moves ale warmly welcomed here , both government Circles and in the press , it would be misleading to fail to point out that there is a general conviction that the tones are not yet ripe for such peace steps even to begin to bear fruit . One statement here , bearing an authoritative stamp , says : " Undersecretary Sumner Welles can be certain of a cordial welcome as the President 's representative and may be sure of receiving all information with which the 13ritish Government can provide him , in older to enable the President to form a clearer view of the European situation . " But the statement then declares : " The British and French Governments have made abundantly clear the conditions under which they can see a termination of hostilities . " Allies Stand Firm In other words , so far as any actual peace hopes are concerned the Allies have not the slightest notion of modifying their present intentions which imply the defeat or the overthrow of the Nazi regime and full reparation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as freedom for Austria to choose its future course . The Allied Governments , It is stated , " have also made equally clear the principles for which they ale lighting , principles which they believe sue no less dear to the people of the United States than they ate to those of the European democracies who have taken up arms in their defense . " It would be a mistake to dismiss this as mere phraseology . On the contrary its inclusion in the officially inspired statement issued on the announcement of Mr. Welles ' European trip and Secretary of State Cordell Hull 's peace conversations with neutral nations is particularly significant . Basta of Co-operation For the truth Is that the feeling has been glowing here lately that while American co-operation . in laying the foundations of n future peace is genuinely welcomed , this can only be the case if America shows it really appreciates the fact that Britain and France are ? as they are honestly convinced  --  lighting for " pi inciples no less dear to the people of the United States " than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States were to approach the mob-loin of making peace on the assumption voiced by Former President Hoover and cel lain other American Statesmen that this is " just another European war , " and is " merely over politics , " theie would be the sudden and unpleasant discovery that the British are not interested in any peace efforts flow almond on that basis . This would be even more sharply true of any attempts at the immediate conclusion of a compromised peace . The fact that this war may seem in some respects to deserve the appelation " phony war " by no means Justifies the assumption that the Allies would be prepared to accent a " phony " peace . Welcome Assured Provided he comes with this clearly understood Mr. Welles is certain to receive every co-operation from the British and French Governments . similarly Mr. Hull 's peace talks with neutrals -- which an official statement met ely says " is noted with interest " ? will be welcomed and suppoi ted by the B1 ittsh Govet nment pa opm tIonately as they take into consideration that it is Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the r ights and independent existence of the small European neutral nations than for its own . There is nothing in this attitude In the least ill-disposed to any of President Roosevelt 's peace moves which are deeply appreciated both by the peoples and leaders over here . But an understanding now of this viewpoint , which is rooted deep in the feelings and hearts of the Ft ench and British people that they are fighting to put an end once and for all to the evils that are or would , if triumphant , soon become a menace to America no less to themselves , is certain to avoid much misundei standing and bitterness later . 