@@708565

txt Commissioner of Correction J. Paul Doyle announced today that 60 more inmates of the State Prison at Charlestown were transferred to Norfolk Prison Colony this week . This brings the total to 150 , Pfc . Rene A. Gagnon , of Manchester . N. H. , called on President Truman along with the only two other survivors of the historic flag raising on Mt . Suribachi , Iwo Jima , presenting the President with the first copy off the press of the new 7th War Loan poster which depicts that event . Production of evaporated milk in May , June , and July will demand 3,000 additional workers in New England , according to Arthur C. Gernes , regional War Manpower Commissioner . The workers will be recruited by the local U. S. Employment Office . Shoppers search in vain for cotton dress goods , as empty shelves reveal the Government is taking the entire production of the looms . Cotton men look for relief about three months after conquest of Germany . Page 2 . In Europe : Swiss Close East-North Frontiers Eastern and northern frontiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent any mass attempts of German refugees to enter the country , the Swiss Radio announced . New Finnish Government 's foremost task will be the fullfillment of armistice terms with Russia , Premier Juhu K. Paasikivi re-emphasized in Helsinki . Possibly $2,000,000,000 worth of art objects and historical monuments have been destroyed or plundered by the war on the Continent and in England , Francis Taylor , Director of the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art , estimated . United States Third Army 's entry into Czechoslovakia was hailed by Dr. Hubert Ripka , Czechoslovak Minister of Foreign Trade , who called upon all Czechoslovaks to " put themselves at the disposal of American commanders . " No Nazi fanfare greeted Hitler on his 56th anniversary today , a London dispatch commented . The Tokyo Radio , however , quoted General Sabada as saying the whole Japanese nation sent congratulations . Immediate intervention by Sweden to help Norway and Denmark rid their countries of Nazis appears remote . according to new indications in a statement issued by the Swedish Foreign Office . Washington : jurists Complete World Court Draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iurists of 44 United Nations . They will be presented to the San Francisco conference next week . Working at top speed the past nine days legal experts of all the United Nations except South Africa , India . and Poland , have revised the organic law of the old permanent Court of International Justice which formerly met at The Hague in Holland . Page 12.1 A bill granting Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt lifetime mail franking privileges passed the Senate unanimously . President Truman had asked that the privilege be extended to Mrs. Roosevelt , and a bill to that effect was introduced in the House by Majority Leader McCormack of Massachusetts . The nation 's civilian population " faces the worst sugar shortage of the entire emergency period , " the Republican Congressional Food Study Committee said . Representative Jonkman ( R ) of Michigan told the Committee that unless prompt steps are taken , there will develop a " black market " in sugar " so huge that it will be impossible for the American housewife to use her sugar stamps in the weeks immediately ahead . Page 161 National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women have been dropped from the Willow Run Bomber Plant pay rolls in Detroit as the management began cutting back production of B-24 Liberator bombers which will cease not later than next August . The plant now has approximately 20,000 employees . Gary Cooper is to be awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Fine Arts by Grinnell College , Grinnell , Iowa , Samuel N. Stevens , President , announced . Mr. Cooper , one of Hollywood 's leading actors , was a member of the class of 1926.                     