@@712551

txt The shortage of teachers that has plagued New York 's public elementary schools for the last ten years is virtually ended  --  at least for a while . This was shown in a study of teacher employment figures at the Board of Education , where it was found that for the first time since World War lithe city 's elementary schools had no classes without regular teachers except in an occasional emergency . Five years ago estimates of the . number of such classes ran as high as 1,500 . Despite the present promising picture , however , a cautioning note was sounded yesterday by Dr. William Jansen , Superintendent of Schools . Warning against a misleading interpretation of the cur // GRADE SCHOOL LACK OF TEACHERS ENDED // rent situation , he declared that I whether the board could maintain its record depended to a large extent on the number of qualified teacher candidates that are gradu ated by the colleges in the future . Steady Demand Is Seen " For many years to come , " he said , " there will be a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arising in the course of our normal , year-by-year turnover . At present , even though we are not faced by the extreme emergency that confronted us several years ago , we are not certain that the colleges will be able to supply our needs for elementary school teachers over the next five years . " Dr. Jansen emphasized that during this period the board would need a yearly average of 1,500 additional teachers for the elementary grades . Estimates for the 1050-51 education budget were not , ready yesterday but , according to a board spokesman , indicati -1 were that 2,000 new teachers would be need , ed to take care of increased en , rollment and the normal replacement of teachers who resign , die or retire next year . Most of these Inew teachers will be needed in the elementary school division . There now are 17,979 teachers assigned to the grades from kindergarten through 68 . The low year for appointments to the elementary schools was 1947-48 , when only sixty-seven new teachers were assigned . In the following year the figure jumped to 1,216 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a record 1,504 . An indication of how great was the need for new teachers in the elementary schools may be seen in the fact that the number of appointments made in the junior high school division last September amounted to eighty-five ; in the academic high school division , fifty-four , and in the vocational high schools , fifty-eight . The total number of new appointments made in the four divisions of the city school system between 1945 and last September was 7,479 . Of this figure , 1,037 were in the junior high schools , 708 in the academic high schools and 687 in the vocational high schools . The elementary schools got 5,047 in this period , 5,853 Lost to the System It was emphasized , however , that the addition of 7,479 new teachers to the school system beginning with the 1945-46 academic year did not constitute a net gain . During the same period there was a loss to the system of 5,853 teachers ? 2,811 by resignations , 397 by deaths and 2,645 by retirements . There are now 32,101 teachers in the four regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city schools , frequently a source of irritation to parent as well as teacher , has shown some improvement , the Board of Education statistics showed . It was found , for example , that the average class size in the elementary schools as of Oct. 31 , 1943 , was 33.3 pupils . As of last Oct. 31 , the average had dropped to 31.4 . The improvements elsewhere in the school system , where the rising birth rate was not an immediate contributing factor to oversized classes , were more striking . In the junior high schools the average class size declined from 35.8 to 21.7 ; in the academic high schools from 34.7 to 31.4 , and in the vocational high schools from 31.1 to 28.4 . Despite the modest over-all decline in the size of elementary classes , there have been protests recently from parents who opposed the consolidation of ? classes in some schools . Explaining the need for consolidating some classes , Dr. Jansen pointed out that it often was necessary to take this step when class registers were lower than expected . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are more than 15,000 classes in the elementary division . He noted that " practically all the teachers whose classes were consolidated received other assignments . " " Even with the consolidations , " he added , " the average class size in the elementary schools is as low as it has been at any time in the history ' of New York City . " Need to Vary With Levels Commenting on the effect on the schools of the rising birth rate , Dr. Jansen observed that as the years go by the demand for new teachers would vary at the different school levels . " Now , for example , " he said , " there is some need for teachers in the junior high schools , very little need in the senior high schools and a heavy demand in the elementary schools . We have , as a matter of fact , scheduled an examination for lA to 6B teachers in February . " He said that with the rising birth rate , elementary school registers would increase in size until a peak was reached in 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be about 215,000 more children in the city 's elementary schools than there were in 1947 . " The type of new teachers we shall need will change as this wave of additional children moves through the schools , " Dr. Jansen said . " Many more junior high school teachers will be called for when these children reach that level of schooling . According to our estimates , in about 1960 our junior high school population will jump by at least 50 per cent . The same goes for the senior high schools , where the peak will be reached some time around 1962 . " For many years to come , therefore , teaching in New York City will remain a promising professional field for young men and women . In general , however , I should advise prospective teachers studying in our colleges to prepare themselves for that level of teaching where there is the greatest current need for teachers . " 