@@711161

txt No longer forced to act like " lions , " as in the days of Mussolini , the members of Italy 's armed forces are once again being made into an efficient-looking organization . Freed from the bombast which throttled them in Fascist days , the Army , carabinieri , and national police have made a surprising recovery after the complete collapse which overtook them during and after the war . With the Italian election , involving rumors of riots and counterriots , coming on April 18 , this rebirth of the country 's armed forces is a reassuring spectacle to most persons here . For it now seems virtually certain the Italian Government will be in a position to maintain order in the event that hotheads of any shade of political opinion attempt to take the law ? into their own hands . 330,000 Available According to the Minister of the Interior ; Mario Scelba , the man responsible for keeping order , Italy 's armed might , as organized in Army , carabinieri , and police , comes to 330,000 men . Furthermore , anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any large Italian city recently can testify that these men are now well armed and fairly well trained . Recently I watched a contingent of some 500 soldiers marching on the streets of Naples . Dressed in an efficient uniform that seemed to be modeled somewhat on that of the British Army , these men looked well trained , well fed and dependable . Each was armed with a tommy gun , and although about one fourth of them did take advantage of the Italian soldier 's prerogative of glancing towards the sidewalk whenever a pretty Neapolitan passed , they gave the impression of being a businesslike group . U. S. Tanks Behind them rolled armored cars of the most modern design , each in radio contact with local army headquarters . Although there were no tanks with this particular detachment , the Italian Army and police are now known to be fairly well supplied with surplus United States Army Sherman tanks . With an eye on the unstable political conditions still prevailing here , the Government has let its armed forces be much in evidence lately . The asphalt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot sun , is continu ally being pitted and scuffed by the crunching of heavy tank treads , while hardly a day passes without the sound of a military band in the distance . This prominence of the armed forces has little or nothing to do with militarism . It is the Government 's way of letting the Communists on the one hand and the neo-Fascists on the other know that it now has a fighting force which probably can handle any internal situation which might arise . Reassurance Given It is also reassuring to those citizens who have been rather overawed by the hints which the Communists have been throwing out about their armed followers , In addition to building up the armed forces , it can be presumed that the Government has taken measures to insure their loyalty . This was particularly necessary in the case of both the Army and the national police , each of which held strong Communist and left-wing Socialist elements . Efficient as Italy 's armed forces may now be in relation to any possible opposition at home , this country still is virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even Italy 's eastern neighbor , Yugoslavia , although having but one third of Italy 's population , is estimated in some quarters to have 700,000 men under arms in some form or other . Thus Italy today can be considered as stripped of almost all military might , as was stipulated in its peace treaty with the victorious allies . This naturally is advantageous from an economic point of view to a nation which is still very far from being able to make ends meet or to support itself without American help ,                     