@@707193

txt As New York City 's wholesale meat markets were virtually emptied by the rollback of wholesale prices yesterday the New York City League of Women Voters urged Mayor La Guardia to create a City Food Administrator . The league 's president , Mrs. Walter Neale , wrote to the Mayor that an administrator was needed to remedy conditions here that have become so alarming as to endanger the successful prosecution of the war . Meanwhile , representatives of some 5,000 retail kosher poultry shops throughout the city whose owners have threatened to close on Mondays as a protest against paying some wholesalers more than ceiling ' prices , aired their com plaints at a conference with City Markets Commissioner Daniel P. Woolley . Afterward Mr. Woolley announced that he had a plan to clear up the black market situation and avert the closing of the shops . He gave no details of the plan . The Greater New York Retail Grocers Conference announced that it would hold a mass meeting of some 8,000 member , s at Manhattan Center , Thirty-fourth Street near Eighth Avenue , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Price Administration regulations that they say are partly responsible for the flourishing of black markets . Inspectors of the Food Distribution Administration of the U. S. Department of Agriculture reported that virtually all meat coolers had been emptied in advance of the rollback of wholesale prices . They thought that kosher meats , which do not have to be chilled , would be distributed to some extent today and that the distribution of other meats by wholesalers might be resumed tomorrow . No one would predict when any appreciable quantities of meat under the wholesale price rollback would be available for retail distribution , al- though the Federal inspectors reported that slaughtering continued at about the same volume that has been maintained since last spring . In its letter to Mayor La Guardia the New York League of Women Voters suggested that " the entire problem of wartime difficulties in the food field demand a much more comprehensive set-up " than the special Division of Wholesale and Retail Marketing the Mayor announced in his Sunday broadcast that he would create . The league further wrote : " Conditions have become so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war in so far as it depends on civilian morale . Such occurrences as the recent potato spoilage due to inadequate icing could have been prevented had we had an officer whose job it was to follow all government orders as they affect New York City and to call the attention of the proper authorities to factors which may not have been considered . " This instance serves to point up one of the crying needs of New York City , the necessity of a local food administrator to work with the various government agencies in seeing to it that the necessary food is brought into New York City without confusion and inequities . Further , there is need for distributing that food throughout all sections of the city so that all may have an equal opportunity to secure his fair share of what food is available " The league explained that its proposal for the appointment of a city food administrator had the support of numerous other individuals and organizations , including the Twentieth Century Fund , Associated Hospital Service , Women 's City Club . International Ladies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Federation of Women 's Clubs . Commenting on the request of retail kosher poultry dealers for Federal protection against pressure to buy poultry at higher than ceiling prices , Edward L. Coffey , chief attorney for the New York District OPA , made , this statement : " In our opinion , one of the most effective methods of stamping out the violations in poultry or anything else is the refusal of the buyer to purchase at higher than legal ceiling prices . It takes two to make a black market violation , and if the purchaser refuses to participate there can be none . We have urged and we strongly urge again that any retailer who has any information about sales or offers by wholesalers at above ceiling prices communicate that information immediately to us . " Mr. Coffeey disclosed that on information supplied by patriotic citizens the Regional OPA had instituted more than sixty court actions against poultry dealers , that these had resulted in the indictment of thirteen individuals in New York alone , and that his office had prepared a series of other eases for criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days . OPA . . Hearing Commissioner Ralph Masinter suspended three butchers from dealing in meats after hearing complaints that they had sold meats above ceiling prices .                     