@@704587

txt BANKERS DEMAND A HALT BY THE SEC Investment Group Says That Agency 's Expanding Powers Cut Capital Flow Summary of report of Investment Bankers , Page 44 . The Investment Bankers Association of America has virtually demanded that the Securities and Exchange Commission , pursuant to its statuory duty , " immediately recommend to Congress that the laws administered by the commission be reviewed and amended so as to remove deterrents unnecessary for the protection of investors or the public , which now impede the operation of our economy . " This move is the launching of a nation-wide program by the association to bring about Congressional action to curb the rapidly expanding power of the SEC . The blame for the prolonged deadlock in the capital market that has virtually stopped the flow of investment funds into industry is placed directly upon the Federal authorities and the regulating agencies . The Ito is regarded in financial circles as the most drastic and the statement the most sharply worded yet made by such an important part of the securities industry . The Investment Bankers Association of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small underwriting firms and security dealers . Emmett F. Connely of the First of Michigan Corporation , Detroit , is president . Letter Is Sent to Frank The recommendation for a review of laws administered by the SEC is contained along with others in a sixty-five page letter mailed yesterday to Jerome N. Frank , chairman of the SEC by Mr. Connely on behalf of the association . Specifically , the letter is a reply to a question- , naire sent to the association and other business interests on Feb. 29 , last , by the commission , through Joseph L. Weiner , director of its public utilities division . The SEC had invited suggestions on how the much-discussed and controversial rule on " arms-length bargaining " between underwriters and public utility companies in respect to new utility securities might best be applied . The association took the opportunity to urge not only a review of all . statutes regulating security transactions but specifically recommended that the commission rescind its present " arms-length bargaining " rule , known as Rule U-12F-2 . Yesterday had originally been set by the commission as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week the time limit was extended to April 2 . The association , however , mailed its reply so that it would be in the hands of the commission last night . " Arms-length bargaining " in respect to new public utility securities briefly means the existence of a relationship between the underwriter and issuer in which no undue influence prevails on either side ; where there is no financial relationship and where the underwriter is not an affiliate of the issuer . While the Investment Bankers Association says it has no quarrel whatsoever with the theory of " arms-length bargaining , " the interpretation of the Public Utility Act of 1935 and Rule U-12 F-2 by the SEC , which has tended to force new issues of public utility issues into competitive bidding , is condemned . Several important utility issues are entangled in the application of this rule and are still undecided , notably issues by the Consumers Power Company and the Dayton Power and Light Company . Holds Pdwers Exceeded The association , in its communication , charges the Securities and Exchange Commission with having reached beyond its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " armslength bargaining " rule . It recommends to the commission that the general issues raised by the rule and its extention to transactions not now within its scope be not decided until a public hearing has been held on the subject before a disinterested public body ? at which all persons interested will have ample opportunity to present their views . While criticizing the procedure of the hearings on investment banking before the Temporary National EcJnomic Committee which were conducted by the SEC , the association suggested that such a hearing as recommended to air the security business could well be held by a body such as the TNEC if properly conducted and all views permitted to be presented . In place of Rule U-12F-2 , the bankers recommended to the commission that " the reasonableness of the price , terms and spread of a proposed issue be established by comparing them with those prevailing for comparable Issues selling or recently issued in the open market . " This is the answer in the association 's report to the specific question raised in the commission 's letter . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by R. Stewart of Harriman Ripley &; Co. , Inc. , and included Benjamin B. Ehrlichman of Drumheller , Ehrlichman Company , Seattle ; Edward H. Hilliard of J. J. B. Hilliard &; Son , Louisville ; Paul W. Loudon of Piper , Jaffrey &; Hopwood , Minneapolis ; Colis Mitchum of Mitchum , Tully &; Co. , Los Angeles ; John K. Starkweather of Starkweather &; Co. ; Inc. ; John 0 . Stubbs of Whiting , Weeks &; Stubbs , Inc. , Boston ; John J. Sullivan of Sullivan &; Co. , Denver , and Jay N. Whipple ( If Bacon , Whipple &; Co. , Inc. , Chicago . The association openly challenges the legal right of the SEC to apply its Rule U-12 F-2 on the basis of the provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act , contending that the law does not give to the commission the authority to enforce the rule between underwriter and issuer . It is further charged that the commission , through Mr. Weiner 's letter of Feb. 29 , is misleading In that it implies that certain provisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and limited transactions , apply generally to all transactions relating to the distribution of securities of registered public utility companies and their subsidiaries . The act does not , according to the association , contain provision charging the commission , apart from intra-system transactions , with maintenance of competitive conditions ir ? the distribution of utility securities , or directing the commission to construe the act in that manner . This question , it is contended , is one which properly should come before a committee of Congress . The communication of the Investment Bankers Association is held to be the first of a series of replies to be sent to the SEC . Several individual investment banking firms plan to make separate replies and the National Association of Security Dealers , Inc. , also will prepare a reply . Various State public utility commissions , public utility company executives and many individuals received the questionnaire :                     