@@708596

txt Letters to The Times ERNEST M. HOPKINS.ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT. pg . E8 Letters to The Times Universal Training Preparedness to Discourage All Future Wars Is Urged The writer of the following letter is the president of Dartmouth College . To Tire EDITOR OF THE " %Tim YORK TIMES : In consideration of the debate about the desirability for universal military training too little attention , it seems to me , is given to the essential fairness of the proposal . Whatever the temporary inconvenience or minor sacrifice in the individual case or the necessity for readjustments upon us collectively , it is far more just that some responsibility for the maintenance of free institutions should be laid successively upon each generation for a brief time than that periodically every few decades the tragedy of war should be imposed for half decades or more upon generations contemporaneous with the respective emergencies . I do not assume that permanent immunity from war can be made completely certain whatever we do . On the basis , however , of some continuing contacts with sentiment abroad through the years since World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intelligently established system of universal military training would be in very large degree insurance against the frequency of war and might be more . I can not think of any proposition that I should not consider imperative that decreased in the slightest degree the hazard of war or even increased the span of time between one war and another . Wars Less Likely I want a system of universal military training established in the United States because I believe it would make wars less likely . For the second time in little over two decades I watch day by day the mounting list of Dartmouth 's dead . Other colleges and universities have like lists . And beyond these are the thousands upon thousands of attractive lads of other associations and other backgrounds who all together were to constitute the warp and the woof of the pattern of our citizenship in years to come , a pattern that now can never be what it might have been . It is not an experience that can be borne except in grief to receive the daily items announcing the deaths of boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipation of what they might have become , or to realize the sorrow imposed upon their suffering families : It does not make for poise and calm and philosophical rationalization about the minutiae of daily living . Rather it makes for anguished query whether as a people we must always be subjected to the cost of our lack of realism . Resistance at Right Time It has been estimated by military authorities that nazism could have been stopped at the time of the invasion of the Rhineland at a cost of a few hundred casualties at the most , and at the boundaries of Austria at a cost of a few thousand , had organization and will existed among peace-loving nations to have undertaken resistance then . I once asked a distinguished American in the Government whether any resistance on those occasions had been considered . " With what ? " he replied . " Neither the United States nor England had trained men , materiel or convictions in those years . " It is n't reassuring to reflect what would be our situation at the present time if any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dogged and exhausting defense while we slowly came to understanding of what the war was all about ; or Russia 's entry into the war and her valor in it while we slowly got under way . If we in opulence , inertia and self-righteousness withhold from preparedness for a possible World War III , we will invite it . Measure of Defense But someone says , " Possibly so , but what does that prove about universal military training ? " " Everything , " in my belief . The circumstances of modern life demand elimination of any time lag as a factor in preparedness . The measure of our defense will be the extent not only of our provision for war but also of our readiness for it for long time to come , except for agreement more binding than anything now in sight . Public sentiment in Europe as I saw it in the two decades following World War I offered many warnings of onrushing tragedy . Increasingly year by year subsequent to our refusal to enter the'League of Nations the insistent belief cumulatively developed among the peoples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not take any responsibility to support the peaceloving nations of the world , but that on the contrary we were so confident of our immunity from attack that we believed we could safely accept the hazard of doing nothing to defend ourselves against possible aggression . German university men , students and graduates , stated frankly that the Reich was about ready to take over supremacy in Europe , and Italian Fascist officers boasted of what they were going to do in making the Mediterranean Sea their own exclusive lake . Again and again I asked whether there was no concern at all among them about public sentiment in England and America . With no single exception that I can remember was the question answered with anything except amused tolerance among those most friendly or derisive comments among others as to the lack of public spirit and of virility in the soft and effete democracies . The most revealing experience of all to me as to what our attitude was doing to jeopardize our own safety eventually as well as to invite disaster to the rest of the world came in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spokesman of a brilliant group of young physicians , himself a distinguished veteran of World War I , and neither rightist nor leftist in sympathies but inclined to lean toward the Popular Front , he said nevertheless that the common sentiment held that France had been deserted and betrayed since Versailles by both England and America , that she was defenseless against Germany , and that many believed there was no hope for her except in an alliance with Russia or Germany . Personally he was inclined to think Germany the safer choice . E:e read me letters to the same effect . Many of the letters bespoke not only distrust of but antagonism toward the United States and England . " The United States , " he said , " if in the League could with England have assured peace in Europe and given France safety . We were led to rely on that . As it is , our only hope of security is not to offend Germany . " Then sadly came the conclusion of the whole affair as far as he and his friends were concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some one on a white horse were to ride through the gates of Paris tomorrow , the world would be astonished at the following that would turn out to accept leadership from him . " He begged me to make these facts clear to my friends at home . Words . iot Enough Again I seem to hear the comment , " But what does all this have to do with universal military training ? " Again I answer , " Everything . " Any disposition in America toward preparedness would : have given Germany and Italy pause and France reassurance . I would at this point , listening to the arguments of those who oppose universal military training , freely grant , as I have stated before , that wars may still be a possibility after a post-war organization for the maintenance of peace : is set up . Words will not necessarily preclude war . An organization in which the great powers sit together in continuous session to smooth out differences and to try to maintain peace will be a long step toward eliminating some of the hazards that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it can never in itself be a complete barrier . This is the answer to he made , it seems to me , to those who argue that because San Francisco is designed to lead the mind of the world toward peace , we should forego any organization internally that would make force available to us to protect ourselves . Idealism Ineffective Regarding the arguments of those who say that universal military training will jeopardize the efforts toward setting up a peace organization , tet not ignore the fact that the idealists have had their day  --  that the League of Nations , the Disarmament Conference and other such movements were all patterned on the premise that the world had reached a sufficient stage of civilization so that in the future wars would he outlawed . Subsequent events have proved how false that assumption was . Therefore , u ntil such time as the whole world has been educated to the belief and is ready to accept the ideal of enduring peace , it is going to be the responsibility of the peace-loving nations to maintain the peace by at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . People ask me as a college officer if universal training would not disorganize college procedures . The answer of course is " yes . " However , the problems of reorganizing life in the college , the home or the community do not interest , me in the slightest degree beside the possibility that a system of universal military training might save our youth from suffering and dying in war a quarter of a century from now . Army Only Alternative The proposal for universal military training is a proposition purely and simply to enhance the military security of our people . Its alternative is a huge standing army for years to come . Protection in one way or another must be given against the necessity of becoming involved in wars engendered by those who may in the future believe , as has been believed twice in our time , that our unpreparedness made it safe to violate every principle in which we believe . Moreover , the proposal to my mind is valueless except as it envisages military training exclusively . Valuable by-products doubtless would accrue to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but military security for the American people in the enhanced possibility of escaping future wars must be the one all-inclusive purpose of such a project . Finally , for those who fear the effect of the proposal upon the spirit of democracy , the plan seems to me to embody the very essence of democracy in imposing alike upon all equal responsibility for the maintenance of tY. , e democratic state and the freedoms they derive from this . Moreover , there unquestionably would be some inconvenience and some disappointments involved in the readjustments of such a plan . I grant it . But my eye turns to the pages of fine print in Tin : TIMES by my chair  --  the headings are " Dead , " " Wounded , " " Missing . " After this I am not interested in the inconveniences to be met by institutions or individuals . I do not care how great the problems of readjustments may be in the fields of learning , labor or management . I , am not even concerned over possible changes in our form of goverr.ment if freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less . The only thing that seems to me of the slightest consequence in the world is that boys like these shall not again have to walk this Gethsemane , that these pages of fine print shall never again have to be published . A nation-wide preparedness to such extent as universal military training would provide might make such possibilities into probabilities . I pray It may be tried ! ERNEST M. HOPKINS . Hanover , N. H. , May 1 , 1945 . Occupation Problems Lack of Trained Men for Foreign Administrative Work Deplored The writer of the following letter is an economist and former correspondent of European newspapers . He is at present engaged in post-war economic research . To THE EDITOR or THE Nzw YORE Timex : The occupation a Germany poses problems that can hardly be exaggerated . Civilian and public service requirements , superimposed on military needs , have already created conditions with which the occupation authorities are apparently unable to cope . What will happen in the course of the next few months is anybody 's guess . It is under these circumstances surprising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in American-occupied Germany and particularly their civilian branch  --  the Allied Military Government ? so ill-prepared for the chaos and emergencies that follow in the footsteps of military conquest . Poorly staffed and thinly spread over thousands of square miles , it seems a miracle that a handful of men can keep order in the face of an apathetic and often hostile people . The only explanation this writer car offer is that German docility , for ' once , is working in favor of the Allies . Violent outbreaks have been avoided sec far . A recent report in THE NEW YORE TIMES tells of one Army major , one lieutenant and one warrant officer it charge of a territory of two hundree square miles with sixty-three towns and villages and four displaced-person ( centers . There are about 50,000 libel. ? ated foreign workers and prisoners DJ war in each center . No Trained Personnel The unreadiness on the part . of the AMG to handle administrative oecUper tion problems that could he foreseer many months ago bodes ill for the future . Now it seems rather late t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AMG train in ; " centers with intensive two-weel courses for haphazardly chosen soldiei boys furnish the answer . After that they arc on their own and supposed 1 ( deal with a people with whose ways se thinking and living , not to mention language , most of them are unfamiliar Why has this situation been per mitted to arise ? For more than tw ( years the writer has been pleading in vain for the establishment of an effi sufficiently manned occupation authority competent to deal with just such situa tions that have arisen and are bound te arise in parts still occupied by Germai forces ; that staffs of American met and women , acquainted with condition in Europe and speaking foreign Ian guages , be put in charge of occupiec territory under the supervision of the military ; that they , by applying theli knowledge and experience , weed on undesirables and replace Na.ei-ep pointed administrators with persons o proven loyalty to the democratic am anti-Nazi cause . Russian System Praised Many in and out of Government Attic that it could not be done . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take I look at the Russian system of oecups tion . I have before me a report on the activities of so-called German specie task groups attached to the Russiar armies . These groups , composed of former Reichswehr officers , clergymen , propagandists , technicians , trade unionists and trained administrators -- all of them of German origin  --  are immediately placed in charge of territory conquered by the Russian forces . British sources confirm the excellent work done by these " cadres " and add that " their knowledge of local conditions is of inestimable value to the Russian counterpart of Allied Military Government in the west . " Our knowledge of the Soviet-eponsored occupation system is necessarily scarce . But regardless of Russia , what has the United estates , its millions of citizens of German descent. , to offer for the administration of occupied Germany and the political reeducation of its people ? Nothing so far , I fear . We talk a great deal , but we are somewhat reluctant to put the abundant human material in our midst to good use . It is to be hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is an important factor in the realization of the longrange peace plans of the United Nations Conference at San Francisco . ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT . New York , May 1 , 1945.                     