@@706775

txt News that the Germans are throwing fresh waves of reserves into the fighting for Stalingrad comes as an eloquent postscript to Joseph Stalin 's oblique reminder that a second front remains an urgent necessity . On the whole , the heroic defenders of Stalingrad are holding their own against the new onslaught , although they appear to have given ground slightly inside the city . The Nazis , however , evidently have launched a supreme effort to crush the Soviet garrison before autumn turns the Volga steppes into quagmires . Thus , Mr. Stalin 's reminder becomes especially timely . The Soviet Premier 's statement and the revivified German activity is helping to dispel the tendency toward mild complacency which the remarkable stand at Stalingrad seems to have inspired in some quarters . Whether Stalingrad falls or not , it is of the utmost importance that the United Nations prevent the Germans from " digging in " for a winter defensive stand which Marshal Goring indicated yesterday was their intention . On the other hand , Mr. Stalin 's assurance that Soviet capacity to resist is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other aggressive power to secure for itself world domination " should allay the fears of the extremists who have predicted a complete Russian ' collapse unless a second front is opened immediately . The phrase " any other aggressive power " obviously was aimed at Japan . And again , Mr. Stalin seems to have scored a masterpiece of timing , for the United States has also issued a warning to Japan by establishing new bases in the Andreanof group of the Aleutians . In so doing , it has put the United Nations in a good position to launch a sustained aerial offensive against Japanese-held Kiska , Attu , and Agattu islands . At the same time , it has provided a potential jumping off place for a counterinvasion of these enemy-occupied islands 250 miles closer than they had when they were operating from Dutch Harbor , although there is little reason to believe that such a counteroffensive will begin in the immediate future . In the Far East , the principal developments were the reported loss of the American submarine Grunion somewhere at sea and the continued pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic gap in the Owen Stanley Mountains , about 70 miles from Port Moresby . Incidentally , Prime Minister Curtin of Australia has characterized the Allied offensive in New Guinea as essentially a holding operation . Demands of other major fronts for men and materials and immense shipping difficulties , he said , would necessitate a delay of at least six months before the United Nations were strong enough to launch a full-scale offensive in the Australian theater. ? Sub Overdue : Grunion Missing Somewhere in Pacific The Navy announced in Washington that the submarine Grunion had been overdue in the Pacific for some time and must be presumed lost . The Grunion , launched at Groton , Conn. , last Dec. 22 , was commanded by Lieut . Commander Mannert L. Abele , of Quincy , Mass.                     