@@710169

txt Unemployment caused by the shortage of natural gas topped the 200,000 mark yesterday as additional factories were forced to curtail production to make gas available for heating and cook1 ing in States in the East and Middle West . Hard hit by the shortage were ' West Virginia , western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio , where 90,000 persons were jobless . In Cleveland alone 12,000 persons were laid off and labor unions , **31;324;TOOLONG in protests to gas companies . In the Pittsburgh area gas concerns appealed repeatedly to consumers to conserve fuel and the United States Steel Corporation diverted 10,000,000 cubic feet of gas from its plants for domestic consumers . The only bright spot in the industrial picture came from Detroit , where it was announced that nearly 100,000 industrial workers who had been idle yesterday would be recalled to their jobs today . Most of these employes were in automobile production and associated work . , Rockland Evacuation Looms In Rockland County , N. Y. , it appeared almost certain that beginning today nearly 2,500 families would have to evacuate their homes . Gas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said all gas for heating purposes would have to be discontinued today , barring unforeseen developments . Public officials in the county appealed to Governor Dewey and the Public Service Commission for an immediate investigation of the gas shortage . Children were packed off to relatives and adults prepared to move in with neighbors during the crisis . Many families , anticipating an order today cutting off gas for heating , already were draining water from pipes or trying to obtain electric heaters and cooking apparatus , either buying the items at stores or borrowing from friends . An emergency meeting called by County Supervisor Irvin F. Dillon at New City , the county seat , was jammed and the resolution urging investigations was passed without dissent . A similar declaration was sent by telegraph to Albany by Charles P. Nardiello , Mayor of Haverstraw . Householders in the county who use gas only for cooking feared that a continued shortage might force a complete shutdown , leaving the majority of the county 's 16,000 families without cooking facilities . The order expected today wouldeffect only those homes where gas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spell responsible for the abnormal gas consumption would continue in - the East and Midwest . i There-was little hope diet the temperature would rise in Pittsburgh , ' where gas consumption has forced the curtailment of supplies to Rockland County . Snowstorms in the northwestern area of New York State subsided yesterday , but the main roads of seven counties in that section were clogged by huge drifts . Similar storms in some parts of Pennsylvania forced the closing of public and parochial schools , accrding to The Associated Press . In Florida , The United Press reported , a cold snap brought an order halting citrus industry operations . 1 emperatures in many parts of the State were below freezing . The forecast for New York City was partly cloudy today , with little change in temperature . Tomorrow the thermometer is expected to drop slightly . The cold weather in the city brought a sharp increase in complaints of inadequate heating from tenants , according to Health Commissioner Israel Weinstein . However , Dr. Weinstein said , the 1,435 complaints were not unusual for the low temperatures over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gas shortage , suffered an additional setback as shipping along the ' Ohio , Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers was hampered by ice . Four hundred plants , principally in steel production , have been - : - ... : ' : gogtinued From Page i - forced to lay off : 50,000 vicii6rriii1 the ' Pittshiirgh area . The ' OA- Slicittagp there was ; , . at. - tributed - to a rise- of 46 per cent- lit consumption-since- a year-ago . and glie.tO the inability of- utilities ' to extend pipelines ' to new sources of supply because of . lack of materials . ? United States States Steel suspended eft ' mare ... Operations , yeaterday , bringing . the . total to - 'sixteen . . In Wheeling , W. Vai , the Natural Gas CoMpany ? of West Virgititelaimed use ? of gas in. bakeries . This7egused several hospitals in the Pittsburgh area to - shut off gas-fired bake ovens and to . start buying bread . " In Cleveland union leaders said they ' probably would , join industrialists in protests to gas Companies against curtailment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the Aluminum Corporation of America , the Eaton Manufacturing Company and the Ferro-Enamel ' Corporation . An official of one of- the major gas companies in the section said industrialists had been warned earlier that their gas supply- might be shut off during cold spells . Freezing . of some crops in Texas and other areas in the South and Southwest caused a rise in prices of lettuce and carrots in New York City . Nevertheless , according to Edward A. Hausman , executive secretary of the Allboro Retail Fruit Association , receipts of all kinds of fresh vegetables and fruits continued in sufficient quantities to meet the city 's needs . Coal and fuel-oil dealers said they were able to fill all orders , although business was brisk .                     