@@708849

txt There was nothing conditional today about the jubilant all-night celebration by American fighting men in the Pacific that the Japanese were willing to surrender . In offices , barracks and tents the shouting ' discussion of the almost unbelievable news went on for hours and few believed that the Allies would decline the Japanese condition that the position of the Emperor must not be impaired . Most of the men out here had known about and accepted an earlier high policy decision that the Emperor should not be bombed because he was the one single force that could be counted upon to control all Japanese troops if he decided to surrender . Only yesterday Superfortresses had aroppeo. 3,000,000 leaflets to the Japanese people designating the Emperor as the person to whom the people should appeal to end the war so it would not be necessary for us to employ the deadly atomic bomb again against Japanese cities and people . Men shouted and pounded each other on the backs when the first news of . the ' Japanese surrender offer reached here by radio . Wacs cried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the news . Bottles of whisky long hoarded suddenly appeared and were rapidly consumed . There was no comment from any ' of the high officials , but most of them were smiling broadly as they // came to their offices late at night to wait for official dispatches from Washington confirming the news . Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz heard the news at dinner and said , " Thank you very much " to his informant . " Thank God , there will be no more invasions and no more bombing missions , " was the almost universal comment . These men had been prepared for the toughest and bloodiest fight in their lives when they invaded the Japanese home islands . They were ready and willing to go in there slugging it out with the best of Japan 's well trained and determined infantry because they knew victory was essential to the retention of freedom in the world . Fireworks on Okinawa On Okinawa , where the toughest campaign of the Pacific was fought , men jumped to man antiaircraft guns and filled the sky with tracer bullets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest American Fourth of July celebration . It took forty minutes for senior officers to get control of the situation and halt the bursts of fire , which rained fragments down on the island and sent many scurrying to foxholes for cover . Everywhere where American soldiers , marines and sailors are stationed there were wild celebrations . Sample comments by marines were : Pfc . J. F. Taw Jr. , Baldwin , Long Island , N. Y. ? " I thought it was too good to be true . They should let the people keep Hirohito . Through him we could dictate to the people . They respect him as their God . " Pfc . Tom M. Zuffelato of Torrington , Conn . ? " I got goose bumps all over . " Pvt . Paul Markowitz , 20-65 East Twenty-third Street , Brooklyn ? " This is the most welcome news I ever heard . I think that they can keep the Emperor and we can run things with him in office . " Pvt . William A. Viall Of Providence , R. I. ? " The best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crowd Roars OKINAWA , Saturday , Aug 11 ( /P ) ? One outdoor movie here , showing " Captain Eddie , " the story of the life of Eddie Rickenbacker , had reached a sequence where the hero , just back from the first World War , tells his bride he bets millions of other former soldiers are going fishing . At that moment distant cries and cheers echoed above the soundtrack and the GI 's , on edge since the first atomic bomb dropped and Russia entered the war , yelled for word . It came . The operator announced : " Japan has asked for terms of surrender ! " The film was forgotten in the roaring celebration which followed . Only today supply depots received calls for gas masks as conjecture spread Japan might try a last desperate effort to attack this island . Guns Fired in Air at Manila By Wireless to Tits NEW Yosic Tudes . MANILA , Saturday , Aug. 11 ? Warships in Manila harbor fired flares and machine guns , carbines and revolvers were fired into the air as cheering crowds thronged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese peace offer . Filipinos and Americans were joyous that the Japanese realize they had lost the ' war whether their stipulation about the Emperor was accepted or Mt . GI 's , many of whom have spent four years in this theatre , at last saw the possibility of getting home soon and demonstrated wildly . - ' Hopes ' This Is the End ' MANILA , Saturday , Aug. 11 UP ) ? Gen. Douglas told cheering hundreds of soldiers and Wacs from his headquarters balcony this morning , " I hope from the bottom of my heart that this is the end of the war . " " If it is , " he continued , " it is due largely to your own splendid efforts . " Very shortly I hope we will all be going home . " General , who had been assigned the task of defeating the Japanese Army on its homeland , then waved to the crowd below and retired to his office . When General went to his office this morning ' he was greeted by cheering throngs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but showed no sign of tension . When the cheering continued , he finally stepped out on the balcony , gave his three-sentence speech and walked back inside . The cheering lasted for several minutes afterward . Omens Hails Surrender . Offer /IANILA , Aug. 10 ED  --  President Sergio Osmefia of the Philippines , commenting on the Japanese offer to capitulate , said today that " Japan 's surrender would ba received with joy and thanksgiving by the whole world . " Speaking in the ravaged capital of the island commonwealth which was occupied by the Japanese- for three years , Osmefia said : " The people of all freedom-lov- , ing nations could turn their mind and hearts toward the tremendou task of healing wounds caused Is this great , terrible conflict an ( building a new and better world which all men ; regardless of creec or race , may ' find peace and se curity and complete opportunity to dedicate their lives to the pursuit of civilization . " Jubilation in Aleutians ADAK , Aleutian Islands , Aug. 1 ( ( . P ) ? Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , greeted Japanese peace overtures with jubilation today as a miniature willipaw howled around their heads . Soldiers and sailors on the streets yelped and yelled to their hearts content as they reported for duty . Radios were kept tuned to the United States , Japan and Russia for official confirmation of the offer . Vigilance along the long , stormy Alaskan sea frontier continued and warships at sea maintained usual war routines . Military leaders had no comment pending official word from Washington . Meanwhile , officers and men began talking of returning home . ' Honolulu Goes Mad HONOLULU , Aug. 10 ( U.P. ) ? It 's the wildest day in the history of Honolulu . This mid-Pacific city , scene of the infamous Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor Dec. 7 , 1941 , celebrated , the report of Japan 's plea for peace with unparalleled joy . The news reached here in the middle of the night . The city awoke as Vsuddenly as it did that terrible dawn three years , eight months and three days ago . Early risers careened through the town in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailors ran shouting in the streets , throwing confetti and streams of paper . At Hickam Field , the great Army base adjacent to Pearl Harbor , GI 's whooped their happiness and were joined by Wacs . The band assembled in front of the hangar line . It played " Roll Out the Barrel " and " The Song of the Army Air Corps . " The celebrants moved parade fashion into the streets . At Pearl Harbor the navy yard was quiet . Enlisted men stationed there were ordered back to bed . The news spread by word of mouth , telephone and radio . Newspaper switchboards were jammed with calls . Trucks and cars loaded with yelling soldiers and sailors sped through the streets . The streets were alive with jubilant residents . Meanwhile , " ' polite staffed the city- with V every available officer . And should the surrender become official , every bar will close .                     