@@711644

txt The next few days may very tell determine whether the curent memorable session of the rnited Nations in Paris is to be a uccess or a failure . The hour of decision appears o be at hand in virtually all the ) ig issues with which delegates to he General Assembly and the iecurity Council have been beset , In the Berlin issue , no less a ) erson that Secretary General . ' rygve Lie has undertaken the lifficult and delicate task.of seek-rig a solution of the city 's cur'ency difficulties which might pose ibly serve as the basis for - negoiations for the lifting of the ) lockade . In all probability , such a sug ; ested solution would provide for ! stablishment of the Soviet mark is the city 's sole currency and ef'ective control over it by the four ) ccupying powers . ' ace-Saving Effort At the same time , Dr. Juan Bramuglia , Argentine Foreign . Minister , is understood to have evolved a plan whereby the six so-called neutral powers on the Security Council would enter into detailed negotiations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This , it is contended , would enable both sides to save face . It would permit the West to stand by its position that it can enter into no negotiations with Russia " under duress . " And it would allow Russia to maintain its stand that an agreement must be reached on the currency problem before the Soviet blockade is lifted . The success or failure of both proposals would seem to depend upon how serious the Russians are in wanting a settlement of the issue . Bunche . Plan Weighed In the complex Palestine case , the focal point of UN activity now appears to be a developing attempt to transform the uneasy Holy Land truce into an armistice which would lead to lasting peace . The Sedurltie Council is now considering in closed sessions a peace plan put forward by Acting Mediator Ralph J , Bunche which would call upon the Jews and Arabs to do the following things : 1 . To negotiate a settlement of their differences through his good offices . 2 . To establish an armistice which would result in the withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demilitarized zones . Russia , incidentally , has objected to this proposal . 3 . To submit periodic reports to the acting mediator on the way in which the proposed armistice is being carried out , Israelis Critical The plan has undoubted merit , but it is being subjected to bitter criticism from the Israelis and some other factions , On the whole , it would seem that even the Berlin issue will prove less difficult to settle than the complexity-ridden Palestine picture . So many cross currents , so many pressure moves of one sort or another hive been set up in the UN and outside it that it is virtually impossible at this time to discover a clear pattern of what is happening or is likely to happen . 4 ' One thing is obvious , however : The Palestine issue is coming rapidly to a head and one way or another something definitive must be done about it , Meanwhile the important Greek question is moving along with approval by the General Assembly 's 58-nation political committee , by overwhelming vote , of an American-sponsored resolution reaffirming charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Balkans by intervening in Greek internal affairs , Settlement Urged The resolution sanctions reports of the United Nations Special Committee on the Balkans and would continue it for at least another year . It also calls upon Albania , Bap garia , and Yugoslavia to cooper . ate peacefully with Greece in the settlement of their disputes and with the special commission which they hitherto have boycotted . In the vital atomic energy control issue , the General Assembly has instructed the Atomic Energy Commission to resume its efforts to find a control formula while at the same time endorsing in principle most of . the basic points of the plan first put forward by the United States .                     