@@709328

txt Public opinion in the smaller Illinois cities is even more bitterly opposed to a 3,31 billion dollar gift loan to Great Britain than it is in Chicago , it is disclosed by a sidewalk poll taken in this agricultural and industrial center of 11,400 on the Rock river . The special pleading of State Secretary Byrnes and Commerce Secretary Wallace for the gift loan has been rejected by a majority of more than seven to one of the business and professional men , factory workers , and housewives interviewed at the city 's hub , 3d st. and 1st ay . The count was four in favor of the gift loan , 29 against , and five undecided . A similar poll taken in Chicago last month allowed 11 in favor of the gift loan , 35 against , and 11 undecided , or a majority of three to one opposed . Remember Other Loan The two biggest factors in causing the people of Sterling to oppose the gift loan appeared to be Britain 's failure to repay the VA billions she borrowed after World War I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British intended to go into the loan business themselves by arantina credits to Greece , France , and possibly Russia . On the question of accepting the suggestion offered by . Winston Churchill March 5 in a speech in Fulton , Mo. , of entering a military alliance with the British against Russia , residents of Sterling also agreed by a large majority that American interests would be served better by avoiding entanglements not only with the British , but also with any other European nation . 6 For , 27 Against The division was six in favor of the alliance , 27 opposed , and five undecided . The figures in a similar poll taken March 12 in Chicago were four in favor , 29 opposed , and four undecided . In every instance those who favored an alliance said they were influenced by fear Russia intends to try to dominate the world and that English spealcing peoples should stick together in the event of war . Persons here found it a hard choice to decide whether it is better to placate Russia by rejecting the British ex-prime minister 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end most decided the best course for America would be to stay aloof from both Britain mid Russia . Samples of the opinions are quoted below : J. J. Ludens , attorneyNo loans to England ! That should be our watchword . They did n't pay the last time they borrowed money from us , and I should think the American taxpayers would be sick of - paying England 's bills by this time . We 've never had anything but trouble from the British . Churchill 's suggestion of a military alliance is just another bid to work the old game of getting us to do England 's fighting . I 'm against it . Robert Ellison , Mount Morris , school teacher  --  The fiction that this would be a Joan is a joke . The British wo n't pay it back and if they must have the money , it would be far better to make it a gift . The British still seem to think this is one of their colonies . I 'm opposed to the alliance and the loan . Dr. W. IL Ferry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan is just another feature of New Deal spending that eventually will sink us . We should not enter any alliances until the united nations organization has a chance to prove itself . If we line up with England now our hopes for peace are gone . Frank L , Pitney , real estate dealer  --  Is n't it silly for us to be making anybody a loan when we owe more money than any other nation in the world ? We need those billions right here . Ray Harting , factory worker ? We 've been supporting the British long enough . I 'm against either a loan or an alliance . Elmer MeNinell , factory clerk  --  I read the other day that we have a per capita debt of more than $1,700 , the highest in the world . I do n't see how we can afford to make a loan . An open military alliance with Britain now would be an invitation for trouble with Russia .                     