@@705192

txt The Circus Goes Mechanical Mr. Bel Geddes Tells Why Institution Is to Be Streamlined To THE EDITOR  --  OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent editorial you spoke kindly of the circus and your concern over the changes that may happen to it under my plan for its re-design . May I be permitted a word or two in rebuttal . I , too , used to carry water to the elephants and approach the job of streamlining the circus with as much reverence as is contained in the heart of any editorial writer . No , it is not a clever publicity stunt ; we are going to do things to the circus . But necessary things in these days of competition and mechanization . The circus has grown so every year that something had to be done to get it in , set up and out of a town within the daily round of hours . Those who are bemoaning the passing of the old circus just because the Ringling-North boys have announced it is to be streamlined are entitled to their nostalgic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the prospect would not think of going back to the old nickelodeon for their movies or of buying their crackers or oatmeal from a barrel , so why should they object to seeing the greatest show on earth in comfort and without having to crane their necks around myriad tent poles ? Conditions Have Changed The nostalgic group must bear in mind that the country as a whole has not mellowed as patiently as one 's memory . The radio , the telephone and , above all , good roads and inexpensive cars have broken down all frontiers and established a new order of social consciousness . The farmer who comes to the circus these days does not trundle in his family behind the old gray team taken off the plow , but shoots up in the latest model car . He and his tribe are used to seeing the same movie that Broadway sees on the same night perhaps , and he sees it in a palace made after the pattern of the Doge 's Palace or the cathedral that set the style in New York or Lou Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ womenfolk are accustomed to beautiful powder rooms , and all of them are spoiled by having seats where they can see and hear what is going on in the way of entertainment . The new modernized circus will certainly please these loyal patrons who have continued as customers all these years . It may even gain some customers from the ranks of the younger generation who wo n't put up with the discomforts of their forebears . Acceleration Necessary The circus is about the last American institution that has held out against the mechanical age . Gradually though it has had to adapt some of the machines to aid it in its extraordinary manoeuvre of arriving in a city at dawn , setting up , performing and evacuating by midnight . We plan to accelerate this mechanization and , like all mechanical advance , gain more time for the human element of the organization . Circus cages and wagons are still as they were in the days when they were hauled by the handsome Percheron and Clydesdale horses . Just because we are going to design and build these cages to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are going to destroy any of their charm . We may even increase their charm and their wonder to the constant youth of the country . Certainly , the boy of today is more impressed by a bomber or stratoliner than he is by a hayrack or corn wagon . And as for the menagerie , any one who has seen a zoo will not find any fault with the natural habitat treatment we plan for the animals . But within the big top itself we hope to gain the most by use of modern methods of showmanship . Here we can bring to play all the marvels of stage lighting and all the technique of spectacle . We are willing to bet . that those who liked the old circus will be thrilled by the , new -- and also see a darned sight more of it . NoRMAN BEL GEDDES . New York , Nov. 29 , 1940 . Church of Santa Susanna Not Closed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : In a message from Rome , printed in THE TIMES of July 22 , the statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of the Paulist Fathers , was to close at the end of the month . This notice has caused considerable confusion among the patrons of the church residing in different sections of the United States . The fact is that the Church of Santa Susanna and the library adjoining it are not closed , nor do we expect to close them . The misunderstanding , no doubt , arose from the fact that I , the rector of the church , came home to America on a visit , and am temporarily stationed in the Church of St. Paul the Apostle on Columbus Avenue , in this city . For the time being my place in Rome is taken by another Paulist , the Rev. Edward H. Peters , with whom I am in frequent communication . ( The Rev. ) THOMAS LANTRY O'NEILL . New York , Nov. 30 , 1940 . Need for Legislation Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The State Constitution effective Jan. 1 , 1939 , states that the Legislature shall provide for identification of voter 's through their signatures in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide for the signatures at the time of voting of all persons voting in person by ballot or voting machines , save only in cases of illiteracy or physical disability . The Legislature has failed thus far to make any such provision . The Attorney General has rendered an opinion that this provision is selfexecuting . Election officers generally have adopted this view and required signatures of voters . But in the case of Liberman v. Bannister , decided by Supreme Court Justice Witschief in Westchester County , April 20 ( 20 N. Y. Supp. 2d 424 ) , it was intimated that the Legislature having failed to act , election officers are not obliged to require the signatures of voters when otherwise satisfied of their identity . If Justice Witschief is correct , it would seem that legislation should be enacted pursuant to the mandate of the Constitution to effectuate the design of the constitutional provision to prevent fraud at elections . . ROBERT H. HASKELL . Brooklyn , Nov. 29 , 1940 . Health Insurance Advocated Result of Army Physical Examinations Held to Point Need To THE EDITOR OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost one-quarter of the young men examined for induction into the Army were found to be physically incapable of military service would indicate that history , if it does n't repeat itself , at least moves along parallel lines . It was the high percentage of disability discovered among the men sought to be recruited for the Boer War that frightened England into the realization of the dangerous national weakness produced by the lack of proper medical care and directly led to the institution of that country 's highly successful system of health insurance . Careful studies have long ago established how hopelessly inadequate is the state of - medical care in this country . It needed only some dramatic situation such as the present to bring this knowledge home to our people . The facts which you report are oven more telling than would appear on the surface . It will be remembered that prior to the examination by Army doctors there had been a preliminary examination by doctors connected with the local boards as the result of which some had already been weeded out , so the number of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve may prove to be considerably greater than 25 per cent . Moreover , the Selective Service Act is limited to men within a narrow age range presumably because that sex at those years represents the maximum in physical vigor and health . One can only imagine what would be shown by a similar examination of men in their middle and advanced years and of women generally . For the first time there is being revealed the toll which Inadequate medical service is taking in terms of physical deterioration . The first line of the defenses we are building must be our human resources . Their preservation requires that we utilize to the full our magnificent medical facilities , which at present are unavailable to most people simply because they can not afford to pay for them . That can be accomplished in only one way ? by distributing the cost widely and equitably through compulsory health insurance. , HERMAN A , Qui , . New York , Nov. 27 , 1940 . The Army Is OK. ' d TO Tire EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : Quite a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these writings I have yet to find real honestto-goodness praise . Allow me , then , as an enlisted man in the Army for one week , to state a few facts . The sleeping accommodations , warmth , fresh air , cleanliness , etc. , are beyond reproach . The food , including the coffee , is plentiful , tastefully prepared , diversified and all-around wholesome . The clothing is neat , warm and well fitted . The officers ' considerateness for genuine problems of subordinates is beyond comparison . To sum up , I most definitely state that the Army is thoroughly OK . A. J. PERLmAN . Mitchel Field , N. Y. , Nov. 28. 1940 . Music as an Educator To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The writer of a letter bearing the heading " Reading and Education , " Charles Lamson Griffin , says : " At another such conference in 1888 President Eliot told his students that every one who every day shall read some good poetry , or other good literature , or look at a good work of art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider himself , and to he considered , an educated man . " This is undoubtedly true , for it presupposes in the student the interest and desire to absorb the beauty and greatness of such works . But why confine the best of education to literature and art ? Music should surely he included as an equally important means . A man appreciating , say , any of the great preludes and fugues of Bach , and quartets and symphonies of such master 's as Beethoven , Schubert , Schumann and Brahms , should be considered equally well educated . One meets so many persons interested in literature and art but entirely lacking in regard for great music . Was President Eliot one of these ? FRANK NORRIS . New Rochelle , N. Y. , Nov. 29 , 1940.                     