@@711771

txt America has some four million " bidden " dwellings . They are helping to take the sharp edge off housing demand . And their discovery may well have an important effect on future government housing policy . Evidence of these forgotten houses has been dug out of statistics by some of President Truman 's top economic advisers . These economists were scotching for an explanation of why demand for housing this fall and winter has softened somewhat at a time when nearly everyo.te , in Washington . at least , expected continued high pressure . They think one answer lies in their billings that since the census of April , 1910 , there have been close to four million more hab ? its.ble dwellings added to the available nonfarm housing supply than official government figures have led people to believe . These are n't new units , they 're quick to point out , but they are serving to house many families who were believed to be out looking for some place to live . The count and conclusions of these experts are not universally accepted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being studied seriously and much weight is being given to them . Some lawmakers who will pass on housing legislation in the 81st Congress are tempering their enthusiasm for public housing in the light of these studies . Thus , the theories of Mr. Truman 's own economists may actually be used to pare down the president 's demand for a seven-year program to build one million federally subsidized , low-rent housing units . Refigure Future " Need " If the re-count of the housing supply Is accepted , it will mean trimming by three to five million the previous estimates of how many new homes should be built by 1960 . These figures on " need " have ranged from 12 million to 14 million new dwellings between now and 1960 . The basic premise of the " hidden houses " counters is this : Practically all judgments of the nation 's housing needs have been based on Bureau of Labor Statistics figures on new non-farm dwellings started . These figures are quite accurate as far as they go , the theory runs , but they Ignore these big factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about 2,240,000 housing units were taken out of the " sub-standard " category and put into the " habitable " class . This was done , for example , by families with war-earned money to spend , putting in plumbing and toilets , fixing walls and roofs , and making other needed repairs . This fixing-up has continued at a fast pace since 1947 , although probably not as fast as in the war years . All of this means that better than twoanda-quarter million dwellings , which public housing advocates had counted out because they were " sub-standard " and needed replacement , have by now been brought back into the housing supply . Another net gain of 1,117,000 to 1,367,000 dwellings , likewise not counted by B.L.S , came in these ways : switching non-residential property into housing , breaking large homes into several smaller apartments , and using former farm dwellings as shelter for folk who are n't farmers . During this 1940-47 period , B.L.S. reported only 3,293,000 new houses " started " to augment the nation 's housing supply . But now the housing economists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim the gain for the period was really somewhere between 6.650 , - 000 and 6,900,000 dwellings  --  roughly 3,350.000 to 3,600,000 more than the B.L S. reports show . Bringing these calculations up to date by estimates , these specialists maintain the discrepancy is now nearly 4,000.000 . Half Right In some war years , these economists believe , the B.L.S. figures showed only half the habitable dwellings added . Their conclusion : First , the backlog of demand is n't as great as was thought . Second , estimates of future need should he revised so home-building wo n't go ahead too fast and build up the vacancy rate . They fear prices would then be forced sharply down , scaring builders out of the housing field , Finally , to slow the pare , government aids to home-building for middle-income groups should be held steady , certainly not Increased . This assistance is chiefly In financing . Veterans , labor and other groups advocate proposals for direct government loans to ex-G.I. ' s for houses , for more liberal terms on loans to cooperatives , and for Increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' he government 's secondary mortgage market . thus making more cash available for lending These statistics also will be used in Congress to oppose the ambitious public housing program outlined by President Truman in his State of the Union message . The president 's advisers do n't think their findings really argue against the need for some federally-subsidized housing , but they fear Mr. Truman may have asked for too much . They contend a public housing program is needed to provide dwellings at rents which can be afforded by low-income groups . They say It will take three or four years of filling the backlog and building up vacancies before enough higher income families will move out of older , cheaper dwellings , making these available for people earning ' less . Until cheap private housing does trickle down , these administration experts contend , the nation needs a short  --  perhaps four or five year  --  public low-rent housing program . Statistical Source The president 's advisers arrived at their new arithmetical beliefs by checking the comprehensive April , 1940 , census of population . which included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing made in April , 1947 . The figures showed a far greater increase in available units than the B.L.S. statistics could account for  --  and indicated where the extra units came from . The calculators admit that the April , 1947. census sampling might contain some errors ? that 's why they allow a range of estimates . They also checked sampling home counts made in April , 1948 , against the 1947 figures . They are certain that since April , 1947. there 've been at least 300,000 dwellings added to the supply that were n't counted by B.L.S. ? bringing the total of " hidden houses " since 1940 up close to the four million mark . For example . they calculate that during the calendar year 1947 , when B L.S. reported 849 , - 000 new dwellings , there were actually about 1.250,000 units added to the " habitable " housing supply . During 1948 . B.L S. estimates about 925. - 000 new dwellings : the economists think net additions will be well over a million . For 1949 , B L.S. expects around 875,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slightly over a million added dwellings . Matter of Dinnite Some other housing experts dispute the size of these projections . They claim the conversion possibility is nearly at an end : that more dwelling units are going into coal -- mercial use than the other way ' round , and that the farm-to-factory trend is reversing . But they concede some validity to the new housing count . The president 's advisers add one more thought : Not only is there more housing than believed , but it 's better housing . In 1940 , they point out , 18.7% of the dwellings had four rooms or more . By 1947. 20.2% were of this size . In 1940. 19.8% had five rooms against 21.6 ; 7 , in 1947 . " Habitable " units are in better condition . too : there are more sanitary facilities , better paint jobs , and more insult ' , tion . Government estimates have up to now counted on completely replacing about 5.2 million " sub-standard " units before 1980 . Now the experts think many of these will be fixed up . Furthermore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as adding to the housing demand , they figure . Of some 2.500.000 farnllies living together , only about 1.000.000 are involuntary  --  the others want to live that way and will continue to do so , even if housing is available . Some key officials now say that adding about a million units a year  --  from all sources , not just new homes  --  will catch up-with demand quickly enough without over-building the market This increase yearly for 10 years would do this : Take care of 500,000 families coming into the housing market each year . Replace about 3,000,000 sub-standard units . Give homes for the million involuntarily doubled-up families . Create a nation-wide vacancy rate of about 1,000,000 units , which would give a " healthy " vacancy ratio of about 3% to 4% . A " good " vacancy rate encourages people to tear down obsolete units , but if the rate got too high it might discourage new building .                     