@@704537

txt The mixed Jury deliberating since Thursday afternoon over the fate of A. L. Bowen , state director of public welfare , was locked up at midnight last night in the Kankakee county courthouse in Kankakee . At midnight the eight women and four men on I he Jury had been out a fraction more than 56 hours and deadlocked continuously . Bowen is charged with gross omission of duty resulting in the typhoid epidemic last summer and fall at the Manteno State hospital . The jurors were obviously fatigued late tonight . Court officials planned to permit them to sleep late today . Thus far they have not asked to be discharged , altho apparently in hopeless disagreement . Judge Still Expects a Verdict . Judge James V. Bartley of Joliet , who presided at the trial , said he would not dismiss the jurors until they requested him to . He said the involved nature of the case justified ample time , and expressed the belief a verdict still might be reached . Legal authorities said they believed the trial has set a new record for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissed at the end of 48 hours . The case was given to the jury at 3:42 p. m . Thursday . The jurors were ordered to remain in continuous session Thursday night . Early Friday they took a five hour nap . They then resumed deliberations , with time out for meals only , until Friday midnight . when the men and women retired to their separate quarters for sleep . Jurors Take Time Out . After an early breakfast yesterday , they resumed their task . But the jurors obviously were weary . The men were unshaven and the women , who had no change of clothing , were tiring of washing their only stockings . In midafternoon Judge Bartley ordered the jurors taken to the Kankakee hospital for baths and rest . The bailiff took the men to a haberdasher 's and the barber shop . The matron took the women shopping . The jurors returned , refreshed and smiling . The women 's faces glowed with rouge . Powder had removed the shine from their noses . All had donned different dresses , brought by relatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Deliberations were resumed . Bowen Goes To Springfield . Bowen returned to his home in Springfield during the day . His attorney. , John Mayhew , remained at the courthouse , as did Samuel Shapiro , state 's attorney , and his assistant , Victor Lauridsen . The typhoid epidemic took the lives of GO persons and caused the illness of 953 others . The punishment on the charge for which Bowen is being tried is a fine up to $10,000 , removal from office , or both . The state charged that polluted water Caused the epidemic , and that Bowen , having been warned of the dangeivus conditions , ignored them . The defense blamed the epidemic on a human carrier . 