@@705962

txt The Office of Production Management is prepared to inaugurate power rationing . It has spotted three regions Where , as 121e defense load continues to demand a larger share of generating capacity , action mays have to be takei% These areas are upper New York State , the Sblitheast and the St. Louis , Mo. , industrial section . Officials emphasize , however , that rationing may not actually ' become necessary . Their plans for these and other areas , they say , are intended to anticipate just about any kind of power pinch that might develop , so that defense operations can be assured adequate supplies . In upper New York State , a power shortage already exists , they maintain , and will be aggravated by construction of the proposed 150 million pound aluminum plant approved for Massena . Original plans to draw on Canada to serve part of the needs of this plant now " are out , " officials said yesterday . Program Blocked Until recently , it was planned that the Commonwealth Edison Co. would build an overhead power transmission line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County so that surplus power from the city could be used at Massena . Mayor La Guardia has blocked this program , however , and officials are awaiting a final word from him on whether he will withdraw his objections to an overhead line through Van Cortland Park . It was stated yesterday the Mayor has proposed that the huge aluminum project be transferred to New York City . A location in Brooklyn is understood to have been proposed . O.P.M. officials do not favor this move and are discussing transferring a major part of the aluminum program to California . A plant to produce 70 million pounds of aluminum annually already has been agreed to for 1 .. cia Angeles . Officials said this , project could - .. he enlarged on the basis of assurances that additional power would be available . In the St. Louis area , it was stated , another huge ordnance and chemical production program has been piled on existing defense activities and the power facilities are being strained to the last kilowatt . From now on , it was indicated , defense orders will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power facilities have been constructed or until electricity can be transmitted from other regions . Southeastern Area In the southeastern area , officials regard the power supply as acute . Unless rainfall is forthcoming , it will be necessary to take drastic steps to keep the defense industries in that area operating , they say . A new aluminum plant to supply 100 million pounds annually has been approved for Alabama . In its original announcement last June of plans for a 600 million pound aluminum production expansion , the Office of Prodiiction Management foresaw power difficulties in the areas where the new facilities are to be constructed . In Arkansas , upper New York . Washington . Oregon , and in North Carolina , it was contemplated that " some curtailment of nonessential uses " of power would be necessary . In California ( Los Angeles ) , however , it was anticipated that only utilization of the reserve power capacity may be necessary pending expansion of the Colorado River development . It takes from 18 months to two years to build additional electric generating facilities . while it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aluminum plant . The power pinch in these areas will be felt most during the period between the completion of aluminum production facilities and the completion of additional power facilities , it was said .. Low rainfall along the Atlantic Coast from Maine to North Carolina and in Tennessee , Kentucky , Indiana and southwestern Ohio has hindered water power production . Stream flows in some of the states in this area were at or near record low levels in September , according to the geological survey . The average for the region was about 50% or normal . A revival of power conservation measures in the southeastern states , where water power capacity normally is high , is under consideration . Abnormally heavy rains during October and November will be necessary to avert an acute power shortage in this area , officials here say .                     