@@711370

txt In three notes described as the strongest served on Moscow since the end of the war , the United States , Britain and France have now formally protested against Russian policies in Berlin and have demanded a lifting of the blockade which is designed to drive us from the German capital . With this move the struggle over the ruined city , which is in reality a struggle over Germany and all Europe , enters upon a new phase , the final outcome of which it is impossible to foretelL But it is not without significance that this struggle is driving toward a showdown at a moment when the Western Powers are steadily moving toward greater strength and unity , and the Russian bloc is beginning to show the first serious cracks ? as evidenced by the defection of Tito and the pro-American demonstrations in Prague . These developments suggest that , like all the dictators and conquerors , the masters of the Kremlin may feel themselves in need of new triumphs to hold their shaky empire together . Unfortunately , that need can scarcely facilitate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Powers are obviously attempting to move with a patience which leaves the door open for amicable settlement , but also with a firmness which can leave no doubt of their determination . They are acting in concert , but still individually , and their notes , though parallel , are neither identical nor in any sense ultimatums . But the firmness of their action is emphasized by the Washington conference on American military aid to Western Europe , which began as the notes were being delivered , and by the fact that Secretary Marshall and Foreign Secretary Bevin handed these notes personally to the respective Russian Ambassadors . Should the protocol-conscious Kremlin detect a different nuance in the dispatch of the French note by messenger , it can be only hoped that the Washington conference will soon correct such an impression by allotting to France enough material to arm a considerable number of its divisions . This would do more to remove French fears and to stabilize Europe than any other single step . It now remains to be seen how Russia will respond to the Western action . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the face of widely published reports that the notes were being drafted , the Russians have further tightened the blockade by erecting an iron curtain within Berlin itself . Furthermore , their German Communist puppets are not only being whipped up to demand an immediate withdrawal of the Western Powers and the annexation of all Berlin to the Russian zone , hut , according to insistent reports , are also being organized for street riots . and sabotage which might serve the Russians as excuse for an attempt to intervene and occupy all Berlin . It goes without saying that any Russian attempt to send troops into the Western zones of Berlin would be an act of military force which the West could not accept , and which could only lead to consequences from which even Russia must still shrink .                     