@@704986

txt Secretztry of State Cordell Hull , who re ? gently warned the . TaptIlletill govern . meat to keep hands off the Dutch East Indies , today issued a similar warning respecting Japan 's reported demands upon French Indo-China . Hull 's latest warning to Japan coincided with reports in official quarters that the administration looks upon the new agreement with Great Britain as freeing the hands of the United States to police the far easi. , According to these reports in millLary , naval , and diplomatic circles , the exchange of destroyers for air and naval bases in British Atlantic possessions will result in a stronger administration attitude toward Japan . Speculate on Agreement . The administration is said to behove that the acquisition of the Atlantic bases removes any immediate threat in that direction - and leaves the fleet free to police the Pacific . The reports led to widespread speculation as to whether any such understanding with the British government was involved in the destroyers for bases deal . Secretary hull 's warning to Japan was contained in a formal statement ? issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents . The statement took cognizance of re ? ports in the press " to the effect that Japanese military authorities have delivered an ultimatum to the local authorities of French Indo-China in connection with demands for passage of Japanese troops across Indo-China and for use of bases in Indo-China for military operations against China . " Text of Statement . The statement continued : " It will be remembered . that during recent months this government and several other governments , including the Japanese government , have given expression to their desire that the principle of the status quo be respected and be preserved unimpaired in the Pacific , with special references to the Netherlands East Indies and French Indo-China . " In the absence of official confirmation of the reports of a Japanese ultimatum to the authorities of French Indo-China , this government is reluctant to give credence to the reports now under reference . The situation and the subject to which these reports relate is , however , a matter to which this government attaches importance and it stands to reason that , should events prove these reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion in the United States would be unfortunate . " Policing Problem Unsolved . Secretary Hull also revealed that this government is standing on its refusal to permit Japanese military forces to take over all of the defense area In the International Settlement at . Shanghai , which was policed by British forces before the British troops were withdrawn , On Aug. 15 the Shanghai defense committee voted to assign part of the British sector to the Japanese forces and part of it to the American forces . Japan voted against this arrangement , demanding to take over the whole area , but the Shanghai municipal council approved the arrangement . Secretary Hull declared in a formal statement that in view of the Japanese dissent , neither the Japanese nor the American forces had taken over the areas assigned to them pending a final settlement . " As this matter is of substantial importance to all concerned , discusstems are ' in progress between this government and the Japanese government , " Hull said . Ile expressed the hope that a reasonable settlement could be reached .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        