@@704891

txt Great Britain tonight spurned Fuehrer Adolf Hitler 's offer of peace as only more of the " same old stuff , " replaced Gen. Sir Edmund Ironside as commander in chief of British home forces with Lieut . Gen. Sir Alan Brooke , and hailed President Roosevelt 's speech accepting a third term nomination as a warning against the brand of peace which might come from Germany . Hitler 's speech to the reichstag was discredited . It was said to be " full of false words , " and motivated by the hope that he would be able to retain the spoils of victory . His promises were stated to be " untrustworthy . " All comment seemed to indicate that the peace offer would be " rightly rejected as was that of last October . " Tries to Fix War Guilt . Hitler 's address also was interpreted as the first feeble attempt to place responsibility for starting the war upon Britain and France and blame for continuing it upon Prime Minister Winston Churchill . Some official circles described the speech as the " same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Concerning Lieut . Gen. Brooke 's I elevation to commander in chief of the British home forces , informed quarters said the move was prompted by the'feelhig that if is " now essential that the command of the home forces should be placed in the hands of a commander in chief with experi ? once in France . " Ironsido was raised to the rank of a field marshal . He was kept on the active list , it was explained , so that he might be " available either in an advisory capacity or in command . " Brooke is 56 years old . lie is an expert on gunnery and machinery . British Ltke Roosevelt 's Speech . All Britain seemed to derive much satisfaction from President Roosevelt 's speech in which he told the Democratic convention in Chicago that he would run for a third term . The press hailed Roosevelt as " another Lincoln " whose promises to support Britain in its struggle against " Hitler tyranny " , would prevent weakening of the war effort in this country . Roosevelt was quoted as describing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarism . Sees America in War . The News Chronicle intimated that America herself will be in the war shortly . It said : " If Roosevelt 's speech is the keynote of the President 's campaign only a rash man would venture to prophesy what America would be saying and doing by November . " The conservative Daily Telegraph was considerably buoyed up by Roosevelt 's address . " Nothing could be more emphatic as a declaration both to the American people and the world outside , " it asserted .                     