@@710318

txt The whole philosophy underlying the new American foreign policy of aiding the free nations of the world against direct or indirect aggression has been set forth anew by President Truman in his speech at the Jefferson Day din -- ner . It is not a new philosophy . On the contrary , it is as old as the United States , and goes to the roots of America 's existence . For it is the philosophy of Thomas Jefferson , which has become the philosophy of the Ame ; ican people . It is the philosophy of the Declaration of Independence , with its proclamation of inalienable human rights . It is the philosophy which gave birth to the Monroe Doctrine . And it is the philosophy that has inspired all American leaders , from George Washington to Franklin D Roosevelt , and to which the American people have always responded  --  the philosophy which Jefferson expressed in his vow of eternal hostililty against any form of tyranny over the mind of man and his demand that we do not slight occasions to declare our protest against atrocious violations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we , like Jefferson , have also witnessed atrocious violations of the rights of nations , and we , too , have declared our protest . That protest has taken various forms at various times , depending on the circumstances . In the days when Washington could speak of " our detached and distant situation , " it took the form of the War of Independence and the War of 1812 . As our strength grew and our interests widened , and as the encroachments of European Powers  --  then Spain and Russia  --  threatened our security , it took the form of the Monroe Doctrine , which made the Western Hemisphere safe for free governments , and friendly , because free . Later , when Germany rose in two attempts to dominate the world , we gave effect to our protest in two world wars . Now , in the words of Senator George , who boldly stated what President Truman could only suggest , we face a new menace in Russian expansion , which threatens to overrun Europe , extend into Asia and perhaps South America . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall become untrue to our heritage , retire into our oyster shell and abandon our protest , which is the safeguard to our security , or whether we shall voice that protest again , and in a form which , on the basis of past experience , holds out the best promise of saving us from another war . The first course is urged by both the victims of the " insidious wiles of foreign influence " and by those who misinterpret Washington 's Farewell Address as a command to permanent isolation instead of advice against permanent alliances or passionate antipathies or attachments to one nation or another , in order to keep our hands free to " choose peace or war , as our interest guided by our justice shall counsel " President Truman has firmly set out on the second course . As he said , it Is no longer enough to cry " We do n't want war . " We must act to stamp out the smoldering beginnings of any conflict that may threaten to spread . For once such a conflict starts , it does spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads , namely , incre singly devastating world wars . It is to stamp out the beginnings of such a conflict now smoldering in the Balkans that President Truman has advanced his $400,000,000 aid program for Greece and Turkey to supplement the action of the United Nations . That program has been unanimously indorsed by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , which has not only convincingly answered all objections to the program , but has also warned against further delay on the ground that " delayed action might prove more ineffectual than no action at all . " It is to be hoped that Congress will take this warninr . M heart . But in the last analysis , whatever protest we make can never be any stronger than the power we are willing to put behind it . And that power , as President Truman pointed out , depends on two conditions wholly within our own determination . The first is that the United States must retain a military strength commensurate with its responsibilities . Our precipitate demobilization right after the end of hostilities has already delayed and compromised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ignore our protest . The second condition is a sound domestic economy . There is every reason to assume that Russia 's whole policy of delay and obstruction is based on the expectation of a post-war depression which , she hopes , will . force us to abandon our foreign commitments and thus pave the way for further Russian expansion . Everybody who today does anything to weaken our economy , whether by profiteering or by reckless strikes , contributes to that Russian delusion , and therewith to the burdens which it imposes on us.                     