@@706975

txt The brightest lights today are n't found on dimmed out Breadwa They rue in the arms factories where vastly improved illumination is helping war workers chalk up impressive production records . During the last war arms plant workers in this country had about three times as much light as that provided by a modern-day street lamp . But now some factory employes work in light equivalent to that thrown off by 21 , -i good floor lamps . Technicians have another measure for it : they say it is 50 foot candles of light ( 50 times the amount of light provided by a candle one foot away from the object ) . Illuminating engineers agree that adequate lighting is necessary for maximum production . They do n't agree on how much light is adequate . Most new or modernized factories , however , see that their workers get between 30 and 50 foot candles of general lighting . At spots where they need more  - -  for the mach , ne tool operator , say  --  another " " 100 to 500 foot candles are put to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Benefits to Production Proved Reports coming in to lighting engineers here show the benefit to production of increased illumination A machine shop in California increased its output to " the same rate as under daylight illumination of skylight " by stepping up its artificial Illumination After a fourfold increase in foot candles , a Michigan plant was able " to set up accurate jobs more rapidly , and precision machines and tools can be used anywhere in the shop , and there is no lost time going to the windows or to lamps to read micrometers " An Indiana machine shop found that a 255 reduction in material wasted by mistakes and a 5 , , gain in production per man hour resulted from increasing its light level six times There also was a 50e ; reduction in accidents . A Pennsylvahia company said that it is known production has almost doubled , using the same machines at no increased labor cost , " after the installation of a new lighting system Better lights brought a 54 ' drop in minor accidents of the punch press department of one company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chief Source The chief source of light fox the new war plants is the fluorescent lamp . In 1938. when they went on the market , 200,000 of them were sold By last year sales had climbed to 22 million units . Of all lambs sold 17e , were fluorescent , it is estimated . The three largest manufacturers in this field are General Electric Co , Westinghouse Electric S- Manufacturing Ca . and Sylvania Electric Products Co Tubular in shape the fluorescent lamps range from the baby size of only nine inches to giants of 60 : riches . They run from six watts to 100 watts but give approximately twice as much light for the same amount of wattage as incandescent bulbs . They provide an entirely new kind of light . It is cool . shacinwle4 , evenly diffused and without glare . The lamps range in price from TO cents to $2.15 , being considerably more expensive than the inc andescent variety which long has been the mainstay of lighting . New fluorescent lamps being made today go only to essential industries , because their manu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for civilians or non-essential industries to find a few of them around in retail stores . The gradual improvement in lighting during the past generation is illustrated by the trend at the White Motor Co plant in Cleveland . Before World War 1 this plant bad an average of about three foot candles of light . It was provided by 100 watt and 200 watt incandescent bulbs , covered by shallow dome reflectors . In 1922 the lighting system there was remodeled ; 200 watt and 300 watt incandescent lamps replaced the smaller ones : they were put in frosted glass diffusers . In 1942 high powered fluorescents were installed : they give today 's workers 30 to 35 foot candles of light . Biggest Installation At Willow Run The largest single installation of fluorescent lamps probably is in the Ford Willow Run bomber plant . The 100,000 lamps lighting that mammoth factory provide sufficient light for 60,000 six-room houses . or enough to house the entire population of San Antonio , Texas . The fact that fluorescent lamps eliminate glare is particularly important in an aircraft plant such as Willow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be anywhere from the ground level to 20 feet above while assembling the intricate parts of the body and wings . Direct or reflected glare , in this case would seriously hinder the worker While the war has curtailed the widespread civilian use of fluorescent lamps , the post-war period presages a rosy outlook for . nanutacturers of these lamps . Except for the newer war plants , most factories in the U. S. are not well-lighted either according to the standards of lighting engineers or the standards of top production efficiency , spokesmen for the industry point out . They foresee a wide field in providing the nation 's 90,000 to 100,000 small factories with adequate lighting . In addition to lighting war plants , manufacturers in this industry produce a number of different kinds of lamps for military equipment . Another lighting development , supplementing the production advantages of modern illumination , is the use of a new type of lightreflecting white cement for factory floors . This resulted , indirectly , from the fact that many aircraft assembly workers are employed on jobs beneath the wings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflect more light than dark-colored floors , and also contribute to the general brightness of the factory 's interior . On the West and East coasts , where dimout rules are in effect , war plants have had to be blacked out at night . Since they work 24 hours a day , they are entirely dependent on artificial lighting . In the middle section of the country , where the dimout rule does not apply , thousands of plants use daylight as much as possible and use artificial lighting as a supplement . Although windowless plants are gaining popularity there are comparatively few of them as yet . The Austin Co. , a leading designer and builder of industrial buildings , has constructed more than 20 in the past five years , but that is a comparatively small number .                     