@@709420

txt Sheriff Otto W. Petit said tonight that Howard Pollard , 24 , had confessed the murder of Leland Miller , 24 , whose dismembered body was found distributed in two cout ? ties on April 11 . The sheriff told a reporter Pollard made an oral statement to Deputy Sheriff Virgil Quinn in the presence of his father , Homer Pollard . " Pollard said it happened during a drunken brawl , " Petit said . ' He added that Pollard said he shot Miller to death the night of April 10 in Pollard 's home but denied digmembering his body . Also , the sheriff said , Pollard implicated Harry Adams , 24 , a friend who had been questioned previously , released , and picked up again . To . night Petit , Quinn , and other county authorities continued to question Pollard and Adams in the Marion county jail , and the sheriff indicated he expected to obtain a formal , signed confession from Pollard . Third Suspect Mentioned Sheriff Petit said a third suspect had entered the case , but he refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earlier in the day , Capt . Robert O'Neal , head of state police detectives , denied reports that Pollard had confessed . Miller , the victim , lived in Indianapolis , ' as do Pollard and Adams . Last May Miller shot Pollard thru the neck with a .22 caliber rifle and struck Adams over the head with the weapon 's butt . He was arrested , out did not go to trial . He told police then that Pollard tried to molest one of his girl friends . Parts of Body Found On Wednesday of last week Miller 's hands , severed at the wrist , and his right foot , severed at the ankle , were found in a flaming army blanket beside a creek near Lel ? anon , Ind. , in Boone county . The same day his torso and severed head were found severly burned in the ruins of an old log cabin near Ladoga , Ind. , in Montgomery county . Witnesses saw two men drive away from - both scenes in a black sedan . Ownership of the sedan was traced to Pollard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indianapolis apartment . The couple was arrested on Tuesday at the home of a relative at Nicholasville , Ky. , while playing gin rummy . At first Pollard denied any connection with Miller 's death , but he was named in a warrant charging murder . His wife , protesting that he was innocent , was released after questioning . Sheriff Petit said a .38 caliber pis. tol with which Miller Is believed to have been shot " probably is at the bottom of a river in Kentucky and it may be necessary to employ divers to retrieve it . " Pollard has been arrested 18 times in the last four years 011 11 , variety of charges , police records show , but he never was convicted . Adams recently was convicted of , grand larceny and had appealed the comic . Hon. The appeal is pending in the Indiana Supreme court . 