@@709843

txt Letters to The Times ANDREW G. CLAUSON JR. , ROBERT E. WHALEN.HENRY MINDELL.Veterans in Public Affai ... pg . 22 Letters to The Times Studying Mathematics Report Is Rendered on the Facilities Offered by City High Schools To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yong Tuns : Reading the article , " High School Mathematics Criticized , " in THE NEW YORK TIMES on Aug. 18 , prompted me to review the facts about the teaching of mathematics in New York City public high schools . I wanted to know whether the criticisms of Dr. Frederic H. Miller as stated in THE TIMES article applied to our schools . The facts as I found them were indeed heartening and believe that your readers may be interested in knowing the record of mathematical studies in New York City high schools . Professor Miller , at Cooper Union , made the point that high school students preparing for engineering and science courses in college should be segregated to enable them to have adequate teaching , particularly in mathematics . The academic high ** of New York City meet this situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys that have courses of study specially designed to meet the needs of students who want to go into science or engineering . Brooklyn Technical High School has a registration of 6,100 boys . Stuyvesant has 4,000 and the Bronx High School of Science has 2,100 . These 12,000 boys constitute about one-seventh of the total registration of boys in the academic high schools . We are planning another High School of Science for Brooklyn , and may also have one in Queens . All of these high schools have splendid mathematics courses and their students generally take more advanced Mathematics than do the students in most of the other academic high schools . There is another provision made in the academic high schools for the brighter boys and girls . In most of our academic high schools today they are segregated into special classes and their course of study and instruction , including instruction in mathematics , is more advanced than that for the average student . During the war the High School Division frequently conferred with representatives of the Army and the Navy concerning the preparation of our boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total of New York City boys studying trigonometry was greater than the total for a dozen Western States . Early in the war the armed services gave a test to select the abler pupils for officer training . Mathematics made up a large part of this test . Brooklyn Technical High School alone had more successful candidates than the total for two or three of our neighboring States . Practically all of our boys and girls taking the academic course study both algebra and geometry , and in addition to that a very large number study advanced mathematics . The following is the registration for last spring : I think the above facts indicate that the criticisms made of mathematics teaching in the high schools do not apply to the academic high schools of New York City . Of course we can always improve , but I think it is fair to say that the present situation is very satisfactory . ANDREW G. CLAUSON JR. , President , Board of Education of the City of New York . Brooklyn , Sept. 30 , 1946. ly governed by what the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twice the amount allowed by the OPA. in the States . From what I was able to learn , a good many of our American concerns are also guilty , but I am mai . ous about the arrangement that maties this possible , when there is such an evident shortage of cars in our own country . Do we have to have another war before production goes " patriot:1W again at a " cost plus " basis ? HENRY MINDER &; Merrick , L. I. , Sept. 28 , 1948 . Veterans in Public Affairs Some Groups , It Is Stated , Recognize Political Rights of Service Men To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : Recently you carried a letter from Kenneth Birkhead , a returned veteran , in which Mr. Birkhead expressed dissatisfaction and pessimism concerning the ability ' of returned service men to obtain recognition of their point of view in public affairs . Mr. Birkhead 's state of mind is important because it represents a general belief among veterans that , short of such unsatisfactory solutions as were found in Athens and in County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have presented ' for generations to an apathetic electorate are unwilling to step aside , and unwilling to give more than lip service to the principle that public office today means effectuating the purposes for which this last war was fought , and not merely patronage and political shenanigans . Mr. Birkhead can and should take comfort from the fact that in this State there are some organizations of younger men such as the Affiliated Young Democrats and the American Veterans Committee which have recognized the right of the returned service man to participate fully in public affairs and in public office . They also recognize conversely an obligation on the part of those who control the political machinery to seek accomplishment of the aims for which a Navy , an Army , and an Air Force were sent into battle , and to pass seisin of a legitimate part of political stewardship to those who have returned from the Pacific and from Europe . It is largely as a result of the pressures of these organizations that in the election this fall service men as well as other citizens will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are candidates for high public office. , RICHARD H. WELS . New York , Sept. 28 , 1946 . Soap Coupons Suggested for Fats To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : It is most discouraging in these days of soap shortages to save waste fats and turn them in without any guarantee of receiving soap in return . Many who never save an ounce of fat get more than their share of soap simply , because they are old customers or have charge accounts . I think a simple and equitable system might be worked out . Coupons could be issued to persons turning in waste fats , entitling them to purchase soap or soap flakes in stated quantities . The present method of selling " one to a customer " only encourages the greedy to bring along the whole family , each member making a purchase . In my opinion the actual promise of a certain amount of soap in exchange for fat would encourage far more women to do as the Government is continually urging them . Ask any housewife whether she 'd rather have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of soap in her package of groceries . MARGARET SMITH .. New York , Sept. 27 , 1946 . Ineornoration of Unions Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Ever since Professor Doughty 's carefully considered letter relative to labor disputes appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES , I have speculated in vain as to just what course the Federal Government can pursue to compel labor unions to incorporate . It is well settled that Congress , in furtherance of its power to regulate commerce among the ' States , may create a corporation to build a bridge across navigable waters between two States , or to construct and operate a railroad , or to organize ' and maintain a bank . But corporations so created come into existence as a grant of corporate power conferred by Congress , usually in compliance with a request for such a grant . How will it be , though , if labor unions , whether generally throughout the land , or in relatively few instances , decline to incorporate themselves pursuant to Congressional legislation making such a course on their part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but you can not make him drink . " ROBERT E. WHALEN . American Cars in Mexico To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Dr. Maxwell Spring 's complaint about the car situation should have struck an answering chord among a good crosssection of the populace . I met him overseas at a time when the first concern was to stay alive . We were proud and thankful of the part that American production played in keeping us in that state . Yet the same facilities that were the miracle of World War II have apparently ceased to function . What made his letter particularly pertinent was an observation made on a very recent trip through Mexico . In the town of . Cuernavaca , population under 25,000 , one automobile agency , under American management , was producing twenty-five cars per day from parts sent in from the United States . Albany , N. Y. , Sept. 27 , 1946 . Alaska Too Little Known To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The recent article on " Tuberculosis in Alaska " was splendid . I hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other improvements in the lives of Alaskan native Americans . One of the reasbns the Office of Indian Affairs gets so few funds to implement its excellent program was exemplified , however , by the appearance of that article under the heading " Foreign . " Alaska is yet too far away from the consciousness of people in the States , and most of us miss something by not knowing of that wonderland which is a part of our country . This is especially unfortunate at present , when the admission of Alaska to statehood is a burning issue up there . FREDFaiCA MARTIN . New York , Sept. 25 , 1946.                     