@@704974

txt German aircraft yesterday inflicted on London the longest air raid warning of the war yet experienced . Beginning early last night when enemy planes were signaled over the capital for the second time during the day , the raid was still in progress early today . At 3:40 this morning , more than six hours after the alarm was first sounded , the sirens signaled all clear . Flying at too great a height above the clouds for prying searchlights to pick t hem out , the German planes continuously circled the London area . Soon after the raids started three flashes were seen to light up the sky , followed by loud explosions . Others followed at intervals . Stabbing beams of light , following the sound of raiders ' droning motors , converged in pools of light that gave Londoners the most spectacular sky show yet . No bombs were heard falling in the centre of the capital , but buildings on the outskirts were damaged . Raiders came over in ones and twos through the night and morning , dropping bombs intermittently , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sounding of the " allclear . " Although aided by the moon , the German crews carried out . their work in what is regarded officially as an " extraordinarily sporadic and purposeless way . " They were unable to find their objectives , it was said , but would , no doubt , continue to drop their loads haphazard , hoping thereby to terrorize the public and upset its morale . Seventh Raid on London This is London 's seventh raid warning in three days . Yesterday noon the presence of a large number of German planes over the Thames Estuary sent Londoners scurrying to shelter . The planes were flying at a great height in the direction of London . They were engaged by anti-aircraft guns and British fighters that patrolled the sky . At that time they did not penetrate the London area . A fierce battle raged at 20,000 feet above the Thames Estuary when these large forces tried to reach the capital . Strong fighter formations intercepted them and defense guns put up a heavy fire . Eight German planes were shot down in one area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving latest figures on plane losses in yesterday 's fighting , said that forty-six German planes had been destroyed and fifteen R. A. F. planes lost , although the pilots of eleven were safe . City Is Kept Awake As the morning wore on , with the warning still in progress , the impression grew that the chief object of the Nazis seemed to be to keep most of London awake for a longer time than that in which the slumber of Berlin had been disturbed just twenty-four hours before . Searchlights ceaselessly swept the skies , wheeling after the raiders , whose progress over different points was marked by bomb explosions on the outskirts of London . But because of the length of the raid , there seemed to be long intervals between the bombs . More than four hours after the alarm sounded , hundreds who had taken refuge in street shelters decided to give it up and make for home . Buses and trains had stopped and taxicabs were at a premium . The Nazis launched a heavy assault also at points along the southeast coast . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did considerable damage to private property . Fifty persons are reported to have been killed . One bomb hit a laundry , where many girls were at work . One body has since been recovered there . Six houses close to the boardwalk were razed by a salvo within a few minutes , and before the Nazis made off across the Channel rescuers were searching for corpses and wounded in the debris . Bombs fell in other parts of the town , wrecking some houses . Windows were shattered and many roofs damaged . Here as elsewhere along the southeast coast the bombers with their fighter escorts suddenly appeared from the clouds to deliver the attack . The planes were believed to he Messerschmitt bomber-fighters , and they dived low to release their loads . Incendiary bombs as well as high explosive missiles were dropped but no serious fires were started . Damage in Midland Area Enemy aircraft were over many parts of the country early yesterday . The heavily industrialized Midlands had the most widespread and intensive raids since the war started . One Midland town was attacked in waves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosive and several hundred incendiary bombs . The damage , though extensive , was said to be confined to house property . When a bomb scored a direct hit on one house in another town in this arca a family taking shelter in a cellar was killed . Other persons taking refuge in an Anderson shelter were blown to pieces by a bomb that landed the shelter on the roof of a neighboring house . Other persons were killed when a single raider dropped high explosive bombs on a municipal housing estate in a northeast Scottish town . Three Waves of Invaders Three waves of German bombers and fighters were thrown against the south and southeast of England yesterday . The first , at noon , attacked a Kentish town and aerodromes ; the second , about 2:30 P. M. , came in across the Thames estuary to Essex and Sussex ; the third , ninety minutes later , raided Portsmouth . In the three battles f sty-six Nazi planes were destroyed , according to reports up to last night . Fifteen British pilots were missing , but eleven of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread along the Kent coast flying inland over Canterbury and bombing Folkestone en route . Most of them came inland at a great height and the Spitfires had to climb up from 18,000 to 30,000 feet to attack the Messerschmitts and Heinkels protecting a formation of thirty Junkers bombers . A squadron of Defiants met nine Dornier bombers at 13,000 feet as they approached Dover . They shot down three and probably four of the invaders . A Spitfire squadron took toll of the Messerschmitts as they raided Folkestone . Battle Over Estuary The second battle , early in the afternoon , was fought partly over the Thames Estuary and partly inland over Essex and Sussex . Airdromes were the Nazi objective over these sections . A German bomber and fighter formation that was attacked by the new Czech squadron , among others , was between sixty and eighty strong . The Czechs shot down a Dornier and a Messerschmitt in their first engagement since they fought the Germans over France . A Spitfire squadron that brought down twelve Germans on Sunday was again victorious in the third of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombers and fighters flying in from the south at 16,000 feet . Climbing 1,000 feet higher they dived out of the sun and were able to harass the bombers before the protecting German fighters could reach them . Four Heinkels fell into the sea and three more were seriously damaged . The rest split up into two formations and wheeled away to the southeast . Battle Still Continuing LONDON , Tuesday , Aug. 27 ( IP ) ? Bursting Nazi bombs and anti-aircraft shells girdled the British capital early today as it suffered its longest air raid of the war and the seventh since Saturday morning . The German raiders , pounding at England from the Channel coast to the Midlands , swept into the London area shortly before 10 o'clock last night and the battle still resounded this morning . Vivid flashes were seen in at least four different places , and from the constant drone of motors the raiders appeared to have circled outer London at least three times . They were making skilled use of every available covering of clouds . Searchlights that made a great crown of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caught several planes in their blinding glare . In a southwest suburb , where a plane was spotted , anti-aircraft bullets spat directly up the beam of light in a heavy stream .. More explosions were heard toward the east . as if several racks of bombs had been dropped . Suburban Areas Circled Heavy anti-aircraft fire flamed up on the south , and observers said the raiders apparently were circling the suburban areas in search of objectives . At least fifty persons were ' killed at Folkestone during the day as a massive German attack centered on a thirty-mile stretch of the southeast English coast 's " Hell 's Corner . " The attack came at Folkestone 's marketing hour and was synchronized with new heavy , killing blows at the industrial Midlands . Those areas , the southwest coast , the northeast and Wales all were subjects of new raids during the night , simultaneously with the new swoop on London . There was the now familiar pattern of thudding explosions , barking cough of anti-aircraft guns , roaring twists of combat planes and the white penciling of searchlights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A salvo of bombs dropped in one of London 's suburbs was followed by flash after flash for several minutes after the raider sped away , circling around the rim of the capital . From the roof of The Associated Press building a long white streak could be seen across the sky in the beams of searchlights as a raider circled ceaselessly , flying at great height . The raid still was in progress after three hours . Several buildings were damaged in the outskirts of London . It was generally believed that the enemy raiders over London constituted a small group , possibly less than a dozen planes . More Attacks Predicted The persistence of the raiders and their continual hammering at every corner of Britain lent significance to authoritative British predictions that the attack would be increasingly intensified all Winter long , with no land invasion attempted before next Spring . The German Air Force is finding it a tougher-than-expected job to knock out the R. A. F. and " soften up " Britain generally , the British said , so the night raids in particular will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of concentrations on the Continent for an imminent invasion , these sources said . The tempo and scope of the German air raids already is increasing , yesterday being one of the worst periods of horror and destruction thus far . The Air Ministry and the Ministry of Home Security reported bomb blasts and battle from South Foreland to the Scilly isles off Land 's End . German " balloon busters " concentrated on the Dover balloon barrage ; the center of Folkestone was raided , and targets " some distance " inland suffered . Raid Called a Failure But the Ministries called the afternoon raid  --  second of the day  --  on London a failure . The enemy , swarming up the Thames , were scattered , the Ministries said , and a later attack on the south coast naval base of Portland was similarly dispersed . Some bombs were dropped in Essex , however , and casualties were acknowledged from more isolated attacks on " several districts . " In London , where workmen still were cleaning up the smoldering debris of a financial district fire from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into shelters twice , early yesterday morning and again in the afternoon . Bombs were dropped on a municipally owned housing development on the outskirts of London in the morning raid . But in violent battle over the southeast coast two other big forces of raiders striking at the capital were turned hack . It was presumed that these striking forces occasioned the second alarm in the capital . But Folkestone , a city of 35,000 , experienced the greatest horror of the day . About twenty bombers surprised the town when its streets were crowded at the market hour , and loosed a shower of bombs . One eyewitness said he saw the two bombers suddenly dart from a formation of twenty Nazi planes and head " for us accompanied by fighters which seemed to drop out of the sky . " " Bombs began dropping in crowded streets , " he continued . " People rushed for shelters as a great column of smoke rose 200 yards away from where I was standing . " Many people who were watching the planes had thought they were British fighters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes one German machine crashed in a blazing mass near the town and the other fell into the English Channel . Air Raid Precaution and auxiliary fire service workers still were digging in smouldering ruins threequarters of an hour after the attack began . In one place they could hear a woman 's screams and the wailing of a baby under a mass of wreckage . Debris from some explosions was hurled half a mile and in some streets not a window was left unshattered . Dwellings and business establishments and some factories were hit by the scores of high-explosive and fire bombs which fell in Midlands districts . Dover and the low sandy peninsula of South Foreland also were scenes of heavy air battles . The fifty persons killed in this area , along with casualties elsewhere , probably constituted Britain 's heaviest air-raid casualty list of any single day of the war . Six fatalities resulted from a direct III .. on one of the small steel air-raid shelters that Britons have been encouraged to erect in their backyards . The shelter was blown to the roof of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland , wheee eight bombs dropped on a municipal housing development , killed a man and a girl , and in far apart areas of Wales . The Press Association reported a raid on the Scilly Islands , just off the southwest coast , yesterday in which 150 bombs were dropped , some houses set afire and a beach swept by machine-gun fire which killed a girl and wounded several other persons .                     