@@708257

txt The release of 60 prisoners who had been held here for suspected collaboration with the Japanese occupation forces has relieved a large amount of popular tension complicating the investigation of Filipino " Quislings . " There noware about 140 Filipinos being held behind the bars of Tacloban 's little mud-and-iron , provincial jail , most of whom , soon may be moved into the more comfortable prison camp which the Osmena Government is preparing . Before release of the so-called " small fry , " political prisoners could be divided roughly into two classes : Those held on rather spe cific charges of collaboration and those whose whole presence in jail was the result of some rumor or secondhand information to the effect they had " played ball " with Hirohito henchmen . Facing mounting popular indignation over the continued imprisonment of this second group , the Osmena Government , with the concurrence of the military authorities here , decided last week to release them on parole , ordering that they report once a week to the local police chief . Problem of Separation The problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bound to grow as the Philippines liberation spreads . On it may hinge the difference between continued cautious treatment of collaborationists and the gradual growth of excesses which has marked a similar situation in Europe . In the future , the Osmena Government will face many tests of its ability to maintain at temperate attitude , as in the case of Antonio - Veloso , one of those who were released here last week . Mr. Veloso is the nephew of Jose Veloso , prewar Filipino Senator whose activities at Manila presently are highly suspect . The natural connection with the Veloso family was a stigma which had no little to do with the fact that the nephew was imprisoned . And it was the final chapter in a baffling story . Fought With Antonio Veloso had fought with Gen. Douglas 's army on Bataan , receiving the Purple Heart for battle wounds and a citation for a delaying defense action . When Lieut . Gen. Jonathan Wainwright surrendered , he was picked up by the Holmes invading army and thrown in jail . Later , in compliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Filipino members of the former United States garrison , . he was released from jail and began the long trek homeward to Tacloban . . Arriving on Leyte Island after a hazardous trip , Mr. Veloso suddenly was pounced upon by the Leyte Ninth District guerrillas and thrown in their private concentration camp on charges of collaboration with the Japanese on Luzon . When the Japanese forced the guerrillas to shift their hideout ; the concentrationers were released with a warning that they keep away from Japanese-occupied areas . But Mr. Veloso wanted to see his wife and family , so he continued his journey to Tacloban . Arriving in the city on a sunny morning , he found himself once again in the toils of the Japanese occupationers , who put him in jail for suspected connection with the guerrillas . Once again he talked his way out of jail after many months of protesting his innocence . Remained in City Then , instead of returning to join the guerrillas , he elected to remain in the city . Mr. Velosco had not done anything particularly suspect under the Japanese-occupied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally as any civilian under duress . When the Leyte guerrillas entered Tacloban after the Japanese evacuation which preceded the American occupation . they naturally found Mr. Veloso , whom they earlier had ordered to remain away from Japanese-occupied areas . Needless to say , Mr. Veloso found himself looking out through bars for the fourth time since his participation in the defense Bataan . Huge Task Ahead There are many Velosos in the area already liberated in the Philippines and there will be many more as liberation spreads . It may take months  --  oossibly years  --  to determine the guilt or innocence of such cases and to dig up witnesses who can furnish the necessary testimony in court to secure conviction . In the meantime , the Government figures such cases are not serious enough to warrant holding in jail and depriving the liberated areas cf much needed manpower . Since the appointment during the past fortnight of a prosecuting attorney to implement the work of the Osmena Government Investigation Board , hearings of suspected collaborations have been delayed . This has been due partly to the purely physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hidden in guerrilla caches in the hills . Like the military cann ? : icin on Leyte , tropical rains and deep mud have thus held up the political . campaign which pinpointed these treason trials . Though there still is popular demand for immediate disposal of the trials , the delay now is having a noticeable salutary effect in mitigating some of the attending high-running emotion .                     