@@709968

txt Policy-making and planning for legislative action in the new Congress was started by Republican Congressional leaders today . Problems tackled by House and Senate Steering Committees included tax cuts with reductions of expenditures to cover them , labor legislation , termination of wartime controls , remedies for the housing situation , elimination of food shortages and other problems . These Republican committees were assembled to get at spadework seven weeks in advance of the session opening on Jan. 3 . The House group charted a definite course . The Senate helmsmen will return to work tomorrow . When they finish , delegations from both sides of the Capitol will meet in joint session to compare notes . Then study groups will go to work . It is planned that when the new Congress arrives definite recommendations will be awaiting it , eliminating the usual weeks of marking time while the legislative machine gets into gear . For its planning the House Republican Steering Committee of seven members called in seventeen others in key places to advise and aid . Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recalled Late today , after only a brief intermission for lunch , these policy makers and planners announced conclusions . " As a unit " the House group stated that there could be a 20 per cent reduction across the board in personal income taxes . " This , " the group said , " will operate to diminish by 20 per cent the amount of withholding taxes which now cuts into the pay envelope before the recipient receives it . A report by the Republican members of the Appropriations Committee makes it clear that this saving to the taxpayers can be achieved while at the same time the current budget can be balanced and payments begun on the national debt . " That tax rates can be cut and greater governmental revenues reaped is a fact proved by the experience of the Republicans through the Nineteen Twenties when tax rates were reduced four times and Government revenues were so increased by encouraged business and commerce that the national debt was reduced 361 , i per cent at the rate of practically $1,000,000 , .. 000 per year for ten years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on so-called luxury items carrying excise levies , the House Republicans promised that they would be studied by the Ways and Means Committee after Congress convened . " Substantial " Savings Envisaged Representative John Taber of New York . who will become chairman of the Appropriations Committee , reported that " substantial " savings could be made to cover the projected 20 per cent tax cut . The steering committee withheld information on where Mr. Taber had pointed out the saving areas . On the Senate side , however , Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , chairman of that body 's steering group , suggested spots at- which it . total of from $5,500,000,000 to $6,000,000,000 might be dropped from appropriation totals without touching national defense outlays . The proposed 20 per cent tax cut , it was emphasized , would " cost " about $3,500,000,000 . " Food and other price subsidies which are to go , " Mr. Taft said , " now mean appropriations of nearly $1,000,000,000 . About $1 , - 000,000,000 has been appropriated to Bretton Woods . This is not a recurring appropriation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into terminal leave pay for veterans , and will diminish on future appropriations , and the Export-Import Bank appropriation of $1,000,000,000 already has been made , and wo n't be repeated unless extensions of credit are voted . " I believe the budget can be brought down to and held to $30 , - 000,000,000 . " Appropriations and funds available to the departments , agencies and corporations of the Government , the House steering group stated , would be reviewed , and it promised that " every possible dollar will be recovered . " In potentially strong appropriations committee quarters it was predicted that about one-half of the nearly 3,000 , - 000 Government employes would be dropped from the Federal payroll . Adequate Defense Pledged " National defense will be adequately provided for , " the House steering group peldged , " but new appropriations will be trimmed to meet the necessary obligations of the Government . " The steering committee announced itself as being " in full agreement " that " labor legislation which will be constructive , but emphatically not punitive , " is an early necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first consideration must be the welfare of the whole nation , which will necessarily embrace the welfare of both labor and management . " Both the Labor and Judiciary Committee Republicans were assigned to study labor-management problems and make recommendations by Jan. 3 . It was noted at the Capitol that , under Democratic management , the House Judiciary Committee recommended for floor action measures which the Labor Committee had opposed . It was noted , too , that the traditional seniority system in the manning of House committees would put in the Labor Committee 's chairmanship Representative Richard J. Welch of California , a member of the House 's " Labor bloc . " It was agreed by the House steering group that governmental controls should be eliminated " as rapidly as practicable . " There were reservations , however , to prevent such sweeping releases as might prove " dangerous . " It was also urged that " the powers belonging under the Constitution to the States ( be ) returned to them . " Judiciary Committee Republicans were assigned to have recommendations ready in January . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group reported . " that the housing program must be carefully investigated and that the restraints now holding up proper progress in construction eliminated . " The Banking and Currency Committee Republicans received this assignment . The House Republicans stood fast for a limitation of the tenure of any individual in the Presidency to eight years , or two terms . " We Republicans meant exactly what we promised the people during the campaign and many months before , ' Mr. Martin said . " Now that we . are the ones most apt to be affected by such a limitation , we intend to go ahead with it because we believe it is a proposition for the welfare of the nation that transcends any party or personal consideration . " For ' Streamlining ' of Congress The House group voted " overwhelmingly " to accomplish the reorganization and " streamlining " of Congress , voted by the present Congress . Two of three members , it was brought out , reserved the right to oppose various provisions . The trend on the Senate side , as revealed by Senator Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such detail . Thus far , it was brought out , the Senate group had not reached labor-management questions and a few who would be the Senate majority leader remained unsettled . As to reports that agreement had been reached that Senator Wallace H. White Jr . of Maine , the present minority leader , would be elevated to the majority post , Mr. Taft said : " There will be fifty-one Republican Senators in the next Congress . Only three or four have discussed the leadership question together thus far . How could the matter be settled ? It probably will not be settled until the Republican conference meets in December . " Asked whether he had decided whether he did or did not want to be the majority leader , Mr. Taft answered : " I have n't decided that yet . " 