@@707535

txt The realization that Germany can not win the war seems at last to have penetrated into the German Army , to judge by statements made today by German prisoners at the largest prisoner-of-war camp in North Africa . The Germans captured in Tunisia were mostly defiant , professing to believe that Germany would win , but those since captured in Italy reflect a more realistic view . They still stand on their dignity and maintain a proud military demeanor , but they seem to know that the tide has turned against their country . A typical example was a young German , tall , erect and extremely soldierly in his bearing , who clicked his heels and saluted when a visitor wearing an American uniform approached him inside the barbed wire stockade . After some conversation he said : " Anyhow , if we are beaten we shall not hang our heads as the Italians do . We know we are men and everybody else knows it . " To a young German from Cologne.this correspondent remarked that not much of that city was left today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to g45 home nevertheless . He asked whether there was any chance of his being exchanged . He thought the war would end soon and said America should have joined Germany against Russia . At the mention of the Russians ' rapid ad- vance , the German said he was aware of that , too . Though he never used the word , his tone implied resignation to a German defeat . Asked about the German prisoners in general , he said that many still clung to the hope of a German victory , because without it their self-respect and morale would be impaired . He thought that it was a psychological necessity for them as they killed time in the prison camp . Nazis Bitter Toward Italians He spoke bitterly of the Italians , who he said had betrayed Germany in 1915 and again in 1943 and on whom , he contended , the Germans had never really relied . The prison officers had long since noted such bitterness and had been obliged to keep the Italians and Germans carefully apart , even when using what might otherwise have served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When visitors entered the Italian stockades , the inmates stood at attention and , when released from that obligation , continued to stand about , staring at the Americans . But the Germans , after having saluted , continued a game of volley ball , which was well played , or went about their work as if the visitors were not there . Some Italians professed to be eager to help the Allies to drive the Germans from Italy . Some said that they had been pro-Ally all along but , for the sake of their families or from compulsion , had been obliged to obey the Fascist Government . They recalled , as the Germans did , that , in the First World War , Italy had been on the Allies ' side . Eat Better Than Local Civilians One of the outstanding impressions of a day spent in visiting twelve stockades in this huge camp was the fact that prisoners of war eat vastly better than do civilians in this part of the world , and , on the whole , live on a higher standard than do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost , if not quite , as well as this correspondent does at an officers ' mess in Algiers  --  and it would be an understatement to say that he was very well fed there . Most of the Italian prisoners get more meat than they ever had in their lives . To see their fat cooks opening huge cans of Vienna sausages and luncheon pork from American packing houses would make the mouth of the average French citizen of North Africa water with envy , for edible meat is rare in North Africa . The Italian generals living outside the stockade , each in his own tent with a wooden foor and sides , are more comfortable  --  except for the absence of a private bath ? than this correspondent is at the best hotel in Algiers , where German bombings broke the window panes . Their absence is painfully noticeable on cold nights . The generals have excellent reading lamps , which do not exist in the hoteL Regarded as Our Wards Lest all this be considered undue coddling , it should be remembered that these prisoners are our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for their health . Swiss agents of the International Red Cross visit the camps to check . Our treatment of enemy prisoners is directly related to the enemy 's treatment of our men in his hands . We follow the convention to the letter and beyond . The organization of sanitation and recreation at this camp is superb and it is hardly surprising that at least the Italians could not be driven away . Even the Germans admit that they are well treated . On a gently sloping hillside the twelve stockades extend , each capable of accommodating 2,500 men . The officers and men , in separate divisions , live in Army tents with floors and sleep on well blanketed Army cots . Each stockade has shower-baths with hot water once a week and cold water constantly . In each are a dispensary with a medical officer . and a fully equipped kitchen and pantry stocked with American food . Nearby is a hospital for Germans and another for Italians , each staffed by doctors of the nationality of its patients . The generous rations include ten ounces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pound of meat daily . There are also corn , other vegetables , fruit , coffee and tea , but , to the great distress of the Italians , no wine unless it is smuggled in , as some have tried to do . In a clean , neat bakery , 168 men bake in excellent German field ovens for 40,000 prisoners in the various camps . With these rations the cooks do what they like , according to taste . In one Italian stockade , miles of taglatelli hung like clothes from a line , as in Naples , while minestrone and ravioli cooked in huge pots lover gasoline fires . Around the stockades are two rows of barbed wire , strung on wooden posts eight feet high , with a three-foot overhang turned inward . On the outside are rows of wooden towers some 20 feet high , where guards sit under canopies , armed with machine guns . Fifteen feet inside the inner barrier is a " trip wire " two feet high . The prisoners are forbidden to cross this wire . If they do so the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If that does not suffice , he may fire . Italians Get Privileges While all are technically prisoners of war , the Italians have recently received extensive privileges . Many work outside the camp , including those who serve attentively and efficiently at the American officers ' messes in Algiers . Those who voluntarily agree to do so may join port battalions , engineer battalions , ordnance battalions and quartermaster battalions to assist the Allied forces in North Africa . Such battalions are in process of formation . Those not willing to become co-belligerents or those of doubtful loyalty are segregated under close guard , like the Germans . These are a small minority . The Italians , on the whole , are amenable and eager to please and to work . They even become gay , as did an Italian prisoner theatrical troupe at this camp , which put on a musical show with a small orchestra playing excellently through and after dinner .                     