@@708424

txt The conferences which President Roosevelt now is holding " somewhere in southern Europe " on the way home from the Big Three meeting confirm the United States Government 's new policy of taking a greater share in settling the problems of European reconstruction . Judge Samuel Rosenman , a special adviser to the President , left Paris yesterday by special plane for Italy , and it is reliably reported today that he will meet Mr. Roosevelt there for important , talks . Other leading United States diplomatic representatives also are understood to be taking part in these discussions . While in Italy . it is believed Mr. Roosevelt intends to confer with the Pope . Contrary to persistent rumors , best-informed circles here in Paris  --  both American and French  --  do not expect Mr. Roosevelt to come to France at this time . The ultimate decision , of course , rests with Mr. Roosevelt . But such a visit was not anticipated and still is considered un- likely , though not altogether impossible . The talks already going on , reportedly in Italy , cover a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with implementing the diplomatic decisions taken at the Crimea meeting as far as American responsibilities are concerned . In particular , Mr. Roosevelt is understood to be Interested in the problem of assuring to all liberated European countries free choice of democratic government , and he is likely to study on the spot the problems this raised in Italy . The second issue of importance is that of food and relief for civil-lens in liberated countries . It is admitted freely here by many of the authorities concerned that Allied relief measures have not gone well so far in either Italy or France . Insufficient Food The plain fact is that the French people in Paris and other larger cities are not getting anything like enough food today . The minimum standard of nourishment set up by the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration is not being attained  --  not by a big margin . Warmer weather has relieved the coal situation in most parts of the country , but the food problem is becoming more acute daily . The basic cause of this trouble is the war-caused disruption of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is clear that British and American relief plans were inadequate in this respect , and there is a growing feeling that measures to correct this lack of foresight have been incredibly slow in taking shape . What well may emerge from the present conferences Mr. Roosevelt is holding , however is restoration of the balance which heretofore has been weighted too heavily on the military side , with the resultant neglect of vital civilian needs , Food Topic Drab LONDON , Feb. 15 1 , P  --  Minister of State Richard K. Law told the Commons yesterday that the problem of feeding the hungry areas of Liberated western Europe : ter . tainly is grave . " but he defended the relief role of United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Admin. istration and outlined increasing Allied efforts to improve condi. tions . France now is producing as much food as before its occupation , he said , but lack of transpor ? tation is causing " almost insoluble difficulties " and great hardships in some regions . The statement came after he outlined difficulties , chiefly of transportation , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in moving food , and he emphasized that many of the re . quirements were " in direct con ? flict with urgent military de . mands . " Relief Shipments Expected to Soar By a Staff Correspondent of Chrstiate Science Monitor WASHINGTON , Feb. 15 ? Dramatic action to solve the European relief shipping problem is being predicted here as a result of the visits to France of Presidential Advisers Harry L. Hopkins , Judge Samuel Rosenman , and perhaps President Roosevelt himself . Relief planners here are confident that on his return to this country , the President will take immediate steps to break down the military monopoly on shipping to the extent of furnishing France and other countries of western Europe enough raw materials to ward off undermining idleness and the seeds of another world war . The firsthand picture of suffering in France , it is believed . will give the American Commander in Chief more perspective on the relief vs. win-the-war-quick problem than he has obtained from // Roosevelt Seeking Soviet-Vatican Tie ? By the Associated Press WASHINGTON , Feb. 15 ? President Roosevelt 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be exploiting the possibility of establishing friendly relations between the Kremlin and the Vatican . Such a rapprochement , which is not considered out of the question among diplomats here , would close , at least formally , the last great gap in the ranks of those forces destined to wield powerful influence in Europe and the world after defeat of Germany and Japan . Whether the President actually may see the Pope can be only speculated upon from this distance . His movements . which have been blacked out . since the end of the Big Three conference at Yalta , in the Crimea . on Feb. 11 , remain secret . From Paris. ? however . came a dispatch today from Asso- elated Press Correspondent Ed ; ward Kennedy reporting that Samuel Rosenman , close friend and adviser of the Chief Executive , had just left there for Italy and it was reliably reported that he would confer with Mr. Roosevelt . There also was a report . on which the White House declined immediate comment , tIpt a group of Washington correspondents had been flown to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certainly it was evident , even under the restrictions of censor- ship , that a visit by the President to Italy would offer an opportunity for an extraordinary meeting with Pope Pius , and Mr. Kennedy , in fact . said it was expected that he would call on the head of the Roman Catholic Church . Major Uncertainty Now that the Big Three have agreed on a program of joint action for liberated Europe and control policies for Germany , possibly the greatest remaining uncertainty in European affairs is the relationship between the Kremlin and the Vatican . The headquarters of Communist Russia and the Roman Catholic Church have not had diplomatic or political relations since the revolution gave Russia Communism and set it at odds with most of the world . The Communists ' militant atheism put them into conflict with religious movements and leaders all over the world , and their specific split with Roman Catholicism has been deep and wide . It has been a factor in many world issues and recently it has been reflected in a long-distance exchange of arguments , through the Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Catholic approaches to the defeat of Germany and establishment of peace in Europe . It doubtless also has been a great , though often submerged , factor in more specific European political problems . Poland , where the Russians are demanding a pro-Soviet government as one guarantee of their security in the future , is a Roman Catholic country . Hopkins Visit Cited The issue of Kremlin-Vatican relations was in the background of the Big Three conference . Harry L. Hopkins , the President 's IS ersonal adviser and aid , had a 40 .. minute audience with the Pope on Jan , 30 , just before he concluded a tour of European capitals and left to meet the President for the Crimean talks . Some relaxation of Italian armistice terms and a possible inquiry by President Roosevelt into arrangements for the relief of French civilians were indicated today by continental dispatches to the Associated Press . A joint British and American statement , giving greater economic aid to Italy and lifting some Allied administrative controls was reported in the offing . Churchill : Greece Ban Bright Future By Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Feb. 15 ? Prime Minister Winston Churchill has " paid another visit to Athens . On his way home from one of the most momentous conferences in world history , the British leader stopped long enough to have a personal look at this tiny country whose troubles have occupied so much of the Prime Minister 's attention during the past two months . And Mr. Churchill appeared satisfied with what he saw . It was late in the afternoon when the familiar figure stepped out . of his car before Athens ' old Royal Palace and strode toward the microphones placed just above the tomb of Greece 's Unknown Soldier . Beside the Prime Minister was a guard of honor composed of unbelievably picturesque evzone soldiers with their flaring skirts , blue porn-pom-topped slippers and embroidered vests . Below this was a roaring crowd of 30,000 to 40,000 Athenians . Scene Changes To those of us who were here during his previous meeting at Christmas time , today 's visit was almost symbolical of the change which has taken place in Greece during the past few weeks . Brilliant sunlight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near-by Aegean and warmed the throng , many of whose members were coatless . From where he stood Mr. Churchill could look up to the Acropolis , no longer one of the main British strongholds in the E. L. A. S. besieged city . Back in December , however , the situation was different . Then it had been rainy and cloudy , and when newspapermen visited Mr. Churchill at the British Embassy , overcoats were left on to break the chill , while outside we could hear the steady rumble of British cannon and tanks firing against E. L. A. S. strong points . Sees Bright Future In his short address , Mr. Churchill noted the change in conditions and spoke of the peace and quiet now prevailing in this lovely capital of democratic people . He talked of things which the Greeks want and need to hear ; he told them that Britain and Greece had walked a long and sometimes difficult road in friendship and would continue to do so ; that Greece 's worst days were over and the country had a great and happy future facing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd , it roared in approbation , crying over and over again the strange Greek pronunciation of the Prime Ministers name , " Tsirtsil , Tsirtsil ! " Afterward Mr. Churchill and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden conferred with Greece 's Premier Nicholas Plastiras and Foreign Minister John Sofianopolous , and later the Greek Regent , Archbishop Damaskinos tendered a banquet to the visiting Britishers . Last night Athens was more festive than at any time since the trouble started . I looked out of my window in the Grande Bretagne Hotel upon the amazingly beautiful sight of the floodlit Parthenon . From below it looked as if this masterpiece were floating in a state of suspension halfway between earth and the sky and recalls to Athenians the pleasure they felt during the first days of liberation last fall before civil war broke over the city . Equally pleasant is the fact that today the Government lifted martial law and as one walks through the streets after dark , he is nc longer startled by the brusque command , " halt , " usually accompanied by a rifle barrel jabbee uncomfortably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lightec Parthenon and the lifting of martial law are all a part of Greece ' : steady return to normal life after an interlude of violence which . most Greeks are trying to forget                     