@@709520

txt Letters to The Times MAGNES , Capt . R.I. PETERSON.WIKTOR J. EHRENPREIS.JAMES E. BRYAN.JACOB ROS ... pg . 18 Letters to The Times Captains Without Ships TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Victory and Liberty ships by the hundred are laid up in our ports , and the captains are left stranded on the beach , without a ship , without a job . Such is the case in our merchant marine and shipping business today , when less than a year ago these men were getting letters and telegrams from Washington full of praise . They were commended for their splendid performance while sailing in convoy and requested to stay on the job . The captain was urged " to keep them sailing and not delay victory , " when it was tempting to stay ashore . Good jobs , steady positions , could be had at the time in private industry without the risk of getting torpedoed and leaving behind wife and children . But experienced seamen were badly needed and , motivated by his sense of duty to his country and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning the war , the captain continued carrying across war material , his ship blacked out , himself on the bridge , attentive , serious and alert . It is all over now , and it should not matter , but Victory and Liberty ships are laid up , at anchor , row after row , for sale , cheap , to foreign companies , our competitors , while our captains are forgotten men . What is the United States Government going to do about it ? Will the War on make provisions and keep the veteran captain on the job in recognition of his services ; in World War I and World War II ? Will Washington play fair ? Capt . R. J. PETERSON . New York , May 26 , 1946 . Polish Dispatch Questioned Former Resident of Cracow States Some Assertions Are Incorrect To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is not my intention to discuss in detail all the assertions contained in Miss Frederick 's report on Poland . published in THE TIMES of May 22 . I will limit myself to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( I left there in 195ga try to disprove some of then In trie first place . the assertion that Dr. Boleslaw Drobner , leader of the Polish Socialist party in Cracow. is Generalissimo Stalin 's cousin is fantastic . Dr. Drobner. whom I happen to know personally and whom my father has known many years before me , was born in Cracow sixty-three years ago and has never had any connections with Russia or Georgia , save for a trip to Russia for tragic personal reasons in 1936 and the war years which he spent there as a refugee . I am personally acquainted with almost all of Dr. Drobner 's relatives and can assure you that Generalissimo Stalin is not among them . In the second place , the " Soviet hymn " which was played during the May Day celebrations in Cracow almost certainly was the " Internationale , " which has ceased to be the Soviet hymn for a number of years . It was always played and sung in Cracow during May Day celebrations , which , for more than fifty years , used to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason to be startled by tile fact that the hymn of the Soviet Union , an allied nation , is being played in Poland . The " Marseillaise , " for example , has been and still is one of the most popular hymns in Poland . In. this particular instance the hymn played was not the Soviet anthem , but the " Internationale . " Only someone unfamiliar with the Polish scene can allege that the mass of 100,000 persons participating in the May Day celebrations on Cracow 's main square was assembled by threats of personal reprisals against non-participants . Ever since I can recall May Day celebrations in Cracow huge crowds assembled for that purpose . Before 1939 the number of participants never exceeded 60,000 , but it should he borne in mind that the city 's population now exceeds 300,000 , while it was only 230,000 before the war . Moreover , with May Day having become a legal holiday , more people could participate this year than collie do so before the war , when participation meant taking a day off from shot or office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these facts , there was certainly no need to use any extraordinary measures to get 100,000 persons into the streets this year . WIKTOR J. EIIRENPREIS . New York , May 22 , 1946 . Correction on British Rejection Ratt TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a communication published ovci my signature in THE NEW ' YORK TImEs of May 13 on the subject of Compulsory Health Insurance the statement was made that " In England , although the standards for the armed forces were lower than those in the Unites States , the rate of rejection was 5C per cent . " This statement was derived from an article entitled " The Philosophical Background of Compulsory Health Insurance , " by Dr. Lowell S. Goin of Los Angeles , who is currently president of the California Medical Association . The article was published in California and Western Medicine for May 1945 , and had been originally presented at the seventy-fourth annual session of the California Medical Association as the presidential address of Dr. Goin . The British Information Services have informed me that , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical boards for all the British medical services fos the entire war period was not quite 2C per cent . Inasmuch as Dr. Goin has been unable to cite the sburce of the figure 1 derived from him , I believe we must accept the statistics of the British Government as final , and I will appreciate your inserting this correction , if possible , in your correspondence column with due apology to the British Information Services . JAMES E .. BRYAN . New York , May 23 , 1946 . Mosaic Origin of Commandment TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : " Topics of The Times " recently hac a remarkable survey about the mora standards of our days measured b3 the Ten Commandments . The author adds that later on a " new command ment , " to love one another , supple mented the moral code given to and ' o2 Moses . Let me state that this comment rep resents a historical mistake . The corn mandment " And thou shalt love thi neighbor as thyself " has the sam , Mosaic origin as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Third Book of Moses ( Leviticus ) Chapter 19 , Verse 18 , to find this mora principle of human social order pro claimed . JACOB ROSENHEIM . New York , May 27 , 1946 . Busy Black Marketeers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have just completed a round to se what my neighbors thought about con tinuation of the OPA , but they wer all so busy getting their black mar kets set up they did n't have time t discuss it . RUBE SKINNER . Phoenix , Ariz. , May 24 , 1946 . Stand of Palestinian Jews Start of Self-Government Now Urged by Creating Work for Jew and Arab TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I tell you how deeply thankful large numbers of the Jews of Palestine are for the recommendations of the Anglo-American Inquiry Committee ? The prospect of giving a home to 100,000 refugees has filled us with renewed hope , and is testimony to the existence of a conscience in the world . Too many of our people had lost faith in this . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state are now confronted with this tremendous practical task , and it can safely be assumed that much of the propaganda for a Jewish state , will give way to the need for uniting the forces of the whole Jewish world in order that the 100,000 may be absorbed in the briefest possible time . This will require of the Jewish agency the setting up of a great organization with the participation , it may be hoped , of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and other Jewish bodies . The implementation of this great program requires the aid also of international bodies , such as UNRRA , the Inter-Governmental Committee , the Displaced Persons Committee of UNO and other bodies . The report stresses the urgency of carrying out this humane project during 1946 , if in any way possible . It is therefore of importance that the British and American Governments adopt the report as their official policy promptly , and let nothing whatever stand in the way of carrying this pol1 icy out . Nothing but good can be said of the report on this side of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me to be its great defect ? We accept the principle " that Palestine shall be neither an Arab nor a Jewish state , " but we do not accept the principle that " setting up of self-governing institutions is dependent on the will to work together on the part of the two peoples . " On the contrary , this will to work together can be furthered best by setting up self-governing institutions . It is fatuous to think that goodwill can be engendered through abstract formulas . Good-will can come through life , through the creation of common interests vital to both peoples . Active , responsible participation in government is perhaps the most important of these common vital interests . Both peoples want this . Why not proceed with it , beginning now during the period of the mandate , and not waiting until the trusteeship agreement is worked out ? The report says that " British officials hold all the important positions . They exercise as much authority as in a country where the mass of the inhabitants are in a primitive stage of civilization . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples and begin with appointing a few Jews and a few Arabs to positions of authority in the central government ? Moreover , we must take exception to the proposition that " once the will to work together appears , represent1 atives of both sides will be of help in framing a constitution ; until that happens no step can be taken . " On the , contrary , the will to work together I will appear only if the opportunity to I work together is given or created by government . Charge representatives of the two peoples with the task of helping to frame a constitution and the will to work together will thus appear . This is true not only of working together in government but in all walks 1 of life . It is the function of those in authority to seek out the vital interests common to both peoples and to set them to work at these . Proposing that good-will first appear and that only then the two peoples can come together , is putting the cart before the horse . The dangers of this vicious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listing the large numbers of practical interests common to both peoples and making them responsible for day-by-day work in meeting these problems . There is no time to wait until some abstract good-will puts in an appearance . Let a large measure of self-government begin now . J. L. MAGNES , Chairman Ihud ( Union ) Association . Jerusalem , May 5 , 1946.                     