@@709387

txt One of the most complicated and explosiVe of postwar problems  --  that of Greece==soon may be handed- to the United Nations Security Council for the second time this year . Council delegates believe it more than likely that some one of their members , possibly the spokesman for the ? Soviet Union , will call officially upon that body to investigate present conditions in Greece . A basis for such action is provided in the recent appeal from Greek Left Wing parties that the Greek internal situation be studied , by either the Big Five or the United Nations . These parties , which include EAM , have asked that the United States , Great Brit- ain , Russia and France give official attention to what these groups consider to be the highly unsatisfactory and undemocratic state of affairs in that country . It will be recalled that the Greek question was raised once before this year when the Soviet Government had it placed on the agenda of the London General Assembly meeting in Febraury . On that occasion , the Soviet delegate charged that the presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . He also said that Greek Right-Wing forces , presumably under the protection of the British , were conducting a reign of terror and were nullifying and chance for democracy in that country . Not Considered Threat That episode ended when all Council members , except the Soviet Union and Mexico , expressed the view that the presence of British troops in Greece did not threaten world peace . Now , however , the situation is seen as considerably altered . Greece has just held an election which Left Wing groups , whether rightly or wrongly , claim not only was ? ill-timed but also unrepresentative , since a considerable portion of the registered electorate did not vote . Thus , at least two new points might be cited in justification of reopening ? the Greek question in the Council . The first is the charge that the election was unfair , that it , therefore , creates an internal crisis which , in turn , can menace world peace . The second charge is that , once the election has been held , there is no further reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful if a majority of the Council would find these charges acceptable . This fact , however , would not necessarily prevent the matter from being raised , nor would it spare Britain the embarrassment of having to answer the allegation that the presence of British troops helped bring about a reactionary victory in the Greek elections . Difficult for British Furthermore , if the Greek question should follow opposition on Britain 's part ? and such opposition is expected  --  to the Polish suggestion that the Council take action against the Franco Government in Spain , this would be doubly difficult for British diplomacy . Not only would enemies of Britain then be able to claim that London was refusing to undertake action against fascism in Spain , but they might also assert that the British were permitting the activity of potential , if not actual fascists , in Spain . This latter charge would be supplemented with firsthand information that the victorious party in the Greek elections could scarcely be called democratic by any stretch of the imagination . Meanwhile any chance of ma-. jority Council action against Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 survey of the delegation sentiment shows that only four of the 11 nations represented on the Council can be counted upon to support even a halfway program against the man and the regime who openly worked for and hoped for an Axis victory . In addition to Poland , only the Soviet Union , France , and Mexico can be counted upon to uphold a course of action sufficiently bold to have any chance of ending Franco rule in Spain . There is believed to be some possibility that Australia might be won over to this camp , although even this would leave a majority on the do-nothing side . In this connection , it is interesting to note that the head of at least one delegation to the Council has expressed the belief privately that the Russians will be just as glad to see the British and the United States oppose any action on Spain . Such an Anglo-American policy would , in this delegate 's opinion , enable the Soviet Union to stand forth as the advocate of action against fascisT , while permitting the rest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this score . U. S. In Difficult Spot This same delegate believes that the United States will maneuver itself into a highly difficult and dubious position if it undertakes any Council action which might be remotely construed as helpful to Generalissimo Francisco Franco to Generalissimo Francisco Franco . He believes that such a course would forfeit for this country much of the good will and leadership which it won through its forthright defense of Iran 's right for a Council hearing . This non-American analysis of the situation is concurred in by most observers with whom I have discussed this particular aspect of United States foreign policy .                     