@@712119

txt A former Communist who won War Department praise for his part in developing the atomic bomb talked freely about himself before the House Committee on Un-American Activities today . He refused , however , to discuss political affiliations or activities of associates during or since his Communist party membership . His wife , following him to the witness chair , adopted the same pattern of testimony . He was Dr. Frank F. Oppenheimer , brother of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer , chairman of the General Advisory Committee to the Atomic Energy Commission . Dr. Robert Oppenheimer , appearing yesterday before the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . stanchly defended the administration of David E. Lilienthal. chairman of the AEC . Mr. Lilienthal has been accused by Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper , Republican , of Iowa , of " incredible mismanagement " and the joint committee is sifting the commission 's record . Representative John S. Wood , chairman of the Un-American Activities group , said that the refusals by Dr. and Mrs. Frank Oppenheimer to answer questions subjected them to possible citation for contempt . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know that that would do any good . I am not in favor of contempt action except in cases where a witness withholds information that is vital to committee investigation . " After committee questioning had failed to establish Communist links between Dr. and Mrs. Frank Oppenheimer and other figures in the investigation into atomic espionage , Dr. Oppenheimer asked that a letter be entered into the record . It was from Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves , wartime head of the atomic program . Dated Sept. 28 , 1945 , it said in part : " In behalf of the NA'ar Department as the agent of our fellowAmericans , I wish to express to you grateful thanks for your indispensable part in our success . Your skill and judgment In the field of science are beyond praise . " When the letter had been read Louis J. Russell , senior committee investigator , told the committee : " I think it should be added to the record that General Groves knew that Dr. Oppenheimer was a former member of the Communist party but had severed all connection with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outstanding scientist . " Resignation Accepted Before coming to Washington to testify Dr. Oppenheimer tendered his resignation as an assistant professor of physics at the University of Minnesota . As he was awaiting recall for questioning this afternoon he received word that the resignation had been accepted . At other points along the current espionage trial and investigation fronts there were developments as follows : The Un-American Activities Committee voted to reopen the case of Dr. Edward U. Condon , director of , the National Bureau of Standards , I if Dr. Condon asked to be heard . A subcommittee report last year cited Dr. Condon as one of the weakest links in atomic security . Representative Richard M. Nixon , Republican , of California , a committee member , said he would press I for calling Dr. Condon , whether he requested a hearing or not . Tom C. Clark , Attorney-General , told reporters that he might " have something to say later " about Dr. Condon 's demand for an apology from J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , for a secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ espionage trial of Miss Judith Coplon . Mr. Clark emphasized , however , that he would not comment while the trial was in progress . Representative Nixon sharply criticized the Attorney General for " requiring that the FBI disclose its confidential informants in order to present evidence in the Coplon case . " Criticism by Nixon " As a result of that action , " Mr. Nixon contended , " the work of the bureau of years has been destroyed , since these informants are exposed and no longer can furnish information which is needed to check espionage activities in this country . " These repots were admittedly unevaluated by the bureau . It is quite apparent that under the circumstances the security of the country would have e been served better by dismissing the case against Miss Coplon , rather than take action which has done irreparable harm to our entire security organization . " In the House this afternoon , Representative Cecil R. King , Democrat , of California , called it " highly inappropriate " for Mr. Nixon to criticize the Justice Department for its handling of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ praised the Attorney I General 's " great record " in the " prosecution of subversives . " Questioning of Dr. Frank Oppenheimer today was at first behind closed doors . As he left the committee room at noon he issued a statement through his attorney , Clifford J. Durr . Oppenheimer Statement " My wife and I joined the Communist party in 1937 , seeking an answer to the problems of unem-1 employment and want in the wealthiest and most productive country in the world , " the statement said . " We did not find in the Communist party the vehicle through which to accomplish the progressive changes we were interested in and so we left it about three and a half years later and never rejoined . " Our connection with the Communist party ended long before the establishment of the Manhattan ( atomic ) Project . " I realize that  --  whether justified or not  --  real fears exist in the minds of many Americans concerning the security of the atomic program . Lest the report of any onetime connection with the Communist party be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have certainly never engaged in espionage or turned over secret information to any unauthorized person . I have no knowledge of any instance of espionage or the unauthorized delivery of secret information . " Had I knowledge , or even suspicion , of such conduct , on the part of anyone , I would have reported it immediately . " The statement was entered into the committee record this afternoon after Dr. Oppenheimer had been questioned in open hearing .                     