@@705284

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 10 ? Following is an official interpretation of President Roosevelt 's aid-Britain bill prepared by Senator Barkley and Representative McCormack , majority leader , who introduced it today : " The attached bill giving effect to President Roosevelt 's lend-leasebrj proposals will be introduced simul-.1 taneously when Congress meets at , . noon today by Senator Barkley and Representative McCormack , the t ' be majority leaders . " The bill simply translates into legislative form the policy of making this country the arsenal for the democracies , and seeks to carrykout President Roosevelt 's pledge to these countries , ' in ever-increasing numbers , ships , planes , tanks , guns . ' " It follows the precedent established by Congress last June when the President was empowered to ' authorize the Secretaries of War and Navy to manufacture , purchase and repair war materials for the American republics . Under the present bill , this country is enabled to furnish war materials of every kind to any country whose defense // BILL INTERPRETED BY TWO LEADERS // the President considers to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief provisions of . this bill enable the United States ? Provision for Manufacturing " To manufacture war defense materials for such countries in government-owned arsenals , factories , and Shipyards ; " Our government will only order for foreign governments such materials as our Army and Navy can use . This means that we shall be producing the same material for our friends as for ourselves . It should eliminate double assembly lines in our factories and should help to standardize our war materials among the democracies . The power to manufacture under this provision does not carry With it a waiver of the eight-hour act , the Walsh-Healey act , the Wagner act and similar domestic legislation . " To procure or purchase any materials from our private airplane plants , shipyards or other factories ; " It will be for the President to decide the conditions and the manner in which foreign governments can obtain war materials under this provision . " To sell , lease , lend or otherwise dispose of any war materials to any country whose defense is vital to the defense of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dispose of new material as well as equipment now in the hands of our Army or Navy , according to our own needs as he sees them . A sale or lease of such articles can provide for payment in kind , or for any direct or indirect benefit to the United States . A certificate from our-Chief of Staff or Chief of Naval Operations will no longer be needed . A transfer of defense materiel can be made , in the President 's discretion , without the formality of public advertisement or without the other restrictions which now apply to the disposition of government property . Could Repair British Ships " To test , repair , outfit , or otherwise to place in good working order any defense article ; " This would apply equally to defense articles whether manufactured in the United States or not . It could conceivably mean , for example , that the British battle cruiser Renown could be repaired in the Brooklyn Navy Yard if the President considered it in the interest of our national defense to do so . The provision is broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , naval , or air bases to outfit and repair the weapons of countries whose defense is vital to the defense of the United States . " To communicate to any such government information pertainingl to any defense article furnished to such government under the proposed bill . " This section gives the President the discretion to make available designs , blueprints , and other information for using particular equipment . Such information would relate only to defense articles actually supplied to foreign nations under this bill . Release of Supplies for Export " To release any defense article for export . " This eliminates restrictions in the Espionage Act of 1917 and in the Embargo Act of July 2 , 1940 , against the exportation of certain war materials . It does not , however , authorize the use of American vessels to deliver war materials to combat areas . " In addition , the proposed bill forbids any foreign country which obtains defense articles or defense information from the United States from transferring them to any other country without the President 's consent . It also enables the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada , or other countries whose defense is vital to ourselves , if such materials are not readily obtainable in this country . " While the bill contains an authorization for an appropriation , full effect can not be given to its provisions until appropriations are actually provided by Congress . " 