@@705235

txt German troops are pouring through the Brenner Pass into Italy , according to reports today from the Yugoslav-Italian frontier . They are boarding transports at Trieste , and concentrations there are steadily growing , it was reported from the Northern Yugoslav Adriatic coast . Semi-official German sources here declared that the exact number of German troops in Italy Vas still uncertain . Estimates given to your correspondent by most reliable sources said the figure was far in excess of 50,000 . It was emphasized that the number was still growing , and that their destination was officially unknown . Some of the troops have reached Taranto , according to information received here this morning . Semi-official German sources at Belgrade said that an estimate of the " German expeditionary force " - in Italy might be forthcoming later today . Concentrations have been , seen at Bari and Naples , and reports of ? embarkation preparations at Trieste indicated , according to military experts , movements of great proportions . National sources here said they had received no " official " reports of German troops in Italy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Italian ports should not be misconstrued as German troop ' movements , even if the equipment was accompanied by uniformed Germans . Eyewitness reports from Ljubljana on the Yugoslav-Italian frontier tonight , however , by travelers en route to Italy , spoke of German troops in " thousands " and long trains moving steadily from the Brenner Pass into Italy laden with field-gray soldiers and equipment . Despite increasing German troop concentrations in Italian seaports and the presence of German soldiers aboard troop transports , home quarters here yesterday clung to the conviction that no expeditionary campaign was afoot at present . These circles professed the belief that the German officers , soldiers and technicians were " training troops , " similar to those sent to Rumania , and that they would be billeted at various places in Italy to instruct Italian troops in Blitzkrieg technique and , if necessary , would be used in Rumania " to preserve order . " All reports received by this correspondent spoke of huge quantities of materiel  --  artillery , machine guns , troop trucks , searchlights and anti-aircraft guns  --  accompanying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen on the quayside of Trieste . One German source here , when asked tonight to explain the German troops movements into Italy , declared : " Why , that 's the way to Tipperary . " Naval and military quarters here guessed that in the event of a German effort to land troops in Albania the transports would hug the Yugoslav waters en route , seeking to avoid meeting British submarines and enemy bombing planes , Berlin Sources Issue a Denial BERLIN , Dec. 18 ( W ) ? Authorized sources here flatly denied today reports that 50,000 German troops had reached an Italian port bound for Libya . I A dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES from Belgrade , printed yesterday , said German troops , estimated at 50,000 , were at Bari and Naples . The dispatch added that those ports were embarkation points for Albania and Africa , respectively . Italians Deny Reports ROME , Dec. 18 ( UP ) ? High Italian quarters firmly denied today reports published abroad that German troops had arrived at Bari or any other port in Italy . German Embassy circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Dec. 18 ? Asked about reports that German troops were already in Italy , Secretary of State Cordell Hull said today that he knew nothing more than had appeared in the newspapers . By this , it was later explained , he meant that his information concerning the reported movement came only from the press , not official dispatches . Some diplomats who are following this situation closely said that for some time they had known that Germany had staff officers , technicians , some aviation officers and some anti-aircraft officers and men in Italy , but they said they know of no official information of infantry being there . Preparing Italians for News Despite reports of the uninterrupted British advance into Libya , the interpretation put upon these reports by the Italian press was that the Fascist forces were merely making a " strategic " retreat to draw the British away from their supply bases in Egypt , Cecil Brown , Columbia Broadcasting System correspondent , reported last night in a broadcast from Rome . " The constant topics of conversation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are what 's actually happening in the desert and what 's Germany going ? to do about it . " Any suggestion of German help in Italy 's present position is being propagandized with the utmost care . There are no direct statements in the papers that Hitler contemplates sending military or air assistance to Mussolini . " For example , the Giornale d'Italia has this headline : ' The Unbreakable Fidelity of the People of the Axis . Together they fight and together they will win . ' Well , with the papers carrying many such sentiments in four and five column streamers , even the Italians in the back seats will get the proper impression . " There are some obvious internal drawbacks to German troops ' helping the Italians fight the Greeks in Albania and the British in Libya , but , as you know , an Italian air formation is operating from the Channel against Britain . Thus the precedent has been set . " 