@@709048

txt China is planning to reorganize her army and standardize her military equipment and tactics along American lines with the help of a post-war United States military mission of 1,500 to 2,200 men , thus continuing the process begun during the war with the arrival of 1 lendulease equipment and the establishment of the Chinese Combat Command . It was reported in Washington Thursday that China was hiring discharged Army fliers and ground crews as the nucleus of a new air force . Fighting between Chungking and Communist armies spread to new areas Friday , The Associated Press reported . Announcement of the mission , whose term is said to have been fixed at five years , is expected here after the return to China of Lieut . Gen. Albert C. Wedemeyer , commander of American forces in China and Chief of Staff to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . The Chinese Government requested the creation of the mission and this is one of the things General Wedemeyer was scheduled to take up on his trip to Washington . Originally there was talk in Chungking of a Navy section to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy phase of the original plans has not reached an advanced stage . Some members of the mission are already in China and a number of Army officers will remain behind now that the war is over . Brig . Gen. Russell Randall , former commander of the West China raiders , stationed during the war at Chengtu , is scheduled to head the aviation wing of the mission . The Chinese are understood to hope that General Wedemeyer will head the mission . As the plan is outlined here , the mission would continue in peacetime projects be- gun during the war , operating in the first phase with equipment ' that has fallen to China through lend-lease and the acquisition of surplus planes and trucks . During the war , except for activities of the United States Army Air Forces , American officers and troops in China served mainly to teach the Chinese to fight the Japanese rather than fighting the Japanese directly . Under the Chinese Combat Command American officers were assigned to Chinese commands as advisers and American instructors whipped the Chinese into shape at Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established at Kunming in which Chinese officers had American counterparts . The changes the Chinese are planning to make with American help involve the reorganization of command , the scaling down of troops , the establishment of training centers in which American tactics would be stressed , the use of American heavy guns and even alterations in the style of Chinese soldiers ' uniforms . During the war , when the Chinese Air Force was small , there was little coordination of ground and air activities with the air arm operating under a separate National Aeronautical Commission . Growth of the Air Force through the acquisition of United States planes will , it is believed , require closer harmony of command . Smaller Army Is Planned American advisers have counseled cutting down the huge ill , equipped army to a size the coun try could support adequately . The original 340 Chinese divisions have already been scaled down to 263 , and it is planned to stabilize the army at 120 divisions . In the field of ordnance the Chinese plan to use their light weapons but hope to buy heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced in quantity here . During the war the Chinese received some Enfield rifles from the United States but relied chiefly on the domestic-made Generalissimo Rifle , which is an adaptation of a German weapon . Arsenals here have been able to turn out light and heavy machine guns , mortars , 37-mm. anti-tank guns binoculars , range finders and ammunition for guns of all sizes . Because of the larger supply of Generalissimo Rifles the Chinese expect to continue use of this weapon and also domestic machine guns but they are looking to America for guns of 75-mm. and larger . Use of American tactics by the Chinese command would eliminate the diverse methods by which Chinese war commanders fought according to Russian , German , Japanese , American and individual Chinese styles . " We saw the American system win the war , " one Chinese general said . " Any system that won the war must be a good system . " The present Chinese uniform , with buttoned collar and padding for winter wear , is considered too stiff for field use , so the plans call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision for the various climatic conditions found in China . The establishment of an American peacetime military mission here would provide a new phase in China 's reliance on outside influences in attempts to modernize her Army . The process first began following the Franco-Russian war in 1870 when the Chinese started using German Mauser rifles and Krupp guns . Since then Russian and Japanese influences have made themselves felt and Chinese ordnance has acquired a wide assortment of weapons , including French mortars , Japanese ** rifles and Czechoslovak light machine guns .                     