@@710814

txt Municipal elections throughout France will take place tomorrow , simultaneously with the outbreak in Paris of a potentially national labor struggle that is the bitterest since the end of the. , war . It is potentially national because it is basically a contest between the Communists and Socialists for leadership of the French trade unions , which , under their present Communist control , have become political instruments . The Paris bus and subway strike remained deadlocked Saturday . Violence took place for the first time , and an effort to run some buses was abandoned . A Communist labor leader said that a demand would soon be submitted for a nation-wide rise in minimum pay of almost 40 per cent . This contest , if fought out either now or later , may determine the ability of the present Socialist-led Government , or perhaps of any Government , to survive against the determined opposition of the Communists when it is brought to bear through the economic weapon of the Communist-controlled trade unions . In this sense the contest , may determine , many believe , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances of today , when the Communist party , now openly aligned with Moscow and its satellites , is in a position to mobilize a large part of organized labor on its side . Charles de Gaulle and others contend that democracy can not exist under such conditions , and that only a stronger Executive can meet the threat of a party with alien attachments that relies now on the ballot box and now on its industrial power to achieve its ends . It is the approaching showdown on this fundamental issue that lends more than local importance . to the municipal elections . Strictly speaking , the voters will choose in 38,000 localities municipal councils , which in turn will elect the Mayors . But this normal function of the election is hardly more than incidental at a time when France and the world are dividing more and more sharply into what the French call two blocs . The gains or losses of the Communists will be awaited as an augury of the direction in which France is headed . In the last national election in November , 1946 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the votes cast . The indications are that they will not poll markedly more or less than that proportion tomorrow . M. de Gaulle 's new party , running mainly on an anti-Communist platform , will poll a substantial number of votes , which de Gaullists estimate at 20 per cent of the total . As in previous elections , there is no anti-Communist front . Combinations of other groups against the Communists have been made , but they are exceptional . " Non-Ballot " Strife Feared If the political struggle should come to be dominated by a contest between the Communists and antiCommunists , it would become more realistic , but likewise more dangerous for civil peace . The Socialists say that , in this event , the battle would not be fought by ballots . That is the main reason that the Socialists and Catholic Popular Republicans still hesitate to concede that such is the inevitable future line-up . The trend toward such an alignmerit has all along dominated the municipal campaign , which both the Communists and the de Gaullists have agreed in considering as political in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been accentuated by the Paris subway and bus strike , which is shot through and through with politics . The Communists did not want the strike at this time . To discommode the French capital is not the best way to win votes . The strike was started by an independent union , and the Communist-led unions had to follow suit . The strike came at a time when sporadic discontent in many places had already weakened Communist control over organized labor . Reds Suspect a Plot The Communists believe the Socialists inspired the strike to discredit the Communist-controlled Confederation of Labor . When the independent union suddenly abandoned the strike , this maneuver sharpened the bitterness toward the Socialists that the Communists had expressed in violent terms since the nine-party international Communist manifesto proclaimed a kind of Europe-wide war on the Socialists . In this sense , the French municipal election has even international aspects . In reading the Communist organ Humanite , which in the past few days would seem to have almost exhausted its vocabulary of vituperation , one might think the rival candidates were the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 