@@711048

txt While the United Nations Corn .. mission on Korea here continues to mark time pending a final decision on whether or not to hold elections in South Korea , the delegates themselves have indicated practical unanimity on only one maior question . This is their belief that " free elections , " as called for in the original UN General Assembly resolution , would be impossible in South Korea without certain reforms in the existing administration . The actual Commission has not yet come to any decision as to whether or not elections of any type are possible in South Korea alone . That is a question which the Commission may submit to the UN 's so-called " Little Assembly " within the next fortnight . Free Elections Periled If the Little Assembly decides the Commission should go ahead and supervise elections in South Korea , however , it is likely that a portion , if not a majority , of the delegates will seek to modify what they believe to be circumstances in South Korea which would prevent an unfettered expression of the people 's will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the delegates was most clearly indicated here when one member during the Feb. 5 plenary session pointed out the factors which weigh against the possibility of a free election  --  and made pointed allusions to the all-powerful South Korean national police . Although this delegate technically was speaking only as an individual , he reflected a feeling shared by other delegates on the subject of free elections . The feeling first took shape as a result of small side trips made by several of the Commission into the Korean countryside . Police Controls Hit Questioning Korean farmers and others in the rural population around the Seoul area , they discovered that some had not even heard of the United Nations . Commission . Some of those questioned were familiar only with the name of Dr. Syngman Rhee among Korean leaders . Others , when asked how they voted in the interim election held by the occupation here in the fall of 1946 , stated they had never known of such an election . Next decisive testimony in shaping the Commission 's thought came when middle-road and moderate Leftists told the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be impossible as long as existing police controls continued . On the basis of this testimony , the ** requested an interview with the National Police Director , Dr. Chough Byung , Columbia University graduate appointed to the present post by the Atnerican Military Government : Dr. Chough 's testimony on the subject of police controls was regarded as indecisive . But he left a strong impression upon the delegates that while he might favor a democratic police organization personally , he felt Korea was not yet ready for such a type of luxury . This impression was strengthened by a Military Government order published during the same week in which the American Military Governor ordered the police to refrain from making arrests without evidence of any criminal act , to refrain from delimiting freedom of speech and assembly , and to abstain from indulging in political activities . Reforms Termed Vital The Commission therefore apparently feels on the basis of this evidence that if etpctions of any kind were held in South Korea , certain reforms in the existing administration would be a needed prerequisite . What type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear . Some members of the Commission have , expressed a belief thqt the police controls might be lessened to some degree if arrests were permitted only upon presentation of warrants . Others are inclined to believe that if the United Nationi were called upon to supervise elections here , it would be necessary to carry out . a comprehensive overhauling of the entire police organization  --  as well as to closely supervise activities of various youth groups which it is believed are linked with certain political parties .                     