@@709527

txt Instead of donning bathing suits at beaches yesterday , New Yorkers put on overshoes and raised umbrellas or stayed at home as the four-day Memorial Day week-end came to a dripping end . In an aquatic tour de force more than three inches of rain fell in gew York during the eighteen hours up to 3 P. M. , flooding highways and cellars , and causing the cancellation of plane flights and outdoor activities . Between Saturday midnight and 7 P. M. yesterday a dozen traffic accidents attributed to the storm resulted in the serious injury of two persons , Police Headquarters reported . Heavy rains falling steadily over a cqnsiderable part of the Middle Atlantic Coast States added to traffic hazards . Throughout the country traffic fatalities during this first post-war Memorial Day week-end showed a sharp increased , over the holiday period in 1943-45.1 Since the holiday started last Thursday morning , 265 persons had been killed in the nation , The Associated Press reported last night . Of these 144 were killed in traffic accidents and scores were injured . The National Safety Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's holiday period would reach 329 , including persons who died later as a result of accidents . In the national death toll by States Pennsylvania led the list with thirty-five deaths . New York had eight . Although railroad traffic here during the day yesterday was light , it increased greatly in the evening , crowding Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Sta- yion . The heavy rain was blamed for light travel earlier in the day . At Grand Central Terminal last night traffic was reported 15 to 20 per cent heavier than for a normal summer week-end . At Pennsylvania Station travel also was reported above average for a summer Sunday and extra trains were added . Traffic was particularly heavy between New York , Philadelphia and Washington , and trains to New Jersey resorts were also filled . " 52 Is High for the Day The temperature here throughout the day was too low to be what beach concessionaires dream about for week-ends . The high for the day was 52 degrees at 7:10 P. M. The low for the twenty-four-hour period was 48 degrees at 4:30 P.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. was 3.53 inches . Last year the high for this date was 63 and the low 49 . Yesterday 's low temperature came near approaching the record of 45 degrees established in 1907 . The , Highest temperature for the date is 94 degrees , reached in 1895 . Up to 1 P. M. yesterday the hvavy rain had changed the orders of 1,000 patrolmen assigned to spstzial events detail throughout the city . Among the outdoor events that ? were cancelled or postponed were the New York Yankees-St . L011% " ball game at the Yankee Stadtuan ; a semi-professional baseball gape at the Polo Grounds ; a Holy iame Rally at Ebbets Field , Brooklyn , which was to have been attenad by 30,000 persons ; the Irish Ikeis at Fordham , and outings at C.'oney Island , the Rockaways , Orchard Beach , and in various city parks . During the sixteen-hour period up to 1 P ' . M. there were twelve emergency squad police calls . The majority were for clogged drain pipes . Water overflows caused a tweny-five nannute tie-up at 1 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue , Broo'kiri , when a power line was short circuited . Traffic was slowed in Brooklyn between the Botanic Garden and Prospect Park Stations on the BMT when rain caused a pVle of sand beside the track to drift . across the rails . On both the Brit Parkway and Grand Central Parkway overflow of water caused slogging of the roadway in certain sections . Eighteen inches of water accumulated on the Belt Parkway at Lefferts Boulevard in Ozone . Park , Queens . Traffic also was interrupted similarly in Horace Harding Boulevard in Kew Gardens , Queens . In Union County , W. J. , highways covered by water also caused motorists trouble . Bcfpre noon traffic was interrupted In Linden on New Jersey Route 25. one of the main arteries between the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels , Philadelphia and Jersey Coast resorts , but no serious accidents were reported . In some sections of this highway , safety islands , about eight inches high , separating east and west traffic lanes , were under water , and some motorists who accidentally drove into the obstructions reported flat tires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wet Manhattan sidewalks yesterday and were injured seriously enough to require hospitalization . Six persons were slightly injured in falls on subway stairs . The police emergency division reported thirty trips within the city between Saturday midnight and 6 P. M. yesterday ... - Many of these were caused by flooded cellars , three by trees blown down on Staten Island roads and a few for loosened cornices and copings of buildings . The major accident of the latter type occurred at 2:40 P. M. , when a section of coping from the roof of a six-story office building at 18 East Forty-second Street fell to the sidewalk . It weighed about twenty-five pounds . Thirty-five hundred passengers were affected by cancellations of 117 domestic plane flights at La Guardia Field from midnight Saturday through 5 P. M. yesterday . Operations at the field continued throughout the day , however .                     