@@708939

txt Price Administrator Chester Bowles , his hand weakened by the sudden removal of all Govern- i ment control over building , will ask the aid of Congress in pre- ; venting a disastrous zoom in real ! estate prices . He has announced that he will seek authority from Congress to place protective price ceilings on new and old homes , as well as on building lots offered for sale . Otherwise , he dreads the nation will face another " boom-and-bust " experience such as that which " helped bring on the collapse of 1929 . " Prices on used homes have more than doubled in some areas , and building prices have advanced 30 per cent during the war , the Price Administrator reports . It is expected that Mr. Bowles , who has promised to fight infla- tionary trends " with the tenacity of a Boston bull pup , " may have a real tug of war on his hands when it comes to getting Congress to permit extension of price controls to the real estate field . The general sentiment today , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than more . Reconveroion authorities are counting on the prospective building boom to stimulate employment and shorten the workless lull during the shifting of industrial gears . Such a boom would set up jobs , not only in actual construction , but in many related industries as well . - 4mployment in enterprises which supply building materials , plumbing and electrical fixtures , paint , s4oves , furnaces , refrigerators , and hardware would be stimulated . There would be more jobs for those employed in plants manufacturing furniture , floor coverings , draperies , kitchen equipment , and many other items desired by the new home owner . Check on Inflation These prospective jobs provide persuasive arguments in favor of flashing the green light all the way for the building industry . Mr. Bowles will be bucking a strong current of popular opinion against anything which might slow the tide of recovery , whatever the motive behind it . Not that the Price Administrator is seeking to retard reconversion or limit jobs . That is not his purpose . He is merely trying to prevent the building boom from exploding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bowles asked Congress last spring for authority to extend price control to the home building field , it was refused to him . Congress then asked that he " watch the situation and report to them at a later date . " This is the later date , and Mr. granted the necessary power to hold the price line in real estate at a normal point . " A healthy expansion in the building industry is essential to a postwar program of abundance , " he declares . " The housing census taken in 1940 indicated that almost 40 per cent of the homes in the country should be either substantially rebuilt or torn down and replaced . " 1,000,000 Homes a Year The Price Administrator believes that if the situation is " properly handled , we can look forward to the building . of be1,500,000 least 10                     