@@710231

txt One plausible reason Random for being hopeful , about Moscow the Moscow conference is Thoughts the season . It is cold in the Soviet capital on March 10 , when the conference begins , and it will continue cold for a good many weeks to come . Nevertheless , it is true of Soviet Russia as of any other land on the face of the earth that even though winter lingers spring can not be far behind . We assume in this time argument that very little work is accomplished in the opening weeks of any big deliberative assembly , international or national . There will be at Moscow the introductory formalities , the time out for delegations to settle down in new quarters , the preliminary scouting and testing operations , the larger opening maneuvers , the first real contacts and clashes , the inevitable delays and deadlocks ; and so it may well be the middle of April before the Moscow conference gets down to work in earnest . But concerning the RusSpring sian winter and spring Comes to there are certain basic Russia facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encyclopaedia . " Throughout Russia the winter is of long duration . The last days of frost are experienced for the most part in April . The spring is exceptionally beautiful in central Russia ; late as it usually is , it sets in with vigor , and vegetation develops with a rapidity which gives to this season in Russia a special charm unknown in warmer climates . The rapid melting of the snow at the same time causes the rivers to swell , and renders a great many minor streams navigable for a few weeks . " . Is it too much to hope Whan that the first faint echoes That of the hounds of spring Aprille baying on winter 's traces in the latitude of Moscow may awaken a sympathetic response in the hearts of the delegates around the conference table ? When the ice begins to go out of the northern rivers , when the snow-covered roofs start dripping in the warm sun , it may be that other things , too , will begin to thaw out and melt away , such as diplomatic deadlocks , frozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under the softening touch of spring it ought to turn out that men , even if they are delegates at a peace conference , become lighter in heart and mind than if they had begun their deliberations in summer weather and so were denied the quickening transition from early March to late April . It might even be as late as Job the middle of May or the end Well of that month , and ultimateDone ly it would be no time lost . It is only fair to state that the source from which we have just quoted the tribute to the beautiful Russian spring season goes on to say , " A return of cold weather , injurious to vegetation , is very frequently observed in central and eastern Russia between May the 18th and the 24th , so that it is only in June that warfa weather sets in definitely . " But even if the Moscow conference should have to wait till June to reach an agreement it would not be too long if the results are definite and enduring and contributory to world peace and stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home to dawdle and haggle and debate for months on end and then rush through their new laws in the last twenty-four hours after stopping the clock on the wall behind the Speaker 's chair . - More than one exciting Could n't story is sure to be sent Ever out from the Moscow conHappen ference by our corps of thirty-six American correspondents , but there is one particular Moscow dispatch which we are certain will never be transmitted . It will be a human interest story about a small group of irreconcilable opponents of the Soviet regime who have been publishing a small daily paper advocating the abolition of the Soviet state , the restoration of the monarchy and the re-establishment of the capitalist system . Finding itself caught in an acute newsprint shortage , this reactionary Moscow paper was on the point of suspending publication when the manager had a happy thought . He applied to the directors of the Moscow Pravda and Izvestia , the two papers , as is well known , being under a single management . Within an hour four big trucks from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little monarchist newspaper going a couple of weeks . It is a story , we repeat , But which is not likely to break Over in Moscow . On the other Here hand , Cranston - Williams , general manager of the American Newspaper Publishers Association , testifying before a Senate committee ' on our own newsprint shortage , made the statement that The Daily Worker , a Communist journal in New York , " recently ran out ' of newsprint and THE NEW YORK TIMES let them have twenty rolls . " This sort of thing can only happen where they take the freedom of the press , along with other items in the Bill of Rights , too seriously . 1                     