@@709019

txt Another friendly tussle over the relathe position and power of Milli and big nations in the United Nations Organization has taken place in the subcommittee drafting the agenda procedure for the Security Council . It resulted in the Inevitable victory for the big powers . The issue again was procedural . The small powers wanted detailed rules of procedure for the Security Council to be laid down now by the Pi eparatory Commission subcommittee . These rules would affect the relationship of the smaller powers to the Security Council in many ways , such as whether they would be invited to take part in the Security Council 's discussions , how they should appeal and argue issues before the Council , and similar issues , It would be to the advantage of the smaller powers to fix these arrangements now in the Preparatory Commission , since decisions here taken by a majority vote of a large group containing many smaller powers . Big Powers Delay Action The big powers , led by Russia , preferred to put off these decisions for the Security Council itself to solve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members are required to pass procedural rules , and in all other matters , each big power has a full veto unless it is involved in the dispute . Detailed rules for the Security Council therefore were omitted from the subcommittee report . Instead , these questions were placed on the agenda of the first Council meeting for decision at that time . The following highly generalized resolution then was inserted into the subcommittee report in order to pacify the small powers : It is recommended " that the Preparatory Commission invite the Security Council formally to recognize its assumption of powers and duties under the Charter by an early exchange of views on the means best calculated to discharge Its responsibility for maintenance of international peace and security . " smelt Nations- Aim This apparently meaningless vagary is the best effort the small powers could achieve in order to get on record a statement to the big powers which in effect would say , We call upon you to define your relationship to us in detail and on the broadest possible basis as soon as the Security Council meets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Council is noncontroversial . The most important section calls on the Council at its first meeting to set the place and date for convoking the Military Staff Committee . The present intention of the Big Three is that this most important Committee will meet immediately after the Security Council is formed  --  in January if possible . Its functions under the Charter are to arrange and direct the world police force under orders of the Security Council and to advise on a " system for regulation of armaments . " The Committee is to be made up of Big Five Chiefs of Staff . It therefore is the express intention of the Big Three to get the policing organization into action as soon as Possible . Chairmanship to Rotate The chairmanship of the Security Council will rotate , not among the five permanent members , but among all 11 powers , in English alphabetical order , An effort to obtain open meetings of the Council succeeded only In obtaining a statement In the draft that meetings will be open unless the Council decides otherwise . The Chinese delegate , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious flaw in the provisions for carrying on the work against opium and other dangerous drugs . He said the draft for the Economic and Social Council provides that a " temporary social commission " shall make an interim provision for carrying on certain League of Nations functions such as this . But this machinery , Dr. Koo said , does not . contain concrete provision for a separate body to deal with drugs , He said the Cep tral Opium Board and Supervisory Body of the League will continue after liquidation of the League , but both are powerless to take action unless directives are.specifically given them . Polley-Making Unit . Urged In order to Main= a policy-making organization which could direct the work of these two administrative units , Dr. Koo suggests formation by the UNO of a policy-making unit like the Opium Advisory Committee of theLeague , which expires with the League . He said , " The problem of opium and narcotic drugs is far from being solved , therefore It Is Imperative that an organ like the Opium Advisory Commission should exist in order to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest what new measures or conventions should be adopted to_the cope with the increasingly menacing drug situation . " The problem of opium and dangerous drugs is an urgent one and the seriousness of this problem in the Far East can not be overstressed . The Japanese did everything to promote the abuse of opium and other drugs in occupied China and even to reintroduce it in territories under their occupation which previously had been cleared of this menace under the stein policy of suppression pursued by the Chinese authorities . The Chinese Government has found It necessary to launch another opium-suppression campaign to cope with the recrudescence of the opium evil deliberately brought about by enemy occupation forcer.                     