@@709602

txt Letters to The Times LUIGI STURZO.MORRIS WHINSTON.LEONARD S. HIRSCH.ADRIAN H. SCOLTEN , M.D.W. STUA ... pg . 23 Letters to The Times Christian Democratic Party Its Political Leadership in Italy Is Explained by Its History To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is an interesting fact to note that American attention is. attracted to the revival of Christian democracy in Europe . The elections in France and Italy of June 2 have been impressive even for Americans because the Christian Democratic party in each country has assumed political leadership . I do not agree with Harold Callender that " Christian Democracy before the war was a political manifestation of Catholicism tinged with a new sense of social responsibility " and by no means that " this was partly the result of deliberate rivalry first with socialism and later with that child of socialism , communism , for the support of the masses . " The first idea of Christian Democracy was conceived more than a century ago by Frederic Ozanam , a French scholar and professor at the Sorbonne , and by Gioacchino Ventura @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political theories and the name itself of Christian Democracy , before the Manifesto of Karl Marx published in 1848 . As a matter of fact , Italian Christian Democracy as an organized movement came into being in 1896 , just fifty years ago , and I had the fortune of being among its founders . In 1925 there was established in Paris an International Office for the Christian Democratic party . During the last World War an International Christian Democratic Union worked in London . What is to be attributed to the influence of Catholicism is social theory and teachings enunciated by the Popes from Leo XIII to the present Pope . As a political party , however , Christian Democracy had an autonomous origin and organization . Many are prejudiced and create confusion by classifying Christian Democracy as a Catholic party . The faith has nothing to do with a political party . In the beginning Christian Democracy promoted primarily a labor movement . In 1898 it was proposed in Italy by some leaders , and the writer was among them , that they work together with other labor movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor . This writer worked together with Socialists in the Association of Municipalities from 1903 to 1916 , when the Socialists withdrew from the association because of their neutral policy during the first World War . In Italy Christian Democratic workers have organized since June , 1944 , with the Socialists and the Communists in a unique labor confederation . The deliberate rivalry with the Socialists and the Communists , as Callender points out , results from a difference of thought and theories between the Marxian and Christian concepts of life . If in the United States socialism and communism were to organize Marxist or Leninist parties , achieving the numerical and political importance they have in Europe , the rest of the country would fight them either under the banner of conservative and democratic parties or as Christian reformers , namely , Christian Democracy . It is not impossible for American citizens to face in five or ten years an experience like that in Europe today . LUIGI STURZO . Brooklyn , June 26 , 1946 . New Building Fees Protested TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the borough offices of the Department of Housing and Buildings have begun to charge fees for the filing of plans for new buildings and alterations tinder a new Local Law No. 2 which was approved by the City Council and signed by Mayor O'Dwyer on March 5 , thereby still more increasing the cost of building construction at a time when the present cost of construction is the highest in the history of the building industry . The theory of this law was to make the Department of Housing and Buildings self-sustaining . If this theory is to be carried out so as to apply to all of the city departments alike , then we would have to pay an extra fee to the Sanitation , Police , Fire and other departments . This law is forcing people to pay a tax on top of another tax , which in my estimation is unconstitutional . There will be many plans filed , particularly in the Borough of Manhattan , where the fee will amount to between $1,000 and $3,000 for a single building , and in several cases where the volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount to about $10,000 . In many cases where the fee will be small the architect will probably have to pay it himself . MORRIS WHINSTON . New York , June 13 , 1946 . Maritime Service Reserve Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am an ensign in the United States Maritime Service , and have been on active duty for twenty months . Under the present system an individual is required to have thirty-two months of service to be eligible for discharge from the Merchant Marine according to Public Law 87 . This system , unlike the methods of discharge for the other branches of the service , has not been revised since its promulgation . It seems unfair that all men in the United States Naval Reserve and Coast Guard Reserve , regardless of length of service , are being discharged before Sept. 1 , 1946 , and June 30 , 1946 , respectively . It would appear that a more just provision should be made fee the thousands of men who enlisted in the Maritime Service during the war . Many of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service to their country . Actually there is no shortage manpower in the Merchant Marine today . There is in reality a definite surplus of personnel in some specialized fields , such as pursers and radio operators . Moreover , a vast number of ships are being inactivated , thus erasing any threat of a deficit in experienced personnel . Perhaps the establishment of a Maritime Service Reserve would remedy the situation . But some revised provisions for discharge should be made for the " forgotten men " in the Maritime Service . LEONARD S. HIRSCH . New York , June 25 , 1946 . Federal Health Insurance Doctor and Patient Both Deprived of Freedom , It Is Charged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Much has been said in favor of corn . pulsory Federal health insurance by those who wish to have the WagnerMurray-Dingell bill jammed through Congress . I wish to register here my opinion , which I know is also the opinion of 98 per cent of the doctors in private practice . Our present system of medical practice is not without imperfections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been tried in many foreign countries having different ideals . The compulsory Federal health bill , which Wagner , Murray and Dingell , the C. I. 0 . and its Political Action Committee favor , has the support of some of the enthusiasts of the Public Health Department . It does not , however , have the backing of doctors who built up their practices without the help of anyone except their patients . The practicing doctor wants the high opinion of his patients . Without it he can not get very far in private practice . One can not fool patients and get by with it very long under our present system of medical practice . Under compulsory Federal insurance plans , the incompetent and unsuccessful doctors of today will be guaranteed a better living . Under this plan the initiative of the doctor and his desire to rate well with his patients and other doctors will be killed . All a doctor would need would be a good rating or a strong pull with the politicians who are over him . Under present medical practice , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in giving good service , his practice slips away . Doctor-Patient Relations Last but not least , the American doctor now keeps inviolate the confidence of his patient . The patient trusts us as much as he trusts his priest or preacher , and even the Government now has no way of getting at our records . Nobody else holds a financial or political club over us . Under all the plans which are aimed at changing our present method of practice , the patient loses considerable freedom . All ethical doctors want the patient to continue having this freedom . When the Government or the insurance company hires and pays the doctor and gives him orders , the doctor-atient relationship is almost always unsatisfactory . A good example or Federal-controlled ' medicine is the Veterans Administration . For more than twenty-five years it has had a record of dissatisfied doctors and dissatisfied patients . To correct some of these evils General Bradley now sends veterans to our private offices to be treated there . Under the proposed Wagner-MurrayDingell medical service bill , doctors and patients will give and take medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The patients will suffer far more than the doctors , for even the unsuccessful doctors will he assured a good salary and as many patients as thR most competent . Patients and doctors will he forced to give up their coveted freedom and the right to do what they think is best . For these reasons , we doctors who are in private practice oppose the Wagner-Murray-Dingell bill and all other kinds of socialized medicine . ADRIAN H. SCOLTEN , M. D. Portland , Me. , June 20 , 1946 . Mr. Symington Misquoted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In an article from Detroit in your issue of June 17 I am quoted as saying : " Needless to say , we were glad to see the recommendation of the President and only intentional aggressors can oppose it in this country . " That is not true . I said that any future delay in the President 's recommendation wouldd please potential aggressors against this country . W. STUART SYMINGTON , Assistant Secretary of War for Air . Washington , June 20 , 1946. 