@@711023

txt Two members of President Truman 's Cabinet informed Congress today that the Administration would immediately impose price control on coal , petroleum , steel , lumber , textiles and farm machinery , if given ' the authority . Some of those commodities and their products , possibly including gasoline and fuel oil , would also be allocated among suppliers and rationed among consumers , the Senate Banking and Currency Committee was told by Julius A. Krug , Secretary of the Interior , and W. Averell Harriman , Secretary of Commerce . They testified in support of President Truman 's ten-point antiinflation program and particularly the Administration-sponsored bills to implement its price control , rationing and allocation features . The disclosures , while accompanied by renewed assurances that the proposed powers would be exercised over very few items , supplied at least a partial answer to repeated demands by . Republicans for the names of such items . Clinton P. Anderson , Secretary of Agriculture , had previously listed meat in that category . Secretary Krug said that if the price control bill introduced by Senator Alben W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would immediately order a freeze in the prices of coal and petroleum , including fuel oil and gasoline , at the levels then prevailing . The Interior Department would have jurisdiction over those commodities under the bill , which would authorize a sixty-day freeze of prices of essential items , following which the ceilings would have to be adjusted or eliminated . If the Administration is given allocation and rationing powers , he said , it will be necessary to allocate fuel oil and gasoline among suppliers and " possibly " ration them : among consumers . He did not expect to use those powers over coal but said they should be available in case it should become necessary . The price freeze , Mr. Krug said , would apply to all levels of distribution , from the producer to the retailer . Whether the ceilings would " be adjusted later , removed ' entirely or eliminated at the retail level would , depend upon the de partment 's findings in examining prices " from the standpoint of pro.duction , distribution costs , corporate profits , supply prospects and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal and petroleum prices had been moving " steadily - upward " since wartime price control wasdiscontinued in 1946 , and were still , increasing . Other- Regulations Seen Secretary Harriman listed steel , lumber , textiles and farm machinery as only four of the commodities under his jurisdiction where " some form of action would immediately be taken . " Regulation of others . may become necessary , he explained . Price control of steel , he said , would be aimed primarily at " gray market " practices of charging over $100 a ton more than the mills ' list prices . " The action is in no way , aimed at the legitimate steel producers , " he said , noting that their prices had increased only about .50 per cent since 1939 as compared with an average increase of 75 per cent in other industrial commodity prices . Noting that " gray market " prices are estimated at upwards of 200 per cent of the listed quotations , he stated ; " I believe there can be little question that price controls would effectively continue to the elimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for mandatory reporting of inventories , purchases , sales and commissions could quickly smoke out the worst offenders . " The ceilings , he said , need not affect any legitimate seller " whose prices are not out of line or who has not added to prices by unwarranted ' extras . ' " Mr. Harriman cited lumber as " a striking example of response to inflationary pressures , " noting that the price was more than three times the 1939 average . It is of particular concern , he said because of its influence on the cost of housing . In 1939 , it accounted for 19 per cent of a house 's selling price , but while in 1939 it accounted for only 19 per cent of -a house 's selling price ; it represented 26 per cent of the sum in November of last year , he said . With respect to farm machinery and implements , Mr. Harriman said prices could not be considered , unreasonably high in relation to the average price level , " but the pattern of the recent advances indicates the beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressures of intense demand and rising costs . " The rises must be stopped in view of their effect on farmers ' costs and consequently the price of food , he said . Mr. Harriman said the necessity of controlling textile and apparel prices stemmed from clothing 's importance as the second-largest item in the consumer 's budget and from continued increases in prices despite slackening of demand . He was particularly critical of rises in profit margins of cotton mills , which he said were more than necessary to compensate for their increased costs .                     