@@704715

txt Great Britain took protective custody of Iceland today by landing an armed force on the north Atlantic island which is united to German occupied Denmark by the tie of the throne of King Christian X. The British foreign office announced this action was taken to prevent seizure of Iceland ' by Germany . It was not disclosed immediately whether the British force encountered any di ? ficulty with Germans reported to have Infiltrated into the island be . tore and since outbreak of the Eu. ropean war . Iceland has a defense force of her own of only about 70 police . Given a Guarantee . The foreign office said Iceland was given a guarantee that the occupation would be only for the duration of hostilities . The little northern kingdom is expected to provide the allies with excellent submarine bases as well as seaplane and airplane bases . It was disclosed that R. C. Harris of the British ministry of economic warfare arrived in Iceland today with Charles Howard Smith , British representative in Iceland . Into German Hands . The foreign office issued the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become necessary to reckon with the possibility of a sudden German descent upon Iceland . - " is clear that in the face of an attack on Iceland even on a very small scale the Icelandic government would be unable to prevent their country falling completely into Ger . man hands . " Ills majesty 's government have accordingly decided to preclude this pos. sibility which would deprive Iceland of their independence by themselves landing a force in Iceland and this operation was carried out this morn . ins . Guarantees Given . " Ills majesty 's government have given explicit guarantees to the Icelandie government that this force has been landed to ensure the security of Iceland against a German invasion and that any further measures that may have to be taken will bo designed for that purpose . This force will be withdrawn upon the conclu ? sir of hostilities . " Ills majesty 's government have made it plain that they have no inten. tion or desire to interfere with the existing administration of the island , further , that they are prepared at once to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters which , it is anticipated , will bring ? material advantages to the in. habitants . " Before the war Germany made a practice of sending frequent expeditions to Iceland , nominally for scion. title purposes and in connection with projected air routes . When the war broke out there was In Iceland a considerably larger number of Germans than was justified , the British said , for purely commercial considerations . Since the war began this number has been augmented by the crews of several shipwrecked German vessels . Attack 13 German Ships . The admiralty announced that British submarines had attacked 13 German ships , sinking one and destroying another , as Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain , rebuffed in a plea for Labor party support , apparently was fighting a losing battle in his efforts to remain prime minister of Great Britain . The admiralty said that the two ships known to have been - destroyed were not in German convoys . One of these was sunk by a torpedo , the other destroyed both with torpedo and gun fire . The other 11 German ships raided were sailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attack on one of the convoys six.torpedoes found their marks . Three hits were made on another German line of ships and two on a third . Two Planes Shot Down . - litho the admiralty did not specify the location of the attacks , it was presumed they occurred in the Ska ? gerrak on German ships bound for Norway either with supplies or additional troops . The air ministry previously had announced that two German airplanes were shot down off the Scottish coast this morning . Prime Minister Chamberlain , assailed both In the house of commons and in the press for failure of the British and French Norwegian campaign , seemed to edge nearer to his expected resignation as Labor party leaders refused his invitation to enter a reconstructed British cabinet . Sources reporting the Labor leaders ' refusal , which was given at a 45 minute conference with the prime minister at 10 Downing street last night , said Chamberlain indicated his willingness to resign if he thought that would lead to formation of a new national government representative of all political factions .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        