@@711896

txt Substantial progress toward a settlement of the dispute between the Consolidated Edison system and the Utility Workers of America , CIO , was made at a four-hour negotiating session that ended at 7 o'clock last night . The extended session , which raised hopes that a strike of the system 's 27,000 workers in its electricity , gas and steam companies would be avoided , followed receipt of a new proposal from the system yesterday afternoon . After the negotiators had re , cessed until 1 P. M. today , Joseph E. O'Grady , director of the city 's Division of Labor Relations , and Bernard Forman of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , issued the following joint statement : " Considerable further progress was made in discussions this afternoon . As a result we are very hopeful that the threat of a strike I may be averted . The parties agree to resume tomorrow afternoon at 1 P. P.I . at the same undisclosed place . " Best Offer to Date The companys new settlement offer " goes further than any we have had since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national president of the union , said . The negotiators and mediators met behind locked doors . By agreement , each side refrained from reporting developments in the extended discussion that began at 8 o'clock Friday evening and continued for three and a half hours before a recess was taken . The eleventh hour resumption of negotiations followed a meeting of representatives of both sides with Acting Mayor Vincent Pt ImpelUteri . Pending the outcome of negotiations , the union went ahead with its plans for a strike . The joint council of the union 's locals in this area met at its headquarters and set the strike call for ** A. M. Wednesday unless a satisfactory agreement is reached earlier . Announcing the action , Edward Marsine , secretary of the council , said : " A motion was passed that unless a satisfactory agreement is reached between the union and management before 12:01 A. M. March 2 , 1949 , this council authorizes a work stoppage as of that time and date . " Strike Machinery " All Set " Mr. Fisher and all the leading local officers attended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who presided , said " all strike machinery is set to go , if necessary . " - Mr. said 950 shop stewards had been made members of the strike committee and the twenty-one members of the council designated as strike captains . Places for picketing were designated , he reported . " We earnestly hope that all this will not be necessary , " Mr. added . " We know what it means to the people of the city . " Mr. Fisher disclosed after the announcement of the strike preparations that the union had received the settlement offer from the company . Beyond mentioning that the offer would be considered in caucus before the negotiators joined the discussions with the company , he declined to amplify comment orithe offer . After the caucus the negotiators went directly to the session . Mr. O'Grady accepted the union 's strike preparations as a matter of course . " In view of the progress made at last night 's meeting , " he commented , " I am very hopeful that an agreement will be reached . " After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced that " new avenues of possible settlement " had developed . Officials of airports operated by the Port of New York Authority in New York and New Jersey and representatives of airlines operating at La Guardia Airport and New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , met yesterday and mapped an emergency plan for continuing plane operations in the event of a strike . Daylight operations in good weather seemed feasible , Hervey F. Law , general superintendent of airports for the authority , said after the meeting . Extra generators would be put into operation at La Guardia Airport to maintain the instrument landing system , control tower , communications and other facilities for night flying , he said . It developed that operations might be shifted in part to Idlewild , which has considerable supplementary generating capacity for all operational facilities , and to Newark ' and Teterboro - airports , which are not serviced by the Consoliated Edison System . Mr. Law pointed out , however , that whatever operations were maintained would be up to the Civil Aeronautics Authority . The union has been seeking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of a provisional one ; unlimited arbitration of grievances in exchange for a no-strike clause and a union shop contingent upon a vote by members on the issue March 9 . Before negotiations broke down , the company offered to arbitrate the wage issue . The union was reported to have been ready to place all of its demands before an'arbitrator.                     