@@704842

txt President Roosevelt put a virtual embargo today on the sale to foreign countries of any munitions , materials or machinery needed in the national defense program . By proclamation he subjected all such shipments to rigid control under military direction . In an accompanying " Military Order , " the President exercised his authority as Commander in Chief and appointed Lieut . Col. Russell L. Maxwell as Administrator of Export Control with final authority to say what might be shipped out of the country , and explained that the Administrator would supersede even the Secretary of State , instructing him on what might be sold abroad . President Roosevelt revealed his action in a surprise announcement at his press conference . He explained that he had signed the May bill authorizing him to control exports needed for national defense and by proclamation had listed the products , munitions and equipment subject to the licensing system . Not on the list was scrap iron , of which the President said there was a plentiful supply in this country . May Add More Things Later However , the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controls considered necessary at this time , " and indicated that the list of things requiring special license for exportation might be added to as occasion required . Licenses for foreign shipments are to be issued by the State Department under ? " directives " from the Administrator of Export Control . The articles mentioned in the President 's proclamation consisted in the main of such basic materials as wool , cotton linters , silk , rubber , hides and tin , and included also airplane parts , armor plate and various machine tools not covered by earlier Presidential proclamations . In a prepared explanation of , his proclamation and military order the President stated that " the items and materials listed in the proclamation include certain strategic materials as well as semi-finished products and machine tools of which there are actual or prospective shortages as a result of the national defense program . " He ' added : " The materials and production divisions of the National Defense Advisory Commission are collaborating with the Administrator of Export Control in the determination // of the items to be controlled and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " While the control of exports is primarily a national defense matter , the Department of State provides the machinery for the actual issue of licenses under which any controlled items are released for export . " Severe penalties for attempted violation or circumvention of the export control measures are stipulated in the legislation under which the President acted , including a fine of up to $10,000 or imprisonment up to two years or both upon conviction . ? : Although Mr. Roosevelt differentiated in his press conference reMarks between.an embargo and the licensing system , he declared that there was no doubt that the products listed in the proclamation would remain henceforth within the United States . Nor was this prospect confined to totalitarian aggressors , it was indicated , for the War and Navy Departments have in the last few days clamped a tight lid on further British orders of strategic materials as well as weapons of war in this country . It was the opinion of authorities on the subject here that if any licenses were issued permitting the exportation of articles listed in the proclamation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only with complete guarantees as to their ultimate destination . In addition to export controls , the so-called Army Speed-up Law under which Mr. Roosevelt acted removed all restrictions on the number of military planes which might be acquired by the Army Air Corps and liberalized War ? Department procurement regulations . The measure permits the department to let contracts without regard to competitive bidding . It also permits the Army to advance as much as 30 per cent of the money value of contract commitments to permit manufacturers to expand their plants . To the President the law gives authority to use S132,000,000 for the acquisition of strategic raw materials , the stipulation being that he may make commitments half in cash and half in contract authorizations . Longer Work Week Rejected In answer to questions at his press conference , the President dismissed contentions and recommendations of military and naval authorities sanctioned by their department heads that a shortage of skilled workers warranted waiving statutory restrictions on weekly hours of workers in navy yards and industries engaged in filling nationall defense contracts . The President volunteered the information that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise his authority to suspend normal forty-hour-week requirements in such plants on the ground that an insufficient supply of skilled workers would be found to maintain the pace contemplated in recent preparedness legislation . The President said he thoroughly disagreed with this contention and took a flat-footed stand against any such relaxation of labor standards under the defense program . The need for such a change might arise later , he said , but it was not required now . In this connection the Chief Executive said he had told those who had come to him with such recommendations to go back to their desks and discover methods of assimilating those now on the unemployment rolls in the big job of national defense . When that was done , he said , he might be ready to listen to their proposals for longer working hours for men and women in the war industries . To the Army and Navy officials who had asked that he authorize a forty-eight-hour week in industrial plants engaged in rearming the nation , the President said , he had told them that if they succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of the saving in relief expenditures for the national defense . The President disclosed that after rejecting the proposal for a longer work week in the navy yards and war industries he had taken up the question of available skilled workers with the United States Employment Service and the union of skilled workers of the type sought . He said the result was that the fifty or sixty workers sought had been brought forth almost overnight . He was determined , he said , that lengthening of working hours under the national defense program should be avoided unless and until all available workers fitted for such jobs had been taken off relief rolls . The President said that Daniel J. Tobin , head of the A. F. of L. 's Teamsters Union , told him that a large number of skilled workers had left the trades in which they had been apprentices because of the impact of the depression . The problem was to get such skilled workers back into production on the defense program , he said . The President said he had conferred over the week-end with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense program . However , Mr. Tobin was unable to accept the President 's offer of a ? permanent connection as one of his administrative assistants on the defense program because of the press of his union ? activities , Mr. Roosevelt explained . Instead , the Teamsters Union chief would come to the capital for about thirty days as a " handyman " to help the White House until the emergency defense preparations were completed .                     