@@706858

txt President Roosevelt served notice tonight that . Congressional upheavals and sectional objections notwithstanding , the government must and would begin the nationwide rationing of gasoline to conserve rubber on Dec. 1 , as scheduled . " We must do everything within our power , " the Chief Executive stated , " to see that the program starts Dec. 1 , because victory must not be delayed through failure to support our fighting forces . " This admonition was contained in identical letters sent by the President to William M. Jeffers , Rubber Director of the War Production Board , and to Leon Henderson , Price Administrator . He stated the case briefly but bluntly , and soon key civilian and military officials in the fields of war production and domestic economy swung into action , taking turns in broadcasts notifying the people of the country that , despite resistance at the Capitol , where a large segment of the Congress is demanding at least postponement of general gasoline limitations , the restrictions would be imposed . THE PRESIDENT 'S LETTER The text of the President 's letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me in September , I asked that mileage rationing be extended throughout the nation . Certain printing and transportation problems made it necessary to delay the program until Dec. 1 . " With every day that passes , our Heed for this rubber conservation measure grows more acute . It is the Army 's need and the Navy 's need . They must have rubber . We , as civilians , must conserve our tires . " The Baruch Committee said : ' We find the existing situation to be so dangerous that unless corrective measures are taken immediately this country will face both a military and civilian collapse . In rubber we are a have-not nation . ' " Since then the situation has become more acute , not less . Since then our military requirements for rubber have become greater , not smaller . Since then many tons of precious rubber have been lost through driving not essential to the war effort . We must keep every pound we can on our wheels to maintain our wartime transportation system . " We must do everything within our power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not be delayed through failure to support our fighting forces . " Jeffers in Nation-Wide Plea Mr. Jeffers , responding to the President 's letter in a country-wide , broadcast a few hours later , charged that untruths were being told to obscure the necessity for the impending rationing of motor fuel oil to force drastic reductions in mileage of non-essential travel . Meanwhile , in a joint broadcast , Mr. Henderson , Robert P. Patterson , Under-Secretary of War , and Rear Admiral Claude A. Jones , the Navy 's assistant chief of Procurement and Materials , emphasized that the program must go through , and replied to objections raised during the campaign which has obtained widespread Congressional backing . The distorted story of mileage rationing , Mr. Jeffers said , was being circulatedtparticularly among the people of the West and Midwest where gasoline is plentiful , with " trimmings " and " local embellishments , " all for the single purpose , he held , of making the average American overlook the basic facts about our rubber situation . This was being done , he alleged , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might " continue to enjoy busin'essas-usual . " Declares Facts " Are Simple " " The facts , " Mr. Jeffers said , " are simple . With only a trickle of new rubber corning in , with our synthetic rubber plants still in construction , we are going to have to get along on the rubber we have . That means that the vast majority of our 27.000,000 passenger cars and 5,000,000 trucks are going to have to run from now until mid1944 on the tires now in use . " That 's the reason , and the only reason , for the entire rubber conservation programs . That 's the reason nationwide gasoline rationing will go into effect Dec. 1 . That 's the reason for the thirtyfive-mile speed limit and for periodic tire inspection . " Mr. Jeffers , too , turned to the Baruch Report , as did the President and quoted this : " ' Gas rationing is the only way of saving rubber . Every way of avoiding this method was explored , but it was found to be inescapable . This must be kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not due to shortage of that commodity  --  it is wholly a measure of rubber saving . That is why it must be nation-wide . " " That statement , " Mr. Jeffers said , " continues to be true . I have seen no suggestion by anybody that offers any hope of saving rubber by any other method . " The rubber director said that he was not concerned about " the business-as-usual fellows ! ' except as their activities imperiled the progress of the war by " misleading the man in overalls . " " The man in overalls is the man I am concerned about , " he said , and continued : " That man is the plain , ordinary citizen , who wants to do a good patriotic job , the man in the factory , the man on the farm , the housewife , the business man , the American citizen  --  in other words , who does a day 's work and who is the most important unit in our home-front picture . " Such persons , Mr. Jeffers charged , were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be unable to go to work and back . " That simply is n't true , " he said . " The entire purpose of mileage rationing is to insure they will get to work and back , not just this month and next but in the months to come . ' Enough Gasoline for Worker ' " The worker can obtain enough gasoline for his necessary driving . The farmer can obtain enough for getting his produce to market . Every citizen can get enough gasoline for essential driving . " But there we have to stop . Nonessential driving is one of the luxuries all of us will have to give up for the duration . " The people are being told that the 35-mile speed limit will save all the rubber that is necessary . That is n't true . The wheels can be driven off an automobile at 35 just as well as at 60 . It merely takes longer . " Those of an organized opposition to the program , Mr. Henderson declared , were banded together to oppose our keeping faith with our fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were working through whispering campaigns as well as the printed word . " We are here tonight , " he said , speaking for himself , Under-Secretary Patterson and Admiral Jones , " to answer these men who would gamble America 's future , not for a mess of pottage , but for a gallon of gasoline . " Then he announced bluntly : " I wish to state her and now that nation-wide mileage rationing will definitely go into effect Dec. 1 , 1942 . My authority is a letter which I have just received from the President of the United States . " Mr. Patterson warned that if transportation bogged down , plane and tank production would break down . Those who would risk crippling transportation , he added , took a chance of crippling the fighting forces . " Every day , " said Admiral Jones , " we in the Navy are haunted by the realization that every tire not used for absolute essential driving will have to be replaced in some manner by additional rubber that the Navy needs  --  needs for things like life rafts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To save the wear on a tire may mean the saving of a life . " Rather than giving their own answers to some of the objections raised against the mileage rationing program , the speakers read replies direct from the Baruch report . " I feel positive , " Mr. Henderson said , " that if the President of the United States , the War Production Board , and the War and Navy Departments have accepted the judgment of the Baruch report that nation-wide mileage rationing is the surest , wisest method to prevent a real rubber catastrophe , then the people of Indiana , Michigan , Arkansas , Texas and other States will also accept that judgment rather than the falsehoods being spread by these sell-seeking pressure groups . " And the West will learn what the East already knows by experience , that mileage rationing really insures essential transportation . "                     