@@709115

txt Letters to The Times AUSTIN M. FISHER.JOSEPH DE PEDRO.ASHLEY MILLER.VIOLET and NOEL RAWNSLEY.SOL M ... Letters to The Times Precedent to Ford Proposal Some Unions Have Agreed to Financial Responsibility in Contracts To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the Nov. 29 issue of THE TIMES , Walter . Ruch reports that Ford has now asked UAW to pay $5 per day per man as special liquidated damages for wildcat strikes . He also states that " this was believed to be the first time in the history of collective bargaining that a price tag has been affixed to such a request . " This is not quite correct . In several industries the notion of union financial responsibility for breach of ' contract- has been well established . This has been true in the hosiery industry where provisions have been incorporated in the contracts calling for fines , reductions in pay and expulsion of members who violate the contract . Moreover , the posting of bonds for contract performance has also taken place in the hosiery industry , and , in the event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damages up to the full amount of the bond . Mine Workers Favorable The United Mine Workers , to cite another example , have incorporated provisions in a number of their agreerAents for the fining of miners who engaged in wildcat strikes based on a per diem penalty for each day of unauthorized idleness . In this type of contract there was also agreement that the mine operators might be fined for unauthorized lockouts . These facts provide an interesting refutation of Richard T. Leonard 's statement concerning the Ford demand . According to your report , Mr. Leonard stated that the union could not be expected to assume responsibility for wildcat strikes . In this connection he is quoted as saying : " Financial responsibility would be a serious menace to the life of the union and we can not put that weapon in anyone 's hands . " UAW Offered Bond I can not help but wonder whether Mr. Leonard has forgotten the offer his own union made to the Chrysler Corporation in the fall of 1939 when , in return for a union shop , the UAW offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract . At that time the argument was commonly heard that if unions were given a guarantee of union security , then they could be expected in return to guarantee the faithful performance of their own agreements . We now have a considerable measure of union security in American labor relations . Many of us on the manage . ment side of the fence are becoming increasingly interested in proposals for a similar degree of management security . AUSTIN M. FISHER . New York , Nov. 29 , 1945 . Uruguay Position Approved To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with much interest your editorial , " In the Nazi Manner . " It is startling and at the same time very revealing to watch the unfolding in Argentina , under the leadership of Col. Juan D. Perlin , of a terror and aggression campaign against all minorities . You are right in stating that this is the familiar pattern previously employed by the Nazis and Fascists ir , Europe against their victims and scapegoats , and I , as a Latin American , certainly give my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Larreta of Uruguay that any such infringement of the rights of minorities should be dealt with by collective intervention on the part of other governments . These ideologies should be extirpated from the Americas to avoid their plaguing us in the years to come , and the governments of those countries most likely to be harmed by the policies of these tyrants should be the ones to take the matter in hand before it is too late . JOSEPH DE PEDRO . New York , Nov. 29 , 1945 . Little Minds Blamed for Unrest To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : To the common man it seems quite obvious that today the only hope for survival of the race is in men 's ability to get together . And millions of us see that the greatest obstacle to this saving solidarity is world-wide insistence on " solidarity " by misguided leaders . The plain people would really prefer to settle differences by the give and take method , by cooperation instead of conflict . It is the small mind which seems naturally aggressive . For instance , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who now talk about a war between this country and Russia while any mentality capable of reason must see that our only chance of a future lies in tolerance and goodwill toward all men . If the atomic bomb is not to end civilization the time has come for a radical change in our thinking . Arrant selfishness is no longer accounted good business . Perhaps we are really being forced to a general adoption of the Golden Rule in our national and international affairs . It may even be that religion , which has long been neglected by many as impractical idealism , may prove to be our salvation at this time . Perhaps after all we need not wait for violent death to open our eyes to the great realities of existence . ASHLEY MILLER . New York , Nov. 28 , 1945 . Speedier Postal Service Wanted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Quite recently we have had letters from England that have taken about a month to reach us  --  as long as in the bad days of censorship . We suppose this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , is still taking as long as the fast ships used to take in crossing the Atlantic . Is it not time there was some speeding up to enable the people of the world to get together , mentally , on the question of the hour  --  reliable world law ? The people want to talk about this and get it fixed up . The continuing delays in the mail are hindering their interchange of ideas on how they are to set about it . What became of those cargo-carrying airplanes ? Could n't they carry some of our mail now ? Is it not time all . letters were sent by air on the long-distance routes ? At the least , can not we have the use of V-mail now for quick and cheap civilian communication ? VIOLET and NOEL RAWNSLEY . New York , Nov. 26 , 1945 . Those Retained Also Served . Troops Held Back as Unfit for Battle Did Duty , Nevertheless To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Warren W. Burns in his letter published in THE TIMES of Nov. 28 states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us who have been in uniform as veterans . " Having been an enlisted man in the Army for thirty-two months , all of this time in the States , I have this to say : Every man and woman who donned the uniform of the armed forces of the United States did so at great personal sacrifice . Who can argue that surrender of personal freedom constitutes less ? Add to that the many men assigned to duties in the States who left behind them children and broken homes , others who were too old to be sent overseas , let alone to serve as combat infantrymen , not to forget those with physical disabilities who could not possibly be shipped overseas . Our Army and Navy were trained , fed , and clothed by soldiers and sailors assigned to such duties in the States . Would Mr. Burns place these Americans in a classification other than veteran ? His arguments , in my opinion , do n't justify such a course of action . SOL MILTON . Brooklyn , Nov. 29 , 1945 . World Consciousness Sought To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current periodicals articles are being presented which outline the desperate need for a world government organization " with teeth . " This letter is written as a call to arms addressed to those who have the conviction that now is the time to progress from nationalism , beyond internationalism , to what might be called worldism . This conviction is spreading . It must be made to spread until the Government of the United States , acting in accordance with the desires of the people , feels free to enter into an organization properly equipped to keep the peace . The process of spreading this is really education , but it is out of the field of our schools . Those of us already convinced must bring the facts to the attention of as many others as possible . Almost anyone can help . Progressive ideas have spread in the past by the medium of the printed and spoken word . We can not afford to lose this opportunity . We have a head start with the country 's interest in international affairs at a high level already , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. B. KORSMEYER . Scarsdale , N. Y. , Nov. 27 , 1945 . Doubtful Precedent Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter to THE TIMES Ernst Cosmann censures one of the counsel in the Nuremberg trials for his reference to the rule of non-retroactivity in criminal law because , after all , the Nazi legislation had already violated this fundamental rule . This is certainly true as retroactive legislation was , using the words of Professor Lauterpacht of Cambridge , always a powerful weapon of tyranny cloaking arbitrariness in the garb of law . I wonder , however , whether the misuse of law by Hitler and dictators preceding him justifies the imitation of this misuse by a court composed of representatives of powers who fought against the so-called legal principles of Nazi tyranny . RUSTEM VAMBERY . New York , Nov. 27. 1945 . Mere Man Rejoices To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a member of the masculine side of the human family , thank you for mentioning that at the Metropolitan Opera opening the masculine picture was pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To think that at long last we have rated a sentence and , too , it is at the end of the story on the furs , etc. , of the females . Was it Barnum who said " Leave them laughing ? " You did , and well , too . Ah , now we men have arrived ! Noticed at the opera ! Is there anything else worth living for ? Thank you again for all members of the masculine sex who have so long been left behind in style notice by the more deadly of the species . THOMAS A. GEWISKI . Washington , Nov. 27 , 1945.                     