@@706312

txt Japanese bombers raided islands only thirty miles off the northeastern tip of Australia today in what may have been a softening-up prelude to an invasion attempt against the mainland from newly won bases in New Guinea . The attack , on ac small scale , was directed at islands in the vicinity of Thursday Island . These islands lie like steppingstones across the 100-mile-wide Torres Strait , between Australia and New Guinea . The Royal Australian Air Force , in a report on an air attack made Thursday against the Japaneseheld airdrome at Rabaul , New Britain , said that three grounded enemy planes probably had been destroyed and that ten others had been damaged by a bomb landing in a tightly packed concentration . Japanese airmen firing cannon and machine guns attacked Port Moresby , in Papua , New Guinea , yesterday , but the only casualty reported was an Australian flier who suffered a leg wound . Port Moresby was raided again on Saturday . Australian reconnaissance planes searched widely over the waters to the north and east for signs of any Japanese invasion fleets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , there was no further word of Australian assaults on sea trains of invaders . Prime Minister John Curtin 's announcement that he was sending Dr. Herbert V. Evatt to Washington gave rise to the belief that Dr. Evatt would present a more comprehensive picture of Australia 's immediate requirements than Richard G. Casey , Minister to the United States , had been able to give . For one thing , Dr. Evatt might be expected to speak out for a unity of command in the Southwestern Pacific to expedite vital decisions . He is expected to offer no objection if . a United States officer is proposed as commander . Australians ' were cheered by the statement of Dr. Hubertus J. van Mook , Lieutenant Governor General of the Netherlands Indies , that Netherland troops still were carrying on a large-scale fight against the Japanese in Java . This meant that tens of thousands of Japanese who otherwise might be hurled against Australia still were occupied by Netherland resistance . Missions in Northern Australia , including those on Melville Island and Leper Island , in Darwin Bay , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons were taken off the islands and brought to a Melbourne convent with the assistance of the Australian Red Cross . A white-clad sister superior said that children from the Melville school had scarcely reached Darwin before Japanese bombers began to raid the port city . The first attack lasted forty minutes and ten minutes later there was another half as long . After the raids were over , Australian troops escorted the party to the Adelaide River , where it passed a night in near-by hills without cover before starting for Melbourne . The sister said that a priest and the director of a boys ' school had decided to remain on Melville Island and to take to the jungle if Japanese landing parties arrived .                     