@@711553

txt Invading President Trumart 's home state in quest of its fifteen electoral votes , Gov . Thomas E. Dewey today accused his Democratic adversary , by implication , of fomenting disunity by " blackguarding Congress . " Addressing the largest and most enthusiastic back platform crowds he has encountered on his two tour of the West that ended tonight , the Republican candiclate for President declared that the country needed a President who wanted to work with Congress and who would do so instead of " going around the country blackguarding it . " His implied criticism of President Truman , employing the strongest language he has yet used in connection with his adversary 's repeated attacks on the Republican - controlled Congress , provoked repeated outbursts of applause from his listeners . Upwards of 50,000 persons heard and saw , Mr. Dewey today at nine back-platform appearances in Kansas and Missouri as his special train headed back for Albany . Of these 23,000 turned out at three Stops in Kansas and the others at stops in Missouri . The candidate was forced to make an unscheduled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Union Station in an effort to catch a glimpse of him while his train was changing en- , gines . The crowd set up such a din that Mr. Dewey , who was about to retire , came out on the back platform and greeted several hundred persons . who had slipped through the gates . Ten times as many were in the concourse and unable to get ' through . To accommodate them the Governor and Mrs. Dewey left the train and entered the concourse , with a police detail opening a lane through the jam . Mr. Dewey climbed atop a waiting ropm bench and made a short talk devoted mostly to expressing his surprise at the size and enthusiasm of the gathering . No appearance in St. Louis had been scheduled because the Gover- , nor is planning to return here later for a major address . After talking with-the . crowd Mr.1 Dewey received a delegation of lo- , cal labor leaders on board the , train . 8,000 at Salina , Station His first stop of the day was in Salina , Kan. , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. M. to see him . At Washington , Mo. , 4,000 to 5,0001 waited in the dark to greet him at 8:45 P. M. As he started across Rissouri , this afternoon Mr. Dewey passed almost within sight of President Truman 's home at Independence : The Republican candidate 's train slowed down as it went through , but did not stop . A dozen persons were on the station platform and waved as the train went by . At his stops today the New York Governor repeated that the only way to secure the national unity needed to insure peace at a time when world tension was high was through the election of a Republican administration and a Republican Congress that can work together as a team . The plea for the election of a Republican administration was coupled with a . defense of the Republican-controlled Eightieth Congress , which Mr. Truman has repeatedly assailed as one of the worst in the history of the country . " It was the Eightieth Congress , " Mr. Dewey told his back-platform audiences , " that gave us the first long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country and I am for it 1.000 per cent . They did a swell job and I believe wholeheartedly in it from top to bottom . " Enthusiasm Backs Reports Earlier in his two-week tour through the Pacific Coast and Mountain States Mr. Dewey defended the record of the Eightieth Congress on reclamation . It appropriated 50 per cent more for this purpose than any Democratic Congress in the last sixteen years , he said . The size and enthusiasm of Mr. Dewey 's Missouri audiences today gave credence to reports brought to the train by local Republican ' leaders that the Republican candidate has an excellent chance of carrying the state despite the fact that it is the President 's home and that it is one of the few states in which public opinion polls credit Mr. Truman with a lead . Among the Missouri Republicans who ' rode with Mr. Dewey through the state were Senators James P. Kern and Forrest C. Donnell and Murray E. Thompson , the Republican candidate for Governor . Missouri stops today included Jefferson City , Washington , Warrensburg , Sedalia and Hermann . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Topeka in Kansas . The crowd at Topeka , estimated at 8,000 to 10,000 persons , was the largest that had greeted Mr. Dewey . on any back platform appearance since his special train left Albany two weeks ago , veteran political reporters aboard the train said . It was as large as the crowd which greeted the late President Roosevelt when he stopped there in 1936 . Mr. Dewey renewed his endorsement of the farm price support bill at , all his Kansas and Missouri stops , declaring that support prices were necessary to insure maximum production . " The farmer must have the assurance that he wo n't produce himself into poverty , " he said . " It is the Government 's job to see that a bountiful production does not result in the farmer 's misery . " Alfred M. Landon , the 1936 Republican candidate for President , was one of a group of Republican that . Governor Dewey 's election was assured . . With : his back-platform - appearances today Mr. Dewey made a total of sixty speeches in'the two weeks'of his tour . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train . Thirteen were formal talks at organized rallies . The Republican candidate will have traveled 8,862-hales on his current trip by the time his train gets back to Albany tomorrow evening .. He has spoken in fourteen states . Among Mr. Dewey 's political advisers who accompanied him on the trip the feeling is that the New York Governor did not do himself any harm in the course of ' the trip . Their opinion from the start has been that he is assured of election this year and his main concern must be to avoid losing votes , rather than to pick up new ones . There is also a feeling that Mr. Dewey 's trip may have improved the chances of Republican Senate candidates in a number of states , notably Colorado , New Mexico , Montana , Wyoming and Iowa . In the first three Republicans are seeing to win seats now held by Democrats and in the last two Republicans are trying to ward off serious threats from Democrats . In all but New Mexico , Mr. Dewey is regarded as virtually certain of winning . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to depend largely upon the size of Mr. Dewey 's mar1 gin . The Democratic candidates , according to local opinion , are all certain to run ahead of President Truman . notables who boarded the Dewey special train at Ellis , Kan. , before Mr. Dewey was awake this morning , to accompany the candidate through the state . Others in the group included Gov . Frank Carlson , who is seeking re-election ; Andrew Schoeppel , a former governor seeking the Senate seat being vacated by Arthur Capper ; Representative Clifford R. Hope , co-author of the Hope-Aiken farm price ? support law , and Harry Darby , Republican national committeeman . Mr. Landon had a private audience with Governor Dewey in the latter 's private car but was not introduced to the groups at any of the back platform appearances in Kansas as were the Republican candidates for office aboard the train . Talking to reporters aboard the train , Mr. Landon said he believed                     