@@704885

txt NAZI BOMBS SMASH SCOTTISH TENEMENT , HIT NEAR TROLLEY Gardens Around Girls ' School in Wales Torn Up  --  Several Civilians Are Killed ALDERSHOT RAID REPORTED Berlin Claims Damage to Big British Military Base , Arms Factories and Ships By JAMES Special Cable to THE NEW YORK Timm LONDON , July ** sporadic German bombings that extended today from Southeast Scotland to Wales , the chief results reported here were destruction of a Scottish tenement , a narrow escape for passengers in a street car , heavy bombing of gardens around a girls ' school and death or injury to several civilians in isolated fi-ds and villages . Whether the raiders did any damage to shipping , factories or military bases was not stated in the official communiqu ? . The German High Command declared its planes carried out destructive attacks against the Aldershot military center , the harbor at Portland and various arms and other factories and set fire to four merchant ships near Scapa Flow , according to The United Press . Eighteen persons were in the street car in Scotland when a bomb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injuring no one inside . The blast tore up a one-ton chunk of track and hurled it 100 yards away . A youth standing at some distance was knocked off his feet and slightly hurt . Several Buried in Debris Several occupants of the tenement building were buried in the debris but later rescued by firemen and taken to hospitals . A man working in a field in Southeast England was killed and three persons , including a 97-yearold woman , injured when a lone raider dropped two bombs this afternoon . During the raids on Wales , screaming bombs burst in the gardens of houses and around a girls ' private school , injuring four children but failing to do any other serious damage . The Ministry of Home Security said one German plane machinegunned a cottage in Northeastern England , but did not say whether any one was hit . Officially it was announced that one German bomber was shot down off the south coast and one British fighter failed to return from his attempt to drive off the raiders . Unofficial reports said two German planes were destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raiders were destroyed . British Retaliate The Royal Air Force made some raids on barge concentrations and air bases in the Netherlands and Belgium last night and early this morning , but bad weather curtailed their bombing operations , according to the Air Ministry . The weather was so thick some British raiders could not locate their objectives and returned to their bases with full bomb loads . However , the British say they succeeded in bombing an oil plant at Gelsenkirchen in the Ruhr and an oil depot at Ghent , starting fires in both places . Also they reported attacking air bases at Merville and Hertogenbosch in South Holland . The Air Ministry said one coastal command plane was lost while on reconnaissance duty over the Channel yesterday . While searching for it some British fliers encountered a German bomber and shot it down , it was added . Ships Fight Off Planes LONDON , July 18 ( AD ) ? British ships off the northeast coast of Scotland tonight fought off an attack by German war planes amid shelling and bomb explosions so intense that houses ashore rocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flashes of anti-aircraft shells exploding like fireworks , accompanied by the thunder of bombs . Five persons were injured and Many houses were damaged in one // NAZI BOMBS SMASH SCOTTISH TENEMENT // Welsh town where bombs tore gaping holes in buildings , blew out every window and uprooted trees . The blasts tossed sidewalk blocks over buildings and threw earth as high as the top of the church steeple . Tonight , from their home bases , British fliers returned to the attack on Germany and German-occupied sections en masse . Large groups of bombers could be seen crossing toward France . Churchill Bars Details of Casualties LONDON , July 18 ( British Official Wireless ) ? Prime Minister Winston Churchill told the House of Commons tonight that in future lists of civilian air raid casualties would be posted at a convenient center in the towns or districts , but that reproduction of these figures in the press , either individually or in the aggregate , is forbidden . Mr. Churchill added that the total of casualties would be announced to Parliament and the press at monthly intervals . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lists was his own . He pointed out that such publication would give valuable information to the enemy as to his success , regarding both targets and results . Great Britain , Mr. Churchill continued , now is on active service and the first line ran through her factories . He pointed out that it is not usual to publish casualties resulting from an artillery bombardment at the front . " This seems to be a good moment to make a change in our procedure when after a month of widespread , if ill-directed , bombardment , our losses have been singularly slight , " he concluded . Berlin Claims Successes BERLIN , July 18 ( UP ) ? The German High Command communiqu ? today said that German planes operating in extremely bad weather had bombed many strategic points in Northern Scotland near Great Britain 's Scapa Flow base , setting fire to four merchant ships in the Firth of Forth , totaling about 24 , - 000 tons . In addition , it was said , German warships operating on the high seas sank another 30,000 tons of British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center , the High Command said , German planes bombed theh drill grounds and near-by airdromes , then continued the attack against factories and harbor works of Southern and Central England , where many hits were registered . Bombs smashed into a British armaments factory at Greenock , causing " particularly large fires , " it was asserted . Factories at Eastbourne and harbor works at the Portland naval base also were reported bombed . The Greenock arms plant was " largely destroyed , " the official D. N. B. agency said , as a result of many direct bomb hits . British planes flew into the Ruhr and Rhineland last night but were driven off by anti-aircraft fire after dropping a few " aimless " bombs that caused no damage , it was said . The Germans claimed to have shot down a British plane near Cherbourg and it was admitted that a German plane crashed into the English Channel .                     