@@705187

txt NEW ORLEANS , Nov. 26 ? A report calling for the exclusion of racketeer influence from the trade union movement and giving the executive council of the American Federation of Labor authority to apply " all of its influence " to force action against union officials found guilty of using their offices for personal gain was adopted unanimously today by delegates to the federation 's annual convention . Although the report did hot give the council summary power to step in and remove dishonest unionists , it did call on all national and international unions to revise their own constitutions to make provision for " adequate disciplinary action " against officers or members convicted of betraying their trust or of committing acts which cast discredit upon the labor movement . Before it disposed of the racketeering issue , the most controversial question before it , the convention adopted resolutions demanding that the Communist party be outlawed in this country , pledging support to Great Britain in the European war , and renewing the federation 's campaign for enactment of amendments to the Wagner Labor Relations Act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fist fight between David Dubinsky , president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , and Joseph S. Fay , vice president of the International Union of Operating Engineers , was carried to the floor when the report on racketeering came up . Green Explains the Move The only speaker on the motion was William Green , A. F. L. president , who said it had always been the federation 's policy to deal " promptly and effectively " with any report of corruption in the local unions directly under its control . It was not the intention of the organization to assume dictatorial authority over the affairs of autonomous international unions , he declared , but the federation did feel that it had the right to appeal to all of them to keep their unions clean and to proceed energetically against wrongdoers . The report was sponsored by the resolutions committee , of which Matthew Woll , A. F. L. vice president , is chairman and John P. Frey , president of the federation 's metal trades department , secretary . Mr. Dubinsky , whose union had submitted a resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he regarded the report as satisfactory and as likely to achieve all the ends envisaged in his motion . An unqualified condemnation of union leaders who used " their position of trust , confidence and high responsibility for the purpose of exploiting those whom they represent , the employer and the public , " was contained in the report . " While such conduct is reprehensible and in every way injurious to our trade-union movement as a whole , " the report stated , " we direct attention to the fact that a far // A. F. L. DENOUNCES // larger number of men in the professions , in public life and in business , have manifested criminal tendencies and been found guilty . " We submit with pride the record of honesty and integrity of the thousands of trade union officials as a whole , either in local , State or national capacity . " Those who make use of instances where trade union officials have erred , for the purpose of condemning the trade union movement and its leadership as a whole , are guilty of grave social harm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ govern themselves , the report noted that these unions had a responsibility not only to themselves but to the A F. of L. also to enforce standards which would not reflect on the integrity of the labor movement . The committee recommended that whenever the executive council had reason to believe that a trade union official was guilty of wrong-doing " and the national or international union in question seemingly evades its responsibility , the executive council will be authorized to apply all of its influence to secure such action as will correct the situation . " " Attention is also called to a certain type of gangsterism which requires vigorous action on the part of the trade union movement , " the report said . " There have been men of ill repute who , in some instances , have succeeded , through stealth and armed force , in securing control of existing local unions , or in organizing new ones , using the power they have acquired for illegal purposes . This is a most difficult evil to eradicate . it calls for the application of every means available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolutions on racketeering and other subjects , the convention served notice on its leaders that public acceptance of the views of the federation would depend on served notice on its leaders that public acceptance of the views of the federation would depend on line with its publicly announced policies . " " Lacking public support , our decisions may be self-satisfying , but they will be without significance or importance in shaping national policy , " declared the committee reviewing the annual report of the A. F. L. executive council . Its statement was endorsed by unanimous . vote of the delegates . " The opposition of our federation to communism and all forms of totalitarianism meets with public approval and support , " the statement read . " Every effort we may make to keep our organization clean and self-disciplined will meet with the same public support . " Harry C. Bates of the Bricklayers Union , an A. F. L. vice president , headed the committee that drafted this credo , and George Q. Lynch , president of the Pattern Makers League and member of the labor policies committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention in his capacity as secretary of the committee . The convention 's call for the outlawing of the Communist party was based on its expressed belief that the party was the political agency in the United States of a foreign power . It did not name Soviet 1Russia . Sponsored by the California State Federation of Labor and enIdorsed by the resolutions committee , the resolution , which urged the I passage of laws barring the Communist party from the ballot in any State , was adopted without a single dissenting voice . Max Federman , a delegate from the Toronto Furriers Union , told the convention that the Communist party had distributed leaflets among Canadian soldiers urging them to lay down their arms . He accused the party of working handin-hand with Nazi Germany . Gratification at the recent changes in the personnel of the National Labor Relations Board and confidence . that the federation could look forward to " a fair , honest and unbiased administration " of the Wagner act by Dr. Harry A. Millis and Dr. William M. Leiserson , the new members , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rid the NLRB of employes who had been known as " propagandists " for the C. I. 0. , and urged additional steps in the same direction . Ryan Gives Strike Warning In the course of the debate on proposed changes in the Labor Act , Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , served notice that 20,000 members of his union working on the docks of intercoastal steamship lines would be ordered to strike Dec. 15 if the Pacific Coast employers carried out their indicated intention of signing a collective agreement with Harry Bridges 's C. I. 0 . organization covering all longshoremen on the West Coast . Mr. Ryan said the principal hope of averting the walkout lay in the possibility that the NLRB , as now constituted , would reverse the decision handed down by the board three years ago , under which all Pacific ports were lumped into a single collective bargaining unit even though the longshoremen in Seattle , Tacoma and adjacent ports had been bargaining through the A. F. of L. for several years . Despite its reluctance to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national defense transportation and production , Mr. Ryan said , the A. F. of L. group would have no alternative but to call out its men on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts , as well as the Pacific , if the employers and C. I. 0 . entered into a new two-year compact affecting A. F. L. longshoremen . Mr. Green and all the others who spoke in favor of the report dealing with the Wagner act emphasized their determination to protect the basic provisions of the law against attack by employer groups . Another resolution which was adopted deplored the appointment to government agencies having to do with labor of persons " possessing only academic qualifications . " The resolution supporting Great Britain urged the extension of " vigorous and effective " aid by the United States , but warned against any involvement in the war . A more comprehensive resolution on the subject of war policy and aid to Britain is expected later in the convention . The delegates recorded themselves in favor of extension of the social security program to include health insurance , urged enactment of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asked that the recent award of the Naval Wage Review Board governing pay rates for metal trades workers in navy yards be set aside as " inadequate , " and rejected a suggestion that a committee of nine be established to draft a plan for eliminating jurisdictional disputes .                     