@@707030

txt Gen. Henri Giraud 's pronouncement of future policies was acclaimed in Government quarters today as a major contribution to French unity and the ultimate restoration of France to the principles of " liberty , equality and fraternity . " The State Department is pleased at new evidences that its diplomacy in North Africa is producing democratic results . Robert Murphy , United States Minister to the area , has cabled the Department his belief that General Giraud is demonstrating beyond further question his sincere determination to restore to all of France its traditional liberties . Mr. Murphy reported that General Giraud used great care in penning his speech and wrote it without British or American assistance . But the major test of the Giraud program , as viewed from here , is whether and how soon General Giraud will discharge , militant pro-Vichyites within his regime , including General Bergeret , his Deputy for Civilian Affairs , as well as others who were placed in office at the time of the American landings in North Africa , at the very moment when several competent pro-Allied administrators were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Giraud speech did not meet all the points raised by the memorandum on French collaboration submitted from London by the Fighting French National Committee . For instance , General Giraud is not likely to agree on unity of command in North and West Africa under de Gaullist leadership , and Washington is not expected to urge this on him . That the efforts to effect a meeting of minds between the De Gaullists and the French command in North Africa will continue , however , was indicated by reports today that Gen. Georges Catroux , influential Fighting French go-between , would confer in Algiers with General Giraud within a few days . Other parleys are expected to deal with extension of the new racial equalities to Morocco as well as Algeria . General Giraud 's pledges apply generally only to Algeria , to date . Despite obstacles to fulfillment of the Giraud pledges , - authoritative quarters were of the view that General Giraud has spoken so frankly and made such definite commitments that his profession of , good faith could be regarded as the most powerful omen to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Explicit Offer Made General Giraud has made his offer of co-operation so explicit , it is held , that it is now up to the de Gaullists to modify their attitude and adopt a half-way approach to collaboration . It is further pointed out that General Giraud made a definite reply to each of the four conditions for unity stipulated by the de Gaullist French National Committee 's recent memorandum , as follows : Where the committee asked for disavowal of the Vichy armistice , General Giraud said clearly , " the French people did not accept the armistice . " When the memorandum demanded restoration of traditional French liberties and voiding of all Vichy laws , the French North African Commander 's response was that " legislation subsequent to June 22 , 1940 , whether it was issued freely by Government Departments or under foreign dictation , has no legal validity , it can only be considered null and void , drawn against the interests of the French people . " Finally , regarding the demand that France be free to choose its own government after the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a provisional regime under the laws of the republic and pledged himself to serve under the orders of such a government as soon as it was established . Washington believes that every new indication of Giraud-De Gaulle unity will help to lessen friction which has resulted in such harm as desertion of sailors from French warships in American harbors . It does not believe , however , that anything short of a literal " starving out " process will pry loose Admiral Georges Robert , French High Commissioner at Martinique , from his allegiance to Vichy .                     