@@704630

txt Establishment of a government trading company , operating with government money and under government policy , to capture German markets in Balkan countries and to divert supplies going to Germany from that area , was announced in the House of Commons by Chancellor of the Exchequer Sir John Simon vo.nterciaV . It is understood that aitnougn inc propurscu company is to be set up in war time it is to be regarded as a permanent body which may have vital influence in Britain 's post-war trade . The company probably will " have to embark on barter transactions , " it was stated . It will be known as the English Commercial Corp . Ltd . It will be registered April 15 and will be financed by the British Treasury . Trading by the new corporation will be Limited to Balkan countries and no future extension to South America or elsewhere is contemplated . The objective is to reestablish exchange of goods with the Balkans on sound business lines . The project is not designed merely as a war measure . but will be continued on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying for commodities obtained from the Balkans in blocked marks , and forcing customers there to take whatever products Germany happened to have in surplus supply , has weakened the whole basis of international trade in tue Balkans . Britain now is undertaking to restore normal trade in the Balkan states . The program implies no threat to the foreign trade of the United States , either in the Balkans or elsewhere . On the contrary , by establishing stable conditions in the Balkans , it should assist any country desiring to conduct legitimate business there . The company will carry out its work as a commercial and independent entity subject tcfl general consultation wish the British government on the broad lines of its policy The Chancellor explained that it is not intended that it should supplant existing trade channels of trade but that on the contrary it should make use of them to the fullest possible extent . Lord Swinton will be chairman of the new committee . Included on the board will be A. Cheater Beatty . chairman of Roan Antelope Copper Mines . Ltd who has mining interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and J H. Hambro , a managing director of Hambros Bank Ltd . Announcement that the British Government will establish a permanent government owned and financed trading company  --  expected to engage in foreign trade on a straight barter base .. ? climaxes a series of economic measures which hate carried Britain to the opposite extreme of her old policy of free international trade . Particularly significant was the announcement that the new " English Commercial Corp . Ltd. " must be regarded as a permanent institution and not as an emergency war-time measure . Operations of the new trading corporation will be concentrated in the Balkans where the Allies are waging strenuous economic warfare against Germany . The fact that British Government spokesmen saw fit to announce that the new company will be a permanent agency implies that Britain wishes to have at hand during post-war days a well-established agency , experienced in trading in international commerce on a basis far removed from normal competitive methods It is axiomatic that a period of economic and financial stress normally follows a major war , and during such a period normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Normally international trade is carried out on a so-called " triangular " basis . Country A sells more to Country B than it buys but buys more from Country C than it sells The money which A makes in B is used to pay its bills in C. This is only possiole so long as the international currency system operates smoothly . Serious difficulties in the latter leads inevitably to the direct exchange of goods for goods between individual countries . The major totalitarian states . Germany , Italy . Russia and Japan have long operated their foreign trade more or less on a barter basis . Great Britain . however , now is moving even further toward direct barter than have any of the others . Up to now , barter has been conducted under inter-governmental agreements with the governments agreeing to the exchange of certain goods- The actual importing or exporting has been done by private companies which receive governmental permits to import or export the goods in question . Direct barter between governments has been carried out also , such as the exchange of rubber and tin for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As far as local international quarters could recall this is the first case in which a company has been set up to operate with government money and under government policy for the sole purpose of conducting barter business .                     