@@708118

txt The Pacific is a very large ocean , but regardless of its size there have been reservations in American naval circles for some time as to whether it was large enough to accommodate both the British and the American fleets in the war against Japan . That question has been resolved by the Quebec conference in a way which should remove those reservations . Britain 's fleet is coming into the Pacific war , but its coming in not as an adjunct to the American fleet or as a new customer at the already overcrowded counters of Pearl Harbor . The key phrase in Prime Minister Churchill 's remarks about the future in the Pacific was that " we shall bear our part to the utmost limit of what our bases will allow . " By " our bases , " Mr. Churchill meant not Allied bases but British bases . From British bases Britain is going to project into the war a. fleet serviced at long range by a complicated modern fleet train as the American fleet is now serviced at a great distance from Pearl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , port of Perth in West Australia . At the first two , British ships can find much of the technical facilities available to the American fleet at Pearl Harbor . At Fremantle it has the kind of access to food and clothing and munitions that the American fleet derives from the California ports . Taken together these three bases are adequate for major naval op ; erations . Their combined facilities // By Mallory Browne Sta Correspondent The Christian Science Monitor PARIS , Oct. ** immediate meaning of the new American penetration of the Siegfried Line north of Aachen is that Aachen itself is now seriously threatened . American troops had already virtually encircled Aachen from the west , south and east , but two main roads still led into and out of it to the north and northeast . One of these is now cut and the other within artillery range , so the ultimate fate of Aachen may be sealed . But the powerful drive by Lieut . Gen. Courtney H. Hodges ' First Army forces proves much more than that . It comes at a moment when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Front . Pessimism Exaggerated After the Allies ' lightning advance across France , Belgium . and Luxemburg . hopes of an immediate and easy victory soared . Then , . when the American armies were stopped , after piercing Hitler 's West . Wall and the British were clfecked after the airborne Three Principal Bases The location of those British bases suggests the general framework of British participation . There are three principal ones now available of which two are at substantially the same distance from Japan as Pearl Harbor . These are Trincomalee and Colombo on Ceylon . At a somewhat greater distance British Plan Pincers of American Armies Own Sea War Put Aachen in Close Peril                     