@@709205

txt Even before United States Ambassador W. Averell Harriman took off for London at dawn today to report to Secretary of State , James F. Byrnes at the United Nations Organization meeting on the Allied commission 's work here , the great difficulty of getting a loyal execution of the Moscow communiqu ? ' s terms in this test case of Allied cooperation showed itself . Though press freedom was promised and Rumanian censorship of the domestic press was officially dropped yesterday , first a Russian censor and then an unofficial typographical union censorship clamped down last night on an apparently inoffensive statement by Liberal Party Chief Constantin ( Dinu ) Bratianu on his party 's conception of a " free press . " Mr. Harriman and Sir Archibald Clark Kerr , British Ambassador to Moscow , had a three-hour conversation last night with Premier Petru Groza in which the question of restoring the freedoms was discussed , among other things , but if the Premier 's ideas on freedom are still the same as those expressed in the previous night 's communiqu ? there is little likelihood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Government . The outstanding flaw in M. Groza 's statement was the assertion that the present Ministers of Justice , the Interior and Propaganda could be expected to protect such freedom , when it was under their aegis that flagrant abuses were installed as normal procedure . The first practical test of the new situation came with copy for today 's newspapers . This included the declaration by M. Bratianu on the Liberals ' view of Moscow , which after having been seriously hacked up by the Russian censor was entirely suppressed in two " independent " papers by the typographers and it appeared in only three of the city 's twenty newspapers  --  all this although Rumanian press censorship had been officially dropped . The gist of M. Bratianu 's statement was that the Liberals approved the Moscow settlement and would cooperate loyally . What the Russian censor cut was a list of steps the Liberals consider necessary for the re-establishment of the freedoms as promised in Moscow . These included , first , the removal of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice from party control to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; second , that radio facilities be thrown open to all parties or used by none ( at present they serve only the parties in the Government and primarily the Communist party and the Plowmen 's Front ) ; third , the release of all persons under arrest or internment for their activities , as members of the Liberal and National Peasant parties ( which were formally recognized in Moscow as democratic ) ; fourth , removal of court orders forbidding these parties to use their printing plants ( which are tied up through law suits by dissident factions previously represented in the Groza Government and claiming to represent the parties in entirety ) . The Liberals asked , fifth , for the suppression of all press censorship on matters touching the Cabinet 's actions and administration of the country , as well as a guarantee of free circulation of newspapers ( hooliganism has been used in some cases to prevent the circulation " of " independent " papers ? opposition papers do not exist ? outside Bucharest ) . Sixth , equitable distribution of available newsprint to all newspapers regardless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of their paper in the black market from the surplus given to the Communist papers ) . Seventh , steps were proposed to prevent in the future the censorship exercised by the Communist-controlled union organization through the typographical workers . The final bit cut from M. Bratianu 's statement was an exhortation to the party to cooperate , since " only a democratic regime , as conceived and defined by the Moscow accord , can obtain for Rumania a just and quick peace and be in a position to re-establish friendly and fertile relations with all our allies , " and since the three great powers would help to see " elections carried out under the best conditions . " Bulgarian Chiefs Leave Moscow LONDON , Jan. 10 ( Reuter ) ? Kimon Georgieff , Bulgarian Prime Minister ; Petko Stainoff , his Foreign Minister , and Anton Jugoff , Home Minister , left Moscow by air today on their return journey to Sofia , the Moscow radio reported tonight . The Ministers went to Moscow Monday after the break-down of negotiations envisaged in the Moscow agreement of last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Generalissimo Stalin and other leading Soviet figures , including Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , the Foreign Commissar.                     