@@712397

txt Development of a time-saving chemical method portending increased production of insulin was announced here last night by Dr. James R. Killian Jr. , president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Dr. : Killian made public the discovery at the opening dinner of the seventy-first annual United Hospital Fund campaign before 1,200 persons at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . Under the new process , developed at M L T. by Dr. David F. Waugh , Associate Professor of Biology , in cooperation with the research laboratories of Armour &; Co. , insulin molecules can be made to purify themselves . Former President Herbert Hoover was among those who heard the announcement . Mr. Hoover , guest of honor , urged whole-hearted support of the campaign to raise $3,367,000 for eighty-six voluntary hospitals . Dr. Killian , who succeeded Dr. Karl T. Compton as president of M. I. T. last April , described the new method as quick , accurate and important in the battle against diabetes . , The new process , he said , constitutes the first known chemical test.for active insulin and ends a search that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first produced . In the process of self-purification , many of the steps now needed to obtain purified insulin are eliminated , Dr. ' Killian. reported . Tests have been made on animals , chiefly rabbits . According to Dr. Waugh there is evidence that once enough has been learned about the new procedures of self-purificatiol ) , they may be applied to other proteins . Dr. , Killian reported that Dr. Waugh had found that under cer- tain conditions , insulin molecules display " clannishness , " associating with each other to form tiny thread-like particles called fibrils . Such a fibril , he said , may include up to 80,000 molecules . In forming the fibrils , Dr. Waugh found , insulin molecules are highly selective . No . other compound is permitted in the " clan , " and impurities are locked out . Once the fibrils are formed they/will join with similar threads until they are large enough to be visible in a ablution " as a slight cloudiness . " Through chemical treatment , the fibrils can be made to reverse and return to active insulin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When this is accomplished , Dr. Waugh 's process in which insulin purifies itself by forming fibrils will become the first step in a production chain , the last stage of which is the chemical reversal of fibrils back to active insulin . " This simplified process for producing insulin is expected to replace the many steps now involved in the manufacture of this vital drug , thereby materially increasing production , " Dr. Killian said . " When more is known about the characteristics of other proteins , it may be possible to apply similar procedures for the development of new and valuable pharmaceuticals . " Plea For Aid to Hospitals In connection with the United Hospital Fund drive , Dr. Killian declared that every effort must be made to preserve and strengthen voluntary hospitals and research institutions " that are playing so essential a role in scientific medical advance . " " We must recognize that the problem before us is not alone to provide an adequate number of beds for the sick , " he said . " That we must do , but more importantly we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimate need for hospital beds . We must spend money on research and clinical investigation in order to save money on hospital care . " Without this kind of advance , he added , the cost of hospital care inay force us to abandon our voluntary hospital system , as England has done . " I submit that this would be a national catastrophe , " he declared . " The best way to provide the maximum of medical care to all of our people is to make steady progress in keeping them well . " The country 's health program , he said , should rest " on three legs ; Federal , state and private support , " and that " if we shorten the leg of private support , the stool will tend to topple . ' He called England 's medical care " greatly inferior " to our own , Saying the treatment of patients there was routine and stereotyped . Mr. Hoover said he hoped New Yorkers would continue to manifest a belief that individual responsibility is " the woof and the warp of the fabric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The surrender to the state of all services to the needy is the surrender of moral and spiritual responsibility to the state , " he declared . " No bureaucracy can create or sustain a system of morals or the inspirations of spiritual life . " Roy Larsen , who presided , introduced also Thomas J. Watson Jr. , general chairman of- the campaign , and Mrs. Frank E .. Adair , chairman of the women 's division .                     