@@709321

txt In recent weeks Chester Bowles , the Director of Economic Stabilization , has taken frequently to attacking the motives of those who venture to disagree with him on the subject of price control . A few weeks ago he called it " outrageous " that Henry Ford 2d should have asked OPA for a certain price on his cars last summer , and OPA accused Mr. Ford of having united with " the few selfish groups that have worked continuously to undermine the American people 's bulwark against inflation . " This week in a speech at Topeka before the Farmer 's Union Mr. Bowles made a sweeping denunciation of what he alleged to be " irresponsible , reckless , greedy " lobbies who were out to " eliminate or wreck the only controls between our people and inflation . " Among such lobbies he included the National Association of Manufacturers , the National Retail Dry Goods Association , the packers , the textile manufacturers and " those speculators in Wall Street who time and again have played the American people for suckers . " This leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price fixed by OPA does so for a selfish motive . There is a rule in both Houses of Congress that no Representative or Senator shall in debate impute unworthy motives to another . The reason for this rule is clear ; its neglect by high public officials in their own public statements must lower the whole level of discussion , which ought to be on the merits of the question at issue . That Washington today is full of lobbyists representing special interests is not surprising . Indeed , when Government agencies have such sweeping powers that a particular firm or a whole industry can be either built up , injured or destroyed by the particular decision that one of these agencies makes , Washington lobbies grow inevitably . It is natural for people to object to being thrown out of business , or even to being treated in a way that they regard , rightly or wrongly , as unfai ? . Even if their argument is purely selfish in its motivation , it is at least entitled to be judged on its merits . Certainly no industry ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . The business lobbies have certainly shown no more power in recent years than the farm lobbies and the labor lobbies , A. special interest , we should also keep in mind , may correspond to a large extent with the general interest . It is wrong , for example , to talk as if the interests of producers and consumers were opposed . For a short period , no doubt , the interests of consumers may seem to be served by holding down the price of an article below the level at which it can be profitably produced ; but the article will soon grow scarce , and , regardless of its legal price tag , it may soon be unobtainable at that price . In such a case consumers are obviously not benefited . Moreover , as nearly every consuming family depends on the income of its producing members , it is not benefited if the industriee to which those members belong are not profitable enough to operate at full capacity . There are people who are sincerely convinced that since the end of thi war price-control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. major weapol for dealing with inflation . The twi real causes of inflation , as these people see it , are the falling value of money because of the continuous increase its amount , and the shortage of goods To deal with anything else , they feel , to deal merely with the symptoms . Thi ; argument can not be brushed aside a ; " selfish . " . It must be met.                     