@@710798

txt Thoroughly angered over the police beating of Murray Becker , Associated Press photographer , Mayor O'Dwyer late yesterday made arrangements to have the facts presented to the grand jury with a view to criminal prosecution of the policeman . Before he left City Hall and after he had conferred with Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander on and off for three hours , the Mayor announced that he had requested District Attorney Frank Hogan to confer with the police head this morning " with a view to submitting the case for consideration to the grand jury . " Mr. Hogan , the Mayor said , told him that he would be happy to have the case presented . At the conference , set for 10 o'clock this morning , Mr. Wallander will have with him the report of Inspector John F. Deickmann , in command of the Fifth division , and all other data on the case , the Mayor said . Commissioner Wallander last night had not yet received the report but was told substantially what it would contain , the Mayor said , adding that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , however , " the Mayor said , " that when Mr. Becker appeared at the station house at the time of his arrest he was suffering from an injury under his right eye . " Wants Disputes Cleared Up In view of the conflicting statements , the Mayor said , he had arranged for presentation of the Facts to the grand jury . This was suite apart , he made it clear , from ? ending police disciplinary action . Mr. Becker was beaten last Monday night after Patrolman James E ' . Harrington of the East Fiftyfirst Street station had stopped his automobile for an alleged traffic violation . Mr. Becker and his wife were on their way home from the stew York Yankees victory cele  --  ration at the Biltmore Hotel . The photographer , known to ellow cameramen and reporters Ls soft-spoken and reserved , got in touch the following morning with William F. Donoghue , the Mayor 's lexecutive secretary , it was learned . He appeared at City Hall battered and looking " as if he had been hit with a baseball bat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical attention and an instant investigation by Mr. Wallander . A high official at City Hall expressed his opinion privately that if the facts were as Mr , Becker had given them , a felonious assault charge was in order . In the second police beating case , that of Samuel Grossman , a businessman of 1016 Longfellow Avenue , the Bronx , Mr. Wallander ordered priority given to the hearing of departmental charges against the suspended patrolman , Russell C. Wolf of the West 135th Street Station . Third Police Case Develops A third police case developed yesterday in Brooklyn , not as in the other two of allegedly unwarranted beatings but one in which brother police officers were declared to have tried to " protect " a drunken policeman . Placed under suspension by Inspector David A. Condon of the Fifteenth Division at 7:30 A. M. was Patrolman Edward Morton , 30 years old , a plainclothes man who lives at 85-06 135th Avenue , Ozone Park , Queens . He was charged with having created an early morning disturbance in the nurses ' home of the Harbor Hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sullivan ( Mrs. George Kronshein ) , night supervisor of nurses . Mrs. Kronshein asserted that the patrolman had mauled her and several doctors at the hospital in a drunken rage , that neither police who responded in radio cars nor sergeants at the desk in the station kouse would entertain a complaint against the patrolman and that she succeeded in obtaining action only when she reached Inspector Condon at his home at 6 A. M. She was summoned from her home at 4 A. M. , Mrs. Kronshein said , by one of the nurses . She found Morton drunk and abusive , saying he was a detective and that he had come to collect $5 that somebody owed him , she said . The supervisor said she managed to persuade him to enter the hospital proper , but that once there he mauled and pawed her . Dr. Morris Simon came to her assistance and Morton , she says , ran wild through a ward where two pneumonia patients were in oxygen tents . Police Rejected Her Demand It developed , she said , that he had put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patrol car arrived she insisted that the plainclothes man be arrested , but the police refused her demand . She called the Bath Beach station twice and each time a desk sergeant when he heard her request hung up . Nor was she more successful , she declared , on a visit to the station in the company of Dr. Simon , Dr. Martin Bell and Dr. Milton Weiss . After she reached Inspector Con , don , the plainclothes man was examined by Dr. Francis Timoney , a police surgeon , and found unfit for duty . Inspector Condon then suspended him , finding him suffering from " the after effect of overindulgence in some intoxicating agent or agents . " Commissioner Wallander in the morning conferred with borough commanders and Chief of Detectives George P. Mitchell on police relations with the public . The police head , as he had done on Thursday , emphasized that it was the policy of the department to " get tough with bums " but to keep hands off decent citizens . He told the police officials that there are to be " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no force was to be used in making arrests unless it was absolutely recessary and in accordance with provisions of the penal code . " I told the men to pass the word to the men under their commands that courtesy must be the watchword of this department , " the Commissioner said . " I made it clear , however , that that does n't go for the bums , the corner loafers , the hoodlums who stand around street corners and insult women . Most of them have n't got jobs , but they are better dressed than you or I. Those are the ones that we want to pay attention to and those are the ones I want you to tell your men to get off the streets . "                     