@@708962

txt Early this morning the Big Three Foreign Ministers ? Secretary of State James F. Byrnes , British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin and Soviet Foreign Mommissar Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff met in a closed session once again in an effort to break the Balkan log jam that has effectively halted major progress in the five-power diplomatic council and that has , furthermore , perforce gradually assisted the development of two major blocs in the Allied world . After considerable discussion , they failed once again . The tact that the three major figures of this so far unfortunate meeting were able to face the issue dividing them is in itself encouraging . It is possible that there will be one more try at arriving at a procedural method that will permit the topic of the treaties with the Danubian Axis satellites to be examined further . But tonight , after two formal Council sessions had surmounted a rather dull minor crisis on the wording of last night 's communique and for the first time examined the French proposals on Germany , there was not yet any meeting of minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divides Eastern from Western Europe . Meanwhile , while the Ministers , who are all agreed that something concrete must issue from these critical meetings to encourage a world waiting for Positive signs of Allied agreement on peace methods , the rumble of protests against the Big Five methods and especially against their secrecy has broken into the open . A spokesman for the world 's little nations , Australia 's Foreign Minister Herbert Vere Evatt , acidly crith.:ize0 the Council for limiting its sessions to the Five Powers and , after contending that the peace " should weigh and be considered as a whole , " he demanded that the Big Five decisions should be submitted to a conference of all the active belligerents for approval and amendment . - Mr. Evatt was presenting the viewpoint of other dominions as well , although he did not associate theNn formally with his statement . The South African Government tonight made similar criticisms , and New Zealand , and Canada are known to have the Same views , although Canada did not want to make a public Protest . What Is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events and rather ? better than the usual dreary communiqu ? , once again pared to still barer bones to avoid the objections of any nervous delegation . An important point is that there still remains the same fundamental issue that has driven a deep wedge between the Russians , on the one hand , ' and the British and Americans , on the other : What constitutes a true definition of " democracy " and is Europe forming up into Western and Eastern coalitions separated by the TriestStettin line ? By now there are some . cynics who may , after all , be the realists of autumnal London , who view the conference as just a new contest of power politics . These persons say that basically the Russians are trying to form an Eastern coalition while scotching its Western equivalent . They contend that the nub of this meeting is a contest in which Russia is seeking to assert her control in Eastern Europe as far as possible and penetrate the Mediterranean , while the British , on the ' other hand , are trying to keep them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assert that the British in their game are trying to- obtain American support and that the Americans may be ready to " play ball " in exchange for British backing in the United States Pacific plans . This all sounds rather sordid , and it is too early to say whether it is true or not . It is known that there are some key members of the Byrnes delegation who are struggling desperately to avoid the formation of any coalitions at all . They feel that it would be dangerous to sponsor the idea of a Western European coalition even if the Russians seem to be succeeding with their eastern counterpart . They feel that in fifteen years ' time the Soviet Union 's impact on Europe may diminish because the U.S.S.R. is not essentially constructed as a dynamic expansionist State . These were the forces within the American deputation who fought against pressing for the original Rumanian and Bulgarian treaty plans and against recognition of Hungary . Meanwhile , Hungary remains high and dry and undiscussed because the Big Three , despite renewed efforts this morning , can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear at Danubian discussions  --  or not . The Russians havebeen more sharply critical of Hungary than of any other Danubian administration . The British , who do not wish Ito be left holding the bag , have slyly indicated that they are not yet ready to follow the American lead in recognizing Hungary , although simultaneously telling the Americans that they have no objections to their move . Russia has restored diplomatic relations with Hungary in consideration of Hungary 's aid in the war against Germany and her " loyal fulfillment of the armistice treaty , " the Moscow radio said Wednesday night , according to an Associated Press dispatch from 1 , ondon . This morning Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Bevin told Mr. Molotoff that since Danubia was being discussed last week a sudden withdrawal would now be resented and misunderstood , and every effort was made to satisfy Mr. Molotoff on good intentions while still remaining firm on the Original formula . It is evident , however , whether the Big Three or Big Five dodge this matter now or not , it will intrude itself again and- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still , to try and give the Russians another chance to see that the United States , while not agreeing to a rough-and-tumble submission of Eastern Europe to Soviet domination , likewise opposes the alternative of a Western coalition . The Russians still assert that the Balkans are of great importance to them for security reasons , and some Americans admit that Moscow rights in that area are in a way comparable to the United States conceptions of its own South American policy . Regardless of the outceme of these talks Moscow is not remaining idle ' and is quietly cementing powerful leconomic relations with all countries in that area in a fashion reminiscent , of the Funk agreements in 1938 , erecting joint Sqviet-Danubian stock companies in Rumania , Hungary and soon in Bulgaria . Walter Funk was the Nazi economics minister . Whether diplomats like to call this power politics or not , the curiously clandestine agreements of the past , such as that between Winston Churchill on the one hand and Mr. Molotoff and Premier Stalin on . the other , delineating influence zon . in Greece and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whenever Anglo-American press dispatches on the lack of Western democracy . in Danubia crop up , there is a Ftussian response , and the latest of these is Ilya Ehrenburg 's Pravda article this morning on Rumania , stating of that land 's administration : " But one thing is beyond doubt : It is a democratic government . " In respect of these deals , it is Learned tonight that Mr. Churchill and Premier Stalin made a secret compact under which U. S. S. R. would have a predominant influence in Eastern Yugoslavia and would train Tito 's army , while a similar situation would favor Britain in Western Yugoslavia , and the British would train the Marshal 's navy , insuring its . own ascendancy in the Adriatic . There has been no sign that this has been carried out , which may be an additional reason for British pique in that area . These naval questions are exceedingly important , and it was for such reasons that Mr. Bevin at Potsdam refused Mr. Molotoff 's request for 100 German submarines and obtained a , limitation of ten U-boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite the split in the American delegation regarding the best way to handle the Eastern European situation , which has resulted in shifting policies during the last week , it is ascertained that the British do not feel as deeply concerning Rumania and Bulgaria as do the United States delegation members . It is known that Sir Archibald Clark Kerr , British diplomat , has always advised his Foreign Office that Britain should not even attempt to make a firm stand when its case is not good but should not budge when it is . Britain does not yet consider its case too hot in either Black Sea land , feeling that any type of Eastern democratic government there might well be corrupt and that the Americans led King Michael up a garden path in his recent row with Premier Groza . As if Balkan issues did not becloud this council enough , the Russians got piqued again about the wording of last night 's communiqu ? and issued a private bulletin of their own today stating that the Moscow press this morning had not printe : , last night 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Russians contend that no mention of the discussion of repatriation of French nationals from Soviet zones should have been made and also that the Council actually accepted Soviet proposals on acceleration of reparations in Germany . This does not seem too important , but it took up 100 minutes of doubletalk in this morning 's , Council session , without agreement . Mr. Evatt , who has been objecting to what has been going on behind locked doors in the Lancaster House almost ever since the Big Five sat down , held a press conference this afternoon to let loose a blast on the whole subject . He said that limitation of membership in the current peace discussions " reflects wartime procedure improvised solely to meet the urgent requirements of the war 's conduct . " He said " active belligerents must be given the right of participation on a footing of equality at the Council table with the representatives of the five powers or it must be clearly understood that the conclusions reached by the Council as to the terms of peace settlements shall be submitted to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at which it will be agreed that the draft terms- of the settlement shall be open to full anq free discussion and amendment . " He opposed the United Nations Assembly for this purpose since it includes neutrals , and he said dertain lands , such as Yugoslavia , Greece , the Netherlands ' and the dominions , had special rights .                     