@@704431

txt Federal G-men inquire Into ' icily ! . ties of anti-Semitic groups in United States . Seventeen mema hers of " Christian Front " in New York charged with plotting overthrow of Government . Departure of crew of scuttled Nazi liner Columbus from New York for Germany climaxed by arrest of Karl Schlueter , alleged Nazi secret agent , disguised as crew . member . American Labor Party obtains court order demanding 99 defendants show cause why they should not be dropped because of Communist connections . Nazi agents with headquarters in Mexico City reported conducting sabotage against U. S. , under investigation by Mexican secret police . Spanish Refugee Relief Campaig4 headquarters in New York denies organization a " Communist front . " Counters with ac cusation Dies committee Is " guilty of disregard of rules of evidence . " Workers ' Alliance Attacks President for " turning to right " on Finnish question . At second annual convention in New York Alliance parallels line taken by Communist Party while deny ing connection with that organization . Representative Donald L. O'Toole ( D ) of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of subversive activities in this country . Held as Terrorists By ? Stall C pendent .1 Th . Ch r ' ? n Sciatica Monitor NEW YORK , Jan. ** intensive inquiry into the activities and financial backing of the various anti-Semitic and subversive groups in the United States is tinder way today , as J. Edgar Hoover , chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , announced from local F. 13 . I. headquarters the arrest of 17 members of the " Christian Front " group on charges of plotting the overthrow of the United States Government and the banishment of Jews from the United States . Mr. Hoover reported unearthing an arms cache in Brooklyn yesterday containing explosives , rifles , ammunition and small arms hidden in a cellar . The ammunition was said to have been stolen from National Guard armories , while more than one half of the persons arrested were either New York National Guardsmen or had served in one of the other branches of national defense . Especial interest in the arrest of the men was occasioned by the fact that the " Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rev. Charles E. Coughlin , Roman Catholic radio priest . Mr. Coughlin denied from Detroit yesterday . however , that he had any connection with the group and called for its prosecution . On the other hand , members of the " Christian Front " have frequently alluded to Mr. Coughlin as their leader and have been active in selling his magazine , " Social Justice . " Two Named Leaders Mr. Hoover said the leaders of the group were William Gerard Bishop , head of a secret clique within the " Christian Front " known as the Sports Club , and John F. Cassidy , said to head the " Christian Front " in Brooklyn . Also among those arrested was John T. Prout , Jr .. a Captain in the 165th National Guard Regiment here . According to the F. B. I. head . the group had laid out a plan of action for demoralizing public authorities through a reign of terror , thus opening the way for a dictator in this country . While recruiting new members , the plan called for bombing the Jewii41 Daily Forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cameo Theater , specializing in Russian films , and the headquarters of the American League for Peace and Democracy , Mr. Hoover charged . After this had been done , the group was said to have planned to blast bridges and to seize such key points as public utilities , the United States Customs House , the general Post Office , railway stations , telephone and radio facilities and the Federal Reserve Bank . Prison Term Possible Mr. Hoover told reporters that the Sports Club had rented a camp at Narrowsburg , N. Y. , where its members practiced rifle-shooting and that on Jan. 20 a course In bomb throwing was to have been instituted . He said the F. B. I. inquiry had been long and thorough , and that his agents had visited the camp frequently , even taking motion pictures of the activities there . The men were questioned in the F. B. I. offices here yesterday and the charges against them of eon- spiring " to overthrow and destroy the Government of the United States and to seize end take possession of the property of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn . The maximum penalty for such a charge is a fine of $5,000 and six years in prison . Mr. Hoover revealed that the inquiry had been undertaken last August at the behest of Frank Murphy , then United States Attorney-General , and was linked with the wartime hunt for saooteurs and spies . He refused to say whether the " Christian Front " was connected with other anti-Semitic groups in the United States , recalling that only one of the 17 men seized was a member of the German American Bund , but adding that n widespread investigation of all such groups was on . Membership Is Estimated The size of the " Christian Front " organization was placed at 2,000 to 3,000 members , although this has never been confirmed . It is believed to work closely with other anti-Semitic organizations , while Mr. Cassidy is reported to have been active at various times on behalf of Mr. Coughlin and of the Franco cause in Spain . On at least one occasion , Mr. Cassidy shared with the Rev. Edward Lodge Curran , prominent in church activities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr Coughlin. the platform of a Brooklyn meeting called to support the " principles of social justice " typified by the actions of General Franco . Mr. Hoover also attributed to Mr. Cassidy statements threatening to blow up New York police headquarters and a plot to kill 12 United States Representatives who voted for the arms embargo repeal . The scheme was to " teach them a lesson . " Mr. Bishop , alleged to head the Sports Club , is believed to be a native of Vienna and is known to have been deported three time. ; from Great Britain and three times from Belgium for reason3 as not yet determined . Members of the club were said to have called him " irtihrer " and to have accorded him the Nazi salute .                     