@@706892

txt German troops , smashing forward southwest of Stalingrad , forced back Soviet defenders of the besieged city and renewed counterassaults on the central front , which were beaten back , the Russian midnight communiqu ? reported early today . The German High Command reported an advance southwest of Stalingrad and the repulse of Russian attacks elsewhere , according to a Berlin broadcast recorded by The Associated Press . Stockholm dispatches to The United Press quoted the Frankfurter Zeitung as saying that " events of the last few weeks have destroyed any new hope that may have been raised in our hearts " and " we must be prepared for the eventuality of the Russian war lasting for years . " The Russians said the Germans lost 1,000 men in the lunge southwest of Stalingrad and 600 more in an attack near Voronezh , and reported gains by their own assault troops in the factory area of Stalingrad and in general on the other fronts Transport Planes Downed Forty-two German planes , thirtythree a them transport ships , were downed Sunday , the communiqu ? added , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the cost of heavy losses , the Germans were acknowledged to have " succeeded in pressing back our detachments somewhat " in the counter-blows southwest of Stalingrad against one arm of the Soviet pincers reaching out to entrap 300,000 Germans pounding at the Volga city . " In this engagement the Red Army men wiped out about 1,000 enemy officers and men , destroyed eleven tanks and seven self-propelling guns , " the communiqu ? declared . On the central front the Russians rerported continued offensives , and said that in some sectors they beat off enemy counter-attacks . West of Rzhev , the Russians claimed 200 Germans were killed and eleven tanks destroyed in one attack , and the destruction of fifteen more tanks and several hundred Germans when the assault was renewed . The Germans lost half their tank forces in this later engagement when Russian artillery men waited to open fire at close range , and then shifted positions to pour shells into the tanks when the Germans attempted to escape . Gain Within Stalingrad In the factory area of Stalingrad " our troops cleared the Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wiped out about 150 German officers and men , " the cornmunque said . Soviet artillery fire on the northern outskirts of Stalingrad destroyed enemy blockhouses and silenced an artillery battery , while northwest of the city an artillery duel resulted in destruction of forty German blockhouses and dispersal of " about a battalion of enemy infantry . " Heights Seized Near ' Voronezh " Several heights of tactical importance " were reported captured by the Russians south of Voronezh , and German counter-attacks there ' were beaten off with 600 of the enemy killed and 200 captured . Northeast of iitapse . Black Sea port , the Russians reported an advance against " stiff enemy resistance " with 200 Nazis killed . Despite repeated counter-attacks and pressure by the Germans , the Russians foresaw impending grief for their enemies in the approach of severe Winter weather . Up to now , it was pointed out , the weather has been considerably milder than is usual for November and December , enabling the Germans to keep their tanks in operation continuously since the Red Army launched its big Stalingrad counter-offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and drifting snow soon due to blanket the entire front , military observers predicted the Red Army would be able to deal destructive blows to the Nazis before they could extricate themselves from their semi-trapped positions between the Don and Volga Rivers in the south and about Rzhev in the north . Despite their costly counter-attacks. the Germans were said to have made no progress toward regaining any of their positions lost in the last month of heavy fighting nor to have stalled the Russians ' twin drives more than temporarily . Nazi losses in killed and captured on the Stalingrad front since Nov. 19 were officially placed by the Russians at 94,000 officers and men . The Red Army has massed its artillery along newly won lines south and west of Stalingrad and is ceaselessly battering enemy concentrations . Northwest of that battered city the Russian guns are maintaining a protective fire while their ground troops consolidate their positions . Dispatches from the central front told of Nazi failures in the region of Velikiye Luki . Elsewhere ? in that sector the Russian forces were said to be consolidating their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . "                     