@@710631

txt Members of an armed band wearing Arab dress opened an unprovoked attack tonight in a Jewish cafe on the bank of the Yarkon River at Tel Aviv , killing four Jews and wounding ten , seven of them seriously . Reports from Tel Aviv said the Arabs , after starting a disturbance in the cafe , opened fire with small arms and threw hand grenades , turning the place into a shambles within a few minutes . One of the dead was said to be a woman who had been dancing . One Arab was wounded and had a leg amputated in a Jaffa hospital according to Reuters . Press service reports said the assailants took an undetermined amount of money from the cafe and from patrons . Some witnesses thought robbery was the motive of the attack . A late Associated Press dispatch said that the organization of the cafe attack gave rise to speculation in some Jewish quarters in Tel Aviv , however , that the attack was designed not so much for robbery as retaliation for an attack by a squad of Haganah , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fega , near Petah Tiqva , two months ago . Two Arabs were killed and seven were wounded in that raid , which Haganah said was made to halt Arab attacks on Jewish settlements . Reports said that at least one of the attacking band wore the military uniform of the Futuwa organization , one of the recently " disbanded " Arab youth groups . Members of this organization of extreme Arab nationalists have been brought . to a high pitch of antiJewish feeling by their leaders . After the formal disbanding of Futuwa and of Najada , a companion group , and their merger into an Arab youth organization , members , ' were warned against displays of fanaticism and were urged by the heads of the Arab Higher Committee for Palestine to use discretion , rather than force . After the shooting in the cafe , the members of the band fled into an Arab-owned farm area , the reporfs said . The scene of the attack is on Tel Aviv 's only waterway , a broad picturesque river lined with eucalyptus trees . After th stream leaves Tel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groves on either side . The cafe , known as the Hawaii Gardens , is owned by Arabs and leased to Jewish war veterans . It is patronized by both Arabs and Jews , but Jews predominate . At least two other incidents of violence occurred in Palestine during the day . In Haifa , a load of gelignite being carried in a stolen taxi exploded , causing serious injuries to three passengers , whom the police believe were on their way to blow up some military installation . One of the injured men was described by police as a " suspected terrorist . " In Jerusalem tension was intensified by a telephone warning that a Government building was about to be blown up . British Army engineers rushed to . the building and exploded what was believed to be a mine . Haifa Taxicab Explosion The Haifa incident occurred in the Geula quarter , where three Jews commandeered a taxi and forced the driver to take them up Mount Carmel . Half way up the slope the taxi exploded . The driver fled uninjured . His passengers , badly hurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fugitives was found with six rounds of ammunition in his possession in a nearby vehicle . The second was caught in a neighborhood house suffering from recently inflicted wounds , and the third in a drug store , where he asked for first aid for abdominal wounds . In Jerusalem the British security forces acted quickly after receiving an anonymous telephone warning that the income tax offices had been mined . Remembering an attack on the old income tax offices nine months ago , in which one person was killed and ten injured , they took no chances when they discovered a small . suspicious looking object near the telephone switchboard in the new building on Julian 's Way . After clearing the building the army engineers placed an explosive charge beside the object and detonated the charge . The resultant explosion shattered windows and wrecked the switchboard . It will probably never be known whether the " suspicious-looking object " was a terrorist 's bomb or somebody 's lunchbox.                     