@@708553

txt The United States delegation will not only be free to decide most questions of national policy which come up at the United Nations Security Conference at San Fran1 cisco but has already voted to support in , principle several amendments to the Dumbarton Oaks draft charter . In their meetings at the State Department yesterday and today the delegates began studying the amendments proposed by Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan , and Comdr . Harold Stassen , and some of these amendments , particularly those recommending that justice be made the criterion for action by the new league and those proposing periodic review o the security organization 's charter , were approved in principle . Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius Jr . told his press conference today that while the American delegates hoped to obtain unanimity on all points before expressing the United States position at the conference , the delegation had decided to reach decisions by a majority vote . The implication of this was that // whatever the delegation decided would be supported by the Administration at San Francisco and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed their authority with the Secretary of State .. The delegation has been advised , however , that its freedom of action is restricted on two points . In accordance with the decisions taken by the Big Three at the Yalta Conference , the delegation is definitely obligated to support Soviet Russia 's claim that the Ukraine and White Russia should be original members of the security organization , with separate votes in the General Assembly and it is similarly committed to support the " limited veto " Security Council voting procedure proposed by President Roosevelt at Yalta and accepted by Marshal Stalin and Prime Minister Churchill . A third commitment , to support the substance of the Dumbarton Oaks proposals ? as distinguished from supporting them as they stand against any amendments ? is , of course , implicit in the fact that the United States is sponsoring the conference and that it is putting forward the Dumbarton Oaks proposals as the " basis " for conference discussion . The Administration is giving to the American delegation more freedom to decide policy at San Francisco than most of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on more than one occasion , State Department officials have argued that amendments under discussion were unnecessary because they were implicit in the language of the Dumbarton Oaks draft charter . Members of the delegation have , however , argued that if a point is implicit in the language of the Dumbarton Oaks charter there should be no valid objection to spelling it out in concrete language . That is what happened in the delegation 's discussion of the first amendment proposed by Senator Vandenberg . This amendment would add a paragraph to the list of objectives of the security organization , stating that one of the purposes was " to establish justice and to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms . " A State Department official argued that this point was implicit in the draft charter as it stood , but the delegation , with the Secretary of State sharing in the decision , voted otherwise and , while the wording was changed slightly , the amendment was approved . Similarly , the State Department has accepted the principle that the new security organization should have as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recommend the removal of unjust situations that threaten international peace and security . It can be expected that this principle will have the support of the American delegation when it is discussed at San Francisco . Commander Stassen has put forward special suggestions which have been under discussion in the delegation meetings , although he is back at his naval post in the Pacific , pending the time for him to return to San Francisco . The most important of these suggestions has been accepted in principle by the delegation . It is that , while it may be necessary for the conference to accept an imperfect charter for the security ! organization , provision should be made for periodic , review of the charter to improve it as the area of agreement and faith among the nations of the world increases . Jurists Hold Two Sessions The United Nations Committee of jurists met this morning and this afternoon and went over the first twenty-two articles of the code of the Permanent International Court of Justice , accepting some of them as a basis for a new code and leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an advisory capacity to the San Francisco conference , are going through , the entire World Court code and allowing each delegation to state its opinion on each article . Avra Warren , director of the State Department 's Office of Latin-American Affairs and a leading figure in the recent InterAmerican Conference in Mexico City , was added today to the list of advisers to the San Francisco delegation . Arthur Sweetser , deputy director of the Office of War Information and a former League of Nations official , was appointed chief representative of the OWI at the conference . Among the other OWI representatives will be Ferdinand Kuhn , assistant to Elmer Davis , OWI director .                     