@@705704

txt Topics of The Times Two types of test flight Biggest were conducted last week . and In California the world 's Smallest . biggest bomber , which took to the air for the first time a few days ago , was put through its trial runs . In Chicago the world 's smallest powered planes were sent aloft by junior model makers . The Boeing B-19 , with a wingspread wider than the length of a Manhattan city block , will use fuel by the ton when it makes its eventual nonstop transatlantic round trips . The entries in the fourteenth annual model airplane championships at Chicago were run by tiny motors that can be held in the palm of the amateur 's hand and get their gasoline through the medicine dropper . The Boeing represents Both a $3,500,000 investment . Are The Chicago models repImportant resent an investment of but how is one to calculate the value of a high school boy 's spare time ? The Army 's super-bomber was entrusted on its first flight only to the Army 's ranking test pilot , Major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little models were launched by amateur designers and builders , some of them one-third his age . It is difficult to say which type of test flight  --  the colossal or the diminutive  --  augurs more for the future . The Boeing trials'were more dramatic , their implications more obvious for the futiire of transoceanic flight and the futility of isolation . The model trials evidence the airmindedness of our youth ? the youth that will very soon grow up to . fly casually across the seas and probably to design and pilot the greater airliners ' of the future . There is something uniWe All versal , it seems , in the deLike sire to create tiny replicas Toys of things that thrill us greatly . When clipper ships with sails were the fastest things at sea , men fussed in their spare hours with ship models , preferably with their matchstick masts hinged at the deck for insertion through a bottleneck . When the Iron Horse opened up the continent , model railroads complete with switches and sidings entered the Christmas scene at home . And so with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwinding of rubbed bands ; - radio-controlled or flung to the mercy of the air currents . This has become the universal toy of boys today . And what are toys , for the main part , but the things we admire in miniature ? They help us ? visualize in small compass the great structures that man has made , and the still greater structure of nature that man has come to understand . To take the grandest structure of all  --  no sooner did astronomers achieve some working vision of the starry universe than model makers came along and mimicked it with their planetariums . They could n't resist the temptation of playing with the planets , the sun and the stars ; of making the heavenly bodies stand still at will , or even run backward . The maestro at the Hayden Planetarium , as ' he whirls the projected zodiac back to its setting Hof the Year One A. D. , must have somewhat the same feeling of power , on a different scale , as the lad who watches the product of his home workshop soar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Infinite stars brings to mind vs. another instance of Infinitesimal man 's simultaneous concern with the biggest and the smallest . With the new 200-inch telescope now being set up on Mount Palomar , in California , untold billions of galaxies incredibly far from us in space will be brought within man 's photographic reach . Meanwhile , in the RCA laboratories at Camden , N. J. , engineers are conducting test flights of electron projectiles  --  the smallest entities known to science  --  in the new electron microscope . Using this device as a substitute for lenses that use ordinary light , disease viruses and molecules hitherto unseen are being ' brought up to the scale of man 's vision . The new telescope reaches out to the limits , if there are limits , of the universe . The new microscope reaches down into the still unexplored borders of the fantastically small . And though these macroscopic and microscopic explorations seem to be flying off in opposite directions , one may rest assured that the twain will meet , and that the meeting will be of tremendous importance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in terms of . the tiny atom will the vast universe be truly understood . When the late Lord Rutherford learned indirectly of the empty spaces - within the atom , he concluded that this basic unit of all matter was a miniature model of the solar system . Model making , whether with pliers and gluepot or with the tools of mathematical imagination , whether of universes or of airplanes , appears to be an inseparable part of man 's mental and material progress .                     