@@711300

txt Thousands marched on Washington today in orderly demonstrations demanding defeat of the MundtNixon Communist Control Bill and the enactment before Congress recesses of the so-called civil rights program . ? For an hour they threw a line of mass pickets , five and six abreast , across the entrance to the White House , although President Truman himself has long demanded passage of the civil rights measures . Other pickets took up stations briefly outside the headquarters of the Republican and Democratic National Committees . The demonstrators moved upon Congress in many groups numbering hundreds each , seeking directly to influence the Senators from their states . Finally , at a rally tonight on the green slopes below the Washington Monument , their speakers urged them to continue the " fire " of telegrams , delegations and protests toward Congress . Most of the demonstrators were from New York and other Eastern cities and all their manifestations were in the general charge of the I forces of Henry A. Wallace , the third-party Presidential candidate . Wallace Leaders In Action At the Washington Monument rally the chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace leader . The Wallace campaign manager , C. B. Baldwin , moved about in the background . Thirty-five hundred persons , by the estimates of police on the scene , appeared in the outdoor theatre at the Monument . Mr. O'Connell estimated that more than 5,000 had come to Washington . Two of tonight 's scheduled speakers , Senator Glen Taylor , the Wallace candidate for the Vice Presidency , and Senator William Langer , Republican , of North Dakota , did not appear . It was announced that Mr. Taylor 's plane had been delayed and that Senator Langer had been detained in a night session of the Senate . Other speakers , however , talked over the amplifying system for nearly two hours , denouncing the Mundt-Nixon Bill as " fascism " and proclaiming that all who did not work for the civil rights program would be held responsible . The immediate tactic indicated by the anti-Mundt bill forces was an effort , as recommended by Mr. O'Connell , to compel Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee to insist upon prolonged further hearings on the measure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must yet be heard on the bill . Like other speakers , he urged the crowd not to be discouraged by the " run-around " which he asserted the demonstrators had received in attempting to confer with Senators about the measure . Representative Vito Marcantonio , American Labor , New York , shouted across the slopes of the monument grounds that it was the two leading Senate Republicans , Robert A. Taft , of Ohio , and Arthur H. Vandenberg , of Michigan , who must be blamed for the lack of civil rights legislation . He accused them also of having given " the go-ahead signal " for the Mundt-Nixon Bill . The names of Senators Taft and Vandenberg raised a chorus of boos and hisses . President Truman 's name also brought similar but less b via.orous manifestations . Messrs . Taft and Vandenberg , Mr. Marcantonio shouted , " will have to answer to the 14,000,000 Negro people of the United States . " There was violent applause at this , from an audience about half of which was white and half Negro . The final speaker of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Robeson , after first singing three militantly political songs , cried out to the crowd : " If we ca n't get our liberties one way we will build a new structure to get those liberties . " He asserted that because of racial segregation in Washington his people had been subjected here today to " terrorism , " and added : " The struggle for peace and the kind of America we want has reached another level ; we have taken the offensive against fas-cism ! " We will take the power from their hands and through our , representatives we will direct the future destiny of our nation . " Communist Trap Asserted Just what would . be done in the Senate Judiciary Committee about the Mundt-Nixon Bill remained in great doubt . The committee is scheduled to meet Friday , when some definitive decision may be made . Meanwhile , Leon Henderson , chairman of Americans for Democratic Action , one of the groups opposing the bill , issued a statement asserting that the Communists were seeking actually to bring about the enactment of the bill as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violate the law , intemperate attacks on the bill , marches on Washington , are all traditional communists tactics that can only help to achieve this end , " he said . " The Communists are banking on the hope that the Senate can be stampeded into passing the bill . We urge the Senate to avoid their trap . " The demonstrators , the bulk of them coming from New York in three special trains , arrived in good order and , except for minor inci , dents , maintained order throughout the day . At the outset they were in two distinct groups  --  the " committee to I defeat the Mundt bill " on the one hand and on the other hand " the National Non-partisan Delegation to Washington for Passage of Civil Rights Legislation . " They quickly merged for practical purposes , however , and by the time they moved forward to mass picketing of the White House , at about 3 P. M. , the banners they carried were mixed as between those demanding defeat of the Communist control bill and those demanding enactment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rally at the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church , at which Mr. Robeson was a leaciar . There , just after 12:30 P. M. , the crowd voted by acclamation to furnish pickets to the activities of the anti-Mundt bill organization and to participate unanimously in the White House demonstration . This was decided after a speaker , who wa ? identified by other delegates as Raymond Tillman of New Orleans , a member of the national executive board of the Transport Workers Ufiion , CIO , had declared that " the White House " had " refused " to see representatives of the group . " Picket the White House ! " " Picket the White House ! Picket the White House ! " This cry swept the church as Mr. Tillman shouted that President Truman had given " only lip service to civil rights . " There was some immediate lack of clarity as to just what sort of refusal had been made at the White House concerning the demonstrators , although it appeared that what they were objecting to was their inability to see the President himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted into the office of David K. Niles , an administrative assistant to the President , and protested the Mundt bill . Mr. Niles heard them in silence . This was while picketing was still in progress . By 3 P. M. the Capitol itself , the principal declared objective of the marchers , was alive with their movement and several thousand were in its vast , stony areas and those of the Senate Office Building . The Office Building police put on the customary rule that no more than five might enter a Senator 's offices at one time , unless he himself invited more . The police were everywhere , although unobtrusively so , and the galleries of the Senate and House were at no time permitted to become very heavily populated . The Senate , the point to which the marchers were attempting to apply their maximum pressure , went through a typical , unhurried legislative day .                     