@@709923

txt Letters to The Times CHARLES A. DAVILA , JOHN S. BARLOW.AGNES MILLER . Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his speech in Madison , Wis. , former Secretary of Commerce Henry A. Wallace asserted that " the bulk of the peasants in Rumania were against Russia because their ancestors were . " This assertion constitutes a complete misrepresentation of historical fact . Indeed , until the last war there had never been a war between the two countries . In the Russo-Turkish war of 1871 the Rumanians fought alongside the Russians against the Turks and thus achieved their complete independence . In the first World War the Russians and the Rumanians were allies . Even in the last war Rumania would never have been dragged into the camp of Germany , her enemy of 1916 , if the unfortunate Russian ultimatum of June , 1940 , and the subsequent occupation of Bessarabia and Bukovina had not supplied the dictatorial regime of Antonescu with a national grudge against the Soviets . The ultimatum , backed by a great display of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Russo-German pacts of 1939 , by which the Russian annexation of Bessarabia was agreed upon by the Germans and the rest of Rumania was placed in the German sphere . What , for all practical purposes , clinched the issue was Hitler 's Reichstag speech of July 19 , 1940 ( consequently after Bessarabia 's occupation ) , in which he stated that " we have deemed proper to proceed with Russia to the defining of the reciprocal interests , in order to show clearly , and for all times ; what Germany believes must be considered in the future as its sphere of interests and , on the other hand , what Russia considers as essential to her existence . On the basis of this precise limitation of the respective spheres of interest of Germany and Russia has the new settlement of the German-Russian relations taken place . " Against this statement of Hitler no Russian denial came forth , thus confirming that Rumania , minus Bessarabia , had been left in the German sphere by the Russians themselves . Documents Recalled In this connection it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kellogg anti-war pact , signed by myself in Moscow in February , 1929 , as well as the definition of aggression signed by Messrs . Litvinoff and Titulescu at London , in 1933 , should not only have precluded the Russian ultimatum of 1940 , but also the German-Russian pacts of 1939 . In the same speech quoted above Mr. Wallace said that " the Russians ca n't carry an election in Rumania against the wealthy grafters backed by the United States , " adding that Russia would not permit an " unfriendly Government " in Rumania because " she has been too familiar with Rumania acting as an agent of Germany . " As I showed above , Rumania has never been , by her own free will , " an agent of Germany " and fought against it in the first World War . The ties of Rumania with France and Great Britain , her pact of the " Little Entente " with Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia , her alliance with Poland , her participation in the Balkan Pact of 1934 had become historical bywords . In April , 1939 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against aggression . In branding Rumania as an " agent of Germany " Mr. Wallace has glossed over facts known to every student of medern history . With the sole exception of the Government of Antonescu , who paid with his life for his tragic and condemnable action , no Rumanian Government has ever been " unfriendly to Russia . " There were and still are doctrinal differences between the Russian and Rumanian leaders , but the same differences existed and still exist between the Soviet Government and all Governments of countries neighboring on Russia which have retained their independence . Wealthy Grafters Concerning the trouble the Russians are having in Rumania when trying to " carry an election against the wealthy grafters backed by the United States , " I can put Mr. Wallace 's mind at rest . There wo n't be any trouble and , besides , wealthy grafters are , as a rule , no heroes . In point of fact , the opposition to the present Rumanian regime comes mainly from the peasant class , opposed to communism as peasants are everywhere . And their leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rumania . Also , it is hardly a compliment for his own party when Mr. Wallace makes the totally gratuitous assertion that the American Goverhment is backing grafters . As for Mr. Wallace 's notion that Russia would not permit an " unfriendly Government " in Rumania , it should be remembered that Mr. Tatareku , the Vice President of the present " friendly " Government , was the one who in 1940 made the first offer of collaboration to Germany and formally repudiated the Anglo-French guarantee , when he was the President of Carol 's fascist Government . This would tend to prove that what matters , when considering the friendliness of Governments , is not the personal record of their ' members but the pliability of their character . In conclusion , I shall repeat what I wrote in a letter to The Washington Post after Mr. Wallace 's speech in Madison Square Garden : " All Eastern European nations ardently desire a close and friendly relationship with Russia . Most of them needed a democratic revolution . But none of them will give up its national independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Potsdam agreements . And it is inconceivable that the great Allies should repudiate their pledge with regard to people who have had a national life foe many centuries , sovereignty for at ? least a few generations and an old national culture at a time when the United Nations are setting up a Trusteeship Council for colonial and de- . pendent peoples . CHARLES A. DAVILA , Former Rumanian Minister to the ? United States . Washington , Nov. 1 , 1946 . Criticism in a Democracy Right to Denounce or CondQmn Is Seen As Inherent in Our System TO THE EDITOR OP THE Nsw YORS TIMES There is a growing tendency among minority groups to demand the legal limitation of criticism directed against them and to express resentment of real or imaginary reflections upon them by interference with public rights . Two recent events exemplify this trend . In one instance the application of a newspaper to the Federal Communications Commission for the right to broadcast has been opposed on the ground of racial bias contained in news and editorial columns . In the other , an exhibition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large city because he feels that the paintings reflect upon his religious faith . In neither case have the protesting parties sought the proper remedy for the redress of the grievances to which they believe they have been subjected . The appeal to racial bias , as reprehensible as it may be if the charges are valid ( and the charges have been denied ) , is no cause to challenge the right to broadcast unless our Bill of Rights has been suspended . Nor does a fancied br even a deliberate reflection upon his church justify any public official of any creed in arrogating to himself the right to determine what forms of art his fellow-citizens shall exhibit or shall view . This is still a government of law . The remedy lies in appeal to the public sense of social morality . Free and open discussion is the means by which individuals or groups may submit the merits of opposing viewpoints to the court of public opinion . The newspapers and the periodicals . of the nation well might constitute themselves a forum in which to debate particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ignore , probably under the mistaken assumption that widespread polemics would fan the flames of racial and religious dissension . Long experience has shown that recourse to the town-meeting principle of discussion acts as the safety valve for social pressures . The right to accuse , to denounce and to condemn is inherent in American citizenship . Criticism is the impelling force which inspires change and creates progress . As a right it can not be denied on the plea that it is animated by prejudice or born of intolerance . It is fair to say that the invocation of countermeasures designed to stifle criticism or to deny civil liberties is a form of sophistical pleading and an admission of weakness . The suppression of criticism by direct or indirect methods is the keystone of the arch of totalitarianism , and has no place in the law or the ethics of the democratic state . Criticism does not necessarily have its genesis in intolerance . It can and does represent honest disagreement growing out of rational opinions which are difficult to reconcile . The clash of cultures is a natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ours the racial and the religious animosities that plague us will , we have reason to hope , diminish in the careless flow of time . JOHN S. BARLOW . Jersey City , N. J. , Oct. 30 , 1946 . Food Problems of Country Wives To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Surely you have seldom printed a more imaginative composition than the letter " Farm and City Wives . " A few first-hand country facts could - bring many city dwellers down to earth . First : Who 's got the sugar barrel ? Mrs. Farmer has one coupon for five pounds , exactly like everybody else . ' As to maple syrup , has the letter writer noted that crop failures in New England sugar groves for two years past have made the supply so short that maple sugar costs $1.10 per pound if it can be bought ? Only city dwellers think it is a cinch to raise chickens and pigs . While quite a few people do so , they pay high prices for feed and other necessities . It still is easier to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fill an attic . Country women can make soap in art emergency ; so can city women , provided in both cases they have fat ; but it is just one more thing to do , even then , and if cleaning compounds ( not necessarily soap ) are available , most women do better to turn in the fat . I think housewives have more than just a vote in common , so much more that I doubt if a vote is the whole remedy . AGNES MILLER . New York , Oct. 30 , 1946 . Rumania and Russia Statement Made by Mr. Wallace as to Their Relations Is Denied                     