@@710632

txt ATTLEE PUTS DUTY OF MEETING CRISIS ON BRITISH ALONE Says Nation Must Now Stand On Its Own Feet , Despite Generous ' Aid of Others CALLS PRODUCTION KEY Appeals to All to Support Austerity Program ? Omits Replies to Some Questions The text of Prime Minister Attlee 's broadcast , Page 4 . By MALLORY BROWNE Specia/ to Tas Nrw YOICIC TuKr.s . LONDON , Aug. 10 ? Prime Minister Attlee broadcast an appeal to the British people tonight for a united national effort comparable to that developed during the war to pull Britain through her present economic crisis . Speaking over radio from his country residence at Chequers in what he termed " simple and straightforward words , " Mr. Attlee called the crisis " a situation as serious as any that has faced us in our long history . " He added that " we must therefore act vigorously and drastically . " " The way out of our difficulties is hard but there is no alternative , " he continued . " We can not rest upon the help which our fellow members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And even though plans may be put forward by our friends in America to help to bring back prosperity to Europe we must stand on our own feet . We must regain our economic freedom and get into a position in which we pay for all we need by our own exertions . " Lists Four Vital Steps He listed these four steps as " absolutely vital " : Increased home production of food , increased production of coal and steel , fully efficient transport and the production of more goods for export . But he said nothing new to dispel the growing criticism in Britain that the Government 's program was not sufficiently vigorous and drastic . He announced no additional measures designed to dissipate the widespread uneasiness that the Labor Cabinet 's plan would prove completely inadequate even to bridge the gap between the exhaustion of the United States loan and the possible arrival of more dollar aid under the Marshall proposaL He gave no hint of how he intended to meet the potential political crisis that had developed over the issue of whether the Government should go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel industry . Left-Wing Laborites have demanded formal assurances that the nationalization plans would not be dropped . Ministers Threaten to Quit At least one Cabinet Minister , Aneurin Bevan , was reliably reported to have threatened to resign if Mr. Attlee did not give such assurances at the special meeting of the Labor members of Parliament tomorrow on the ground that nationalization of the steel industry would be a test of the Government 's adherence to its Socialist program . On the other hand at least one other Cabinet Minister , John Wilmot , Minister of Supply , is understood to be threatening to resign if the nationalization of steel is pressed at the next session on the ground that such a radical and controversial measure would hinder production for many crucial months . Mr. Attlee ignored also in his broadcast the uproar in Parliament and the outcry in the press against the special emergency powers measure dubbed the " dictatorship bill " by the Opposition . His only reference to it was brief . " I believe that nearly all will willingly put their shoulder to the wheel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who will not . It is for this reason that the Government have introduced a bill which , while it gives no greater powers than were given to the present Government in 1945 , enables them to be applied to the present crisis . The Government is determined that nothing shall stand in the way of our rgcovery . " Mr. Attlee delivered his radio appeal to the nation in a firm but colorless voice . He was clear and plainly sincere but there was little in his broadcast to rouse the nation to the united effort he demanded . After having outlined the causes // of the crisis . Mr. Attlee attributed the unexpectedly early exhaustion of the dollars to the rising prices in the United States and to the fact that other countries ' shortage of dollars increased the drain on Britain 's resources . " In the last two months , " he said , " our supply of dollars had been running out at a rate which would exhaust the American and Canadian loan before the end of the year . We should then be driven back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Attlee continued . will mean " heavy sacrifices on everyone in the community . " particularly restrictions in food . " We are cutting down our imports of such things as films and tobacco which are not essential , " he said . " We are reducing our armed forces abroad and re-examining the whole scale of our armed forces . This is not a thing which can be done by the stroke of a pen . " But the cuts . Mr. Attlee declared are only a partial and temporary remedy . To achieve the desired results , Mr. Attlee added , the public will have to postpone still further its hopes of getting much-needed supplies of clothes , furniture and other consumer goods . Speaking of the " broad plan laid down by the Government , " he told the people that " you can not expect all the details at once . " Saying that he was " certain of victory " in the long run , Mr Attlee concluded that the reward would be the " preservation of the British way of life " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moral values by which we live , faith in freedom and social justice , faith in the contribution which we have to make to the progress of the world and faith in ourselves . " Press . Comment Critical It was already clear tonight that Mr. Attlee 's broadcast would fal short of producing the national unity it demanded . The Times of London will say tomorrow that if the Government had announced " a definite and detailed program " the Prime Minister 's earnest appeal would have been effective . " As it is , " The Times editorial will continue " the eagerness of the public to respond , like the readiness of Parliament to respond , must inevitably be blocked by doubt and uncertainty . " These doubts and this uncertainty are two-sided . Conservatives and Liberals are deeply disturbed by the Government 's bill demanding sweeping emergency powers . They see this as either a substitute for a real plan on the part of the Government or as a dangerous derrogation of Parliament 's essential right that threatens to divert the Labor Government down the slippery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Government 's intentions . At the special party meeting tomorrow they are expected to demand besides a firm decision on the nationalization of the iron and steel industry , much bigger cuts in the armed forces , either a capital levy or drastic profits tax and a more comprehensive economic policy tending toward the integration of Britain 's economy with that of Continental Europe .                     