@@712337

txt Philip Murray , president of the CIO United Steelworkers , today called on the United States Steel Corporation , to accept the presidential board 's steel peace recommendations to avert a strike in America 's basic industry . In a telegram to Benjamin F. Fairless. president of Big Steel , Mr. Murray said : " The union still hopes that a strike in the basic steel industry can be averted . " It can be averted if your corporation and the rest of the industry will agree with the union and with public opinion to accept . the recommendations of the steel industry board as a basis for negotiating a prompt settlement of the existing labor dispute prior to Sept. 25 . " Meaning Is Clear The telegram left the presumption clear that the big steel union will not initiate any contract negotiations unless the steel industry is willing to bear the cost of pension and , insurance programs as recommended by the presidential board . Mr. Murray told Mr. Fairless : " We are ready and willing to resume collective bargaining and to reach prompt agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of the board 's recommendations . " Mr. Murray said Mr. Fairless ' telegram of Sept. 14 , in which the corporation bluntly refused to accept the board formula without bargaining , constitutes " a flat rejection of the hoard 's recommendations . ' Forcing ' Strike " It should now be plain to all , " the telegram continued , " that the United States Steel Corporation and the other steel producers who are slavishly following the pattern of refusal set by United States Steel are deliberating seeking to force a strike upon the union and upon the American people . " The labor leader declared that if a strike comes Sept. 25 when the current strike truce ends , the responsibility for such strike clearly and unmistakably will rest with United States Steel and the other producers in the industry . " The telegram to Mr. Fairless also said : " You ( Fairless ) presume to dictate that any plan of social insurance and pensions shall be bargained upon only on the basis of a contributory program . " You assert that this is a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other executives in your corporation and in the industry , will enjoy substantial pensions upon retirement based upon noncontributory programs created by the industry for the benefit of its executives rather than its workers . " Basis for Accord Mr. Murray told Mr. Fairless the union accepted the board 's recommendations " as a basis on which to conclude a prompt set- , tlement " notwithstanding " our regret that the board recommended against any wage increase at this time . " He added the union accepted " in the hope of averting a steel strike on Sept. 25 . " Mr. Murray forced the issue ? Sept. 14 . He told Mr. Fairless the union is not satisfied with Mr. Fairless ' initial answer that bargaining be resumed  --  without committing Big Steel to the board 's findings . It did not take Mr. Fairless long to reply . Within a few hours he told Mr. Murray the labor chief can not dictate . United States Steel 's acceptance of the board 's recommendations as a condition to bargaining . In giving United States . Steel 's reaction to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not like many of the recommendations . He was particularly outspoken at the board 's suggestion the industry bear the entire cost of a pension plan . Proposed Formula The board suggested this peace formula : The union should give up demands for a wage increase ; Labor and industry should work out company-financed pension plans to go into effect next year . And the union and company should work out now satisfactory insurance plans also paid for by employers .                     