@@707153

txt Under  --  cress examination by Attorney General Robert T. Bushnell , John C. Roth , clerk of the Grand Jury which returned a blanket indictment on March 27 charging high Boston police officials with conspiracy to allow gambling in Boston , testified in Superior Court today that follow-1 . ing the voting of the indictment on the night of March 26 he met ! Traffic Officer Harry Kopf at Back Bay . The Attorney General , who is charged by the defendants with ! coercing the Grand Jury into re . turning an indictment which they i seek to invalidate , cross-examined Mr. Roth at length following a morning which saw Defense Attorney Samuel Sears questioning ' the witness at length . By his quest tions the Attorney General was attempting to impeach the credibillity of the witnesses . 1 Mr. Roth admitted before the Court that he had been in the ! Company of the Traffic Officer sev ! era times a week since the police officials had been indicted . How ' ever , he tesitfied , nothing was said but " what had already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried several times to get Mr. Roth to elaborate on his conversations with Mr. Kopf. but the witness stood fast on his testimony . The witness also admitted that he had heard Mr. Bushnell on several occasions tell the Grand Jury that " you are supreme and masters of your own deliberations and subject to no one . " Thi- morning Mr. Roth , under direct questioning by defense attorney , said that Mr. Bushnell told the Jury " that if we did not bring an indictment we were stopped . Our work was done . " Questioning Mr. Roth for 20 minutes before Judge James C Donnelly , who yesterday declared that Mr. Bushnell was on trial . Attorney Sears asked Mr. Roth if he recalled the proceedings that went on in the Grand Jury room the day before the indictment was returned . 30-Minute Talk Mr. Roth said that he did . Further questioning of the witness by Mr. Sears brought out the testimony that Mr. Bushnell made a 30-minute talk before the Grand Jury after all the evidence was in and before the indictment was returned . Asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The thing that stando in my ; mind is that before we parted the Attorney General told us that if we did not bring an indictment we were stopped . Our work was done , " At the conclusion of this questioning Mr. Sears asked the witness whether he was referring to the investigation into the police department . Mr. Roth 's ansN%er was , " Yes . " Personal Desires Earlier in the testimony Mr. Roth was asked by the defense at , torney if Mr. Bushnell said anything about personal desires or wishes . The reply was in the negative . " Did Mr. Bushnell say anything about the effect of the verdict ? " the defense attorney asked . Mr. Roth said that he did not . Persisting in his effort to adduce testimony to substantiate the defense 's charge that Mr. Bushnell had coerced the Grand Jury Mr. Sears asked the witness if Mr. Bushnell had said that he could n't the grand jury room as soon as he go any further in the event no in- eral , became he an said . Assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't re-their The defendants waived rights to a jury hearing of their call . pleas . They were Police CommisAsked if the Attorney General had said before the Grand Jury : simer11Y . Deputy Supt. James R. Claflin , Deputy Su n John M " This is my only chance , " Mr. 1 ? Roth again said " I do n't recall " Anderson Edward Capt . . J. John Keating , A. ngDorse , and Dorsey , Capt and then added , " but I do n't think Sergt. Arthur M. Eunson . The it was said . " seventh defendant , Supt. Edward Discussed Evidence W. Fallon , is recovering from an The witness further testified un- illness . der questioning by defense attorney that Mr. Bushnell discussed the evidence and it was " for them to weigh and appraise . " He then volunteered the information that the Attorney General did not comment on any particular phase of the evidence , though he did comment on the lack of memory on the part of some of the witnesses . Asked who was in the Grand Jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William F. Hayes , . h Assistant Attorneys General . He also said that " in his opinion " Harold Seidenburg was in the Grand Jury room . " Mr. Seidenburg , I now an Assistant Attorney General , did n't become officially connected with the Attorney General 's office until three days after it was alleged he was seen in the Grand Jury room . The defendants yesterday scored in their pleas of abatement seeking to invalidate the indictment against them when Judge Donnelly told the Attorney General that he was on trial for alleged " misfeasance . " Judge Donnelly made this statement to Attorney General Bushnell after the State prosecutor had said that defense counsel , in presenting pleas to abate and quash the conspiracy charge , were attempting to " try the grand jury " that returned the indictment . Thereupon Judge Donnelly told Mr. Bushnell that " you are the fellow on trial in this case and not the grand jury . " The Attorney General quickly retorted that he was ready to go on trial at any time , before any tribunal . Deputy Sheriff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testified yesterday that ! Harold Seidenburg had been present at the grand jury proceedings three days before he was sworn in as an Assistant Attorney General . According to law , all persons are excluded from grand jury sessions except the jurors , one witness , and qualified prosecutors . Mr , Seidenburg was called to the stand where he testified he was not in the grand jury room prior to his qualifying for Assistant Attorney General . He said that he was in the anteroom three days before he t , ? the oath of office and that he been cautioned by Mr. Bushnel , . to enter the grand                     