@@709767

txt The British Government will allow both the Mufti of Jerusalem , Haj Amin el Husseini , and detained Zionist leaders to come to the London conference on Palestine rather than have the conference not materialize over this issue , it was learned tonight as the Foreign Office announced that the conference would open Sept. 9 . The announcement said that invitations had been issued to the " Governments of the Arab States , to the Jewish Agency for Palestine and to the Arab Higher Executive in Palestine . " The issue of individual representation wat not faced in the invitation to the Agency and the Arab Higher Executive as organ : ations . The Mufti , who is now in Alexandria , was exiled from Palestine by the British . Though not listed as a war criminal , he was shown by German documents to have aided the Axis war effort by inciting some Arab groups against the Allies and committing sabotage against them . He was in Berlin during the war . In Palestine , British troops searched a village Monday for three Jewish swimmers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transfer unauthorized Palestine immigrants to Cyprus . The entire population of 160 was herded into a barbedwire cage for identification and later all the men and boys were taken to a detention camp . Tanks were lined up near the village and planes aided the hunt . A spokesman for Prime Minister kttlee made it clear that the Britsh would rather not have at the : conference either the Mufti or the riionist leaders now detained in ? alestine . " But we would not let the conference break down on that ssue , " he added . The British are still hopeful that outline of the Cabinet committee 's plan . The conference will begin around two tables , but it is hoped that before it ends the . ; ews and Arabs can be persuaded to sit down with each other . Premier Attlee or Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin will be the principal British representative . Which of the two it will be probably depends on the state of affairs at the Conference of Paris . Prof. Selig Brodetsky , president of the Board of Deputies of British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for commutation of the death sentences of eighteen Jewish youths in Palestine imposed for acts of terrorism . Such an action , he said , " would be universally welcome as an act of great humanity and would help to produce a better atmosphere for a just and peaceful settlement of the Palestine problem . " the Palestine Arabs will not insist on the Mufti 's presence or that Jewish participation will not remain conditioned on the presence of the detained Zionist leaders . The difficulties- involved will be pointed out , Mr. Attlee 's spokesman said . That was done in the Mufti 's case in conversations in Jerusalem between Lieut . Gen. Sir Alan G. Cunningham , British High Commissioner , and Jemal el Husseini , vice chairman of the Palestine Arab Committee . According to the latest reports of the position being taken by both sides , the British hope seems vain . The British have had to meet similar situations in the past . The spokesman recalled that when negotiations were conducted many years ago with Ireland and more recently with India , persons were released from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British have not much faith that the conference can bring forth much , but they do not share the , downright pessimism about its possibilities that has been reported from Palestine and the Arab states that will send representatives . " We will go into the conference with our fingers very much crossed and expectations not too high , " Mr. Atlee 's spokesman said . " We believe that there is a chance of hammering out some sort of settlement or at least as good a chance for some results as in many international conferences . " Abdul Rahman Azzam Pasha , secretary of the Arab League , will also be invited to the conference at the wish of the league 's members . If he comes , as is most likely , it will be as a private individual and not as an official spokesman for the league . The British have made it clear to the Arabs and Jews that the conference will not be confined to a discussion of the federation plan worked out between the BritishUnited States Cabinet Committee . Both sides will be free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British are convinced that some sort of division of Palestine must be made . They can be expected to back strongly the basic Formal Request Made Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . JERUSALEM , Aug. 26 ? A formal request that the Mufti of Jerusalem be included in the Palestine Arab delegation to the London conference was made today by his cousin , Jamal el Husseini , when he conferred with the High Commissioner . General Cunningham pointed to the difficulties involved in meeting this request , an official statement declared . Jamal el Husseini spent almost an hour with General Cunningham at Government House . He gave the Commissioner a memorandum , which will be forwarded to the British Government . General Cunningham raised the question of including in the Palestinian Arab delegation persons not affiliated with the Arab High er Committee . He said it would be " desirable that suitable representatives of municipalities , commercial life and labor " be invited to the conference . The Higher Committee spokesman rejected this proposal . In the past he forestalled all efforts by representatives of Arab labor societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No elections have been held for Arab political bodies since 1927 . The Jewish Agency announced that it would postpone a meeting of the Zionist Inner Council , scheduled for tomorrow , until Thursday to make possible the attendance of Eliezer Kaplan , treasurer of the Agency , who took part in the Agency executive meetings in Paris .                     