@@710774

txt The United States was accused here today , of artificially creating a danger to peitce in order to establish naval and air bases in Greece from which to make its influence felt throughout the Near East . Dr. Nissim Mevorah , leader of the Bulgarian delegation to the United Nations , made this charge in an hour-long address before the General Assembly 's Political and Security Committee . He said the Greek question was in reality only one phase of " an American expansionist policy of great scope . " Theordor Heba of Albania , who followed Dr. Mevorah , attributed the troubled Balkan situation entirely to the Greek Government , which , he said , was making war on Albania . Like Dr. Mevorah , he contradicted in great detail the findings of the United Nations Balkan Investigation Commission , which found Albania , Bulgaria and Yugoslavia guilty of furnishing aid to Greek guerrillas . They were the only speakers today before the committee , which is debating the United States resolution to condemn the three states for aggression and to establish a special committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece in the future . Dr. Mevorah began with the assertion that the accusation against his country was only " empty phrases . " He denied that the situation was actually a danger to peace , as the United States had contended . said that if Greece and Bulgaria were left alone to settle their " petty differences , " they could do so quickly . The Bulgarian spokesman said his country had not furnished arms , ammunition or financial help to the Greek guerrillas and that the Balkan Investigation Commission had been unable to find evidence that it had . He said the only charge that the commission had been able to maintain was that Greek guerrillas had been allowed to cross the Bulgarian frontier . Dr. Mevorah asserted that his Government had never disputed this , but that it had merely granted the " right of asylum " to political refugees from " the Greek terror , " a right that , he said , was fully sanctioned by international law . The real issue , Dr. Mevorah asserted , is not the safeguarding of Greek independence , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international blessing through the United Nations for a unilateral act by the United States . " " Greek Government Hated " " The American Government took advantage of  --  a situation in which the Greek Government , hated by the people and menaced by Greek democratic forces , consented to accept American control in return for aid against its political opponents , " he said . Dr. Mevorah said statements made by James V. Forrestal , then Secretary of the Navy , during the Congressional consideration of aid to Greece , showed the United States ' intentions in the Eastern Mediterranean and the aims of this policy . " The re-establishment of normal relations between Bulgaria and Greece is not in harmony with the United States ' intentions to establish naval and air bases in Greece in order to make its influence felt in the Near East , " he said . Mr. Heba declared that he could " prove by irrefutable facts " that Greece was pursuing a policy of war against Albania . He said that the Greek policy was one of territorial claims against Albania ? claims that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek Premier , Themistocles Sophoulis , since he took office . Charges Torture of Witnesses The Albanian spokesman charged that the Greek witnesses before the Balkan Investigation Commission were war criminals , persons who had been tortured and persons condemned to death but promised reprieves if they testified as the Greek Government wished . He said witnesses who had refused to testify falsely had been put to death . Over the opposition of the Soviet bloc , the committee voted , 29 to 6 , with seven abstentions , , to close the general debate on the Greek question when the present list of speakers is completed . There are still twenty-one countries on the list , however , including the Soviet Union and the United States . The debate will be resumed at 11 A. M. tomorrow .                     