@@705202

txt An increasingly insistent demand that ' I the output of American war material he stepped up substantially either by the action of Industry itself or by that of the Government is being voiced in the highest official quarters here . This demand is coupled with a growing indication that the United States is moving steadily nearer to an extension of financial credits to Great Britain . Coinciding with a plain-spoken British plea for more American aid in the immediate future is Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau 's statement today that he agrees with Secretary of Commerce Jesse H. Jones that Britain is " a good loan risk . " Talk on Credits The start of conversations tomorrow between Secretary Morgenthau and Sir Frederick Phillips , Undersecretary of the British Treasury , means , according to informed opinion here , that the question of credits may soon get down to cases . The Administration is reported as ready to make a part of America 's huge financial reserves available to London if Sir Frederick and its own intensive investigations can prove that British coffers are running low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suggestion by Marriner S. Eccles , Chairman of the Federal Reserve System , that Congress consider the wisdom of " making credits available at a low rate as a means of aiding the British . " He said that British and Canadian holdings might be used as collateral and that it would be superior to America 's continuing accumulation of the world gold supply . Mr. Eccles denied that he had named 52,500,000,000 as the size of the loan suggested . Speed-Up Is Sought The growing dissatisfaction with the quantity of war material now being produced in this country is I highlighted today by a suggestion from Senator Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia , Chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee , that American war material factories should be placed on a 21-hour basis in order to augment production . Strong backing for this suggestion is found among top officials of the War and Navy Departments , a number of whom have expressed the opinion in private conversations that the armed forces as well as British buyers are encountering production delays that could be swiftly eliminated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by greater effort on the part of industry . Somewhat the same criticism of the " confusion " surrounding defense production also is being expressed within the National Defense Advisory Commission , several of whose oflicials are known to feel that the steel industry is being particularly difficult to bring into line on the question of plant expansion . Both the Army and the Navy are apprehensive over a possible fu- ture bottleneck in the production of armor plate . Partially offsetting these kinks in production , however , are several steps increasing America 's contribution to the British war effort . The first of these is an order from Col. Russell L. Maxwell , Export Control Administrator , placing 41 additional types of machine tools under the export licensing system . The second is the formal release to Great Britain today of 20 " flying fortress " bombers . They had originally been ordered by the Army , which said that one already had been delivered and that the remainder will be ready by March 1 . The machine tool move is expected to increase still further American shipments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood to be receiving parity with American manufacturers in machine tool deliveries . That American machine tools are playing an immensely important role in the successful defense of Britain is seen in the fact that the export of machine tools to Britain for 1040 is running at a rate four times that attained during 1930 and is expected to exceed $100,0 ( 10,000 for the 12 months of this year . Sale of Ships Hinted At the same time , the Daily Mail of London quotes unnamed Washington sources " of the high est repute " as saying that the United States is to sell Britain 150 merchant ships immediately . Although there is no official confirmation of this report , it is learned that some high American officials believe that the sapid production of freighters under the Maritime Commission 's shipbuilding program would make it safe for this country to release a substantial number of ships to the British . Sixty-three old freighters an e now laid tip under the Commission 's ownership , while 78 fast , modern freighters have recently been launched and their finishing touches are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to center around the veteran California Republican , Senator Hiram W. Johnson , who has stated his determination to fight for the preservation of the Act bearing his name . The Senator expressed the opinion , however , that means to circumvent the Act could be found if the Administration so desired . Unless the Administration wishes to fly directly in the face of Congressional opposition  --  and this is not considered likely since it seems able to achieve its financial aid-for-Britain end in any event ? no thud action will be taken on credits before a Congressional committee has gone into the matter of Britain 's financial standing . Such an hwestigation has strong senatorial backing at the present time . LONDON , Dec. 5 UP ) ? A silent , disapproving House of Commons rejected by an overwhelming vote of 341 to 4 a motion by three members of the Independent Labor Party today that Britain state its war aims and seek peace immediately , " if necessary in a spirit of compromise . " because , they said , " there is no ceraint of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presentation of the motion by J. , Campbell Stephen . and James Maxton , all from Glasgow . Supporting the trio , Samuel Silverman , Liverpool Laborite , declared the moment defined by Prime Minister Winston Churchill as the time for the statement of peace aims ? " when we have convinced the world of our capacity to survive " ? had now arrived . The authors of the motion are members of the extreme Leftist wing of Britain 's Labor movement . Details : Page 211 By E. Berg Holt Samar Correspondent The Christian Sc ? ence Monitor LONDON , Dec. 5 ? The contrasting methods of Britain and the Axis in building a new order for Europe is sharply brought out by the Anglo-Turkish and the German-Rumanian commercial treaties which are simultaneously made public today . An analysis shows that the German-Rumanian accord is deliberately based on the subordination of the Rumanian economic system to Germany 's . Rumania 's role , as outlined in the 10-year agreement signed in Berlin yesterday , is to provide the essential agricultural and mineral raw materials for the betterment of conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to increate the output of these clal-ses of goods for export to " the natural economic markets within the framework of the new European order . " Thus , for its own needs of industrial goods , Rumania is forced to rely almost exclusively on what Germany feels inclined to spare , having first satisfied the needs of the German Herrenvolk  --  msotar as these can be satisfied within the limits of the European market in which the German new order is to operate Provisions of Pacts The German-Rumanian accord points unmistakeably to this conclusion when it says that the two Governments will pay due regard " to assuring that Rumanian pi oducts are disposed of on the Garman market at fixed prices independent of economic crises and that the importance of the Rumanian market for German trade will increase . " The Anglo-Turkish accord , on the other hand , while based on the obvious fact that Turkey is primarily an agricultural country and therefore needs primarily industrial goods , nevertheless takes into consideration the fact that the Turkish peasant consumer does need raw materials . Thus provision is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessities ? both which Rumania needs but certainly will not get through its present association with the Axis . Strictly Economic It is emphasized , furthermore , that the whole Anglo-Turkish arrangement , unlike the German-Rumanian one , is strictly economic . It does not place Turkey under the control of British " experts " but is a typical example of the voluntary co-operation on which the British new order is almost unconsciously , being built . But though the Anglo-Turkish accord has no political clauses , observers do draw certain unmistakeable political deductions from its conclusion at this moment . It comes , for instance , at a time when German propagandists are loudly proclaiming the imminent adhesion of Turkey to the German new order . Not only so , but it puts Britain in Germany 's place as the chief supplier of Turkey 's needs and the chief purchaser of Turkey 's surplus output . Thus , in effect , Britain and Turkey in signing this accord have expressed complete confidence in one another 's future prospects . Turkey , though not joining the sterling bloc , has certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberately withdrawing from its former close contact with the mark has shown quite definitely which side it expects to win the war ,                     