@@706061

txt A. F. L. , C. I. 0 . JOIN TO FIGHT ANY LAW BANNING STRIKES Green Appeals to President as Murray Writes His Units to Condemn Proposed Curbs RAMSPECK BILL IS READY Compulsory Arbitration Is Included to Penalize Men or Employers Causing Stoppages By FREDERICK R. BARKLEY Special to TEE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Nov. 26 ? Leaders of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations , in formal statements and personal appeals to President Roosevelt today voiced opposition to threatened bans on work stoppages in defense industries . This was at the moment when the completion of the bill designed to accomplish this purpose was announced on Capitol Hill . The bill is an outgrowth of a plan to end defense strikes as developed at a White House conference Mon day night . As now drafted , the bill would include a fourth step , classed as the most drastic of all , which was among those considered at the White House conference . This step would provide that after employer-union negotiations , Labor Department conciliation and mediation by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invoked at the President 's discretion . It was stated , however , that no members of the House Labor Committee , which will take up the draft on Friday , were committed to any of the bill 's provisions . This statement was made by Representative Ramspeck , ranking majority member of the committee , who was commissioned to draft the measure . Mr. Ramspeck briefly described the bill 's nature today , but the copy supplied to the committee was not made public . Thomas Joins Opposition The opposition to any legislation for compulsory strike settlements was voiced by William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , and by Philip Murray and Tames B. Carey , president and secretary , respectively , of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , as well as by Norman Thomas , national chairman of the // LABOR HEADS FIGHT ALL STRIKE BANS // Socialist party . These spokesmen insisted that labor generally was strongly supporting the defense program and that compulsory strike prohibitions would harm that program more than they would help it . The Ramspeck bill would penalize workers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them for a period of six months from all benefits under the National Labor Relations Act , the Norris-La Guardia Anti-Injunction Act and the Unemployment Compensation Act . The plants of recalcitrant employers would be liable to seizure by the government under the program , but Mr. Ramspeck explained yesterday that authority for such seizures was already embodied in the Selective Service Act . Mr. Green , together with Matthew Woll , a Federation vice president , called at the White House today to make known personally to the President the Federation 's " resolute and uncompromising opposition " to any anti-strike legislation . Green Will Submit " the Record " Mr. Green stated afterward that he told the President that the Federation " resents being penalized " by anti-strike legislation because of the acts of " some irresponsible labor leaders . " " We maintain that the federation has cooperated fully with the government " he added . " We have adopted a ' no-strike ' policy , something that no other labor organization has done . We will submit to Congress the record we have made and let them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal sporadic strikes , with the record made in Great Britain. , " And we have never called out , 53,000 men-in a key industry , " he asserted , plainly referring to the recent C. I. 0 . strike in the steel companies ' captive coal mines . The Federation chief also said that he presented to Mr. Roosevelt a proposal that labor be brought more closely into the administration of the defense program , and also into policy-making with industry , " particularly because of increasing unemployment in the consumer goods industry because of priority . " He added , in reply to questions , that " the President seemed to respone very favorably to the suggestions made . " Mr. Murray voiced his opposition to anti-strike bills in a letter sent to all C. I. 0 . affiliates . " Compulsory anti-labor legislation at this time , " he wrote , " endangers the national defense program . It can only serve to arouse resentment and encourage industrial disputes . " The C. I. 0. , at its recent convention , demonstrated that the workers of the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our national defense program . This goal can be obtained only through the acceptance of labor within the national defense program and through the voluntary acceptance by labor of mediation and peaceful solution of industrial disputes . This is precisely what labor is prepared and anxious to carry out in the interest of national defense . " Mr. Murray then repeated his frequently voiced appeal that President Roosevelt " immediately convene a national conference of representatives of labor , industry and government looking toward the voluntary acceptance of a plan which will assure the peaceful solution of industrial disputes and guarantee a maximum production for our national defense program . " Mr. Carey repeated and elaborated on these views in testimony before the House Labor Committee . He cited the unanimous resolution adopted by the C. L 0 . at its recent convention , asserting that the parent body and its affiliated unions were " firmly resolved to do all in their power " to aid the defense program . This resolution was adopted while the , 53,000 C. I. 0 . miners were on strike at the captive coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . secretary did not comment specifically on the Administration anti-strike plan but addressed himself more directly to two other measures pending before the committee . " The Norton bill and the Vinson bill , " he said , " are both designed to restrict and hence to destroy the right to take strike action . " The right to strike can not be stricted without being destroyed . " Later Mr. Ramspeck quoted Mr. Carey as telling the committee that the C. I. 0 . would be willing to promise President Roosevelt to agree to accept the findings of arbitral boards in future labor disputes if compulsory arbitration could be avoided . Referring to Mr. Ramspeck 's statement on his testimony , Mr. Carey later issued the following statement : " I did not , and could not as a representative of the C. I. 0. , make any commitment which could in any way Be interpreted as an acceptance of compulsory arbitration . " I informed the committee that the C. I. 0. , by convention action , has agreed to utilize all the governmental machinery of conciliation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not opposed to voluntary arbitration . When voluntary arbitration has been , agreed to I can conceive of no instance in which a C. I. 0 . union will not r - cept such arbitration decision , without need for compulsion . " Thomas 's Appeal Against Ban In letters to the chairmen of the House and Senate Labor Committees , Mr. Thomas said that he was expressing only 4 personal viewpoint . Asserting that he did not hold every strike just or wise and recalling that he had publicly criticized certain strikes , including some arising from Jurisdictional disputes , he added : " No feature of totalitarianism is more characteristic or more objectionable than the assertion of the right of dictatorial government to force men and women into virtual slave labor by denying them the right which historically has been labor 's last and most effective resort in its struggle for better conditions ; namely , the right to strike . " It would be a disaster of the first magnitude if in the name of the defense of democracy against foreign totalitarianism our government should itself acquire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged evils of strikes which led to such a result would be far worse than the disease has ever been . "                     