@@711125

txt The House Foreign Affairs Committee tonight restored an original provision of the European Recovery Program measure permitting the charter of 200 American-flag ships to participating nations , a threeweek-old law to the contrary notwithstanding . Legislation prohibiting the transfer of American-flag vessels to any foreign country was enacted while the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was considering the program . The provision for sale of ships was stricken from the measure in committee and the authority for charter was killed later in the Senate . Driving toward completion of an omnibus foreign air bill , the House group ordered restoration of the , charter provision on the ground that it would save an estimated $200,000,000. of ocean freight costs . It required that the vessels be used only for deliveries under the program and noncompetitively with scheduled runs , and provided for their recall at the request of the Secretary of Defense or upon termination of assistance programs . Curb on Shipping Eased The committee also struck from the Senate bill a requirement that at least 50 per cent of ERP supplies from the United States move in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial . " In morning and afternoon sessions the committee neared the end of the European sections of the omnibus bill and planned to complete them tomorrow , as well as the authorization of $570,000,000 of economic aid to China and $675 , - 000,000 of economic and military aid to Greece and Turkey . Other sections of the legislation disposed of in committee today included the following : Provision of a $500,000,000 con- vertibility guarantee fund protecting American investors ' ability to convert into dollars the principal amount of funds placed in manufacturing or other production enterprise in cooperating with Marshall Plan countries . A requirement for screening by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of personnel of the Economic Cooperation Administration but with exception made for persons presently employed by the Federal Government who may be transferred to the ECA without screening until after six months . Officials appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate also were exempted permanently from the screening requirements . Rejected the so-called Taft amendment to the Senate bill providing a Government guarantee of 70 per cent of the principal amount of credit in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Government to participant Marshall Plan countries . Rejected a Senate provision for a joint Congressional " watch dog " committee to follow up the administration of the program and report to Congress on progress or on administrative disputes with other Government agencies . Strengthened the declaration in the legislation to proclaim it the " policy " rather than the " hope " of this Government to encourage a joint common effort toward a European economic union as set forth in the Paris report of the Committee for European Economic Cooperation . Adopted a Senate provision directing the location and control of foreign-held assets in the United States with a view to their eventual repatriation and use in the program of European recovery . Added a requirement that the public advisory board to the Economic Cooperation Administrator be representative of business , labor , agriculture and the professions and composed of men of broad and varied experience . Approved a Senate provision for establishment of a $3,000,000,000 " trust fund " whereby a like amount of the first year 's cost of the program be appropriated from the current fiscal year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a joint Congressional " watch dog " committee the House group directed the heads of economic foreign missions under the program to keep the chairman of the re ' spective foreign affairs and appropriations committee fully informed on developments . " We want to do our own watchdogging , " said Representative ' Charles A. Eaton , chairman of the House group . Under the Senate bill about $265,000,000 was earmarked for the convertibility guarantee fund by a provision setting aside 5 per cent of the amount authorized to 11 be available for that purpose . The House group set aside $500,000,000 for the guarantee by directing that half of the amount earmarked for repayable loans . through the Export-Import Bank was for that purpose . The committee yesterday approved the Senate 's $5,300,000,000 ERP authorization , but directed that only $4,300,000,000 of the total was to be appropriated . The remaining $1,000,000,000 was to be raised by sale of notes to the Treasury by the program administrator and the certification of the amount to the Export-Import Bank . Committeemen sought to explain today that while the $1,000,000,000 fund must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remaining $4,300 , - 000,000 , the administrator , not the bank , must be satisfied as to " reasonable assurance of repayment . " Committee spokesmen said yesterday the " reasonable assurance of repayment " had to be a finding lof the bank . It was called to their attention today , however , that if the requirement stood the bank would authorize very few loans indeed . It was then explained that the finding as to repayment prospects was required of the administrator in consultation with the National Adyisory Council , top coordinating agency on Federal financial policy , of which the bank chairman is a member along with the Secretaries of State , Treasury and Commerce , and the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board .                     