@@709192

txt The overwhelming desire of the Chinese people for unity and peace as the essential foundations for national reconstruction has never found a more convincing demonstration than in the creation of a committee of three generals to put an end to China 's civil war , with General Marshall as chairman and mediator . Sporadic fighting is still reported from various fronts , especially from Jehol Province ; but both the National Government and the Communists have prepared " cease fire " orders which are to be submitted to General Marshall today for reconciliation of any differences . And though there is often a slip between a pronouncement and its enforcement , especially in China , the hopes for real peace are running higher in Chungking than ever before . The basi for this peace was laid by many developments ? by the victory over Japan , by the Russian-Chinese treaty , by the fading hopes of the Chinese Communists to seize Japanese arms and Japanese-held territories ; above all , by the recent Moscow agreement among the United States , Great Britain and Russia coordinating their China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present optimism is the fact that for the first time an impartial and disinterested mediator will not only bring the parties together but will also sit in on the negotiations for China 's internal peace . He is a mediator who not only represents one of the world 's greatest Powers , but who also enjoys world-wide respect , and whose views will go far in shaping not only the policy of his own country but also the opinion of the world on the merits of the Chinese conflict . It was the Chinese people 's confidence in America 's disinterestedness which made an American mediator in their internal quarrel acceptable to them . It was this confidence also which prompted the Chinese Government to propose General Marshall for his unique role and finally compelled the Chinese Communists to accept him . That gives him an authority which no mediator possessed before him . General Marshall can be depended upon to use that authority with firmness and with tact to silence the guns in China as he helped to silence them elsewhere in the world . Of course , the cessation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national reconstruction , but it is an essential step . For one of the first aims of that reconstruction is the termination of the present one-party political " tutelage " envisaged by Dr. Sun Yat-sen , the father of the Chinese revolution , and the establishment of a constitutional democracy . That aim has long been pa oclaimed by President Chiang Kaishek . It was reiterated in his speech on New Year 's Day , which was also the thirty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Chinese Republic . But it is obvious that neither reconstruction nor the transition to democracy can proceed far in a country still unfamiliar with it while a civil war is raging and while political issues are being settled by bullets instead of ballots . Nor is it possible while private armies roam the country , terrorizing its citizens , establishing their own " governments , " and trying to impose their will on the Government of the nation . All these are issues which are large stumbling blocks on China 's road to final peace . But at least they are now being tackled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For while the three generals ' committee is working on a truce between the armies , a People 's Consultative Council consisting of thirty-eight representatives of nine parties and some nonpartisans is meeting in Chungking under the chairmanship of President Chiang Kai-shek in an effort to agree on the next steps . With the calling of this council , the Kuomintang , the party of the Chinese revolution , has officially abandoned the claim to both one-party government and to ex- elusive " tutelage " of the Chines people , while the existence of othe parties is in itself evidence of China ' growing democracy . No doubt , ther are elements within the Kuomintang who regret the passing of their exclu sive power and the measure to whicl President Chiang Kai-shek can liberal ize the selection of delegates to the National Assembly , scheduled to con vene March 5 , and can extend to othe parties participation in the Govern ment in the meantime , will also be measure of his control of them . Bu General Marshall 's selection as a medi ator is a token of the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power both the Kuomin tang and the Communists will hav ' to bow in the end .                     