@@708887

txt Gen. Charles de Gaulle , president of the Provisional Government of the French Republic , arrived here late yesterday afternoon for an official visit that will come to a climax today , when he will be driven over more than fifty miles of the city 's streets , and will receive the honorary citizenship of the city in a ceremony at City Hall . Fresh from his successful fourday visit to Washington , where he and President Truman agreed that " fundamental harmony " existed between their two nations , General de Gaulle flew yesterday from the capital to West Point , N. Y. Then he motored to the home of Franklin D. Roosevelt at Hyde Park , N. Y. , where he laid a wreath on the grave of the late President . After a brief stay at Hyde Park , in the course of which he personally expressed his sorrow at Mr. Roosevelt 's death to Mrs. Roosevelt , General de Gaulle returned to West Point , where he was the guest of Maj. Gen. Francis B. Wilby , superintendent of the United States Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , viewing various points of interest . Greeted by Grover Whalen General de Gaulle then drove to New York , heartily cheered at i arious points along the way where crowds had gathered . At the New York City line he was greeted by Grover A. Whalen , chairman of Mayor La Guardia 's reception committee ; M. Guerin de Beaumont , French Consul General , and various members of the latter 's staff . He changed into an open car at that point , in accordance with his previously expressed wish . His tall figure perched precariously on the back of the rear seats as he was sped down the West Side express highway , across Fifty-seventh Street to Park Avenue , and then south to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , where he was ushered to a suite on the thirty-fourth floor of the Waldorf Towers . General de Gaulle , who looked weary on his arrival , rested for about an hour and was then host to 150 members of the FrancoA.merican colony in this city at a reception in the Jade and Baildon Rooms . Later he entertained a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a private dinner at the hotel . Will Visit Idlewild Airport New York is expected to give the French leader a reception tolay that will outdo even the tunultuous welcome he received on its visit here on July 10 , 1944 . He yin leave the Waldorf-Astoria at 1:30 A. M. today and will motor hrough Queens to the city 's gi ; antic new- Idlewild Airport , now ender construction . Returning by way of the Belt ' arkway and through Brooklyn , Le is scheduled to arrive at the 3attery at 11:45 A. M. and ride up , ower Broadway , along the route vhere the city 's distinguished ; nests have traditionally been aclaimed . He is due at City Hall at 11:55 A. M. and will receive a certificate of honorary citizenship there , from the hands of Mayor La Guardia . Arrangements have been made for seating 10,000 spectators at the ceremony , during which General de Gaulle and Mayor La Guardia are both expected to speak . At its close , the visiting statesman will return to the Waldorf-Astoria for a reception there followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which John W. Davis , former ambassador to Great Britain , . will make the principal address . Will Fly to Chicago uenerai ae tiaulie win by to Chicago later in the afternoon , departing from La Guardia Field at 3:30 P. M. He will remain in the mid-western metropolis until late tomorrow , when he will fly to Ottawa , Canada . He will be the guest of the Canadian Government at a state dinner tomorrow evening and will then start home for France by way of Newfoundland . General de Gaulle flew from Washington to Stewart Field , the airport of the Military Academy , in an Army C-54 transport plane yesterday morning , while the Avro York plane , in which he flew here from France , brought additional members of his party directly to this city from the capital . He was accompanied by the following official party of nineteen : Georges Bideault , French Minister of Foreign Affairs . Henri Bonnet , French Ambassador . Gen. Aifonse Juin , French Chief of Staff of National Defense . Gaston Palewski , chief assistant to General de Gaulle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Maj. Gen. de St. Didier , military attach ? . Herve Alphand , French Director General of Economic Affairs . Louis Vallon , assistant to General de Gaulle . Commandant Charles Henri de Levis Mirepoix , naval aide to General de Gaulle . Major Boillot , military aide to General Juin . Etienne Burin des Roziers , member of General de Gaulle 's staff . Brig . Gen. Sumner Waite , United States Chief of Staff , Second Service Command . Capt . W. G. Mitchelet , United States Navy , naval aide . Stanley Woodward , Chief Protocol Division , United States Department of State . Thomas R. Brown Jr. , specjal agent United $tates Department of State . Lieut . Claude Guy , aide to General de Gaulle . Capt . R. P. Larkin , United States Army , Second Service Command . M. de St. Jean . Jean Baube . By Army Cars to Hyde Park The visitors were driven in Army cars to Hyde Park by way of the mid-Hudson bridge at Poughkeepsie . As they neared the late President 's estate , storm clouds lowered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the party arrived , the rain stopped and a bright sun broke through . For the rest of the way the weather alternated between light showers and sunshine . Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , clad entirely in black except for white shoes , was waiting for General de Gaulle and his companions at the side of the driveway leading up to the now unoccupied big house of the estate , from which the Roosevelt family possessions are now being removed . She was accompanied by her secretary , Miss Malvina Thompson , and two women friends . General de Gaulle 's face bore a saddened expression as he emerged from his car and presented his companions to Mrs. Roosevelt . Then he spoke in low , solemn tones to her . She replied in fluent French . The party proceeded through an opening in the lofty hedges that bound the garden in which the former President is buried . All but a few of the roses that give the garden its name had withered and died , but it was still bright with the color of phlox , sweet william , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood at attention at the head of the grave , on which were cut gladioli , chrysanthemums and lilies . General de Gaulle took a huge wreath of bright red flowers from the hands of an aide and placed it reverently on the grave of the former President . As he did so two gray-clad New York State troopers stood at attention at either end of the grave , to the muttered displeasure of the detail of Army military police who keep watch : over it twenty-four hours a day . As General de Gaulle 's tall fig- ure straightened he saluted , while the batteries of camera men clicked away to record the scene . Then the general and his party took leave of Mrs. Roosevelt and departed after a stay of barely fifteen minutes on the estate . Only about 100 persons witnessed the tribute , as the garden is not yet open to the public , as it eventually will be . General 's Response to Toast On their return to West Point the visitors were escorted to the Army Mess , where they were entertained at luncheon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a toast to France , to which General de Gaulle responded as follows : " In order to answer the toast proposed by the commandant of this beautiful military school of West Point , I can do no better than to conjure up the memory of all those who have been through this school where they prepared themselves to serve their country and their cause . " I think particularly of all those who died fighting , many of them during this war . If I think of them , it is also because their sacrifice was made not only in the name of their country but also for the great cause of freedom for which we all are fighting . I raise my glass to the great United States Army . " General de Gaulle , who , it was noticeable , wore only two stars on his cap and sleeves , in marked contrast to five-starred General Juin , walked from the mess to the academy library , where he inspected a number of trophies . One of them was a sword that once belonged to Napoleon , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaulle himself . General Eisenhower placed it in the West Point library for safekeeping when he visited there last June . fwo Hundred Cadets at Attention A small detachment of approximately 200 West Point cadets , all who were on the post at the time , had been drawn up at attention in front of the barracks for General de Gaulle to review . Almost the entire cadet corps is now at Pine Camp , N. Y. , for maneuvers , and these present consisted principally of fourth classmen who have entered within the last three or four weeks , with a handful of upper ' classmen detailed to whip them , into shape . General de Gaulle visited the academy 's mess hall , inspected a model cadet 's room in the barracks and also visited the chapel . He and his party left the academy grounds by the Washington gate at 3:05 P. M. , bidding farewell to General Wilby and other ranking officers of the academy 's staff at that point . They traveled south along Route 9-W as far as the Bear Mountain Bridge , where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mill River Parkways to the city line . At traffic circles along the way , and at-various points where the police had temporarily halted other traffic to give General de Gaulle 's motorcade the right of way , crowds of men , women- and children cheered the distinguished visitor . Among those waiting at that point were Mr. Whalen , M. de Beaumont , Leon Brasseur and Lionel Vasse of the Consul General 's staff ; Robert Valeur of the French Bureau of Information here , and a group of French Army and Navy officers . General de Gaulle and his party stepped from their cars and shook hands and then headed south , following an escort of thirty-two motorcycle policemen . 10.000 at Fifty-seventh Street Spectators had gathered at a new vantage points along the way at which they hoped to see the visitors , but there were no dense crowds until after the party had turned off the express highway into Fifty-seventh Street . The police estimated there were 10,000 to 12,000 along that thoroughfare , largely grouped between . Broadway and Park Avenue . Another crowd of 4,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when General de Gaulle drew up at the Fiftieth Street entrance at 4:40 P. M. They cheered and waved as he entered the hotel . Before the reception at 6 P. M. , General de Gaulle posed patiently for scores of pictures by news photographers , but he declined politely to make - any expression about his impressions or observations of the day . Partial List of Dinner Guests The list of guests at the reception was not made public by the French Bureau of Information , and only a partial list of the guests invited to the dinner was released , as . follows : Governor Dewey ; Mayor La Guardia ; Newbold Morris , president of the City Council ; Mr Whalen ; Chief Inspector John J O'Connell of the Police Depart . ment ; Vice Admiral Herbert F Leary ; Rear Admiral Monroe Kelly ; Maj. Thomas A. Terry ; Bishop J. Bromley Oxnam of the Methodist Church ; arid the Rev , Robert I. Gannon , president of Fordham University . Also J. Stewart Baker , president of the Bank of the Manhattan Company ; Randolph Burgess , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Miss Frieda Kirchwey , editor of The Nation ; Arthur Hays Sulzberger , president and publisher of THE NEW . YORE TIMES ; Mr. and Mrs. Ogden Reid , editor and executive vice president , respectively , of The New York Herald Tribune ; Henry Luce , publisher of Time , Life and Fortune ; Elliott Lee , Mrs. Mason Averell Dougherty and Mrs. Denise Davey , all of whom have been active in French war relief , and Mr. and Mrs. Ted 0 . Thackrey , editor and publisher , respectively , of The New York Post . Also Reginald Townsend , president of the Alliance Frangaise ; Francis Henry Taylor , director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art ; Gen. Frank P. McCoy , president of the Foreign Policy Association ; Hamilton Fish Armstrong , Welles Bosworth , a member dg l'Institute de France , and Lucius Boomer , president of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .                     