@@710244

txt The Council of Foreign Ministers convened today and speedily ended the brutal , bloody history of the Prussian State . Liquidation of the core of German militarism was formally approved by Secretary of State Marshall of the United States , Foreign Secretary Bevin of Britain , Foreign Minister Molotov of Russia and Foreign Minister Bidault of France . This erasure in a single minute I of a state that for years dominated Central Europe appears to be a happy augury for the conference of the powers that battered the Third Reich to its knees . For it is with Germany that the four victor powers are now chiefly concerned . But today 's meeting showed that it was not only with Germany that they would have to deal . Mr. Molotov diverted the Council a long way geographically when he suggested that the Americans , the British and the Russians should during the present session express their views on how the decisions on China reached at the Moscow conference of December , 1945 , were being carried out . Democratic China Urged These decisions called for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and withdrawal of Allied forces . An expression of views on this subject would give Mr. Molo41ov a chance to air the long-standing Russian disapproval of United States policy in China , a policy that General Marshall helped to shape . Secretary Marshall , taking part in his first Foreign Ministers ' conference , followed in the footsteps of his immediate predecessor , James F. Byrnes , when he suggested that the Council examine the subject of a limitation on the number of troops in the occupied countries of Europe . Reduction of the occupying forces is a basic point of United States policy . The Secretary recalled that this question had been raised in New York at the last meeting of the Council and that Mr. Molotov had said then that , although he would not agree to discuss the , question at the time , he would consider its discussion here . Mr. Molotov replied that he would give his views on the matter tomorrow . Marshall First to Arrive Moscow was engulfed by a blizzard as the Foreign Ministers opened their session today . General Marshall was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of the Aviation Industry , on Leningrad Chaussee near the outskirts of the city . He was followed by the three other Foreign Ministers , their advisers and assistants . They sat around a huge table covered with a white flannel cloth . The walls of the room are an eggshell color , and from the ceiling hangs a crystal chandelier . When the Foreign Ministers arrived , there were fewer policemen outside the building than is usual on such occasions . A handful of children were present to watch the diplomats drive up . After the Council had convened , it agreed to accept the agenda that had been drawn up in New York , with one change in procedure . This is that the Foreign Ministers ' deputies for the Austrian peace treaty End the deputies concerned with procedure for the German treaty mill meet here each morning at 10 A .. M. , while the Council will meet laily at 4 P. M. The agenda drawn up in New York include discussion of the re3ort of the Allied Control Council for Germany , the political struc- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace treaty with Germany , including the deputies ' report on the views of interested states , the United States draft for a disarmament and demilitarization treaty and other measures for the political , economic and military control of Germany , consideration of the report submitted by coal experts and the Austrian treaty , a draft of which is being prepared by the deputies . Another diversion of the Council from the business of Germany and Austria appeared today when Mr. Sevin asked it to listen to the report of the financial commission on Trieste . The other delegates agreed and the matter will be introduced later in the conference . The Inter-Allied Reparations Agency , which represents eighteen interested countries , has sent to the Council a letter on reparations . This was brought up at the meeting today and the letter , which duplicates letters sent to the Council at its meeting in New York and to the deputies ' meeting in London , will be discussed tomorrow . The report of the Allied Control Council for Germany , which is the first item on the agenda , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest that the deputies go through it and pick out the most important items  --  that is , controversial ones to be brought to the Foreign Ministers ' attention . Secretary Marshall 's three colleagues , all veterans of Council meetings , grinned in appreciation of his ready acknowledgment of the Council 's tendency to shove such jobs onto the backs of the deputies . It was at this point that Mr. Bevin rumbled that all four members of the control authority in Germany seemed to be agreed upon a subsection of their report dealing with the liquidation of Prussia . He proposed that the Council approve this step . At precisely 6:25-P . M. the words of assent traveled around the table and the state that since the time of Frederick the Great has been the source of Germany 's unbridled military ambitions was wiped from the map of Europe as a geographical entity . The question of China , as raised by Mr. Molotov , will give both the United States and the Soviet Union a chance to ventilate their differences or that country. , It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideological concepts , and it is believed that Secretary Marshall welcomes the opportunity to place his own view before the Russians . Mr. Molotov brought up the question of China soon after the start of the conference and expressed himself as opposed to Chinese representation at any discussion of the problem here . He recalled that at the Moscow conference in December , 1945 , the Big Three powers agreed to an early discussion of the discharge of their obligations in China . The situation in China has shown " no improvement , " he declared , and he asked that the three interested Governments ? the United States , Russia and Britain  --  give their views on the fulfillment of the decisions of 1945 . Secretary Marshall replied that , as the question had only just been placed before the conference , he was not prepared to give a definite answer to Mr. Molotov . However , British sources said later that he had agreed to discussion of the . subject during the present session in Moscow . But the Secretary of State did raise the question of Chinese representation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his full answer on the , subject tomorrow . Mr. Molotov said Chinese representation was not require &; since the discussion would refer only to fulfillment of Big Three decisions . The Soviet delegation , he added , will agree to discuss the matter at any convenient time during the session . The Soviet suggestion was pro-.I duced immediately after an attack by Chinese Communists on United States policy in China . Today 's meeting began with the customary round of compliments and pleasantries . Mr. Molotov , toying with a huge watch , opened the session by expressing his pleasure at seeing the others in Moscow . Mr. Bevin then said that everyone was fully conscious of ? the heavy task that they had undertaken . He asked Mr. Molotov , as representative of the host Government , to act as chairman . Mr. Sevin added that the veteran members of the group were glad to welcome General Marshall and were certain that his " great experience " would help in their deliberations. 