@@706113

txt The city 's program for civilian defense moved steadily forward yesterday , with Mayor La Guardia at the controls and City Hall buzzing with activity . The Mayor 's day began at 10 A. M. when he conferred with high police aides on a wartime program for building an auxiliary police force of 15,000 men to serve in the emergency and closed at 6 P. M. , soon after he had finished a radio broadcast to New Yorkers . In the broadcast he pleaded for the full cooperation of all citizens in the civilian defense program and explained the rules laid down for protection of life and property during air-raid alarms and blackouts . In between , the Mayor , with his full City Hall staff in attendance , discussed defense measures with the members of the Board of Transportation and thirty of its engineers and operating experts , and held a conference with representatives of the principal radio networks , resulting in an agreement on uniform procedure in distributing information and serving notice of air-raid alarms and blackout orders . Offices Being Provided While the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corridors of City Hall echoed to the clang of hammers and the noise of saws , as workmen hurried to construct offices for the staff that will handle the administrative end of the progigam . These new offices will occupy the space now devoted to the passageway in the rotunda circling the classic stairway to the second floor of the building . The workmen were still on the job late last night . At all his conferences , in his radio broadcast and in an address to 200 members of the Police Academy 's first " war class , " delivered from the City Hall steps , the Mayor stressed the fact that the nation actually was at war , that it was a war in which attack might be expected on both coasts , that it would be a long war and a difficult one and that it was a conflict that would be " brought to the streets of New York . " " Whether or not we will have blackouts , " he said , " depends upon the decision of the Army . I venture to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so rapidly  --  I venture to say at this moment that if the present situation in the Atlantic continues , in all likelihood we will not be required to have regular blackouts . " The Mayor 's prediction was made in a " heart-to-heart talk " to the City 's 7,000,000 inhabitants , broadcast over WNYC and other local outlets and later rebroadcast by transcription over a dozen other stations , including outlets of the nation-wide networks . Most Aliens " Good Folks " In his talk the Mayor called for consideration in the treatment of residents who happen to be subjects of enemy nations , declaring that most of them were " good folks " who were out of sympathy with the acts and policies of their rulers . To such aliens , however , the Mayor issued the warning that no untoward or improper conduct on their part would be tolerated , but would result in drastic action by the public authorities . He also appealed to New Yorkers to have their children in the schools act considerately toward children df such aliens . The Mayor again referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test of a huge air raid siren to determine whether it could be heard everywhere in the city . He urged citizens not to become excited when they hear this signal and again announced that it would be sounded continuously instead of intermittently in the event that a real alarm became necessary at the time set for the test . Mayor La Guardia said that specific instructions on conduct during alarms and blackouts , in streets , homes , factories , office buildings and apartment houses , were contained in a pamphlet prepared by the Federal Office of Civilian Defense , copies of which would soon be distributed over the nation . New Yorkers served by the New York Telephone Company , the Consolidated Edison system companies and other public service companies will receive copies in their monthly statements . The Mayor appealed for more air-raid wardens to augment the force of 160,000 now available . It is desirable , he said , to have many wardens who can serve the blocks in which they live . A proper force of trained wardens , the Mayor sleclared , will save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of panic when he urged all persons in skyscrapers and large office buildings in the downtown and midtown sections of Manhattan and Brooklyn to remain in the buildings during air raids . Any rush for the exits , he warned , would result in loss of life . " The greatest danger is panic in a large city , " he said . " People all rushing at one time for an exit ; people rushing at one time for cover at one place ; people exposing themselves by staying in the street during an attack . " In his address to the new patrolmen , delivered just before the meeting with Police Commissioner Valentine and forty other officers , the Mayor disclosed that he would no longer ask for draft exemption for policemen called to the colors , but would continue to seek it for firemen because of their special importance in the defense program and the difficulty of replacing them . Auxiliary Force Discussed The conference between the Mayor and the police officers was held in the Board of Estimate chamber and no reporters were permitted to leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although Mayor La Guardia , in a brief talk with reporters in the corridor outside his office later in the day , declined to discuss the meeting except to say that it dealt with routine matters and special instructions to meet special cases , it was learned that the creation of the auxiliary force of 15,000 men was discussed . The new force , it is understood , will be recruited from World War veterans , men on various eligible lists and persons , who have made application and been found to comply with all requirements . The work of building up such a force has been in progress for some months , under the direction of Commissioner Valentine in his capacity as Police Coordinator of Civilian Defense . The requirements for members of the supplemental force are almost as rigid as those of the regular department . Good physical condition and excellent character are among the requisites . After his conferences with the Board of Transportation group and the representatives for th ' radio networks , the Mayor was corralled by reporters in the corridor outside his office for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Transportation group , he said , dealt with procedure under " Plan No. 1 , " ? under which all subway , street car and bus facilities were to continue in operation during blackouts , with all precautions taken to screen windows to prevent light from showing . There was also , he said , a brief discussion of " Plan No. 2 , " which is based upon " a changed situation in the Atlantic . " The Mayor did not elaborate on this plan . Present at Parley Among those present at the conference with members of the Board of Transportation were Commissioners John H. Delaney , George Keegan and Frank X. Sullivan , in addition to Secretary William Jerome Daly and Philip E. Pfeiffer , operating superintendent of the unified transit system . Also thirty operating and engineering experts of the system . According to the Mayor , the talk with the delegation from the radio networks was concerned with synchronization and uniformity of announcements on air-raid alarms and blackout orders , as well as the distribution of general information on the civilian defense program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared . The networks represented were the Columbia , Mutual and National Broadcasting and the city 's own system . The Mayor 's " heart-to-heart " chat with the city 's inhabitants by means of radio was the first ' of a series , he revealed during his talk . Others soon would be forthcoming , he said , as different aspects of the defense program presented themselves . An early radio chat , he said , would deal at some length with the problem of the use of subways and other transit facilities during alarm or blackout periods .                     