@@708523

txt The new management-labor charter , as THE NEW YORK TIMES editorial of March 29 pointed out , is a welcome contribution toward industrial peace . No one can quarrel with the lofty sentiments and aspirations expressed by the three signers of that document . But it will take more than that to make the American people and their industrial-labor components realize the significance of our post-war labor problem . The signers of the charter apparently recognize the fact by the appointment of a national committee whose duty will be " to promote understanding and sympathetic acceptance of this code of principles * * * and to propose such national policies as will advance the best interests of our nation . " The committee and its advisers have a full schedule cut out for them if the charter is to live halfway up to expectations . To mention a few specific problems : development of an over-all program to cope with difficulties on the production line ; managementunion relations on a national and plant basis ; proper use of manpower ; rating and incentive plans , promotion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules ; foreign trade issues ; social trends , such as health , medical care , pensions , etc. ; wage standards ; continuous employment and its concomitant regularization of production . And finally , what about the political issues involved in such a far-reaching program ? Beyond these questions looms the all-important attitude of the American public toward post-war industrial relations . Anyone acquainted with conditions and the present mood of large workers ' groups in the great industrial and war production centers will recognize the pressing need for better understanding and cooperation among management and labor . Before the spirit of the charter can be realized powerful sections of industrial labor must be made to see that the interests of industry coincide to a large extent with their own . That , unfortunately , is not the case in trade unionism of New Deal vintage . Practically every management-labor conflict it considered not on its merits but in its political aspects and reverberations . Overshadowing it all is a dense cloud of makeshift war labor policies and mounting Government interference which , to speak bluntly , have made industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to_the bridle irresponsible elements in labor 's ranks ; unless both sides can agree upon the treatment of specific issues and embark upon a program of national education that will help overcome the handicap of mutual distrust ; unless lopsided labor legislation is corrected ; unless there is general realization that labor abuses , just as capital abuses , must be curbed in time  --  not until that spade work is done cam we expect the industrial peace charter to bloom . Much as I approve of any steps making for better industrial relations , it might have been the better part of wisdom to take time out for debate and proper formulation of a comprehensive program . I am convinced that a national conference of industry , labor and other interested groups  --  the latter in an advisory capacity  --  would help to clarify the underlying issues . As it is , the Green-Johnston-Murray charter is another of the series of like pronunciamentos of the Atlantic , Philadelphia , Teheran and Yalta type . American interests would be served best if we were to think less in charter clich ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the solution of our national and industrial problems . In Topics of The Times of April 2 you give a good exposition of the benefits which could accrue by removal of tariff restrictions . It is amazing how many people who would resent being called isolationists hold out for protective tariffs , not realizing that any artificially created barriers such as tariff and immigration are the highest form of isolationism any nation could adopt . If those who are all out for the one-world policy would study the matter of tariff barriers logically , they would find that true internationalism and brotherhood lie in the removal of trade barriers . If they truly seek a world of peace which will give everyone an opportunity , to live and work in any part of God 's earth , they will never find it by the imposition of high national fences . Free trade means a free world . The recent article which appeared in your paper about the possibilities of a speedy homecoming for the seasoned service men after VE-day is most discouraging to us at home , as I 'm sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How can morale be kept up on the home front and the fighting front too , when the prospect of reunion with loved ones is so dim and set so far in the future ? With a continued manpower supply and reserves still in this country after extended and lengthy training periods , why ca n't more be done to bring home all those boys who have dutifully served in any capacity two or more years in any overseas theatre of war , and allow them rotation furloughs and permanent assignments in this country , if not discharges ? Why can not age as well as total years of service be considered along with the other items in the point system of discharge ? Surely all these boys have done more than their share , and others should now take their places . This is everybody 's war , so let everybody serve . Such a commendable job has been done evacuating the wounded . What about an equally good job bringing home the able . Our good friend , your country editor , has slipped a bit in , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now clear that he is an alien and no loyal son of Manhattan . Is he an islander like Henry Beetle Hough , who in his Vineyard simplicity speaks in dithyrambics of the glory of the quahog , or does he come from Boston or the Cape ? Of the Vineyard myself by adoption and remote ancestry , I have learned to bear with the pale and insipid mixture there glorified by the name of chowder ; but who that has once tasted that food for the gods , the real Manhattan chowder , and having within him a proper pride in the town of his birth could fall so low as to claim that " the real thing is made with a quart or two of clams , a few potatoes , plenty of triedout salt pork , onions , whole milk , pepper , salt and butter " ? These to be sure are part of the real dish ; but would he forget the mi. - strained tomatoes , the bay leaves and the sage  --  above all the sage  --  which go to make a food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all , Manhattan ? It is too bad to learn that he is not one of us , but we shall not hold it against him  --  merely pity his ignorance . Some day he will come to Manhattan and perhaps we may lead him where he may for the first time taste clam chowder as is clam chowder . Your editorial " Clam Chowder " was very good , except the part about thickening the milk with flour . Do n't ever do this . Simmer the whole mess two or three hours , and the starch in the potatoes will blend with and thicken the milk to just the right consistency . So right was the editorial " Clam Chowder , " that I am going to use it in a final effort to convince my wife that I have been right for all the years I have known her when I insisted that milk clam chowder , made the New England way , is the one and only Way to make it . While she has often made the chowder the New England way  --  and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never been quite willing to admit that was the right way to do it instead of putting in stewed tomatoes and perhaps some other vegetables as in what is popularly called Manhattan clam. chowder . I came from New England to New Jersey thirty-three years ago and have preached about New England clam chowder ever since , the only kind I ever knew back there . The Nazis have been lucky in the misnomers applied to them in the parlance of British and American soldiers . The almost affectionate diminutive , " Jerry , " used by the British , may explain why Englishmen were so tardy in working up to real anger , and why , unlike their unlikable German cousins , they still sing no " Hymn of Hate . " Our own GI term for the German soldiers , " Kraut , " is somewhat more contemptuous , less affectionate , and , on the whole , better . But these GI 's evidently do not know their German . " Kraut " ( cabbage ) is something to be cultivated and , if cooked  --  with windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proper word for a Nasi is " Unkraut " ( weed ) , which any gardener will tell you must be uprooted and destroyed . But perhaps our boys mean skunk cabbage . As a motorist I have observed with growing anxiety the lack of heed paid to the traffic regulations by car , truck and trolley car drivers lately . My business takes me at least twice a week through heavy traffic in the center of the metropolitan area , and it is shocking to see how motorists try to get through red lights , or do not wait until the lights change . A day or two ago I gave first aid to one victim of such undisciplined driving , and I fear that if the police do not take steps immediately to correct the situation such accidents will be plentiful .                     