@@707533

txt BID LAID TO NAZIS Moscow Quotes Sunday Paper Dispatch From Ankara as Source BRITISH STAND BROADCAST Roosevelt Declares Himself Mystified ' by Pravda 's Original Report By The Associated Press . LONDON , Jan. 18 ? Moscow gave full acknowledgment tonight to Britain 's repudiation of peace talks with Germany , but at the same time cited a story in a British Sunday newspaper as a basis for rumors that the Nazis actually were seeking a peace . Pravda , official Communist party paper , published yesterday " Rumors in Cairo " that two leading British personalities had discussed a separate peace with German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop somewhere on the Iberian Peninsula . The British Foreign Office promptly denied it and called the denial officially to the attention of the Soviet Government . One explanation advanced here for Moscow 's circulation of ethe British Sunday newspaper 's peace story was that it was an attempt to offset British indignation over Pravda 's rumor by suggesting that the British press also published peace rumor dispatches . In Washington President Roosevelt said he was " as mystified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , official Soviet news agency , broadcast the British denial over the Moscow radio tonight and transmitted it to Russian papers . The broadcast of the denial , however , was preceded by this comment : " The Ankara correspondent of The London Sunday Times reports that the representative of the Wilhelmstrasse , Dr. Paul Schmidt , apparently had his tongue in his cheek when he denied rumors of peace proposals which have been once again attributed to Papen . " Baron Franz von Papen is German Ambassador to Turkey . London Report Is Quoted The radio then quoted the remainder of the following story published Jan. 16 in The Sunday Times of London , not to be confused with The Times of London : " It is true that Papen has made no proposals , but it is untrue that no proposals have been made . Proposals were in fact made two months ago to Turkey , who refused to relay them to the Allies . Similar proposals were made in Lisbon and Stockholm . They are believed to have come from Hitler himself and have been based on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia . " These proposals were : 1 . Germany to retreat behind pre-war frontiers immediately : 2 . Germany publicly to renounce forever her claims to colonies , but to be given a limited free hand in the East ; 3 . Germany to scrap her fleet and submarines immediately ; 4 . Germany to continue under the present regime until these conditions have been fulfilled , after which Hitler and the Nazi party would hand I over to the army . " These proposals must not be taken as indicating extreme German weakness , but as a clever lastminute maneuver to save what can be saved while the going is good . without jeopardizing the remailing interests of German heavy industry , whose puppets Hitler and the war staff are . " Well-informed circles here utter a warning that Germany already is preparing for her next war in the . hope that she can find enough war-tired people to fall into a carefully laid trap . " Story Not Featured The story was used on Page 6 of the eight-page paper under a heading " Hitler Peace Offer : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at dictation speed , an indication that it was meant to appear in all Russian papers tomorrow . The quotation of the British official denial of Pravda 's story was attributed to Reuter , British news Confirmed on Page Five SOVIET NOW . CITES PEACE BID OF NAZIS // agency rather than officially . It said : " The Reuter agency repeats that the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs has denied the rumor reproducea in a Cairo telegram of the Pravda correspondent , according to which an alleged meeting took place between two leading British politicians and Ribbentrop . " Correspondents regularly stationed in Cairo sent no such dispatch as that which appeared in Pravda , and a check-up there today by John F. Chester , Associated Press correspondent , disclosed that none had heard the rumor , although he added that rumors in Cairo were generally a dime a dozen . The British-controlled Cairo cen-1 sorship said emphatically that the ; story did not pass censorship there . I A Reuter dispatch from Stock-1 holm said the German-controlled Scandinavian Telegraph Bureau quoted Berlin officials as denying that Joachim von @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon papers ignored the story for the second day , with the exception of The Evening Standard and The Evening News . The Standard , a Beaverbrook paper , printed a two-paragraph story on the back page under the headline " Moscow Drops Peace Rumor . " The News asked editorially : " Do the staff of Pravda and Russian broadcasters who repeated the ridiculous story really believe Churchill is the man to betray his allies after struggling through abysses toward victory ? Do they believe the British people would think of such a thing or tolerate such a thing for a moment ? "                     