@@709252

txt Two busy men took time off from important labor-manageffient problems today to direct attention to other important matters of unfinished business concerning the , ' nation 's children and its families . They . were . President Truman and Secretary of Labor Lewis B. Schwellenbach . To complete the country 's unfinished business for its children , the Secretary of Labor advocated : 1 . A building up of the purchasing power of family incomes , 2 . Allocation of a larger part of national income to child welfare , child-health , and educational services . 3 . Extension of the law to protect all children in danger of exploitation , whether in industry , agriculture , or commerce . These steps , he told the Nationa ' Commission on Children in Wartime , are essential to put an end to ! " the ways in which we are shortchanging our children today . " The Commission , formed in 19421 to help children in wartime , is meeting in a three-day conference to review its work and lay , plan future activities in behalf the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic Conference on Family Life heard a message from President Truman today calling for " a bill of rights for the family . " From a steady and responsible home , the President said , comes " that important driving incentive of a people that induces them to strive and work , to move upward and onward , to progress . " He referred to the impact of 3relsena t economic and social prob- r ! on family life as " hardly less man attacks on the family . " Family Bill of Rights The President suggested that it ' might be well if Americans , who in the past fought so well for a bill of rights for the individual , would in the future " fight no less valiantly for a bill of rights for the family . " The direct relation of past and current economic disturbances to family life and the welfare of children was also stressed by Boris Shiskin , of the American Federation of , Labor . He told the National Commission on Children , meeting at the Department of Labor , that 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war . This , he pointed out , has a profound ? effect on the family life as a unit . " This situation has resulted in bringing to Arneriba its own problem of displaced people , " Mrs. Sidonie Gruenberg of the Child Study Association of America declared . Such disruption of family life will have a demoralizing effect on many growing children , she believes , and urged special attention to these cases , as well as establishment of a counselling service for young parents as a remedy . Position Reversed Secretary Schwellenbach reversed a position taken a number of months ago when he suggested that the Children 's Bureau might be more appropriately in some other department of the govern- .. ment . He stated flatly today that he had no question now but what the Bureau belongs right where it is . Congress has given the Department of Labor the duty to " foster , promote , and develop the welfare of the wage earners of the United States , " . he explained . He sees " their welfare as inextricably botuid up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained , " for the present , at least , I know of no locale from which the Children 's Bureau could work which has a stronger claim to it than we have . " The National Committee , on Children will continue its meetings through Feb. 7 , with a special session tomorrow evening devoted to children in war-devastated areas .                     