@@708715

txt A 50-nation interim commission will begin its work setting up the United Nations ? the new world organization ? immediately after the close of the San Francisco Conference , it was reliably learned today . The Big Five are unanimous that there should be no delay in organizing the preparatory bodies of virtually all of the United Nations agencies . The interim commission will comprise all . of the members of the Conference itself , and it will be ' empowered to continue the present 14-nation Executive Committee which has been guiding deliberations during the past seven weeks . It is due to hold its first meeting the day after the United Nations Charter is signed here . Action Speeded The detailed plans for the functioning of the preparatory commission , having already received the backing of the United States , Russia , Britain , China , and France , are in the hands of the Steering Committee and will be placed before an early plenary session of the Conference for formal approval . This procedure will enable the project to by-pass delaying debate in committee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Steering Committee , on which all delegations are represented , favorable action by the Conference is assured . The authority of the commission will be specified in one of the three final documents to be signed by the entire Conference . These will be the Charter itself , the statute of the international court , and outline of the duties of the interim commission . The first meeting of the Commission will do no more than set up its executive committee , which is to have headquarters in London , and which is expected to begin work in six weeks . After that , it will be in virtually continuous session . As now proposed by the Big Five , the executive committee will include Australia , Brazil , Canada , Chile . China , Czechoslovakia , France , Iran , Mexico . Netherlands , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , United Kingdom , United States , and Yugoslavia . The minimum responsibilities of the interim commission , 01 which the foregoing executive committee will be the agent , will be : 1 . To recommend the Permanent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To determine the date for the fiat meeting of the general assembly and security council . 3 . To prepare the agenda for the first meeting of the assembly . 4 . To gather suitable personnel for setting up at least the skeleton secretariat of the United Nations . 5 . To devise the budget for the whole organization  --  assembly , security council , and related bodies  --  and to work out an allocation of costs which will be equitable to the 50 member states . 6 . To serve as the repository for the ratification of the Charter , and to be ready to summon the assembly when these ratifications have included the five permanent members of the security council and a majority of the other countries . 7 . To complete all of the preliminary steps looking toy . ' ard the liquidation of the old League or Nations and toward the incorporation of many of its auxiliary functions into the new United Nations organization . Complicated Task Tins latter assignment is both complicated and urgent . It I not a simple task to render the covenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a treaty commitment ratified by the parliaments of the different member states , and it is expected that at least one meeting of the League will be necessary to dissolve it . Many treaties and international bodies are closely and legally lied into the League and these ties will have to be cut and the functions transferred to the United Nations organization . In any action to these ends , it is assumed that neutral countries . such as Spain , Erie , and others . will have to participate . and the way to accomplish this is OM not entirely clear . The interim commission also will have the opportunity to carry forward other preparatory wor ' , , , and the extent to which it uses this opportunity will be determined in large part by the initiative of the Big Five . The commission is expected to prepare the tentative setup of the economic and social council and possibly other subordinate agencies of the assembly , including the commission on human lights . There also will be need of bringing the military staff committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least in preliminary form . the character and scope of the military agreements which are to be negotiated between the security council and the different United Nations . The desire is to bring into being at the earliest possible date the armed contingents which are to constitute the mobile enforcement power of the organization . Interim Authority tt remains to he deternaned whether , in the event of any international disturbance , comparable to the French-Lebanon affair , the interim executive committee of the United Nations will be authorised to take any jurisdiction in behalf of the forthcoming security council of the organization or whether the Big Five will act independently through regular diplomatic channels until the council actually is established . Though there has been pressure on the part of some of the smaller countries here to give the interim executive committee latitude to function in this way , the authority is not written into the present draft , and it is evident the Big Five - Prefer to act by themselves until the Charter is fully ratified and the world organization becomes an international corporate body . 