@@708192

txt Allied military police in the last week ' have smashed two criminal gangs largely composed of deserters from the American and Canadian armies and the French Foreign Legion . The military authorities now are seeking other deserters in Rome and Naples who have chosen to be criminals rather than soldiers . The first step was a military bulletin which placed all civilian restaurants in the two cities out of bounds to all uniformed members of the military forces . Police explained that many of the deserters retain their uniforms or impersonate officers or members of the other allied forces and rely on such restaurants for food . It is hoped the bulletin will drive many of them into the open because of their inability to get food . Regular officers ' and enlisted men 's messes will not be affected by the new ruling . House to House Canvass . In Rome military authorities have begun a house to house canvass of the residential districts which have catered to soldiers seeking temporary living quarters while on leave in Rome . Today 's precautions were set up as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had become members of two gangs in Rome and Naples . Apprehended with the Americans , who face early courts martial , was a motley assortment oi deserters from the Canadian army and French Foreign Legion plus some Spanish and Italian civilians . Military authoritie , s refused to make ' public the names of the Americans further than to reveal that one gang was led by a 23 year old Pennsylvanian who used the alias " Robert Lane . " His organization , known as the Lane gang , contained five other Americans . Stole Army ' Vehicles . It was this criminal ring whose activities were by far the most spectacular . Impersonating officers or soldiers of various allied armies as the occasion warranted , Lane 's gangsters acquired an assortment of military vehicles ranging from motorcycles to large trucks . These , with weapons obtained in the same way , were used in robberies in Naples and Rome and in highway holdups on the roads between these cities . ? The incident which led to the arrest of the Lane gang came 15 days ago when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ g h w a y . Later the same night another Canadian dressed as an American lieutenant and an American staff sergeant , both gang members , came for the jeep and ran Into military police guards . When challenged they tried to shoot their way out but were unsuccessful . Invade Hospital . Both men were found to be suffering from venereal disease and placed in a local hospital . Next day in a bold attempt to rescue these comrades two other members of the gang dressed as military police and armed with tommy guns invaded the hospital but fled when con ? fronted by police guards . From the men in custody police learned the whereabouts of the other members and staged a raid on a Rome cafe which was their meeting place . The police arrived just in time to capture several of the gang members in the act of talcing an Italian civilian for a one-way ride because he had talked too much after disposing of stolen goods . Lender Is Captured . The apprehension of Lane , himself , was equally theatrical . Military police first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , discovered his picture , made reproductions of it and returned the original without her knowledge . The photographic reproductions were distributed in Rome and Naples and a three day hunt began with Lane being chased from Rome to Naples and then back to Rome . Here it ended when a police agent saw him enter a cafe , gave him time to order a drink , then arrested him . In the questioning which followed , military authorities learned that the Lane gang had stolen a car belonging to Lt. Gen. VVIadyslaw Anders , commander of the Polish army corps . Foreign Legion Gang . I The other gang , which included one American deserter , was led by two deserters from the Foreign Legion , both veteran criminals ; Maj. Robert Wilson of Columbus , 0. , director of investigations for the army in Italy , was instrumental in the capture of both gangs . Lt. Col. Geoffrey White , a British officer , who is deputy Rome provost marshal , said the formation of the gangs is the result of many deserters being stranded in Italy without funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime , spending their proceeds in the large cities , " he said . " Altho these two groups definitely are broken up , there is a strong probability that similar gangs will be formed in Rome or other cities as the war moves on . "                     