@@708453

txt Though overshadowed by the Crimean Conference , the recent World Trade Union Congress in London has been indicative of the shape of democratic and not so democratic things to come . Where the Big Three spoke in general terms , the labor conferees thundered with a frankness that places certain post-war features in a clearer but hardly more reassuring light . Perhaps the most interesting and in its consequences most important item of discussion at the London gathering was the issue of post-war reparations and the use of German labor in the rebuilding of devastated areas . The Russians insist on conscription of German manpower . The British favor in principle reparation of all material damages , but are hesitant on the labor question . The CIO spokesmen have been doubtful and evasive . Only the American Federation of Labor  --  conspicuously absent from the conference ? has had the courage to come out against what President William Green called more than a year ago a " threat of enslavement of German labor . " But the issue is only outwardly of labor concern . Regardless of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by labor but by the leaders of the American-British-Russian coalition . For the second time in recent history the statesmen of the victorious alliance will be confronted with a problem as portentous and beset with perils as it was after the first World War . Russian Proposed Plan Conscription of German manpower for reconstruction purposes was first broached by Prof. E. Varga , Russian economist , in October , 1943 . Estimating Allied war damages up to the fall of 1943 at about 800 to 1,000 billion gold rubles , he advocated extensive usg of German labor together with reparations in money and kind . The Russians have since repeatedly reaffirmed this thesis . It is not so much the idea of employing German workers on reconstruction tasks as the manner in which German labor may be conscripted and used that meets with the objections of democratic labor spokesmen . Sir Walter Citrine , although affirming the justice of Allied claims , drew the line by observing : " Everything must be done to see that German labor , when used for reconstruction purposes , is not exploited or forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention to detract from German responsibility for the enormous damages they have caused . The Germans should be made to work to the limit of their physical and economic endurance . But when the suggested German labor draft is coupled with proposals to dismantle Germany economically and industrially , then I feel that we are on dangerous ground . It is time to ask ourselves what we want and where we are going . In that connection I submit : 1 . A policy of vengeance will not serve the cause to which we are dedicated . While there must be stern justice and precautionary measures against a revival . of German aggression , our energies must be primarily directed toward post-war economic recovery . 2 . Use of German slave labor , together with the break-up of Germany 's industrial structure , is bound to create conditions that are incompatible with the goal of world peace and prosperity . Anyone who believes that world-wide progress can be built on the economic ruin and slavery of tens of millions of Europeans is ignorant of the lessons of history . The Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and what did it get them ? War Aided Research That since our entry into World War II as much money has been spent on research , due largely to Government financing , as private industry spent in the twenty preceding years ; that the value of the products of this war-inspired research may well prove to be greater to the present and to the future than the value of all the physical property destroyed in this most destructive of all wars ; that if Government-financed research can create products of such value during wartime , it can create products of equal value during peace . Furthermore , that it is unnecessary for us to wait for the world to burn in bloody and destructive war every time we want a reason to give money instead of monopolies as rewards for research . That manufacturing exists as a great industry only because the farmers are willing to exchange their farm products for manufactured products ; that without that exchange , fostered by the patent laws , the manufacturers would starve to death , and the farmers be robbed of automobiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a great industry only when we pass laws promoting the fair exchange of idea-wealth for material wealth . Big Industry Seen That we , any time we want to , can collect and spend upward of 10 per cent of our total national income each year financing research on a permanent and competitive basis , thereby creating of research itself a ten-billiondollar industry  --  the new industry we have been seeking  --  supplying us with millions of new jobs , relieving unemployment at the top of our labor supply , enabling research with giant strides , rather than two-inch steps , t0 create new frontiers for the continuing expansion of American industry , and creating in research a purchasing power surpassing that of all our normal foreign trade . So far as I can see , there is no real reason why we can not adopt this plan . We have the urgent need for it , the necessary surplus money and the needed manpower . All we lack is the vision and desire to put the plan into operation . Education can cure that lack . A few million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to the American people may be all that is needed to win for mankind the race between education and catastrophe . Robert Boothby , the writer of a letter published in these columns yesterday , was mistakenly referred to as a delegate to the Bretton Woods Monetary Conference . He is a member of Parliament and chairman of the Monetary Policy Committee in London , which includes members of Parliament of all parties . Editor , THE TIMES . Labor Unrest Is Foreseen Forcing Germans to Work Is Regarded as Bid for Trouble tion in Germany . Naturally , with the death of her husband the allotment stopped . I think it is only humane that there should be a fund so that a part of the money could be sent to the family at once , as it is impossible for them to tide over until the pension money comes through . I think these families should be spared money anxieties when they have given their all for us . The chief thing wrong with America today , in my opinion , is that we are spending entirely too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of material wealth and entirely too little on the creation of idea-wealth . I believe we need to realize these things : " sat the patent system is a man , made device , under which the nation buys all patented ideas , paying for them , not with money but with seventeen-year monopolies ; that the system is only one among many systems that can be used by the nation for financing research ; that while the system has been responsible for the birth and development of the age of industry , it has failed miserably in creating research , itself a great industry ; that it succeeded in channeling into research less than 25 cents out of each $100 spent during the era between the two great wars ; that it has harnessed the Pegasus of research to the mills of the manufacturers and left unsolved the social science problems that led to two world wars and the in-between era of business depression and unemployment ; that the system is inefficient , confusing , inadequate and the most grossly unfair thing in the American way of life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies May Aid Germans 3 . The dismantling of German indus.J.ries other than armament and war plants will have consequences far different from those intended . It will simply mean that Germany , after being stripped of her dilapidated and wornout equipment , will in due course again become the most modern industrial nation of western Europe . Political and economic self-interest , as well as the desire to get reparations in money and kind , will force the Allies to furnish the Germans with the necessary means . 4 . A nation deprived of its means of livelihood and drafted for peacetime work abroad in forced-labor battalions is unlikely to contribute to international stability . Unless the Allies are willing to occupy German territory ad infinitum , this policy is doomed to defeat . Fascinated with the magic V-E tomorrow , we are apt to overlook the problems and conditions of thirty or forty years hence . No peace can be enduring to which some people have permanent objections . There is only one answer : Destruction of Germany 's present political system ; full exactment of penalties ; disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democratic elements within the country ; reparations within the limit of all that is humanly and economically possible , but without depriving the German people of the opportunity to restore themselves to a decent place in the family of nations ; employment , not of slave-labor battalions but of German workers on reconstruction tasks at standards set and supervised by international organs , preferably the International Labor Organization .                     