@@706803

txt A bill to give the government authority to control all rents in the country , not only on dwellings and dwelling establishments but including hotel and rooming house rates , and also permitting the President to fix rents in commercial buildings , was reported unanimously today to the House by its Banking and Currency Committee . The action was taken after an appeal by James F. Byrnes , Director of Economic Stabilization . Practically every building of any nature in the country would be brought under control of the government , as far as rents are concerned . The bill as presented provided that commercial rents be established as of Sept. 15 , but the new draft permits the President to fix the time . The committee deleted from the bill a provision which some members insisted would give the President the power to decide as to the use of property other than rental property . Representative Steagall , chairman of the committee , said he hoped to obtain passage of the bill tomorrow under a unanimous consent arrangement . Failing that , he said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could be brought up Friday . It was the intention of the Administration to get the bill to the White House by the end of next week , at the latest , and help was promised from the Senate Banking and Currency Committee . ? The only witness before the Senate committee , it was said , would be Mr. Byrnes . He told the House group today that the recent rent control legislation did not give adequate power to control rents . He said the original law permitted rent control only " in defense areas , " and while the Office of Price Administration had designated practically all the country as a defense area he added that he felt the law should be made specific and all-inclusive . Mr. Byrnes said he wanted particularly the power to control commercial rents . " From many sections of the country , " he said , " I have received messages advising me of increases of rents , particularly since Oct. 1 , of stores , such as groceries , butcher shops and stores in New York City selling wearing apparel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reports showed that commercial rents in New York City had increased 200 per cent . Representative Thomas F. Ford of California observed that he had heard of soldiers and sailors being charged as much as $10 a day for a hotel room , and that in Los Angeles , there had been instances where the rate was as much as $18 . Mr. Steagall asserted that there undoubtedly was need for specific legislation giving the government power over hotel rates . The need for regulation was " perhaps more great right here in Washington than in any city in the country , " he added . Many Vacancies Reported The commercial rent control plan in the bill is designed , according to New York realty men , primarily to keep down prices charged for store space and other business properties in active war industry centers and around military camps , though similar control could be extended to any and all cities under the new plan . A spokesman for the Real Estate Board of New York said that normal competition for tenants in the commercial field would tend to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has done in the apartment field . " There are many store vacancies , some of which have resulted from the closing of retail outlets because of war restrictions . Offices and lofts also are available in large numbers , with civic groups and municipal officials seeking to bring more government agencies here and more war contracts to concerns in this city to help improve the situation .                     