@@707203

txt The announcement by the commanding general of an unidentified North African port yesterday that the loss of American food-supply and war-material shipments to North Africa as a result of U-boat action had been " absolutely negligible " in the past six months provides added reason for believing the submarine menace is being mastered . This officer declared . that more than 1,000,000 tons of shipping had crossed the Atlantic to maintain the United States Fifth Army since it landed in Africa , and that convoys continue to stream into these ports with greater tonnages than before . Some time ago Hitler was quoted as having announced that Germany 's output of U-boats had reached a new high level , and that an improved technique of attack would be used to sweep United Nations shipping from the Atlantic . At about the same time , he elevated Germany 's submarine expert , Grand Admiral Karl Dtinitz to supreme command of the Nazi Navy for - the avowed purpose of co-ordinating all of its activities with the proposed U-boat onslaught . nest Time for Attempt No better time could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations had a large army in North Africa which had run into unexpectedly strong resistance in its campaign to oust the Nazis from Tunisia . It was necessary to provide this force with a constant flow of supplies by convoys which had to converge on certain definite foci off the western coast of North Africa , all of which were well within striking distance of Nazi submarines based on the channel ports of France . In addition , convoys constantly were reaching British ports and rounding the North Cape en route to Russia 's Arctic ports . No announcement ever has been made of the strength of the United States military forces in North Africa other than that they consist of four or more front-line divisions , but this information is an indication that the total number probably is somewhere in the neighborhood of 200,000. 10 Tons of Shipping a Man When it is taken into consideration that every man and his equipment required an average of some 10 tons of shipping to put him in Africa , and thereafter an average of at least a ton a month to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of shipping moving to and from Africa . It is only to be expected that a stream of additional Army personnel destined to participate in the coming invasion of Europe is crossing the Atlantic . The shipping involved In these movements plus what is required to service and sustain combat troops already in Africa , Great Britain and elsewhere in the vicinity of the European theater , and that needed to supply the Allies amounts to a huge total . Consequently , any Nazi claims that the bag of thew U-boats has fallen off because there is a lack of targets falls eat . Two Possibilities The real answer is one of two things . Eeither the U-boats are not at sea or if they are , they are being prevented from making successful attacks on convoys . World War I U-boat warfare statistics disclose some interesting data . The total force was roughly divided into one third operating against enemy shipping , another third en route to and returning from the cruising grounds , and the remainder in port for repairs and replenishment of supplies . The curve of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spaced about six weeks apart , the maximums coinciding with the times when the submarines were at sea and the minimums when the fewest number was at sea . Longer Lull The present lull in announced sinkings has extended well over six weeks . so if the World War I curve is any criterion , the lack of success must be attributed to some other cause . For some months , all of the Nazi U-boat bases in Western France have been subjected to terrific bombings from the air . In addition , the shipbuilding yards in Germany which specialized in submarine construction , as well as the establishments throughout the country which produce the principal components such as electrical equipment and diesel engines , have been receiving periodical pound2s . Consequently . it is possible that U-boats have received wholesale damage while at their bases or that delays are being experienced in effecting repairs and getting them back to sea . British Patrols Britain maintains a constant surface and airplane patrol off the French Coast for the express purpose of . making it difficult as well as dangerous for U-boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of these efforts may have resulted in decreased U-boat activities , either by preventing or delaying their getting to sea or through disruption of the building program . Coming now to measures designed to afford additional protection to convoys , we have been told that the small carriers assigned to escort duty are doing splendid work with their planes . A recent news item described the sinking of several U-boats which had been detected by planes many miles away from a convoy that they had no onnortunity to attack . Shoot-It-Out Order It has been reported that attacks by airplanes have become so much of a problem that the German Undersea Command has issued orders for U-boats to remain on the surface and shoot it out with planes . This story would sound fantastic except for the fact that several instances of this nature have been reported by Allied planes . It also is known that immoved deliveries of destroyers and smaller escort vessels have allowed a more generous assignment of protecting vessels to convoys , so that in place of only two or three escorts , there now are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morale Factor I Then there is the unverified rumor that some new ant:sub- ! which gave indications of being ' able to beat the U-boat . Also , it is quite possible that the morale of the U-boat crews has begun to crack . Submarine crews , by reason of the wearing nature of their duties . are usually picked men selected from volunteers . Germany has been expending men at a prodigious rate for several years , and its Navy may not have had much choice in the matter of obtaining crews for the 500 or 600 U-boats it is said to have completed . These men must have begun to realize that submarine warfare is not producing the result their officers promised . as they know by this time that Allied shipping is increasing instead of decreasing They undoubtedly are aware of the increasing number of U-boats that fail to return to base , and all of the foregoing , coupled with unsuccessful efforts to get within range of convoys . plus the harrowing experience of being depth-bombed , conceivably can result in broken morale . The situation may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the increasingly I.eavy toll of German submarines , together with a scarcity of trained crews , resulted in mutinies among U-boat crews at Kiel . The opinions contained In the above article are those of the center and are not to be construed ac 1 eflecting the VjeR ' 5 of the Na vy Dena Ittrent or of the naval ceri leo at lAter marine device is proving to be very effective . This device may be the fulfillment of the assurance given by Charles F. Kettering of the ' National Inventors Council , who , ' about a year ago , stated that a project was under consideration                     