@@709163

txt The already overburdened termlnal at Chicago airport will be jammed beyond its capacity to pro . vide even standing room for air passengers within three months , C , R. Smith , chairman of American Air . lines , predicted yesterday in a speech urging faster progress toward completing the larger terminal now under construction . Smith discussed Chicago 's future in air transportation at a luncheon meeting of the Chicago Association of Commerce in the Palmer House . For a city of its rank and ' raper. lance , Chicago has the " most woefully inadequate passenger terminal of any airport in this country , " Smith said . Cites Present Confusion " There is crowding and confusion at the airport today , and the largest airplane using it regularly in domestic service ' is but a 21 pas . senger plane , " he said . " You can imagine the jam that will result when 50 passenger planes taxi up every few minutes and attempt to discharge their passengers into the present inadequate space . In Febru ? ary , American Airlines Will begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines soon will do likewise . " Highlights of his analysis of Chicago 's air future included : It is calculated the city will have 4,800,000 passengers using its sir facilities out of 22 million air pas . sengers in the United States in 1950 . Future Funnel of Mr Traffic Chicago is destined to be " the great funnel for air traffic to Europe from nearly all the westetn United Slates . " Ile added that " it is even conceivable that air travel from some sections of Latin America for Europe will be routed thru Chicago . " Chicagoans now know it is not necessary to go to an ocean port before starting to Europe , that the trip can be started from Chicago airport and completed without changing conveyances , If Chicago is to deal with air pas . senger traffic in a creditable man . nor , Smith said , it is necessary that : 1 . The present airport be regarded as a permanent part of the city 's air facilities , because not even the pro . jected huge new Douglas site near Park Ridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present airport be provided by means of an expressway . 3 . The Douglas project be recog. nized as more pressing than is gen. orally realized . It ca n't be made ready for use before it is urgently needed , " no matter with what speed you operate , " ho Added . Urges Campaign for Travelers 4 , An expressway to the Douglas port be " one of the first requirements , " because of the distance of the site from  --  the business district . No time should be lost , Smith urged , in organizing a campaign by the association and other civic organizations to impress travelers in all sections of the west that Chicago is the most desirable gateway to Europe and many other parts of the world . Otherwise , old travel habits will impel ' them to continue using such seaports as New York . Because of the fact that many thousands of air travelers get their most important , impression of the city from the terminal building restaurant , he urged that special attention be given to providing the best possible dining facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive of the nasociation , who recently led Chicago 's delegation to London to present the city 's case for selection as the permanent home of the united nations organization , reported the results of the trip at the luncheon . Chicago , Lyons said , probably will be among four or five cities selected as possibilities by the site committee . It has " as good a chance as any city in the United Slates , " ho believes .                     