@@708294

txt Aircraft today dropped leaflets containing a warning from Lieut . Gen. Ronald Scobie , general officer conunanding Greece , to civilians in and around Athens and Piraeus that " rebel " guns still firing after 9 a. m. tomorrow will be attacked " with all the arms at my disposal . " These , he added , would include airplanes , naval guns and rockets . " For their personal security all civilians in the area concerned must immediately evacuate to a distance of 500 meters ( about 545 yards ) from the position of any rebel guns . " No further warning will be given . " By Joseph G. Harrison Stag Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor ATHENS , Dec. ** is believed here now that the next few days will spe the setting-up of a Regency in Greece , with the Archbishop Damoscinos of Athens as Regent , thus ending the present civil war and establishing favorable conditions to the holding of a free election . Although it is understood that King George II , now in London , is objecting to this plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through nevertheless . In view of the fact the Regency has been recommended by virtually every British and Greek political and military figure connected with the present crisis , including the Greek Cabinet of Premier George Papandreou . it seems unlikely any regal objection will be able to forestall . it . Opposition on the part of the King is readily understandable , since no able-bodied monarch is liable to be pleased when people start talking of a Regency which . by its very definition means at least temporary replacement of the King . It is considered quite possible that if the King does not give in , means will be found to short-circuit his opposition . In fact , Panayotis Kanellopoulos , Minister of Marine and Provisional Minister of Finance , so hinted yesterday . Military Situation The military situation here has quieted down somewhat and there is little shooting , though E. L. A. S. forces are still occupying the Averoff Prison where numerous political prisoners and alleged Quislings have been housed . In discussion among British circles , it is apparent that the British would welcome other Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once the fighting is ended . Such co-operation is considered valuable because it would stimulate the confidence of groups ; which have so far held aloof and might help the United States public obtain to greater understanding of the difficulties involved in the Balkan settlement , especially in the next stage , namely , application of democratic principles in a free election . Here is an outline of the present British policy toward Greece as explained to me by a British official . In the first place , there is not the slightest chance the British will withdraw from the country on the threat of continued fighting , either in regular or guerrilla form by the E. L. A. S. The British hold to the view that their policy regarding Greece , while it may have had its weak points , is basicly. just and that it would be willful negligence to retreat from its determination to insure fair , nation-wide elections because of any threat from the Left or because of any connivance from the Right . At the same time , the British hold that General Scobie 's recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they assert that there is evidence that it was so considI erect by E. A. M. 's moderate wing . Bargaining Ruled Out Any attempt to bargain regarding General Scobie 's terms will be rejected by the British , not because they believe the situation does not call for some modification , but because their military position is now so strong they feel it will make a greater impression on E. A. M. leaders if they hew firmly to their first terms . The British have been supporting the Regency plan , not because they feel it is perfect , but because they think it is absolutely necessary that when the Greeks arrive at the point where they can sit down and settle their present difficulties , there should be a Greek at the head of the table with sufficient power to make sure the job is done well . Fully Aware of Perils The purpose of the British is to make sure that the Greeks have a good chance of settling their country 's grievous internal trouble but not to dictate that settlement . Anyone who believes the British are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherent in the present Green conflict , are making a great mistake . British military leaders are con- scious every minute , not only of the fact that they must inevitably weaken other fronts in order to cope with this strife , but also of the fact that the Germans were unable to conquer S all of Greece with 12 divisions and that if the E. L. A. S. are driven back into the hills there is no telling when the civil war might end . Similarly , officials here are fully awake to outside reaction over this conflict . Each time a British official speaks with an American journalist , he asks how public opinion in the United States is taking the affair . There is not the least disposition here to minimize the seriousness of the affair from any angle .                     