@@706152

txt ISLAND FORTRESS IN MANILA BAY STILL : IFIELID BY U. S. JAPANESE PRESSING Invaders Drive Hard as Shortens Lines to the North FORTS ON BAY HELD Fortress of Corregidor Is Believed Headquarters ? Cavite Demolished By CHARLES HURD Special to THE NEW Yolut TIDIES . WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ? The two great symbols of American development of the Philippine Islands , the city of Manila with its 600,000 population and Cavite naval base , passed today into Japanese hands as General Douglas , commander of the United States armed forces in the Far East , tightened his lines for a final battle in the hills northwest of the city . The city and the base alike were occupied apparently without fighting but without surrender . The city of Manila has been " open " and undefended for a week , but nonetheless ravaged by Japanese bombing planes , which particularly sought out its historical churches , hospitals and residential districts . The naval base was left in ruins , a vacant and demolished establishment in which oil and other nontransportable supplies were destroyed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded who could not be carried away and hospital corps men left to care for them . Defenders Continue Fight While officials here did not minimize the tragedy implied in Japanese occupation of these points , it was emphasized repeatedly that I the United States-Filipino forces were continuing to fight stubborn , ly north and northwest of Manila against Japanese attacks , even though these are " being pressed with increasing intensity . " In addition , while the Japanese hold the principal city , they have not got control of the port . The Army announced that it still held Corregidor , a Gibraltar-like island fortress guarding the entrance to 1Manila Bay , and other defensive positions that make the bay untenable for shipping as long as their guns command its waters . The United States-Filipino forces are gathered largely in the mountainous region north of Manila Bay , where General still retains a harbor for use either in event of final withdrawal or to take his forces to Corregidor . This is on Subic Bay , an indentation in the west coast of the Philippines , around which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Line Announced The communiqu ? announcing the realignment of forces north of Ma-. nila , issued here as of 9:30 A. M. today , read in part as follows : " The tactical situation in the vicinity of Manila necessitated a radical readjustment of the lines held by American and Philippine troops and a consolidation of defense forces north of Manila . This manoeuvre was successfully accomplished in the face of strong enemy opposition . The consequent shortening of our lines necessarily uncovered the road to Manila and made possible the Japanese entrance into the city . As it had been previously declared an open city , no close defense within the environs of the city was possible . " The loss of Manila , while serious , has not lessened the resistance to the Japanese attacks . American and Philippine troops are occupying strong positions north of the city and are holding the fortified Island of Corregidor and the other defenses of Manila Bay effectively , preventing the use of this harbor by the enemy . " The Navy , in making its own announcement of the abandonment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // JAPANESE PRESSING PHILIPPINE FIGHT // Japanese troops entered Manila ? . Because of lack of detail in the cryptic reports that General sent from his field headquarters , it was not possible accurately to describe his new lines of defense , but military observers noted that by taking the westward stand he apparently had decided not to emulate the defense of the Filipino leader Aguinaldo in the insurrection . Aguinaldo took his forces into the mountains in the Province of Bulacan , ' Mere he successfully resisted " pacification " forces for three years . General appeared to have centered his defenses in the highly rugged section of Bataan , a peninsular province west of Manila Bay ; in Subic Bay , on the northern border of Bataan , and in the provinces of Pampanga and Zambales . The province of Pampanga is a rich section north of Manila Bay , traversed by a railway that runs from Manila to a port on Lingayen Gulf , where the Japanese made their greatest landing in force . If the defenders still hold San Fernando , to the north , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spur that runs to the west to the coastal and mountainous province of Zambales . News of the loss of Manila created a feeling of depression , but officials repeatedly expressed the hope that this country would not exaggerate the loss as viewed in the light of the greater struggle yet to take place in the Battle of the Pacific . Several Congressional spokesmen recalled that military opinion always had considered the Philippines as an outpost that could delay a Japanese attack but probably not withstand one permanently . On the other hand , each day that General forces the Japanese to expend men , munitions , airplanes and materiel in attempts to conquer this outpost reduces by that degree the strength that they will have for assaults on the economically important regions to the south .                     