@@709569

txt The long-threatened nation-wide maritime strike went into effect last midnight , hitting New York first , despite the fact that negotiators in Washington had reached a final agreement by the deadline . Differentes in time placed busy New York Harbor in the van of struck cities as strike leaders here interpreted the deadline to mean local time in all ports of the nation . That would have meant a settlement in Washington by 11 P. M. standard time . Strike headquarters at the National Maritime Union office building on West Seventeenth Street had issued a call for all members with trucks and cars to report to the hall immediately ; and the union " contact and investigation squads " were also called in . It was evident that the strike call was soon to be issued . Orders Set Throughout U. S. Similar orders for striking were being prepared throughout the country and cities immediately reported affected were Boston , Philadelpliiia , Jacksonville , Fla. , San Francisco and Seattle . In San Francisco , Committee for Maritime Unity headquarters said it had received no official notification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event the longshoremen would not work today . In Seattle the Northwest Maritime Strike Strategy Committee said the " rank and file members of unions in the Northwest will strike and stay on strike pending acceptance or rejection of the National Committee for Maritime Unity 's recommendations . " In Norfolk , Va. , the men returned to their ships . Regardless of the outcome in Washington it was apparent that national shipping faced a period of at least a day and perhaps fortyeight hours of confusion and strike action , for some ports , including San Francisco , had already received strike orders . Union mass meetings had been waiting in all the ports for word of the agreement , but it required approval by a majority of the seamen attending the meetings , and regardless of the time the settlement announcement had come , the deadline would have passed before approval votes could have been relayed back to Washington . The strike call in New York actually came at 11:33 P. M. when the following statement was issued at National Maritime Union headquarters by the New York Joint Maritime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Maritime Unity ) policy which calls for a strike at 12:01 A. M. local time , June 15 , if all unions in CMU have not received satisfactory agreements , the New York Joint Maritime Committee is recommending to its members that they strike at midnight . " All seamen are to secure the ships and walk off . " No Word From Washington At the National Maritime Union hall , at 12:45 A. M. , it was said no word has been received from Washington . A spokesman said officials of the union were not at the hall , and that they would have to decide later what to do about reversing the strike call when the CMU official committee in Washington sent out a settlement report . In any case a membership meeting will have to be called to pass on the terms of the agreement , it was said . The order affected more than 500 vessels on the active list in Ne Thrk harbor . It was the first order to the first group of the 200,000 seamen and other sea workers affiliated in the CMU @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggregation of merchant ' vessels ever under the American flag . New York shipping men expected two or three days of strike action at least . While New York Maritime workers stood by to begin their mass picketing of the waterfront at 7 A. M. today , groups of seamen in other cities were taking strike orders . Workers were assembling in Boston with the strike placards , and San Francisco was ready to go out " for at least twenty hours " regardless of what word they reeeived from Washington . The New York decision was dispatched from NMU headquarters to the waiting seamen at St. Nicholas Arena , 69 West Sixty-sixth Street , where a mass meeting had been in progress all evening . It was received with acclaim by more than 5,000 seamen who had been waiting to unleash their obvious strike enthusiasm . Similar enthusiasm for the strike was reported from cities on all three coasts . Word flew along the waterfront : " The strike is on . " Strike leaders had their plans ready and were prepared to line the waterfront today with pickets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were still milling around half an hour after the strike call came , and squads were sent along the waterfront to pull stand-by crews from ships still in port , among which were several waiting to sail if the strike were called off , some with passengers . Officials of the steamship lines had held the ships in readiness , and some had expressed the opinion that the ships still had a chance to sail today or tomorrow if the final settlement in Washington were reached . Navy districts throughout the country were . reported taking preliminary steps to carry out Navy Department orders to man merchant ships . Rear Admiral Monroe Kelly , commandant of the Third Naval District , was reported ready to order to active duty qualified reservists in case the Presidential order is issued covering essential shipping services . Skeleton crews have been assembled at the Navy Receiving Barracks and the Armed Guard Center in Brooklyn for this purpose , the district reported . Time Difference Ignored The action opened the city 's most confused maritime situation , with a strike in progress despite settlement in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neglected to take into account the difference in time between port cities and , the capital . The two focal points for action were New York and San Francisco . In the West Coast city men had already taken strike action , having walked off in mid-afternoon from the liner Monterey just before sailing time . This was a stop-work action " to attend a stop-work meeting , " it was said . In San Francisco Frank Foisie , head of the operators ' association , said the strike could be blamed on Harry Bridges , longshoremen 's leader . " If there is a strike it is because Bridges wants it , " he declared . " All the issues are resolved . " Apparently the basic questions had been agreed on for the last two days , but details stood between the striving negotiators and ultimate settlement . Mr. Foisie was quoted by The United Press as saying that the agreement with West Coast longshoremen had been worked out yesterday " to the complete satisfaction of the parties , " but that at the last minute Mr. Bridges had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with retroactivity of wage payments . The big scene in New York was at St. Nicholas Arena at 69 West Sixty-sixth Street where a mass meeting had been in progress since early evening . More than 5,000 men filled the hall and part of the street outside , and entertainers were on hand with music . The men danced and sang , adapting strike words to old tunes . Finally , a little before midnight , Joseph Stack , port agent of the National Maritime Union , announced that the strike was on . He and other leaders read orders to the men . A resolution of the joint strike committee in New York , setting forth reasons for the strike , was read amid bursts of cheering . None of the men knew that they were striking against an agreement just completed by their leaders in Washington after days of painful discussions , of parrying and counter-proposing . The leaders told the men that relief ships and Army transports would not be struck . They said the unions would decide what ships were in these categories . At the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for New York action , other leaders prepared for " the world 's biggest picket line " which is scheduled to stretch from Canal Street to West Twenty-third this morning . Late Order to Crews A late order was issued to standby crews of the 500 ships in the harbor to remain on board until early this morning , and then leave with their gear . The 2,000 relief men who would have gone back to take up midnight tours of duty were also ordered to go back and remove their gear from the crew quarters of the ships . The maritime fleet that will be affected if the strike can not be recalled on the basis of the Washington agreement represents some 3,100 vessels in this country and at sea . Those at sea will not be affected immediately , and many of those here now will fall into the " free " categories since they carry relief cargoes and troops . Shipping men believe that the action last night was simply a mistake , and a result of failure to take every precaution . The mere continued presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to the minute of closing seemed to indicate that they also were counting on midnight being midnight in New York . Regardless of the intentions of the negotiators there was no question that the strike was in progress , and that it would be costly and crippling , even if it lasted only a short time . A large police detail kept order on Sixty-sixth Street as the night meeting broke up after midnight . Still unaware of the settlement , the men started drifting away for their ships , the union hall and their homes .                     