@@710697

txt Northeastern University 's new 51,050,000 Student Center was today a medley of students eager to make use of the new restaurant In the basement and of workmen equally eager to get the building completed . Carpenters and plasterers and painters are still at work , but the building will be ready for almost full occupancy by Monday , Sept. it , when the academic year really opens . This week the freshman class s t udents  --  which , by the way , are the largest in the University 's history  --  are registering for courses , attending orientation lectures , and generally becoming acquainted with the school that will become their alma mater . The building , of plain , modern design , is constructed of while brick and will form the dominating structure of the seven-building campus . Ho is the third of the seven buildings to be put up . Ten years ago , Northeastern University was housed in rooms over a Huntington Avenue dance hall . ? iThe restaurant , known as the Conimons Room , occupies part of the ground-floor and serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a recreation room for women students , Its doors opening directly on the grass lot toward the South . The equipment that has been purchased for the new building , and which Is already In storage waiting for the moment when it can be delivered , has a total cost of 5100.000 . There will be a portable stage , a book store , a men 's faculty lounge , a game loom , and several showers and lockets . The Student Center now houses the athletic and student activities offices ; and on the first floor is a health and medical center . The auditorium , which forms an ell extending behind the middle section of the building , and has an entrance directly on the main lobby , will be capable of seating 1,200 persons . Theme Is also to be a chapel on the second floor , large enough to accommodate 200 . Offices of the News and the Cauldron , student publications , are to be on the third floor of the new building , where there will also be the rooms of the Camera Club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for study , rending , and classes . The fourth floor , f ( example , contains one large classroom seating 74 , and four smaller classrooms of 30 to 54 capacity each . Dr. Carl S Ell , President of Northeastern , said the Student Center was completed in record time . It was begun in Match . 1946.                     