@@708510

txt Four weeks ago today the First and Ninth United States Armies jumped off across the Roer , headed for the Rhine . The ndxt day General Eisenhower met correspondents at his headquarters and told them : " The attack we are seeing now should mark the beginning of the destruction of German forces west of the Rhine . " The correspondents attempted to draw him out as to the length of time he thought would be needed to reach that objective . He declined to commit himself , reminding them that a few months before he had been too optimistic . This time he chose to let events speak for themselves . Events now have spoken . With the Germans reporting Montgomery 's new offensive they speak again today . They probably exceed even the General 's best hopes as of Feb. 24 . In thirty days the penultimate phase of the Battle of Germany in the west has been won . For 250 miles Allied armies stand on the west bank of the mighty German river . At least five German armies have been destroyed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 200,000 when the Third and Seventh Armies round up the stragglers in the Saar and Palatinate . German dead and wounded must be many thousandy . A second of Germany 's three largest industrial areas has been taken from her . Even more than all this , a bridgehead has been won across the Rhine . Victories have been so continuous and have followed each other in such close order that headlines had to be changed almost between editions . On March 2 the Ninth Army reached the Rhine at Duesseldorf . On March 5 Cologne fell . The Ninth Armored Division of the First Army seized the Ludendorff Bridge at Remagen on March 7 and started building up the East Rhine bridgehead that now threatens the Ruhr from the line of the Sieg River . The Third Army broke across the Moselle on the 16th and on the next day seized Coblenz , seat of the Allied occupation of the Rhine following the World War of 1914-18 . There have been increasing signs of disintegration of the morale of the German soldier , the intangible that is the ultimate factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ token resistance . A German Army commander is reported by a captive to have committed suicide . Von Rundstedt has been relieved and the task of holding a line in the west entrusted to Field Marshal Kesselring . Changing generals in the midst of a battle seldom works out well . But there are warning signs too . Few firstline enemy divisions have been met west of the Rhine . They apparently were withdrawn before the bridges were destroyed . Even the Gestapo and Elite Guard units that had formed the hard core of the Volksturm divisions and had kept them fighting by holding a gun at their backs are missing . Somewhere east of the Rhine these men must be waiting for the final assault . The going may be much more difficult the next few weeks than it has been the last month . As Under-Secretary of War Patterson warns , " we must still fight the battle for Inner Germany . " There can be no doubt of the final result . Allied superiority is too great , on the ground as well as in the air . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trick , as Mr. Churchill so aptly put it . But it will have to be good , it will have to be strong , and it will have to be all together . There are no easy victories to be won in this war . The last may be the hardest of them all .                     