@@708231

txt Developments today indicated that the fate of the Dumbarton Oaks postwar peace enforcement plan hangs on the forthcoming conference of the big three ? President Roosevelt , Prime Minister Churchill , and Marshal Stalin . Sen. Vandenberg . Whether t h e proposed new league of nations shall be anything ' more than a debating society depends on the outcome of the President 's diplomacy to win Stalin 's support of the project . ' ? Under the Roosevelt peace enforcement plan the military forces of the powers could be called into action against an aggressor . only by unanimous vote of the ' Major powers , with the accused nation not voting . Russian envoys to the , Dumbarton Oaks conference insisted " on the accused power having a vote , thereby enabling the soviet union , if ever accused of aggression , to veto league action against it . Plan Called Futile . Senators . Vandenberg R. , Mich . , Taft R .. 0. , and numerous other senators , Democrats as well as Republicans , take the position that a peace league founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the start . It would ' mean that the league could use force to halt an aggression by a small nation , such as Poland or Czechoslovakia , but could not interfere with a big power  --  for example , an aggression Russia on Poland . " What we strive to attain , " said Sen. Vandenberg , " is a free world of free men in which justice , not force , shall rule . But we shall never realize the dream if we start out with a peace of injustice to small nations either in the peace settlement or in the organization erected ' to maintain the peace . And I am more convinced than ever that the fate of Poland is going to be the acid test of the justice that will be accorded small nations . " Veto Power Blocks Action . " I am exercised , " said Sen. Taft , over the proposed veto power given individual nations in the Dumbarton Oaks agreement . Such a veto power means that the new organization could not act against the only nations that would be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President can induce Stalin to recede from his position is problematical . The Russian dictator already has absorbed the eastern half of Poland , the Baltic states , and Bessarabia into the soviet union and , is extending the Russian hegemony over Finland , Romania , Bulgaria , Hungary , and Yugoslavia . He is intent on - dominating the new Poland , and Czechoslovakia . He is not disposed to allow any league of nations to crack down . on him as an aggressor . Churchill Stands Pat . The British supported the Americans at Dumbarton Oaks against the Russian proviso , but it is well known that Churchill has no notion of permitting a league of nations to interfere with the British empire in the matter Of freedom for India , restoration of Hong Kong to China , or other questions affecting the status quo ante . Churchill still looks to the balance of power for British security , whether it be In a revival of the triple entente ? B r I tat n , France , and Russia  --  or a western European bloc to offset the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet has not been decided . The President 's physical condition makes it highly desirable to hold the meeting in Washington or no farther distant than Quebec . Churchill wants it in London ; Stalin favors Moscow but is willing to compromise on some place in the near east . On the question of congress delegating its war making power to the American member of the security council of the new league , the internationalists already have backed down . They ' now say they never wanted to delegate anything except the President 's recognized authority to use force for defense or protection of national rights . It would still remain for congress to determine whether the nation should go to war . Drop Two-Thirds Fight . The movement of the internationalists for a constitutional amendment providing for ratification of treaties by a majority vote of both houses , which originated in the fear that jhe new peace plan would not command two-thirds of the senate , also has fizzled out . Sen. George D. , Ga. , an internationalist , gave the proposal its death blow when he remarked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-thirds of the senate would not be worth the paper it was printed on . The internationalists hope to get the new league approved by the senate without directly involving the question of the authority given the American delegate . That question is to be reserved for disposition in enabling legislation to carry the league treaty into effect , such legislation requiring only a majority vote of both houses . " Such legislation , " said Sen. Connally D. , Tpx. , chairman of the senate foreign relations committee , would provide for the appointment of the American representative and define his powers . He would need a good deal of latitude to aft In emergency . " Favored by Vandenberg . Sen. Vandenberg said the delegate should exercise recognized executive power " to use armed forces when necessary to protect American interests . " He thought " the twilight zone which has existed between this power of the President to use armed forces and the right of congress to declare war must be cleared up . " Putting this into writing would be the great difficulty , he predicted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization 1,000 per cent " Sen. Vandenberg continued : " I am willing to permit the President to have a free hand in minor policing jobs and to operate on an even larger scale in the two Americas , which is merely a reaffirmation of the Monroe Doctrine . I am willing , too , that he shall have a free hand in demilitarizing the axis powers and the use of force for this purpose . ' " When it comes to a major war the congress , under the Constitution , and the American people must sanction it . "                     