@@709610

txt Goats and sheep aboard the battleship Nevada , near the center of the blast of the atomic bomb dropped Monday , ' were made sick but were not killed . it was disclosed today . Scientific evaluators of the test , lin their second day of tours of the remaining vessels of the seventythree-ship target fleet , found that the mice under the Nevada 's stern gun turrets were all dead . The atomic bomb exploded several hundred yards off the Nevada 's stern . The evaluators discovered also that the blast had left Bikini Atoll virtually untouched . There was no sign of violently abnormal tidal movements . Vice Admiral William H. P. Blandy , commander of Operation Crossroads , announced that the ' bomb used was a " perfectly nor'mar Nagasaki-type bomb but " somewhat less powerful " than the one dropped on the Japanese city last summer . Admiral Blandy , whose scientists and engineers were moving about the lagoon in small boats and boarding ships of the target fleet , said " it was more powerful than the bomb exploded over New Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful than the Hiroshima bomb , which killed 80 , - 000 persons , " in the first actual attack with this weapon . This announcement , made at a news conference after Admiral Blandy had toured the lagoon with Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal and an inspection party , was the first official estimate of efficiency of the Bikini bomb . The declaration that the bomb loosed was more powerful than the one that demolished 4.7 miles of Hiroshima meant that it was comparable with the violence unleashed by more than 20,000 tons of TNT . President Truman , in announcing the destruction of Hiroshima on Aug. 6 , 1945 , said that the atomic bomb was equal to 20,000 tons of TNT . The Nagasaki bomb was officially declared more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb  --  unofficially by 25 to 50 per cent  --  presumably because it used plutonium instead of uranium 235 . In Monday 's explosion two conIcrete oil barges , one in the bullseye circle of a 1,000-yard radius , , , and a concrete drydock about 2,000 yards from the center took the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center lost its super- I structure . ' The blast crushed some Aips for at least 1,000 yards . Those on the rim of the target were only scorched . The German cruiser Prinz Eugen had whirls of blackened paint and a wrecked wooden foremast . She was beyond the actual target area . On the battleship Pennsylvania all animals survived , but only . five of the twenty animals aboard the Salt Lake City were alive . irdicating spottiness in the spread of the explosive force . Both ships were far from the target center . There was no further increase in the ship toll : Five sunk , six wrecked and at least half the total of seventy-three damaged , some negligibly . Correspondents and members of evaluating boards visited Bikini Island , three and a half miles from the target center , and found it practically untouched . Palm trees were not singed . The five towers containing recording and photography instruments were undamaged . They found no evidence of unusual wave or tidal action on the beaches and no indication that vegetation was affected by the heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the Geiger counters registered " sweet . " " Sour " denotes dangerous radioactivity . Senator Carl A. Hatch , of New Mexico , chairman of President Truman 's Evaluation Commission , issued this statement on the U. S. S. Haven : " My compliments to Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal and Admiral Blandy . You have given us an honest test and have pulled no punches . What I have seen here strongly confirms my previous conviction that any nation which goes to war today only commits national suicide , and that very quickly . " Observers agreed that the effects of the Bikini bomb on steel ships were considerably less awesome and decisive than those of the Nagasaki and Hiroshima bombs on Japanese buildings . In Bikini Lagoon no ships farther than a mile and a half from the bomb-burst appeared to have suffered more than superficial damage . Rear Admiral W. S. Parsons , deputy commander of Joint Task Force 1 for technical direction , who used the Hiroshima bomb , once put it thus : " Ships can sur . wive a 30-degree list . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hurt ABOARD U.S.S. APPALACHIAN , Wednesday , July 3 UPI ? The Navy tentatively added today three more ships , including the heavy cruiser Salt Lake City , to the " badly damaged " category after Monday 's atomic bomb blast , raising that total to nine . The destroyers Rhind and Stack were added , with the Salt Lake City , to the badly damaged list . An Associated Press correspondent reported from the flagship Mount that the Rhind had been " well out " toward the fringe of the target fleet and that the Stack also was beyond the hard-hit inner circle .                     