@@704714

txt When radium was the marvel of the world we heard for the first time of atomic energy . The physicists put pencil to paper and calculated that a pinch of pure radium could run a whole railway system for thousands of years . But how was that energy to be released and controlled ? Before the answer could be given it was decided that the game was not worth the candle . Then came Einstein with the announcement that any lump of matter is so much fixed energy and that energy can be converted into mass and mass into energy . Hope in the atomic powerhouse was revived . A series of atombombarding experiments began . They indicated that Einstein was right . Then it was discovered that it took more energy to bombard an atom than we were ever likely to get out of it . Again the atomic power-house was relegated to the limbo of oblivion . " Moonshine ! " was Lord Rutherford 's dictum . Last year hope again sprang high . This time it was the bombardment of uranium with neutrons that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into two , and 200,000,000 volts of energy were released  --  something that made ever physicists gasp . More energy came out of the atom than was used to split itle It turns out that a variety of uranium known as 235 is the power-house that must be tapped . Unfortunately , this species of uranium is very rare ? so rare that it constitutes less than 1-140th of ordinary uranium . The recent experiments , which have excited so much interest , were conducted with less than two-tenths of a microgram ( less than one one-hundred-millionth of an ounce ) , and this infinitesimal amount was produced after days of tedious work . The electric power alone required to produce a pound of Uranium 235 would cost more than the budget allows for a single year of Federal expenditures . The whole success of utilizing the energy that results from splitting uranium depends on a chain-reaction process . Thus an atom of Uranium 235 , the useful component of uranium in this case , must be bombarded by neutrons which have been slowed down by hydrogen ( abundantly found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Uranium 235 , with the release of other neutrons and the bombardment of still other atoms of Uranium 235 . For large-scale power several pounds of Uranium 235 would be necessary . How they are to be obtained at a reasonable cost no one knows . Even if they were at hand , the engineering problem of utilizing the released energy to generate steam still remains . Lastly , there remains the enormous difficulty of coping with the powerful rays that would be given off during the bombardment process . If our atomic power-house were situated at Philadelphia the engineers in control might have to take up their station miles away , and all the land in between would be reduced to a dreary waste . Surrounded by concentric walls that block deadly rays , a mass of Uranium 235 would splutter away in cold water . Chicago , New York , Washington , the whole East illuminated by that one power-house  --  the possibilities are as alluring as anything we ever read in Bellamy or Wells . But we suspect that long before the engineers start in earnest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that other processes consume neutrons ? processes which do not split uranium and which will reduce this latest promise to a beautiful dream .                     