@@711614

txt The relatively calm week end just completed is considered only a lull in the current conflict between French miners and the government , which has been described by officials as " insurrectional " in character . Significant from the French viewpoint is a large increase in troops as a means of putting down the " insurrection . " In the United States , use of troops is considered much more an attack on civil liberties than use of police , but France reacts just the opposite . The French dislike police interference on basic principles . But soldiers are something else again . Nearly all Frenchmen have done their military service , and troops are considered relatively objective . France 's long military tradition has provided the soldier a good place in the Frenchman 's estimation . Sabotage Charged Thus the government is considered wise in bringing in troops as a more sensitive approach to getting its mines back into a position from which they will not deteriorate . The Government frankly charges the Communist Confederation Generale du Travail ( CGT ) with sabotage in its withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery going . ? Large forces of Communist ? miners have blocked government police efforts to restore these mechanical safeguards . Interior Minister Jules Moch announced that police have occupied about half the key northern French mine fields , struck for three weeks , the Associated Press said . He said that , within seven hours after , . beginning their drive , the police took over some 280 square miles . They made about 15 arrests in the process . The areas occupied lie between the Belgian border and the Douai-Lille road , M. Moch said , and include the whole Valenciennes group of mines and part of the Douai group . " We do not come to fight against the strike , " M. Moch said in a radio speech . " We come to prevent the destruction of hundreds of billions of francs of national wealth , endangered by the criminal decision to abandon safety machinery . " Order to Fire Given The Communist-called strike has already cost the country the loss of 3,000,000 tons of coal . The government has been deliberate in applying firmness . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are very much in keeping with French character and the particularly delicate political'balance in which present third-force government must operate . Representing a minority of voters , this government must move carefully . The fact that it is serving as a very thin insulator between the Communists and General Charles de Gaulle is another reason for prudence , So not until Oct. 22 was the order given permitting police and troops to fire . And this came only after a violent pithead clash in which two miners were killed . Government police say they were fired upon and had to return the fire in self-defense . The CGT denies this , and says police fired first . This easing in by the government seems to be producing effects with more and more mines being returned to order , and with the non-Communist workers of the Christian and Workers Strength unions needing only reduction of the Communist picket lines in order to return to work . The CGT appeal to British and American workers to prevent shipments replacing coal lost by the strikes is considered a bold move by the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . France is so completely convinced that the present strike , with its sabotage features , is a deliberate Cominform order that it is felt non-Communist workers , who dominate most British and American unions , will not " fall " for the CGT line . In fact latest reports from London are that this issue might very well provide , the spark to start a long-demanded housecleaning in British trade unions . The vision of France just across the channel , in danger of economic foundering because of Communists in the syndicates , is said to be causing considerable reconsideration by many British union leaders . Up until now they frequently have not felt it was necessary to eliminate Communist leadership in ' British unions . Action Taken There has been criticism here that the French government has not acted swiftly and with sufficient courage . The Oct. 22 cabinet communiqu ? is an answer to such charges . It makes these provisions : 1 . Police may shoot to defend themselves , after giving due warning , when attacked . 2 . Prefects may bar any meetings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifestations , whatever their length of stay in France and their ties here , may be expelled . 4 . Special reservists , plus all gendarmerie reserves and , army men of the 1948 class who were demobilized ahead of time , are to be called up . Finally the government " calls on all workers to rise up against movements whose political aims are henceforth obvious and which are intended to ruin national production , weaken the country 's defense , and , by destroying equipment belonging to nation , to condemn thousands of workers to unemployment and their families to misery . "                     