@@710813

txt Renewed demands rose in Congressional circles today for prompt action to relieve the countries of Western Europe . Meanwhile , Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , the Senate Democratic leader , said after a conference with President Truman that the President would not hesitate to call a special session for this purpose , if it were necessary . No one wants to have a special session for its own sake , Mr. Barkley said , but he was positive that if one were necessary it would be called . At the same time he reported that there was no change in the situation since the President at his news conference this week said the matter was yet to be decided . A demand for immediate action on the Marshall plan of one similar ' to it was made by a committee of nine members of the House Appropriations and Armed Services Committees as they arrived by Army plane from a six-week study of European conditions . In a statement approved by all the members and given out by the head of the committee , Representative Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for American aid at the earliest possible time to prevent a complete downfall of Europe . However , the members declined at this moment to say whether they believed there should be a special session . " There can be no general economic recovery in Europe until Germany is revitalized , " they declared . On the other hand they warned that " we must be ever alert to the prevention of the revival of German war potentials . " The committee expressed con- cern " over the drive apparent in most areas ( of Europe ) to spread the doctrine of communism . " In view of what the members had observed they warned against any weakening of America 's defenses . " Until world conditions become more stabilized , " they declared , " the United States must be strong on land , sea and air . To further weaken our defenses now would invite national disaster . " In addition to Representative Short , members of the committee were Representatives George J. Bates , Republican , of Massachusetts ; C. W. Bishop , Republican , of Illinois ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Fogarty , Democrat , of Rhode Island ; Leon H. Gavin , Republican , of Pennsylvania ; LeRoy Johnson , Republican , of California ; Lansdale G. Sasscer , Democrat , of Maryland , and Margaret Chase Smith , Republican , of Maine . Their plane was a day late due nearest land . Representative Short paid tribute to the coolness of Mrs. Smith . " She was the best soldier of them all , " he said . Senator Barkley was a member of a group from the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs which looked into food conditions in Europe . He returned early this week after having visited the British Isles and all the countries of Europe extending from the United Kingdom to Greece , except for Russia , Yugoslavia and Albania . They went behind the iron curtain in Rumania , Hungary , Bulgaria , Czechoslovakia and Poland but did not attempt to visit the other three Russian satellite countries . He described his conversation with the President as a discussion of a wide variety of problems , including his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unlike Representative John Taber , - Republican , of New York , chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , W710 has been re ported as having found no under- , nourishment in Europe , Senator Barkley said he saw plenty of evidence of it in all but two or three countries he visited . He referred especially to conditions in France and Italy where , the bread ration had been sharply , ' reduced , as , he added , it had been ' in the United Kingdom . He emphasized the importance of bread in the diet of European countries , while stressing the shortages of grain due to the drought this summer . In contending that American assistance was necessary , he rejected ideas that the people of Europe were not working because they did not want to , saying that obviously with a greatly reduced diet it was not possible for them to work at anything like a pre-war rate . In addition , he stated , currencies and production in many countries were in such shape that workers could not purchase goods and so lacked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a farewell talk Lieut . Gen. W. Bedell Smith , Ambassador to Russia , who has been here for a week conferring on European problems . General Smith will leave for Moscow Monday on the same plane with Gen. Lucius D. Clay , the American military commander in Germany , who has been conferring here on bizonal questions and is returning to Berlin . Representative Thomas J. Lane , Democrat , of Massachusetts , called in a statement for a special session " to deal with emergency problems " in view of the world situation . " We dare not risk another Pearl Harbor , " he declared .                     