@@704768

txt LONDON , May 26 ? Important changes were announced tonight by the British Army High Command . They reflected the growing concern of the government of this country over the defense of the homeland against invasion rather than any dissatisfaction such as was responsible for last night 's " purge " of the French generals . Under a decree issued by the King , acting on the advice of the new Churchill government , General Sir Edmund Ironside , who has been Chief of the Imperial Staff , relinquishes that office to become Cornmander in Chief of the home forces . He will be succeeded by Sir John Greer Dill , who was recently recalled from France to become Vice Chief of the Imperial Staff . General Sir Walter Kirke , who has i been commander of the home forces , was retired after forty-five years of service . The announcement of the shift in commands was made early this evening after Paul Reynaud , the French Premier , had journeyed across the Channel today to confer with Prime Minister Winston Churchill and other members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies . This is held to be changed by the fact that the German Army has broken through the West Front defenses and has established itself at Boulogne , only twenty-six miles across the narrow waters that have been this country 's moat for centuries . Situation Taken Seriously Barbed wire barricades along the beaches , the organization of home defense battalions to repel parachute troops , and the machine-gun nests in Whitehall and around the Admiralty give dramatic evidence of the seriousness with which the danger of invasion is regarded . Before the arrival of M. Reynaud , who returned to Paris this evening , Hubert Pierlot , Belgian Premier ; Paul-Henri Spaak , Minister of Foreign Affairs ; Defense Minister Lieut . Gen. Henri Denis and M. van den Poorten , Minister of the Interior of Belgium , arrived in London and consulted with Viscount I Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . They were met , upon their arrival , by Camille Gutt , the Belgian Minister here , who accompanied them to the Foreign Office . Among the many problems discussed by the Allied war leaders , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Greer Dill Chief of the Imperial General Staff immediately involved by the German position that threatens communications between France and this country , was that created by the atmosphere of , alternate belligerency and conciliation emanating . from Rome . Premier Mussolini seems to be having an even harder time than the poorly informed British people in deciding how the battle is going in Northern France and in Flanders . Today 's news from Rome , however , appeared mildly encouraging . Italian Formula Sought Sir Wilfred Green , Master of the Rolls , - who has just returned today from a four-day visit to Rome to try to discover a way of maintaining the control of the Mediterranean without unduly ruffling Italian feelings , brought back a formula for accomplishing that difficult task , it was reported . Details are being worked out in Rome by British and Italian officials , it was stated tonight . The Allies , it is understood , are prepared to go a long way toward lessening the inconvenience of the contraband measures in the Mediterranean , where Italy regards herself as having special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed , but it is suggested that if all the Italian shipping companies and masters would avail themselves of the navicert system the need for the embarrassing search of Italian ships at Gibraltar , the gateway to the Mediterranean , would be eliminated , While it may be assumed that the Prime Minister 's talks with M. Reynaud were concerned chiefly with broad questions of strategy in the grave days ahead , it is likely that the proposed changes in the British Army High Command came under discussion also , for such is the unity of action between the two principal Allies that even questions of internal organization are subjects of consultation between them . Emphasis on Defense The selection of Sir Edmund , the outstanding general in the British Army , to take command of the home forces , was regarded , however , as indicative chiefly of the government 's determination to perfect , by every means , the strength and efficiency of British home defense . The idea of an enemy invasion of the United Kingdom has been so far from reality for more than a century thatthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national strategy and the preparation of new de , f enshees . The question of home defense , since the German thrust toward Channel points , it was said tonight , had become of such paramount importance that the post of Commander in Chief of the home forces had become one to which only a soldier of Sir Edmund 's experience and abilities could be appointed . It was emphasized in official circles that the changes in the High Command was in no way analogous to the ousting of the French generals and that no one had been relieved of his command . General Sir Walter Kirke , who is to be retired to be succeeded by Sir Edmund , is-sued the following special order this evening immediately after the announcement of the staff changes : Message From Kirke " On handing over my command , I desire to express to all ranks my thanks for their never-failing support and my confidence in their ability to meet all dangers in the spirit which British soldiers have ever displayed in the hour of trial . Under the inspiring leadership of my successor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the struggle for liberty with the utmost courage and determination . Good-bye and good luck . " The shifts in command will not affect the status of Viscount Gort , who remains as Commander in Chief of the British Expeditionary Force in France . In addition to the changes announced affecting the High Command of the army , it was announced that the King had approved the appointment of Captain Arthur J. Power as Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty. - Captain Power will come to the Admiralty straight from the sea , for he has been the commander of the aircraft carrier Ark Royal since she was completed in November , 1938 . More Evacuation Ordered Government officials issued a further communiqu ? tonight saying that because the Germans had occupied the Netherlands and parts of France and Belgium only a short distance across the Channel and the North Sea , children were to be moved from fifteen southeast English coast towns to " safer districts " in the Midlands and in Wales . With the Germans ? holding strategic points a comparatively short distance away on the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to move children from the following southeast coast towns : Dover , Folkestone , Great Yarmouth , Lowestoft , Felixstowe , Harwich , Clacton , Frinton , Walton , Southend , Margate , Ramsgate , Broadstaires , Sandwich and Deal . The evacuation will begin on June 2 , next Sunday , the date on which school children will also be moved from Chatham , Gillingham , Rochester and Sheerness , which previously had been designated as evacuation areas .                     