@@708414

txt The two soldiers lay on adjoining cots in the evacuation hospital . Staff Sgt. Warren E. Mane , 26 , of Dayton , 0. , on Jan. 14 had weighed 220 pounds . Now he was down to ' 180 . Pvt . Richard W. Hart . man , 25 , of Lancaster , N. Y. , had weighed 150 pounds . Tonight he was down to a haggard 100 pounds . A few hours ago they were brought out of Herrlisheim , that village nine miles southeast of Haguenau which the Americans reentered today . Maue was the leader of a rifle squad with an armored infantry battalion . Hartman was a medical aid man with the battalion . For 23 days they had been cut off and hidden in enemy held Uerrlisheim . ? Cut Off From Company . Maue told some of the story to . night . Hartman could n't do any talking . " Just before 5 a. m. on Jan. 14 , my company and three others attacked Herrlisheim . " Maue related . " We had gotten into the village @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right opened up on our Bank . About ten of ous went out to take care of them . Then four German tanks swung in behind us and there were 250 German infantrymen with them . " We were cut off sure enough , and the order was given , ' Every man for himself . ' I ran amost headon into a Heinle tank , and I hit the dirt . There was some one alongside me . It was Hartman . Sprint for the Barn . " When darkness came we ran for a barn and climbed into the hayloft . We buried ourselves under the hay . It was cold , about 10 above zero . We had no rations and only one canteen of water . " The Germans came around and set up their defenses . They shoved a Tiger ( 60 ton tank thru the door of our barn , just below the hayloft , and put a guard on it . Other Germans parked in the little house near the barn . " We were under the hay for eight days , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We kept the canteen between our bodies , so the water would n't freeze . " Every day the krauts would kill chicken , ducks , and rabbits belong . ing to the owner of the place . When they cooked the food it was awful to lie there , smelling those things roasting . The kitchen window was n't more than 20 feet from us . Those guys baked , too , and we smelled the fresh bread . I think when this war Is over I 'll park In a bakery for a week and smell the bread . " Sometimes chickens eluded the Germans and flew up near the hay loft . The Germans took pot shots at the fowl and there were a lot of holes in the barn roof , but Hartman and I were never hit . Heinies coming up into the loft nearly stepped on us a few times . " On the eighth night we were so desperate for food we took a chance and slipped down a ladder . We were n't expecting to escape from the town , we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got by a careless sentry and found some frozen potato and apple peelings in a trash een . We went up in the loft with that . We caught some snow in our helmets and when it melted we drank it . Finds Some Rotten Plums . " I went down the ladder , four more nights , but Hartman was too weak to go along . " We did n't know the days but we had the time of day because I kept my wrist watch wound . Then one time we gathered that the Americans were attacking the town . " The next day the Germans began pulling out , but we could n't take a chance and come out yet . Finally , today , we heard kids ' voices . I dragged myself to the hayloft door . The place was deserted , and I went down the ladder . I found a G. I. on the street . " We went back and got Hartman . They had to carry him , and one G. I. had to support me , too . " 