@@707435

txt ton , New Bedford , and New York City will stay in port . The tie-up will make itself felt gradually because many boats will be bringing in fish for the next few days . A week hence . Mr. Power said , the scaroity of fish will be felt fully . When the fishermen first walked out early last . July in their initial strike against the Office of Price Administration , the shortage brought protests from many cities throughout the eastern United States . Refusal of the OPA to raise its wholesale fish ceilings and so restore the cut it made last June in fishermen 's income brought on the stoppage . Efforts to win an adjustment from the OPA have been running on for the past three months and yesterday finally fizzled out in Washington . Both sides seemed a good way apart at the finish . Strictly Up to OrA Having taken a legal strike vote under the new Smith-Connally Antistrike Act , the fishermen are now embarking on a strike for which , as observers see it . the Government officially prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Board , which was formed to handle labor disputes , has stood aside . washing its hands of the affair and leaving it strictly to the OPA . " No move is being made on the part of any Government agency that I know of . " Mr. Powers said . The first fishing boats to miss their sailings here are five or six ordinarily due to leave Boston at 2 o'clock this afternoon . Tuesday is when the biggest lot of the week usually goes out , followed by other sailings Wednesday , Thursday and Friday . " It 's bungling on the part of the OPA , desperately so . that has pr9- duced this strike , " Mr. Powers declared . " Tice cards were stacked against the fishermen . It was no use to attempt to approach the OPA . It is no use going into a game with marked cards . Fate of Small Business ' - t- he placing of ceilings on wholesale fish , with no ceilings on ' retail prices , which cut our pay 25 to 35 per cent without giving the consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishermen 's wages and put the small dealers out of business . The OPA has to make the next move , if there is to be any . " Mr. Powers added that many boats would arrive here - Sunday evening and by Monday half the Boston fleet , about 21 of the total of 42 vessels . wiould be in to discharge fish . They bring all vanities .. The local fleet consists of 27 