@@712029

txt The House plunged into debate today on one of the year 's most controversial issues , labor legislation , with Administration forces reportedly ready to make some concessions in an effort to assure passage of the Administration 's ( Lesinski ) Taft-Hartley repealer . A final vote is not expected until Friday , at the earliest . Democratic leaders said they thought they had enough votes to beat the Wood bill , backed by a Democratic-Republican coalition , which would retain much of the Taft-Hartley law with some of the act 's provisions softened . But the Democratic leaders could not be described as brimful of confidence . The Lesinski bill would reinstate the Wagner Act and add a few mild amendments . Many possible votes against the Wood bill , it appeared , depended'on promises that the Lesinski bill would be broadened on at least four points . These additions , which Administration forces are reported to have under consideration , are : stronger provisions for dealing with national emergency strikes , the non-Communist affidavit , some limitation on the closed shop , and the filing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders attack as " sops " the deviations from the Taft-Hartley law carried in the Wood bill and contend that the measure in some respects is more repressive than the present law . The sponsor of the bill is Representative John S. Wood , Democrat , of Georgia . As debate got under way today with the House acting as the committee of the whole after adopting the rule for the procedure , 369 to 6 , the chamber was less than half filled . The galleries were crowded . Debaters on both sides , for the most part ; repeated the charges and warnings that have been heard repeatedly in committee hearings and elsewhere . A few sharp exchanges broke out during the afternoon , one of them involving labor partisans in the gallery . The chair gave its usual warning . Representative Howard W. Smith , Democrat , of Virginia , a coalition leader , said at the outset that members were offered a choice of two philosophies . " The Lesinski bill brings hack all the evils of the National Labor Relations ( Wagner ) Act , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the theory of the Taft-Hartley law . " Blows at States ' Rights Charged Mr. Smith said the " most important and vital " point involved in these bills was the issue of states ' rights . The Lesinski bill , he said , overthrows a series of the Supreme Court decisions upholding state restrictions on the closed shop . The bill would permit closed shop agreements in interstate commerce , regardless of state laws . The Wood bill , like the Taft-Hartley law , would bow to state law restrictions . The second most important point , said Mr. Smith , was the President 's power to act in strikes affecting the national health and safety . The Wood bill continues the injunction authority , the Lesinski bill does not . Representative John Lesinski , Democrat , of Michigan , chairman of the Education and Labor Committee , began his opening speech by declaring that he wanted to make clear that " we of the majority present this measure in no spirit of partisanship , nor with any Purpose of reprisal . " He said that " if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid the bitterness and conflicts of class warfare , we must deal wisely with this relationship between labor , management and the public . " " Last November , " he continued , " this issue was put squarely before the voters of the nation , " and the people " put their approval on the candidate and the party who stood for repeal of the Taft-Hartley law and for the enactment of sound legislation in this field . " Representative Samuel W. McConnell Jr. , Republican . of Pennsylvania , ranking minority member of the Labor Committee , told the House that the existence of some defects in the present law was no justification for discarding all its provisions , regardless of their merit . In committee hearings , he added , " not one witness was able to point to a single case of a union being smashed or of a sweat shop or/yellow dog contract being sanctified by the Taft-Hartley Act . Not a scintilla of evidence has been produced to show that : any American worker has been enslaved since its passage . " " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two years the law has been in effect the number of organized workers has steadily increased , the number of strikes has steadily decreased . and the wage scales prevailing in collective bargaining agreements are higher than at any point in our history . " Representative Ralph W. Gwinn . Republican , of New York , said " I 'd be willing to repeal the Taft-Hartley Act , if at the same time we repealed the Wagner Act , and go back to a free society , rough and tough as it might be . " The present outlook is that general debate will end on Thursday . The reading of the Lesinski bill wil ' be in order when , with the House acting as the committee of the whole general debate ends on the Administration measure . At that moment , Representative Wood plans to offer his bill as a substitute . It would be read for amendments and then when all amendments are acted on it will be voted on as a whole . Possibilities of Outcome If the Wood bill is voted down in the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill . If the Wood bill is approved in the committee of the whole and this approval is sustained by the House itself , the bill will go to the Senate . If the Wood bill is defeated in the Hou , it will be in order to vote on the Lesinski bill without amendments . The practical difference between the committee of the whole and the House itself is that committee action is provisional and all voting is done by ayes and nayes , a show of hands , or teller count . A roll-call vote is taken only in the House itself . The American Federation of Labor steering committee and officials of Labor 's League for Political Education ( AFL ) met today and arranged for prompt meetings with Speaker Sam Rayburn and Secretary of Labor Maurice J. Tobin to discuss the strategic situation .                     