@@704487

txt Rural western and central Massachusetts headed for Town Hall today to overhaul its community government after the wear and tear of another year and to keep Pace with changing times . Using the most democratic system ever devised , with each man and woman having the right to raise his or her voice to a pitch equal to the next one 's , citizens are electing municipal officers and revising the by-laws in approximately 100 towns . In a few communities where the populations have grown to such an extent to make the town meeting unwieldy , representative systems have been adopted . Finances to operate the municipal government for the year occupied the center of the stages in most places but there were the usual number of unusual ' requests adorning the meeting warrants . All roads led to Town Hall and nearly every means of transportation was used . Dressed in their Sunday-best , residents arrived by automobile , horse and buggy , on bicycle where the weather permitted , and afoot . Town meeting day has become mid-winter 's most eagerly awaited event . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not seen since the Grange or community fair in the fall . Public suppers are served by church women 's or other organizations and like as not there will be a dance at night . It is a husband against wife in Cummington where Leslie R. and Marion R. Porter are contesting for the office of Town Treasurer . In Hampden a name missing from the ballot will be a highlight . For 39 years Nelson M. Carew , one of the Town 's most prominent citizens , hag sought the office of Selectman , and on all but one occasion , in 1937 , he was successful . Believed to be one of the oldest Selectmen in the state , his election has been a birthday gift for 38 years . Although Mr. Carew 's name will not be on the ballot his influence will remain , as the voters will decide whether to accept a section of land along the Scantic River for a swimming pool and playground to be known as the Pease Memorial Playground , in memory of Mrs. Carew 's father and grandfather . Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extend andAmprove roads , add street lights , establish child-health centers , build sidewalks , lay water mains to outlying sections now served by old fashioned pumps , purchase town snow plows , tractors and trucks . Funds are provided at town meeting for such prosaic things as schools and salaries , but they are asked for welfare , Christmas tree funds , Fourth of July celebrations and fox ' . road repairs in conjunction with-State and county mines . Voice would be given the " dumb " clock in Athol 's Memorial Building tower under an article asking funds to move , the bell to the tower from the old town hall , where it has been lying idle since October , 1915 . In Williamstown , the League of Women Voters feels that afternoon town meetings prevent many from attending because of the conflict with their daily chores , and has inserted an article in the warrant asking that future meetings be held in the evening . Here , ' John S. Galbraith , associate professor of Greek and Latin at Williams College , will retire as Library @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never having been opposed . The last little red schoolhouse in Dalton will be sold if one of the 51 articles is approved . Another item is a $1,500 fund to modernize the scenery and lighting equipment of the Opera House , where the community players hold forth . Remodeling of town hall , much the worse for wear and " sabotage , " is sought in Sunderland , where a similar request was rejected last year . Another of the 29 articles asks funds to help pay the cost of lighting Sunderland Bridge , also turned down last year . Deerfield , on the other side of the Connecticut River , would help pay the other half . The county has refused to bear the entire expense cost and the span has been unlighted . Sunderland holds top honors for tax collections as there are no unpaid levies for any year , according to Collector R. B. Brown . Whately has a similar fine record . Most important of Hadley 's 22 articles is one asking , that the town take land by eminent domain for school purposes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with funds promised by the Daughteks of the American Revolution , for a moment and tablet to mark the site of the first permanent settlement there . Street lights shut off during the depression as an economy move would be turned on by requests of three of Wilbraham 's 33 articles , and Wales ' 17 include one to reduce the number required for a town meeting quorum from 10 to 5 per cent of the registered voters . Among the other communities voting are Palmer , Agawam , Blandford , Cheater , Montgomery , Tolland , Belchertown , Chesterfield , Cumrhington , Huntington , Pelham , Worthington , Cheshire , Great Barringten , Lenox , Buckland ; Charlemont , Colrain , Conway , Erving , Hawley , Heath , Leverett , New Salem , Northfield , Rowe , Shutesbury , Warwick and Whately.                     