@@708755

txt Letters to The Times LAWRENCE G. BROOKS.JOEL H. HILDEBRAND.KARI LESLIE . Letters to The Times Conscription Opposed Concentration on Peace and the Postponing of Issue Advocated The writer of the following letter is a member of the Executive Committee of the Greater Boston Committee Opposed to the Present Enactment of Peacetime Conscription . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Universal Compulsory Military Training , aptly called Peacetime Conscription , is being discussed with increasing frequency on the public platform and in print . This is as it should be for the subject is complicated and far reaching . No decision should be made till the proposal is clearly understood by the great majority of our citizens . Much stress is laid on the fairness of Peacetime Conscription and its democratizing influence . This presumably refers to the taking of " every able-bodied male citizen in his early manhood " regardless of race , creed , color or financial and social standing . There is , however , another side to the picture . Nearly a million fit youths are to be taken from home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly competitive world while nearly half that number , because of certain disabilities , are to be undisturbed in their education or occupation . These latter thereby get a year 's start in the battle of life . This hardly seems fair unless the by-products of military training are to compensate for this handicap . Chief among the supposed by-products are improved health and morals . This expected improvement is illusory . Whatever military training could do to build up the nation 's health can be better done at far less expense under civilian administration . As for improvement in morals , it is naive to suppose that the Army or Navy will succeed in one year where the home , the school and the church have failed in the preceding fifteen years . There is much talk about our youth needing discipline . It does . There is little or no evidence , however , that military discipline carries over to civilian life . Racial Problem Regarding the democratizing influence of Peacetime Conscription one has to judge it by the Army and Navy , neither of which promotes democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true when it comes to the Negro , who will suffer humiliation and discrimination as he has in the armed services . Peacetime Conscription will aggravate continuously and cumulatively this country 's No. 1 problem  --  race relations . From the angle of efficiency , is it worth spending a lot of time and money to train for military service those who are going to be ministers , doctors , or many others so obviously unsuited to be soldiers that they would at once be rejected at the induction station in war time ? We have had in this war what we have called Selective Service . It has not taken nearly all the able-bodied men . It has given consideration to all kinds of factors . Peacetime Conscription , on the other hand , is wholesale , indiscriminate and wasteful . National security , however , is the real ground for introducing Universal Compulsory Military Training into our democratic system . This is admitted by its principal proponents , the Army and Navy Departments who insist that we can not be adequately prepared without such training and that unless we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some aggressor nation better prepared than we are . Preparedness Competitive One trouble with preparedness as a war preventive is that it is by nature competitive . In proportion as one country increases its military security , the security of other countries is diminished . This inequality then has to be corrected and an upward seesaw of military armament develops . All the while everybody talks in terms of defense , never aggression . Unfortunately , competition in armament always leads to aggression . If we adopt Peacetime Conscription Britain is almost certain to do the same . What then will Russia think ? She is well aware of the vicious anti-Russian propaganda circulating in this country at this moment even in Army circles . This is reported to go so far as to urge carrying the war to Russia while our military power is at its peak  --  in other words , as soon as we have conquered Japan . Of course no sensible person advocates any such nonsense , but how can the combination of this propaganda with the passage of a revolutionary proposal like Peacetime Conscription fail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her ? The Russian people are not now hostile to us . Military preparedness in the past has obviously failed to solve the war problem . Attempts at collective security may also fail , but they can not fail so dismally and dramatically as has preparedness . Look at Germany and France . True , the League of Nations did not work . How could it with Russia and ourselves out of it in its formative period and with its other handicaps ? The chances of success for collective security are far better now than in 1919 . These chances will be greatly weakened if we go off on the tangent of conscription . The more we rely on preparedness , the less we shall rely on collective security . If other nations follow suit , what then becomes of our only hope of finding a substitute for war ? It is argued that in introducing peacetime conscription we are merely following George Washington 's advice and the excellent example of two other- democratic countries  --  Switzerland and Sweden . As a matter of fact neither Washington 's proposal nor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now before Congress . They involved a minimum of interference with civilian life ? nothing like a year 's intensive training . Reference is frequently made to wars which the United States might have avoided or fought at less cost had we had military training in peacetime . If we had been prepared in 1775 we probably would have won our point with England and now be part of the British Commonwealth of Nations . We won the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 because England had too many other irons in the fire . All this argument , however , about the past is beside the point . We are facing the future  --  different from the past not only economically and politically , but militarily . Economically we need to apply every cent possible to repairing the awful damage of this war , to restore Europe , to eradicate the sore spots In our own land . We are not a healthy nation , physically , mentally , morally , by which I mean that altogether too large a proportion of our citizens are below par in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peacetime conscription will not relieve this domestic problem in the slightest . It will merely complicate it by draining our financial resources . What we need is a thorough overhauling of our educational system , including physical education , and more emphasis on the fundamental moralities . This would be impossible in a world staggering under taxes so heavy as to preclude all civic and cultural progress and under a regimentation which we have not even yet approached . Prevent Future Wars Militarily , of course , the future is in a large part unknown . Technological processes have revolutionized and will continue to revolutionize warfare . The part that large bodies of infantry will play in the future is speculative . If , for example , it is true as confidently asserted , that in the next war our major cities will be destroyed by pilotless aircraft , rockets or what not , then no number of trained reserves can prevent the catastrophe . There is only one solution and that is to eliminate war . Everybody is in the same boat . What is needed here and abroad is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to capture this leadership . As has been well said , we can purchase security at less cost than any other nation . We still are flanked by two oceans . We have a Navy greater than all the other nations of the world combined . The same is probably true of our air force . We have the greatest productive capacity of any other nation . We have millions of trained soldiers at our disposal . We are , in other words , secure for years to come . We should by no means scrap our Army , Navy and Air Force , but we should with all our might be strengthening the Charter of the new league of the United Nations . Let us not be dismayed by lack of 100 per cent cooperation on the part of Russia , for example . We are only just beginning the journey together . Professional Forces Let us realize that others are as interested in peace as we are . What we should emphasize as this war closes is not the next world war , but world peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will dilute all of our efforts for peace , not only abroad but at home . After the war we shall have to determine the strength of our standing armed forces . It may turn out that we can not maintain them by voluntary enlistment at a level which the judgment of the American people will consider desirable . Some form of selective conscription will then be necessary to obtain the requisite number of men . It may be decided that in view or international developments there should be a trained reserve in addition , again chosen on a selective basis ; or it may be that our people will decide in favor of a comparatively small , professional Army , Navy and Air Force and universal military training . The point is that we can not now intelligently decide these things . We do not now know what we shall need . The chances are that for a few years we shall need a sizable standing force . This will necessarily be quite expensive . To add to it the great expense and the g ** economic waste of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we can ill afford . I firmly believe that many of the people now receptive to peacetime conscription will , when the emotion of this way is allayed , come to realize that its adoption at this juncture of the world 's affairs would be a calamity . For that reason I strongly favor postponing decision of the issue until a later period . It certainly would be a tragic error to shackle the American people with peacetime conscription only to have them find that they did not need it or want it and that they could not get rid of it . So I believe we should wait a year or two after the war when the matter can be coolly , impartial- .7 and intelli-tly considered  --  then let the Am3rler people decide without undue pressure from our War and Navy Departments what is best for ourselves and posterity . LAWRENCE G. BROOKS . Boston , June 28 , 1945 . Training Is Approved Plan Seen as Means of Uniting Military and Civilians The writer of the following letter was formerly dean of men at the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office of Scientific Research and Development , American Embassy , London . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to contribute to the current discussion of the problem of post-war military training an argument in its favor which I have nowhere seen mentioned but which seems to me more cogent than all others . Although I have been dean of a large liberal arts college I disagree in this matter with a considerable number of college presidents on the basis of experience as a member of the United States Army in World War I and a collaborator in the present war . The argument is briefly this : A military establishment commensurate with our world-wide obligations can be insured only by a continuing mutual understanding and partnership of the regular officers with the civilian population . The business of the former is not to do our fighting for us whenever we allow our international relations to deteriorate to that level , but to take command of our youth , who bear the brunt of the conflict . Much Experience Needed Regular officers need a great deal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the population , including , as it does , brainy and well-educated young men . They must have opportunity for the display of initiative and ability in the face of responsibilities similar to those suddenly thrust upon them by war . Our Army must not be allowed to relapse into the outrageous pre-war system of promotion by seniority and a record clean of errors because free from initiative . The regulars must be subject to informed criticism and to the competitive standards of civil life and they can not afford to be less educated in the scientific foundations of modern warfare than are the men they command . Civilians , on their part , must be acquainted with our military establishment if the ultimate civilian control of the military appropriate to a democracy is to be intelligent and wise . This is not a responsibility to be evaded merely because it is inconvenient . Ignorance Means Delay Ignorance of military matters not only leads to delay in mobilizing our fighting power , which might be fatal in some future emergency when we might not have Britain to stand off an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been pointed out , it stands in the way of the most effective use of our great scientific and engineering strength . In the future , far more even than in the present , scientists and military men , in order to become effective partners , must be familiar with what is possible in the realm of each . Despite the far better collaboration during the war the general ignorance of scientists concerning military operations and the scarcity of men competent to carry on needed operational research has permitted not only faulty weapon design but more serious loss in their use . Many illustrations of this could be given . I am not advocating military training consisting largely of close order drill or even of the methods of warfare now in use . Those who object to it because they assume that the Army authorities will look backward instead of forward are citing the very danger against which civilian participation can furnish the greatest and perhaps the only safeguard . Brass hats can not well be worn in civilian company . JOEL H. HILDEBRAND Berkeley , Calif. , June 28 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES : Opponents of compulsory military training need a good dose of American history . They wallow in Pollyanna propaganda to the extent that they consider a scrap of paper signed by large and potentially powerful allies ( pro tempore ) as a sufficient deterrent to a repeat performance of World Wars 1 and 2 . The man in the street recalls that Italy was our ally in the first World War . He probably knows that the French fought on our side against the British in the Revolutionary War . He saw how Russia , to the consternation of the United States , signed a pact with Germany and has seen how they tried to annihilate each other later . In the face of all this , who can predict our enemy of tomorrow ? The Dumbarton Oaks plan , unsupported by large civilian trained reserves , would be so much waste paper , for how could we abide by its principles to forestall a belligerent nation by enlisting peace-loving nations to keep the aggressor from running amok if we did not have the armed power to enforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a recognized obligation on the part of the citizenry to defend the nation . Training would enable our men and women to fight a strong foe with a better chance to save their own lives . We are a democratic nation . We are peace-loving . But have we any guarantee that all the nations will remain that way ? And if they do not , what is one dissenting voice ? We scrapped our armaments after the first World War  --  we set the pace for disarmament . Where did it get us ? If our nation had a large civilian trained reserve neither Germany nor Japan would have been so aggressive .                     