@@710456

txt The first official and unqualified prediction that the joint labor bill will become law , Presidential veto or no veto , was made today by its principal . authors . Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio , and Representative Fred A. Hartley Jr .. Republican , of New Jersey , issued a joint statement in which they asserted : " The Labor-Management Relations Bill agreed upon by the conferees of the House and Senate will , when it becomes law , go far toward restoring peace to the industrial relations field . " And it will become law . We have no doubt of that . " This was tantamount to a challenging notice to President Truman by the Republican leaders that they had finished their estimate of the situation and were confident that they could override a veto . Support for Bill in Senate Independent evidence tending somewhat to support the forecast came from Democratic quarters in 1 the Senate , the real field of crisis for the bill ; since it is conceded that the House would in any case , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carl A. Hatch of New Mexico , an Administration Democrat and one of Mr. Truman 's closest friends , declared himself finally determined to vote to override any veto , " with no in , tention whatever to take a position critical of the President . " The previous voting record of . the Senate had made it plain that the one hope of sustaining a veto lay in the possibility of recruiting ' help from a small group typified by Mr. Hatch . What Mr. Truman actually would do , meanwhile , remained in the realm of sheerest speculation , and inquiries revealed that the highest Democratic quarters in m Con  --  Tess still had no definite information on the point . Democrats closest to the Roosevelt era were arguing privately that Mr. Truman could do " nothing else " than put in a veto . They were making plans , contingent on such an event , for a supreme effort to uphold him . The measure now at issue was the product of two weeks of Senate-House negotiations on the separate bills passed by each chamber , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reports Being Drawn During the day the negotiators prepared their final reports to Congress . The House intends to act Wednesday and Senator Taft indicated that it might be possible for the Senate also to take its vote on that day . The Taft - Hartley statement stuck out sharply as follows at the critics of the measure : " Those who denounce this bill either have not read it , or they deliberately misrepresent it . It is significant that they denounce it only in the most general terms . They can not point to a line or a clause in it that supports any charges of unfairness to labor . " It strengthens the whole collective bargaining process , and leaves employer and union free to make their own contracts and write their own terms . It recognizes the responsibility of both parties to carry out these collective bargaining agreements . Under it , the great trade union movement will enjoy healthy growth . " Those who deny this , necessarily imply that , to survive , unions must be free to engage in violence , coercion and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few of the laws that regulate all other adult citizens , and that the board that protects the rights of unions must be free to distort the facts or to ignore them . " We do not believe this . Many unions have grown great by rendering services , to- workers , not coercing them ; by conducting their affairs democratically , by acting responsibly . Others can , and will . " Those who oppose any form of labor legislation call this a slave labor bill . " Senator Taft and Representative Hartley stressed that only in socalled " national paralysis " case to strike ? in " bona fide " disputes was these a limitation on the right ? in this case an eighty-day Government injunction against such a walkout . " Even when the President and the courts agree that a strike imperils the public health and safety and enjoins it , " they added , " or when the National Labor Relations Board forbids jurisdictional strikes or secondary boycotts , no one can compel an individual employe to return to work . " The two legislators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a fear that the labor board in applying the new clauses would be " as unfair in applying them against unions as it once was in applying the old clauses against employers . " " We have no fear of any unfairness on the part of the board , " they continued , " because it is no longer set up as a weapon against em ployers only , but as an impartial , quasi-judicial body . "                     