@@711378

txt Through a deft and unheralded maneuver , Massachusetts Legislature incumbents already have bagged a fist full of fall election votes  --  enough in some instances to decide a close scrap . For the first time in Bay State election history , incumbent state officeholders automatically will be Assigned top spot on the voting ballot . This favored location , it is widely conceded , usually draws a few more votes  --  regardless of the candidates and issues involved . A few voters look no farther . Passed in April The State legislators knew this when they passed House Bill 2043 without a roll-call vote in April . Obviously , the bill would benefit every current member of the Legislature . State officeholders have been awarded the lead-off position on primary tickets . in the past , but the state election laws formerly stipulated listing of the candidates of the major parties by the alphabetical order of their surnames at the final election test . The new advantage to the incumbent will be in addition to other admitted benefits . His name is widely known in advance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those he has assisted during his term of office . However , the legislators apparently wanted to fortify them selves against the onslaughts of newcomers seeking public office . They did n't want to risk losing a few votes if their names began with W , X. Y , or Z. This year 's change in the election law originated with Representative Harold A. Palmer ( D ) of Somerville and Representative Paul A. McCarthy ( D ) of Somerville . Bill Studied Their bill was studied by the Committee on Election Laws . eventually becameollouse 2043 , which became a law on April 28 when signed by Governor Bradford . This law does not apply to candidates for city and town offices . The listing in these instances remains alphabetical , except where city charters provide otherwise . Meanwhile , both the " ins " and the " outs " are securing nomination papers from city and State election offices . Final date for filing of nomination papers with Registrars of Voters and Election Commissioners for certification of signatures is July 20 . July 27 is the last day for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State 's office . Withdrawals of or objections to nomination papers must be submitted by . July 30 and Aug. 3 is the final day for filling vacancies caused by withdrawals .                     