@@710200

txt Building on Goucher 's New ' Campus Goucher College , the oldest accredited college for women south of the Mason and Dixon Line , is rushing plans to move from its campus in Baltimore to a 421-acre site seven mires north of the city . Ground-breaking activities for a science building , a humanities building and a second residence hall are now taking place as part of a 4,000,000 construction program on the new campus . Two wings of the residence hall , which will accommodate ninetyseven students , and the basements and ground floor. ; of the other buildings are expected to be ready for use by the - opening of the fall semester . The college , founded in 1888 , now has 640. women enrolled , but facilities on the new campus are expected to provide for an enrollment of 1,000 . This year Goucher hat 746 applications for acirni Rs:ion , of which 224 new students were selected . Applications were double those of last year . Work Halted by War The plan to rebuild the college from the ground up was started in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , completed just before the beginning of the war Restrictions made necessary by the war stopped the building progiarc. , which even now is handicapped by inflated costs . Alumnae have started a campaign to raise 5500,000 as a gift toward the construction of the humanities building . One of the most interesting aspects of the college plant will be its new library , the plans for which have been completed . When constructed it will be a departure from the traditional detached , monumental library with its oversized common- reading room and remote book stacks . It will seek to combine the advantages of both central and departmental libraries and to provide an intimate relationship between books and readers as well as informality of control and accessibility : In effect , each instructional unit of the college will have its departmental library within ready reach and yet it will not be- detached from the central library . This will be accomplished by making the library the hub of an assembly of academic structure from which there will be departmental extensions into the teaching areas . Design for Library Books that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the library thrusting into the humanities instructional unit . Similarly , the library will penetrate the units housing the classrooms , faculty offices and laboratories of the divisions of social sciences and natural sciences . At no point will students and faculty in any division be far removed from books related to it . Nor will these departmental collection= be inconveniently distant from each other . They will be connected , each with the others , through the central section of the library , where circulation will be controlled and assistance in finding mate , rials will be available . Another feature of the new unit is that it will have no permanent construction or shelving , nor will there be partitions defining definite reading areas or even classrooms and offices . Shelving and partitions will be movable , permitting rearrangement for larger or smaller floor areas as changing needs may require . The faculty planning committee sees this integration as consistent with its program of treating the humanities and the social and natural sciences as essential components of a liberal education . Under this plan the whole college will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty and students will be brought into the closest possible association .                     