@@709826

txt For seventeen days the ports of the United States have been about as tightly blockaded as they would have been in time of war with an enemy fleet in command of both oceans . This has been the work of one of the most paralyzing as well as one of the most confusing strikes in American labor history . Labor politics , involving the rivalries of CIO , AFL and independent unions , often respecting each other 's picket lines but not each other 's party lines , have grown almost too deep for the layman to understand . The maritime strike was really two strikes ? one by AFL unions to compel the War Stabilization Board to grant wage increases above those allowed CIO unions last June ; one by the CIO unions for wage parity with the AFL unions . The strike did not arise out of a quarrel kith the employers , who had already agreed to the new demands . It was a strike against a governmental policy of wage stabilization , and the Government lost . If we think of the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , sometimes efficient and sometimes bungling , we may regard this incident as just another test of wills . But the Government represents the public , and the public has taken a loss . The public has lost through the effects of the port deadlock . The shipping strike , plus , in this city , the trucking strike , cost many thousands of days of lost labor , many millions of dollars , some hardship . Around this harbor it backed up 11,000 carloads of freight and other thousands around other harbors  --  and this at a time when there is something like a freight-car famine . The public has also lost because a public policy has been nullified under duress . This is not to say that a monthly wage of 8172.50 for seamen , firemen and oilers , or comparable pay for water-tenders , wipers , cooks and stewards , is too much . The maritime workers possibly can not buy more with 5172.50 now than they could buy last June with $162.50 ? it depends somewhat on what they buy , and in what markets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of purchasing power . It was madp because the ports were tied up and this seemed to be the only way to get them untied . As this strike neared a settlement the President announced that there would be no departure from the Government 's general wage-pr'ce stabilization policy . But there has been such a departure , and for cogent reasons . It is a sign of progress in a society when wage-earners receive larger real wages . Such progress has been taking place consistently in our country for at least a century and a half , with only temporary setbacks . Today 's workingman gets more real pay than his father did , and his father got more real pay than his grandfather did . But the process can be arrested , or even reversed , if dollar wages increase and dollar prices increase faster , and in a race between the two this is likely to happen . The maritime strike , or strikes , may be looked upon in. the end as merely an episode in such a race . If this precedent is followed there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices , another round after that , and no end in sight . It is not easy to find a preventive prescription . The Feinsinger report , which Secretary of Labor Schwellenbach made public yesterday , lays emphasis on the usefulness of fact-finding boards . Its authors believe that " the procedure of fact-finding and recommendations may very well prove to be useful on a broad scale as an effective supplement to collective bargaining , conciliation , mediation and voluntary arbitration to the peaceful settlement of labor disputes involving the public interest . " But first those directly involved must be more concerned than some of them have recently . been as to their public duty . The need for industrial statesmanship , among the increasingly powerful union leaders as well as among employers and public officials , is obvious . We can not per manently rely on economic force , exercised by minorities , as the last word in industrial policy .                     