@@710492

txt The Army and Navy face an acute shortage of aviation gasoline as a result of the petroleum industry 's failure to bid to fill the services ' needs , it was disclosed today . The Navy , right now in the more critical position , has already ordered stringent curbs on the use of aircraft fuel for the rest of this year . The Army 's air operations might be continued only two or three m6nths longer unless the industry began to supply considerably more gasoline than it was now , it was authoritatively stated . The Navy used a press release to disclose the critical nature of its fuel shortage . The announcement stilted unequivocally that , in spite of the " urgency " of Navy requirements , " ftel suppliers did not respond as expected to the request for immediate relief from the possible fuel shortage . " Nothing Done About It Yet " There is considerable concern at Cabinet level , but so far there has been no decision or suggestion as to what can be done about it , " asserted Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Army-Navy Petroleum Board . The aircraft curtailment order issued by the Navy warned , in addition , that unless " considerably larger quantities " of gasoline were to be had , " severe curtailment of all aircraft operation will result . " Captain Wilson and Col. G. H. Vogel , the board 's executive officer , emphasized in an interview that the military needs for both aviation gasoline and other types of petroleum products had been known to the industry since early this year . " The industry has been most adequately informed , " said Captain Wilson . " Under no stretch of the imagination can the producers say that they were suddenly presented with our demand . " Colonel Vogel also contended that military requirements for petroleum . products " have been before the industry since January . " Excluding only motor gasoline and certain minor products used within continental United States , total military requirements for the last six months of this year are fixed by the ANPB at 53,049,000 barrels . In addition the Navy Department statement called attention to conferences on June 4 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , during which the Navy 's fuel needs were laid before executives of several petroleum companies . Industry Still Holds Back " Following these conferences , " it continued , " the Navy still has not received sufficient bids from fuel suppliers to meet its needs . " Captain Wilson estimated that only about 40 to 50 per cent of all Navy requirements of aviation gasoline throughout the world could be met by offerings of the suppliers , and only 20 to 25 per cent of the needs in the United States alone . The aircraft fuel needs of both the Army and Navy were placed at about 50 per cent of total United States production of that grade of fuel . The Navy 's representative indicated that part of the shortage could be traced to an over-all increase this year in the consumption of all types of gasoline , or about 23 per cent more than 1946 levels , and a rise of 8 per cent in all types of petroleum products . Military requirements for the coming fiscal year , on the other hand , were about 10 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of total crude oil production in the United States , according to the Navy petroleum experts . Civilian Customers Served In addition to the over-all rise in the use of petroleum products , Captain Wilson said he believed the petroleum industry might be primarily concerned today with retaining its civilian customers . It had been necessary at times , he continued , for a petroleum producer wishing to buy steel to assure the metal company a certain amount of oil the latter might need . " The Government has no way to force a supplier to bid for our business , unless it re-enacts the war powers , and we prefer it on a voluntary basis , " he stated . " Bid if a real emergency arose the Government could resort to the war powers . " The ANPB staff members confirmed reports that Russian tankers were taking on oil at West Coast ports , but they minimized the part of such buying in the over-all picture .                     