@@707110

txt 15,000 MINERS OUT , 1/1111 WIRES LEWIS TO END STOPPAGES Telegram Urges Maintenance of Maximum Production to Support War Industries PITS CLOSED IN 3 STATES Union Policy Group Expected to Take Drastic Action at Meeting Today The wave of stoppages , now invowing 15,000 soft coal miners in three States , spread yesterday as the United Mine Workers , through its international policy committee , prepared for what was expected to be drastic action today in the wage conflict affecting 450,000 miners in the Appalachian region and outlying areas . The War Labor Board in Washington , which now has the dispute , wired last night an appeal to John L. Lewis , president of the union , and to all its international and district officers asking that walkouts and slowdowns already under way be halted . Similar action was planned by the board in all other cases where stoppages may occur . Mr. Lewis declined to comment on the board 's appeal . WLB Sends Telegram The telegrams by the board , signed by Board Chairman William H. Davis , were addressed to the mine union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a leader of your union to urge the workers to return to their jobs immediately under the plan as suggested by the President and ordered by the board so that a nation at war may have maximum production not only in the coal fields but in countless related war industries which are so vitally dependent upon their continued operation . " We feel sure that the workers are in full agreement with us that all the people of our country are filled with a grim determination to supply the men at the fighting front with all materials that are needed to win the war . With the knowledge that large numbers of mine workers and their sons are at the fighting front , we feel confident that with a proper understanding of the plan for the peaceful settlement of their dispute they will return to their jobs to continue their most important contribution to full production and winning the war . " The messages declared that the stoppages were " not only contrary to the national policy and labor 's pledge but are also contrary to the terms of your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not believed that the international policy committee , when it meets this afternoon at the Hotel Roosevelt with Mr. Lewis presiding , would formally declare a strike . The expectation was that the committee would confine itself to a declaration that the bituminous industry would be without a contract at midnight on Friday , and permit the various district and local organizations to draw their own conclusions . Such a statement , it was believed , would be the signal for wholesale stoppages throughout the entire bituminous field , from the Atlantic to the Pacific . The miners always have followed the policy that they do not work without a contract or its equivalent . No Strike Vote Planned " The union is taking no strike vote and is making no strike preparations , " declared K. C. Adams , editor of The United Mine Workers Journal and press spokesman for Mr. Lewis . " The men in the coal fields and the citizens in the mining communities , however , are in open rebellion against the Little Steel formula , the failure of the Office of Price Administration to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is moving upward by leaps and bounds . Whatever work stoppage occurs will be the result of dissatisfaction and resentment of the mining communities over the Administration 's attempt to enforce the status quo . " Yesterday 's wave of stoppages developed in Western Pennsylvania , Alabama and Kentucky as resentmentflared among the miners against the War Labor Board 's intervention in the mine dispute . Ten thousand of the 125,000 official and " captive " miners in Western Pennsylvania stopped work . // 15,000 MINERS OUT , WLB ISSUES APPEAL // Three mime of the Republic Steel Company and one of the Weirton Steel Company had been closed before . The Alabama organization of the . United Mine Workers informed the operators of that State that it was terminating , al ; of midnight Friday , the agreement under v$hich 22,000 miners have been operating . Four thousand miners - quit work in seven mines . n the State during the day . One thousand three hundred and fifty miners of two Harlan County , Ky. , mines walked off their jobs , one group voting not to return until a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warning In Chicago , Fred S. Wilkey , secretary of the Illinois Coal Operators Association , said he had received formal notification yesterday from the United Mine Workers that the temporary ( extension ) agreement under which the State 's mines , employing 23,000 miners , had been operating since April 1 would be terminated Friday midnight . He said he had been advised that Indiana operators had been also notified that work would cease at the same time . . " There 's nothing further we can say at this time , " Mr. Wilkey said . The notification of stoppage of work at midnight Friday served upon the mine owners of Illinois and Alabama and the reported notice given to the Indiana operators were taken as evidence that the general stoppage , if it comes , would extend to the districts beycno the Appalachian area . WLB Names Coal Panel Mr. Lewis continued his silence yesterday , maintained over the week-end , pending today 's meeting of the union 's international policy committee , but Mr. Adams disclosed that the mine chieftain had on'e more snubbed the WLB by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the three-man panel which is to consider the mine wage dispute as a consequence of the board 's intervention in the case last week . Union leaders indicated that the mine workers would continue to ignore the WLB 's proceeding . Having failed to hear from Mr. Lewis on the question of nominations for the labor member of the panel , the board announced the selection of its three members . They are Morris Llewellyn Cooke of Philadelphia , management engineer , for the public ; Walter White of Washington , D. C. , for industry , and David B. Robertson , president of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen , of Cleveland , as labor member . The panel will meet tomorrow to organize its work and take testimony on Wednesday , despite the mine workers ' refusal to paticipate . Appeal to President Forecast However , the intervention of the War Labor Board may be terminated and the entire matter placed in the hands of President Roosevelt should the mine stoppages assume a widespread character affecting a substantial portion of the industry . The WLB has let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's hands unless coal production continued without interruption . This aspect is not likely to be cleared up , however , before the beginning of next week , since the attitude of the ' United Mine Workers appeared to be that the union would wait until after midnight Friday before considering the industry as being without a contract , Until then whatever stoppages continue or develop probably will be of a sporadic character . It is the union 's contention that negotiations with the Northern operators of the Appalachian area were terminated last Friday when the operators left the conferences with the miners and went to Washington to appear before the War Labor Board in response to its invitation . Southern Operators at Meeting The same attitude , according to the union , does not apply , however , to the Southern operators , who , while responding to the'board 's invitation to appear , have continued negotiations with the miners . They met yesterday with representatives of the union at the Hotel Commodore and offered a resolution , in line with the proposal of the WLB , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case and that any agreement ultimately reached on the basis of a decision by the board be retroactive to March 31 , 1943 , when the old agreement expired . The thirty-day extension agreement under which the negotiations I had proceeded until the WLB 's intervention expires at midnight Friday . Representatives of the miners , headed by John O'Leary , told the Southern operators that they would take no stand on their proposed resolution until after today 's meeting of the union 's international policy committee . - Union Contention Disputed I In an advertisement published I yesterday , the Southern Coal Operators Association challenged the union 's contention on the issue of portal-to-portal pay , one of the ungiVi.principal demands , togeth .. With : and increase of p in the I daily Basic rate . The portal-toportal ' system would require , that the miners : be paid forthe time they spend is traveling underground to their actual places of work . The United Mine Workers contends pay is now , based on the time actually spent , at the coal seam , but the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than fifty years it has been understood that wage rates are established ? with - travel time as a consideration . " The union maintains that the old agreement is based upon payment of $1 an hour for a seven-hour day , while  --  the miners actually spend eight and one-half hours underground . Union ' leaders pointed yesteiday to a recent survey of the International Labor Office showing that in most countries , including Great Britain , miners are paid on the portal-to-portal basis . Tells of Pay Rise for Foremen Percy Tetlow , a representative of the United Mine Workers in the conferences with the Southern . operators , disclosed yesterday that the union has called attention of the operators to the fact that while they deny to the miners an increase in wages or increased earnings on the portal-to-portal basis , they have , within the last sixty days , raised the salaries of some 50,000 foremen and supervisory employes . The increases , Mr. Tetlow said , range from $35 to $100 a month . Unionization of these 50,000 employes is among the union 's demands in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ey coal stabilization act , under which bituminous coal prices are fixed , the operators are permitted automatically to charge the salary increases of foremen and supervisory employes to operating costs . He pointed out also that wage increases to miners , if granted , would not add . to labor costs , as they would be absorbed by the recent price increases granted by OPA . These include 23 centi a ton to cover costs of operation on the sixth day of the week at time and a half ? 15 cents for overtime ' and 8 cents for other costs  --  and maximum price increases , ranging in some instances to $1.75 a ton . Asserts Profits Are Large " The soft coal industry , " Mr. Tetlow said , " is now operating at a greater margin of profit than at any time in its history . As regards the sixth day of operation at time and one-half rate , the actual costs to the mine owners is approximately seven and one-half cents a ton , although the government permits them to charge 15 cents to cover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miners for Saturday work is the only instance in which the miners ' have been permitted to participate in the incerased prosperity and and higher prices of the industry . " With expiration of their agreement on May 1 drawing near , operators and miners of the anthracite field of Pennsylvania employing 80,000 men , met again at the Waldorf-Astoria last night . Last night 's meeting , which was attended by Mr. Lewis , failed to bring an agreement . " No conclusions were reached , " said Thomas Kennedy , secretarytreasurer of the United Mine Workers . Federal Subsidy Discussed There was ' some discussion , among other things , of Mr. Lewis 's recent proposal of a government subsidy for the anthracite industry to meet increased operating costs arising ' from possible wage increases . Mr. Kennedy was hopeful that an agreement was still possible before expiration of the present contract at midnight on Friday . He was joined in this hope by Ralph Taggart , president of the Philadelphia Coal and Iron Cornpany , a spokesman for the oper-. ators . Mr. Taggart said the operators have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anthracite negotiations . Nor were the operators anxious to press - for an extension of the present agreement if such extension is to be on a retroactive basis . The explanation given for this was that , unlike the bituminous industry , whiCli-sellein large quantities and hills customers thirty days after sales , the anthracite industry sells on a " retail " basis , in smaller quantities , to individual buyers , with bills accompanying sales . For this reason , operators pointed out , they could not assume the liability of retroactive pay for any prolonged period . Failure to reach an agreement by Friday , in the absence of a retroactive agreement , thus would bring the anthracite industry to a standstill . A simultaneous stoppage in soft coal would tie up the entire coal industry of the United States for the first time in its history .                     