@@705608

txt BRITISH SET LINES FOR SYRIAN MOVE Poised for Drive to Checkmate Germans in French Area Nazi Landing Reported By C. L. SULZBERGER Special Broadcast to THIS Igsvi " YoRic TIMES . ANKARA , Turkey , June 2 ? British forces were reported to be consolidating their positions in Western Iraq and Northern Palestine to . day as the Middle East in general awaited developments in the tense Syrian situation and responsible diplomatic quarters on both sides of the belligerent front concurred that it was a military necessity for Britain to try to occupy the Frenchmandated territories . Rumors that German troops in uniform have been landed in Syrian ports are believed to be untrue or , at best , premature , but the Nazis have virtually taken over the administration of Syria and Lebanon I and are understood to be working hard to develop bad feeling between the Christian and Moslem populations . Radio Beirut this evening published an official denial that any German troops were in the mandated territories . One such rumor , reported by The Associated Press from Ankara , was that German motorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Syrian port of Latakia . In Cyprus the British rushed defense preparations , anticipating an early Axis attack , removed women and children to Egypt and sent native families to the hills . The German radio reported that a state of . siege had been declared for Eastern Syria , but The United Press said Vichy had no confirmation of this . The exiled Mufti of Jerusalem , who had sought to abet Premier Rashid Ali el Gailani 's cause in Iraq , has fled from Baghdad and is rumored to have crosted the Syrian frontier , where presumably he will attempt to spread more anti-British sentiment among the Arabs . Rashid Ali 's arrival in Teheran , Iran , was reported by The United Press . It is clear from the latest information received here that the Germans have established formidable // British Forces Massing Around Syria , Poised for Move to Checkmate Germans // preparations for an eventual occupation with the consent of France . Although regular troops are not yet in Syria , hundreds of technicians and air ground staffs are already there . The latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come through Turkey , and this was the reason for the fake credentials , since it was desired to avoid suspicion arising from too many German " tourists . " British military authorities in the Middle East admit that a German base in Syria would be a major threat to British positions all the way from Cyprus and Palestine to Suez , but it is believed the British are in a much better position now that Fia , shid Ali has been crushed . British forces could , if necessary , move on Syria from both the south and east and British ships , operating from Cyprus and Haifa , are still in a good position to hamper sea-borne communications with the Dodecanese and the Greek Islands . In addition , it is believed oil from the Mosul fields will soon be pumped to Haifa again in the pipeline from Kirkuk. 200 Nazi Planes Sighted A diplomatic source reports that since May 9 about 200 German planes have been sighted in the vicinity of Aleppo . Some of these , at least , flew on to Iraq , but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has collapsed . The Germans managed to export from Iraq to Syria 120 carloads of rice , sugar , wheat and aviation gasoline , which arrived at Aleppo last month . The fuel is for the Luftwaffe , since supplies are short in Syria . The Tripoli refinery was badly damaged by saboteurs early last month . The food is said to have been distributed for propaganda purposes to Arabs considered worthy by the Nazis . The following report , received today from a reliable Syrian source , may be considered sound first-hand information on the situation there : " The French administration is now quite powerless and absolutely discredited . Whoever marches into Syria  --  whether British , ' Free French ' or Germans  --  will meet with practically no opposition from the local French population . " Practically all the French people of Syria , including even those who were formerly anti-British , have been thoroughly disgusted with the attitude of the High Commissioner General Henri Fernand Dentz in the matter of dispatching war materials to Rashid Ali in Iraq last month . " On May 10 the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that two military trains should be prepared and loaded with 20,000 rifles , 1,000,000 rounds of ammunition , machine guns and other war materials from French military depots , and these trains were directed to Djizreh  --  that part of Syria adjoining Iraq . " In order to get there the trains had to pass through a stretch of Turkish territory and under the Turkish-Syrian transit conventions five days ' notice of passage was needed . However , the French High Commissioner pleaded that the ammunition was urgently needed by the French forces in Djizreh and obtained the immediate permission of the unsuspecting Turkish railway officials . " Tricky Affair " Resented " When the trains arrived at TelKochek , the last station before the Iraqi frontier , the French Army officer accompanying the trains ordered the station master to allow them to proceed into Iraqi territory . The station master refused to comply until it was pointed out that the trains were under military requisition and he must obey the commanding officer , which he did . It is believed that field wagons , containing more ammunition , later passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became known , caused general indignation among the French population . It was due to this that Colonel Philibert Collet deserted to Palestine . On one occasion , when British aircraft bombed Hayek airport , three French chasers went up to fight them , but two of the French planes joined the attackers and flew back with them to Palestine . " Together with the French population , the Christian Syrians are now almost entirely pro-British . However , the Moslem population , in virtual entirety , is pro-German , largely as a result of intensive German propaganda during the last few years , encouraging pan-Arab aspirations and attacking Britain as a friend of the Jews . " If the Germans ever get a foothold in Syria they will find almost unanimous support among the Moslem inhabitants . Feeling has now reached such a high pitch that religious disturbances in the near future are a distinct possibility . A rising of the Moslem Germanophile population against the Anglophile Christians , with consequent rioting and slaughter , is by no means unlikely . " The explosive ? situation depicted in this report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is learned here that Nazi agents during the last few weeks have been making a flat promise to the Arabs that they will expel the Jews from Palestine .                     