@@708191

txt Celebrating the twenty-seventh anniversary of the Russian Revolution in the dawn of Allied victory in Europe , Marshal Stalin has made a speech which puts its main emphasis on the necessity of continuing and strengthening the alliance among Russia , the United States and Great Britain . This alliance , he declared , has already thrown the enemy back behind his own frontiers and brought Germany to the " verge of disaster . " While paying rightful tribute to the achievements of the Russian armies and the Russian people , and though continuing to maintain that for three years Russia fought the war " alone and without serious support from our allies , " Marshal Stalin also paid full tribute to the achievements of the western Allies , executed under the plan of Teheran . And he put the problem of coalition warfare in a nutshell when lie said that without the Allied operations in the west the Russians would not have been able to drive the enemy from their soil in so short a time , and that by the same token the western Allies would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from France , Btlgium and most of Italy without the Russian operations in the east . This united action brought forth a year of decisive victories , and in its continuation lies the key to final victory . To that Marshal Stalin pledged himself and his country . He also pledged himself to a continuation of that alliance into the peace . On this point he gave full endorsement to the Dumbarton Oaks plan for organization of The United Nations backed by armed force capable of acting immediately to avert or suppress aggression . This organization , he emphasized , must be more effective than the League of Nations , and it will be effective only if the great Powers which bore the brunt of the war continue to work unanimously and in concord . On that general proposition all the United Nations are agreed . Marshal Stalin himself frankly recognizes that there are still differences of opinion , but he also declares that they are amazingly small , and that they are being solved peacefully . This may be accepted as a pledge that they will be solved in consultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if the success of the new peace organization depends on the continued cooperation of the great Powers , that cooperation in turn depends on who is going to cooperate with whom and for what purpose . No cooperation can long continue if it is too one-sided , or entirely for the benefit of individual members of the coalition . That applies to all the United Nations , large and small . It applies especially to the great Powers ? to the United States , to Great Britain and to Russia , who today might feel themselves in a position to take what they covet . The organization of peace must be backed not only by force of arms but also by the moral sense of the world , if it is to last longer than did the alliances of the past , concluded for war and spoils .                     