@@710482

txt PARIS , June ** Foreign Secretary Bevin will come to 1Paris Tuesday to discuss with Foreign Minister Bidault and French experts the possibility of drafting rapidly a common European reconstruction as suggested by Secretary of State Marshall , the French and British Foreign Offices announced today . The French have asked the Russians to join in such a discussion but have had no reply . The aim will be to insure that the British and French proposals for such a plan do not conflict and to do what is possible to show the need of aid in time to relieve the present financial stress of the two countries . " Italy is broke now , France will be broke in six months and Britain within a year , " said one economist , meaning that those countries would be at the end of their foreign credits within those periods . If the new plan is to be of any help to France in her present plight it must show results by the end of this year . But this is not expected unless some provisional emergency credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Marshall 's speech with an outburst of enthusiasm and if the French are only now about to do so , the reasons were : ( 1 ) It was uncertain whether Russia was included in the term " Europe . " ( 2 ) It seemed academic and remote so far as the urgent immediate needs of the two countries were concerned . ( 3 ) Its translation into action seemed and still seems to , observers here likely to prove a long and difficult process in view of the differences to be bridged in Europe . In the last few days the French Cabinet has been too absorbed in // drafting drastic measures to shore up the budget and temper the new inflationary blow of the railway and other wage increases to consider Secretary Marshall 's proposal other than any ray of light that seemed obscurely hopeful for a long-term outlook but of little practical immediate importance . But while experts shook their heads and wondered how the gap could be spanned between today 's financial strain and tomorrow 's United States credits , diplomats recognized the need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are especially interested in the time element . Henri Bonnet , French Ambassador to the United States , was told to explain to the State Department that the French Government welcomed Secretary Marshall 's speech at Harvard with great interest , although it had not publicly expressed that interest . M. Bonnet also asked how the Marshall proposal was to be carried out . The French meanwhile consulted the British and offered to consult with the Soviet Union . The fact that Europe , for the purpose of the plan , is now defined by Secretary Marshall as including the Soviet Union as well as Britain has come as a relief to diplomats but has added to the misgivings of those who emphasize the need for quick action . Moscow is not renowned here for ? Reedy diplomacy . Nor has it shown in the past any desire to open up Eastern Europe to Western trade , as would be necessary if the reconstruction scheme were to embrace Europe as it was defined by Secretary Marshall . To the experts it seems obvious that no general European reconstruction scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing short-term proolem with which they are obliged to grapple mainly or exclusively . They see also many obstacles to an agreement in Europe on such a plan ; although agreement by France and Britain is expected to be less difficult than an agreement with the Soviet Union . Hence they look for early acceptance in principle followed by prolonged negotiations the moment the question of practical details arises . Such a plan , they say , presupposes a stable price level in the cooperating countries at a time when France , for example , has been unable to attain such level for herself . The air here is full of rumors of the forthcoming devaluation of currency , which , however , could take place only to the ex tent of 10 per cent unless the consent of the International Monetary Fund were obtained . Countries like Belgium , which are relatively strong economically , are expected to hesitate to join up with bankrupt or unstable countries . A wide area of freer trade , considered indispensable to a common European scheme , would involve mutual tariff preferences within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an area but their policy is against such tariff preferences . To specialized observers here the success of the plan seems to depend upon the ability of European states to agree on a proposal that will impress the public and economists of the United States as offering a real solution of Europe 's economic ills . Efforts at common action in any sphere in Europe in the recent past have not provided the best possible augury for the economic accord in view . The French emphasize that the talks so far have reached only the stage of considering how to proceed . They favor " speed but not precipitousness , " one official said . They do not yet see clearly what can be done or by what methods a maximum number of countries can be included and credit proposals kept within acceptable limits . Meanwhile , the French Government will try through measures to be adopted next week to put its own house in order by a further effort at deflation . However , this can hardly offset the inflationary effects of the wage increases that have been granted and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet be even estimated . An editorial in the Communist newspaper Humanite , which will appear tomorrow , will say that Mr. Bevin 's visit smacks of a Western bloc as does the French method of merely sending a hasty note to Moscow after consultation with the British . The editorial will reserve judgment but will warn that there is reason to foresee " an American control over European economies " that will compromise the independence of those nations . It will add that the Soviet Union will never accept such control .                     