@@705155

txt KNOX IN WARNING OF PERILOUS TIMES DENOUNCES HITLER We Will Appease No One on Earth , Declares Secretary , Assailing ' Greedy Fanatic ' HE CALLS FOR SACRIFICES Tells New England Meeting That We Will Send Britain Everything We Can Spare The text of Secretary Knox 's speech appears on Page 12 . By HUGH O'CONNOR Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BOSTON , Mass. , Nov. 14 ? A conference of 750 of the leading business men of New England , led by the Governors or the Governors ! elect of the six New England States , today heard Frank Knox , Secretary of the Navy , declare in an extemporaneous address that the United States would not " appease anybody on earth . " At the opening of the annual New England Conference at the Hotel Statler here , . Secretary Knox as-serted : " It does n't fit the American spirit , the American purpose , or the American security to talk appeasement in a world like this where force and force alone determines the fate of nations . " In his speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adolf Hitler as " a fanatic , greedy for world domination , " who was " likely in the very near future " to attack Gibraltar by going through Spain . " We are reliably informed , " he said , " that Germany has a whole division in civilian clothes in Spain itself . " Upholds the British Blockade It had now become apparent , Colonel Knox told the session , that the attempt to invade England had failed . He then laid down the policy that the British blockade of Europe must be respected despite " the ghastly conditions that we read about in Europe this Winter , black starvation for helpless , innocent peoples . " Emphasizing the belief that an Axis success in the Mediterranean would " go a long way toward achieving victory in this war , " Secretary Knox said : " Consequently you can imagine the relief in military circles when the news came to us only yesterday of the victory of the British air force in destroying a large part of the Italian fleet while it clung to its bases behind the shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all possible aid for Britain " short of leaving ourselves defenseless , " Secretary Knox said : " I hope we will soon come to have as unanimous a public opinion in ! favor of helping China . " The interest of the United States in helping China , he asserted , was to prevent " some fresh excursions to the South " by Japan , which he described as " that nation now dominated by a secret cabal of military officers who rule it . " " For your reassurance , " he told his audience , " I am glad to tell you as the Chief of the Navy that we have the strongest fleet today that floats the seven seas . It is not only stronger , but thank God it 's ready . " Secretary Knox warned business that profits would necessarily " have // KNOX IN WARNING OF PERILOUS TIMES // to become secondary " to national security and that " we 've got to make sacrifices such as we never have been asked to make before . " His audience warmed to his conclusions concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of his hearers , commenting later on the speech , asserted that it was " time that some one spoke out. - The address of Secretary Knox was broadcast nationally through the Colonial network of New England , and internationally on the endowed , non-commercial short wave station of WRUL , maintained here by the World Wide Broadcasting Foundation . According to the shortwave broadcasters , excellent reception , so far as sound was concerned , was assured in Europe from Moscow to Rome , and in South America and Canada , with fairly dependable reception in Tokyo . The Governors and Governors-elect who followed Secretary Knox gave public assurance that their States intended to accept the result of the recent Presidential election loyally for the sake of national defense . Governors Acclaim Unity Governor Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut said : " The elections are over and we are no longer concerned with candidates . " Governor William H. Vanderbilt of Rhode Island said : " It is the finest sign of the healthy quality of democracy that in this country today the press , party leaders , industrialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity . Such is the character of democracy . " Almost at the moment the votes had been counted and the decision of the people had become known , the defeated were congratulating the victors , the nation was shedding its campaign buttons and rolling up its sleeves to go back to work . " Governor Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts said that , despite an increasing number of labor disputes in recent months , there had been fewer actual strikes , with such strikes as did come lasting for smaller periods than usual . " Our board of conciliation and arbitration in Massachusetts . " he said . " has found the right side so many times in the last three years that an estimated minimum of 200 , - 0 ' , ) men have refrained from strikin 7 . The board 's best prescription Is to stop a strike before it happens . " That , I am confident , is the attitude which will place New England industry in the front rank of national defense with unimpeded production . The volume of cases handled by our labor relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes to bargain collectively and discriminatory action against employes for union activities are being rapidly eliminated as causes of industrial strife . " Opposes Centralized Power Governor Lewis 0 . Barrows of Maine warned the New England business men against letting a zeal for national unity cause them to lose sight of the purpose for which they organized in 1925 the present New England Conference , the only regional body of its kind in this country . " There have been and will be , " said Governor Barrows , " many problems of a local character which for their solution require the crossing of State lines , yet which remain regional in their nature ; and an agency such as the New England Council , working with the States through its close contact with the New England Governors and their State departments , may well prevent the expansion of Federal power into fields where we in New England are not yet ready to surrender our rights , or to confess our impotence . " In Maine , and I think in New England , we do not believe in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We aspire to draw back into New England the control of our own economic destiny . Speaking for Maine . and , I am sure , for New England too , we concede that the problem of defense is national . Maine will do her share with enthusiasm under the national leadership which American democracy selects . Our sense of unity at home , our demonstrated unity in New England in matters of common interest , is not inconsistent with the broader national unity which the existing situation demands . " Governor-elect William H. Wills of Vermont recommended the raising of more agricultural , poultry and dairy products within the New England region so that the food needs of an increasing work population would not require importations from other sections of the United States and thereby require the use of transportation needed for defense products . This judgment was endorsed by Governor-elect Robert 0 . Blood of New Hampshire , as the chief executive of a largely rural State , in which agriculture ranks as the first industry . The practical steps to be followed in matching available labor with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviewed by Ralph E. Flanders , president of the New England Council , which conducts this annual conference in cooperation with the six New England Governors and State officials . Mr. Flanders is president of two nationally known machine tool industries . " The suggested program we are laying out for New England is one that the rest of the country may well follow , " said Mr. Flanders . " The first step must be that of adding ' defense activit " . so far as possible , to regular business , instead of replacing regular business by defense activity . Says Idle Men Must Be Hired " This is another way of saying that we must bring new men  --  the unemployed  --  into the program , instead of shifting the work of those now employed . Unless we do bring in new men , we will immediately fall into the evil practice of certain periods of the last war in which each individual company undertook to expand its production by hiring men away from other companies , with no advantage to national production as a whole . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense materials by expansion rather than by substitution , if we are to avoid the onset of inflation . If the consumer goods industries are transferred to war production , we will have a maintained , or even an increased , purchasing power in the consumer population with a decreased output of consumer goods . This situation , and that just mentioned the hiring of men by one manufacturer away from another , instead of drawing needed workers from among the unemployed are the two factors which start inflation and make it impossible to avoid it . " There is , finally , the fact that it would be a national scandal , a sign of gross mismanagement , if in the face of unlimited defense orders , we were unable to reduce unemployment to the vanishing point . We must , by all available means , put our unemployed completely to work on defense , instead of leaving them on the WPA and the CCC , while we withdraw men for defense work from occupations in which they are already engaged . Looks to Post-War Problem " All of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conditions may well become so severe that in a later period we may deliberately have to dut down our existing consumer goods production in order to get adequate defense output . " When that time comes , we will have to meet new problems in avoiding inflation , and the government will unquestionably have to tax away or borrow front the people of the nation , of all income classes , all that income which can not be exchanged at current prices for the diminished volume of consumer goods . Only thus can the miseries and social disintegration of post-war deflation be avoided . " But , until that time arrives , we can end unemployment ; we can avoid inflation ; we can , on the whole , maintain the standard of living for the great mass of the population ; and , in doing all this , we can still greatly increase our output of defense materials beyond anything we are contemplating in the immediate future . " This is the achievement which is possible for our region and for the nation . Can we New Englanders show the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that we will . " Dr. J. Anton de Haas , Ziegler Professor of International Relations in the Graduate School of Business Administration at Harvard University , said in part : " The United States will face a world of government - controlled trade and finance and of barter trade , no matter who wins the war . Nevertheless , a Nazi victory would be far more disturbing  --  would , indeed , be disastrous . " In control of all the productive centers of Europe , and being able to force millions of Workers to labor at starvation wages , Hitler will be able to offer more manufactured products in exchange for a given quantity of tin or rubber t than we could offer . " We are quite mistaken to think that we can defeat Hitler in Latin America once he has conquered in Europe . The place to defeat him is Europe . A British peace , on the other hand , although not assuring us a world without economic problems , assures us a world where through friendly negotiations the problems may be solved . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference tonight , Commander Thomas D. Galbraith , of the British Royal Navy and a member of the British Purchasing Commission , declared that " speed is of the essence of the contract . " He continued : " Apart from the various technical difficulties , I can tell you of the pitfalls which we encountered and which greatly delayed and hindered our production . " The British officer said , " They were : A belief that war was no concern of ours , a belief that being separated by sea from Europe we were safe , a desire even while preparing to defend ourselves to pursue our usual mode of life and to endeavor to maintain our commerce , and failure to realize the need for haste . " We believe that in the course of time we can win this war , that we can struggle through somehow , but we also know that the length of the war will be greatly affected by the industrial help which we can obtain from America , and which may well be vital to us . " We are grateful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portray , for the help and the assistance which we are already receiving from you . That help is very great already , though as yet your industries , have scarcely got going . It will be enormous when they have really settled down to production . Would " Welcome " Our Help " But do you really believe that any nation engaged in such a struggle as that in which we are engaged ' today , would not welcome the active assistance of a great and friendly nation ? Could such a thing be true ? It is n't true  --  but this is true : We do n't expect America to come into the war to pull British chestnuts out of the fire . " But should America ever decide that the totalitarian nations threaten her trade , her standard of living , the liberty of her people , her independence , the American way of life , and that it is necessary for her to take up arms in the defense of these things , then that indeed would be a glorious and happy day in the annals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future , the great English-speaking races would be drawn closer together , that civilization would advance without individual liberty and the independence of small nations being trampled under foot , and that freedom and the riches of the earth would be available to all people . " But should that time never come , we will still remain the Eastern bulwark of democracy and while the bulwark stands , as we believe and trust it will for generations yet , surely no harm can come from Europe . But if , by some strange turn of fate , that Eastern guard , the British fleet , should be , destroyed , then it would seem to us that in a world of nazism you would be unable to maintain that way of life which with the British Empire you almost alone today still follow . " 