@@709445

txt Earl Browder , for fifteen years the leader of the Communist party in the United States and since last July , when he was " deposed , " the object of vituperation on the part of the present leaders headed by William Z. Foster , took off yesterday morning on an American Airlines plane ' headed for Copenhagen and Stockholm . At La Guardia Field , whence the plane left , Mr. Browder would say nothing of his trip . It was learned , however , that the notations on his passport issued by this Government , listed as among the places he intended to visit , Britain , France , Sweden and Russia . The Soviet Consulate here admitted , in answer to questions , ' that " there is a possibility he will ' be a visitor to our country . " It was said further that although no visa was issued here to Mr. Browder , the likelihood was that he would obtain a visa to enter Russia ? a rarity these days  --  when he reaches Stockholm . This disclosure came as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , an inkling that Mr. Browder would try to go abroad in an effort to " make connections " and re-establish himself here . The projected visit to Russia by Mr. Browder gave rise to speculation that the " invitation " must have been issued by the Soviet Government , that he was welcome there and that he would bring back with him a new " party line " to be pursued by the Communist party . in the United States . This , of course , would mean that he would regain ' the headship here . What this " party line " will be , // could be the subject only of conjecture . In light of international developments since Mr. Browder 's forced retirement , the Soviet Government has pursued an unilateral policy both within the Security Council meeting of the United Nations and the two Council of Foreign Ministers meetings , the current one in Paris , on Iran and Franco Spain . Trend of Events Puzzling Inexplicable to some minds are the chain of events in the case of Mr. Browder . An apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicissitudes of the war in the eyes of his Communist adherents as a leader whose word and dictate was unquestioned . With the war 's end his policy of collaboration with allied elements , including " capitalist cooperation , " was " repudiated " by the national board of the Communist party here , which ousted him as secretary general of the party and condemned him for his " rotten liberal attitudes . " This came in July , 1945 , after the way had been pointed by Jacques Duclos , French leader of the dominant European Communists , who , in an article in " Cahiers du Communisme , " clearly indicated a new " line " and in so many words said that Browder must go .. Within a few days Pravda recorded without comment the debate between Mr. Browder and Mr. Foster in the national congress the Communists held in New York . The Soviet publication said the congress decision was to re-establish the Communist party , which in the interim war period was called the Communist Political Association , adding that while the party would support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution , its final goal was the " Socialist reorganization of society . " Mr. Browder 's trip came as an even greater surprise , because , in a letter sent to his former brethren , he had told of the necessity for his earning a living , with most channels closed , as an explanation for the " economic letter " that he and his brother , William , were putting out under the name of " Distributors Guide , Inc . " In this he asked that contributions of funds be sent to his home in Yonkers to help him rehabilitate himself . When apprised of Mr. Browder 's forthcoming visit to Russia , ComImunist leaders here said unofficially they were fearful of " international complications " ; that even if he again enjoyed the confidence of the Kremlin his visit , with implied instructions for a new party line here , would lay the Soviet open to charges of interference in the domestic affairs of other nations . They were frank to say that Mr. Browder , when he was the Communist leader here , had the financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that since he was deposed " the treasury had quite a lot of trouble around our way . " But they professed to see in the visit only that Mr. Browder was not the kind of man to give up easily and that he had friends " who think along his lines " in Sweden to whom he was making a last-ditch appeal . France they ruled out , because , they said , France was " the big baby " of Communist influence in Europe that , through Duclos , had ordered Mr. 1Browder 's removal . Reminder of Previous Trip Mr. Browder was among twenty-nine passengers who embarked on the American Airlines flagship Washington for Copenhagen and Stockholm . His departure recalled that in 1940 Mr. Browder , a native of the United States , was sentenced to four years ' imprisonMent for violation of the passport laws when , under an assumed iname , he visited Russia and other countries . His sentence was cornmuted by Franklin D. Roosevelt after Mr. Browder had served fourteen months in the Federal Penitentiary at Atlanta , Ga . Mr. Browder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest . " Are you going to Russia ? " he was asked . " There 's no story , " Mr. Browder replied . " I have nothing to say . " Equally uncommunicative was his brother , William , who was expelled from Communist party membership with the warning to , party members to be " on guard against the attempted penetration of this enemy of the working class . " William Browder was business manager of The Daily Worker , local Communist organ , and State treasurer of the party .                     