@@710251

txt Although the Administration prefers to have the President given wide discretion in parceling out aid to Greece and Turkey , the Republican Congress is expected to chisel rather finely the precise terms of the proposed $400,000,000 aid program . While a collection of strange congressional bedfellows began lining up in opposition to the Mediterranean commitments , the rough draft of a State Depdrtment bill allowing President Truman to apportion the suggested $400 , - . 000,000 in any amount to Greece and Turkey , either as loans or As grants , has received its initial going-over by the House Foreign Affairs Committee . Meanwhile , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , President pro tern-pore of the Senate and chief power behind the nation 's bipartisan foreign policy , . has stepped up his program to give Congress and the nation the fullest information about the bold new policy . This would apply both to what the Administration immediately proposes to do in the Middle East and to where the implications of the nev. ' departure eventually may reach . Vandenberg Speaks Senator Vandenberg , Chairman of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ please " session with the Senate 's 51-member Republican majority yesterday , answering any and all questions regarding the proposed commitments . The Michigan Senator likewise has been influential in the move to make House and Senate hearings on the proposed legislation public and open . Hearings in the House tenth- Lively are slated to commence March 18 or 19 , but the actual date hinges on . committee completion of hearings on the fore-running bill to provide $250,000,000 for strictly relief purposes in liberated countries , including Greece . House to Act First ? Senator Vandenberg has insisted that the Greek , Turkish assistance measure begin in the House , inasmuch as its expenditure angle makes it in a sense an appropriations measure . Unfortunately , the House Republican leadership is not likely to press as urgently toward final decision as would the Senate . This is a factor for delay . Ultimate passage of the President 's recommendations by an adequate vote is taken for granted , but several House leaders question whether it can be handled In two weeks or before the deadline date for British withdrawal  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legislation charting the historic shift in foreign policy is said to fix Jan. 30 , 1948 , as the termination date for assistance , and to confine aid strictly to Greece and Turkey . Diplomatic officials point out that the date could subsequently be extended by Congress and aid expanded to countries other than Greece and Turkey , if need arose . Military Restrictions While the President would be given broad discretion in dispensing the proposed dollars , House Foreign Affairs Committee members talked of restricting More closely the President 's authority to send American military and civilian ? personnel abroad . Some members would specify . exactly what military aid could be rendered  --  whether merely technical advisory personnel , whether instructors to boisttn- Greece 's mountain fighters ag ; . inst Communist guerrillas , or whether actual contingents of American soldiers . Meanwhile , the lineup of forces pro and con is progressing , and Capitol Hill sees the spectacle of renascent Mid west isolationism and the congressional left wing taking the same position . Thus Senator Wayland Brooks ( R ) of Illinois is talking down - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Russia , while Senator Claude Pepper ( D ) of Florida , or left-wing persuasion , is talking down the program as failing to seek first the assistance of the United Nations . Administration Quizzed Senators , already briefly briefed by Senator Vandenberg 's " information please " session , now are planning to deluge the Administration with other questions . Chiefly is there a questioning whether this program is intended to be confined to the Middle East  --  and precisely defined there  --  or is the United States embarking on a loosely planned design to shore up faltering nontotalitarian regimes anywhere around the globe ? During yesterday 's questioning , Senator William E. Jenner ( R ) of Indiana asked whether Foreign Minister Ernest Bevin of Britain had informed James F , Byrnes. former Secretary of State , as long ago as last October of British intentions . to withdraw economic support from Greece . In reply , the State Department issued a statement saying that whereas Britain . had publicly stated its intention to withdraw troops as soon as practicable , the British note of Feb. 24 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid would be withdrawn as of March 31.                     