@@708752

txt GOLDSTEIN , O'DWYER TO BE UNOPPOSED IN THE PRIMARIES Surpless Withdraws Despite Having More Than Enough Backing to Enter Race MANY DEMOCRATIC FIGHTS Six Candidacies for Public Office and 10 Leaderships in Tammany Involved General Sessions Judge Jonah J. Goldstein of Manhattan and District Attorney William O'Dwyer of Brooklyn were assured uncontested nominations for Mayor yesterday as the deadline for filing designations was reached at 5 P. M. without the appearance of any opposition petitions . There still remained a remote possibility that opposition petitions might be placed in the mails before midnight . The last threat , of primary opposition to Judge Goldstein was removed earlier in the day when George H. Ittleman announced that Magistrate Abner C. Surpless of Brooklyn would not make a contest for the Republican nomination despite the fact that more than enough signatures had been collected to enter him in the race . Mr. Ittleman had been serving as chairman of the Surpless campaign committee . O'Dwyer 's Mates in Clear Mr. O'Dwyer was without opposition from the start for the Democratic and American Labor nominations , and there were no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opposition to Mr. O'Dwyer 's running mates on the Democratic and Labor party tickets , Vincent R. Impellitteri for President of the Council and State Senator Lazarus Joseph for Controller , was created through the filing of the Queens Democratic designating petitions bearing the names of other candidates for these offices . But the Queens candidates have already signed declinations that will be filed before the Friday deadline and Mr. Im // Eighth , Tenth , Eleventh , Twelfth , Thirteenth , Fourteenth and Sixteenth Assembly Districts in Manhattan and a single Republican contest for the leadership in the Twelfth District . No sleaderships are at stake in the other boroughs . On the Democratic side , the contest in the Second is between Dr. deleted 12 lines Albano ; in the Tenth , between Martin J. Kelly and Edward J. Barry , the incumbent ; in the Eleventh , between Joseph Pinckney and Fred Dickens , the incumbent . In the Twelfth , Herbert L. Bruce , the incumbent , is being opposed by Joseph E. Ford and Guy R. Brewer in a three-cornered fight . The contest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Everett Dickens , a brother of the present leader in the Eleventh . In the Fourteenth the fight is between Eyre Harris and James Pemberton , incumbent . Both Frank Rosetti and Francis X. Mancuso , the present leaders of the Sixteenth , have opposition , but there has been no announcement ' of the candidate or candidates who will oppose them . Since the election of leaders is made by the county committees in the district , an agreement on the 16 Democratic Fights Seen Primary contests for six Democratic nominations to public office and for ten Tammany district leaderships in Manhattan were indicated by the designating petitions filed yesterday . Whether all of these contests will materialize depends on the number of candidates who file declinations by 5 P. M. Friday and on the action of the Board of Elections in determining whether their petitions are valid . On the Republican side , only a single contest for a district leadership in Manhattan was indicated by the designating petitions . Five of the Democratic nominations apparently in contest involve judicial offices . The sixth is the nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former Borough President , is seeking another nomination and is being opposed by Harry Cassidy . Two insurgent candidates , Frank A. Bellucci and Emanuel J. Rubat , filed in the Democratic primary for County Judge of Queens against Thomas Downs , the incumbent , who has the backing of James A. Roe 's county organization for another term . In Manhattan , Isidore I. Steinberg was entered in opposition to Municipal Court Justice Thomas J. Whalen , who is seeking renomination in the Fifth district . Justice Whalen is unopposed for the Republican nomination . In the First Municipal Court District of the Bronx , where three vacancies exist . Edward A. Cunningham and Neal P. Battiglieri , insurgents , filed against the Democratic organization choices , Charles A. Loreto and Justices William Lyman and Christopher C. . The two last named are seeking re-election . In the Second Municipal Court District of the Bronx Isaac Ben Greenman filed as an insurgent against Justice Agnes M. Craig , the incumbent and organization choice . Brooklyn Court Contest In Brooklyn there is a contest between M. Henry Martuscello and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the First Municipal Court District bench . Assemblyman Lewis W. 011iffe is unopposed for the Republican nomination in the same district . A threatened contest in ' the Sixth District of Kings was averted through the declination of former Justice Nathan M. Sweedler . On the basis of petitions filed yesterday , there will be contests ' for the Democratic district leaderships in the Second , Third , Seventh , deleted column opposition candidate is not necessary until the new committeemen , are elected in the primary . Lone Republican Fight The lone Republican leadership fight is between William L. Brown ) and Harold L. Burton , the incumbent , in the Twelfth District . Simultaneously with the filing of designating petitions yesterday , Eugene P. Connolly , who has been assured of Democratic and American Labor backing for City Councilman , announced the formation of a Broadway nonpartisan committee to assist his campaign . It is being organized by Leo Shull and includes Alexander Yokel , Sam Jaffe , Zero Mostel , Milton Berle and Margot . In announcing that designating petitions for Magistrate Surpless would not be filed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept intact . The announcement criticized the Republican leaders for their selection of Judge Goldstein as the party 's standard-bearer and left the way open for a committee decision to back the Democratic candidate , although Mr. Ittleman refused to speculate on this possibility . Shortly after the announcement Chief City Magistrate Henry H. Curran , who had relieved Magistrate Surpless of his judicial duties during the pre-designation period , announced that Mr. Surpless was being assigned to sit in Queens Traffic Court today . Judge Goldstein , without commenting on Mr. Surpless ' decision , announced that he would leave Friday for a months vacation on his farm at Bethlehem , N. H.                     