@@708948

txt The controversial questions raised by the occupation of Japan and Korea , the problem of what naval bases we are to maintain in the Atlantic and the Pacific , Congressional discussion on demobilization , talk of unification of the armed services , and statements by former Secretary Stimson and Secretary Forrestal on the necessity of maintaining an adequate Army and Navy ? all these have focused attention the last fese days on the problem of our military establishment , its size and its use as an instrument of national policy . Amid the conflict of opinions from official sources the public can be pardoned if it sees only a hazy picture of the problem and looks in vain to authority for a solution . After all our earlier wars , the history of the armed services has been a story of starvation budgets and popular neglect . At times the services have been so reduced in strength , in morale and in equipment that the national security has been endangered . At all costs this cyclic trend of wartime glorification and peacetime parsimony should be avoided now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves are planning for the peacetime years with the long view and with comprehensive judgment . Peacetime public support of the services must depend in considerable measure upon the soundness of concept and measure of efficiency with which they operate , and upon the validity of their relationship to the atomic age and to the technical revolution and the sweeping political and economic changes in the world 's power system through which we are pissing . Thus far there has been only piecemeal defense planning . Instead of unity , there has been division . Interservice frictions are again evident , and each service seems interested primarily in maintaining its own strength and prestige , if necessary at the expense of the other services . There has been no over-all study of the myriad problems of defense , and it is certain that no service group or committee and no Congressional committee yet organized have the disinterestedness or the time to make an objective , nonpartisan , comprehensive study . The fighting services themselves are necessarily somewhat prejudiced witnesses , and the Congressional committee system makes most of our legislative committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Objectivity and wide and sweeping vision , and an integrated investigation of all phases of our post-war military problems , are needed . Merely to enumerate some of these problems is to give an idea of the complexity and importance of the subject . The post-war system of organization of the services , including the proposed unified Department of the Armed reeves ; the system of training , including universal peacetime training ; a reViired intelligence system ; the postwar organization for research ; the handling of personnel ; military schooling ; the integration of our military policy with our foreign policy ; the ap ? proximate sizes and functions of the various armed forces ; the question of bases ; industrial mobilization ; the types of armament best suited to the atomic age  --  all these problems cry for adequate attention . Some of them are being studied now , but the studies are disparate and in many instances contradictory and incomplete . In far too many cases the policy of " drift " in our post-war defense needs has become evident . . The ? atomic bomb and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever before the necessity for comprehensive study and planning . The best instrumentality for such a study , we believe , is not a oommittee of the services , or a committee of Congress , or the Joint Chiefs of Staff , but a commission patterned after the well-known Baker and Morrow boards , which were called upon to undertake similar studies in the past Such a commission , appointed by the ? resident and Congress , should consist of men carefully selected for breadth of vision and objectivity of approach . It should be entirely civilian in composition , but have military , naval and air advisers . Its membership might include several members of Congress . It should have competent counsel and staff and sufficient appropriations to defray necessary expenses . The scope of its charter should be as broad as the problems that will confront the military in the years to come , and its life should be ample to conduct a thorough basic study into our whole post-war defense problem . On such a study sound and nonpartisan legislation can be based . By such investigation Army-Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be avoided .                     