@@710592

txt One of Europe 's smallest and most truculent followers of the Kremlin has delivered another snub to world authority . The secretary of the UN subcommission investigating Greek border incidents was kept waiting in broiling sun on the barren mountain side at the Albanian frontier post of Kakavia . He waited for several hours and was then told to go away . Senor Quimper. delegate of Colombia on the UN subcommission , was bearer of a document containing evidence already taken from Greek witnesses to last week 's bandit incursion toward Jannina from Albania . This evidence was to be given to Albanian authorities to check and request was made that the subcommission be allowed to question Albanian witness . Low Point . Hit After the long delay on July 24 while a frontier post soldier went away to seek instructions , a man-sized poster was erected bearing the words . " This is the Albanian Populist Republic , " and below , " Enver Tito , Albanian Premier , Stalin . " By now the UN subcommission 's authority in Greece has reached its lowest point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates have rendered their work almost impossible , and the refusal of Greece 's northern neighbors to assist in any way in gathering evidence from their side has made their reports naturally only from the Greek angle . Speed Urgent Most well-informed circles here feel that unless something is done at Lake Success to breathe reality into their labors they might just as well go home . In the mission itself there is the same feeling , though unexpressed . It is stated that the subcommission is reporting by cable direct to the Security Council at Lake Success the results of their finding , incomplete though they may be , because of the urgency of the matter . Meanwhile in eastern Thrace there is evidence that bandits are trying to terrorize the people from giving testimony before the UN subcommission . In an attack recently against the small town of Negrita the families of two EAM supporters were massacred . Typical Cases One case was that of three Communist sisters of the bandit leader Frangou who had been captured and had given evidence before the commission . The other was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief Faki , who had refused to go to the mountains with the bandits and instead had fled to Salonika . There seems no question that both within the subcommission and from outside the Slays have no intention of making successful investigations possible . What the Kremlin-dictated plan is is anyone 's guess . The latest rumor is that a satisfactory center for the establishment of a free democratic Greek Government , as promised in the Communist convention at Strasbourg , is being sought . Northern Epirus It is said that the Russians have suggested that Albania cede territory in Albanian Northern Epirus for this purpose . If the Albanians should acceed to such a request it will show how far the proposed free democratic Greek Government is actually Greek . One of . Albania 's most insistent claims is for a large slice of Northern Epirus which lies in Greek territory . It is almost inconceivable that the Albanians would agree to the " Greek " free government being allowed a slice of Epirus which lies in Albania . Most political eyes in Athens are turned now to Lake Success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great measure of hope . But it is still felt that perhaps something might come out of the Security Council 's present meeting which would ease the tension of the present border situation . Main Concern The main concern is to make the setting up of a " free Greek democratic " government an impossibility . No one in Greece has any deep concern over internal repercussions from such an event . Within the country it would have no authority and would be regarded as a laughing stock . What is feared is excuse whfth this political figment might offer to Slav states to take even more forceful participation in bandit warfare . Under the myth of legality , such a government might appeal to neighbors for help and , quoting the , precedent of the Greek Government 's asking help from America , might get it . That at the moment is the immediate danger in the Greek situation .                     