@@711343

txt The United Nations Commission on Human Rights adopted today its International Declaration of Human Rights setting up a " common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations . " With only the Slav bloc in opposition , the commission wound up its third session by deciding to send to the Economic and Social Council not only the completed Declaration of Human Rights but records of the commission 's unfinished work on the Covenant and on implementation of the Declaration . Voting today for the first time on the preamble and the Declaration as a whole , the commission adopted both by votes of 12 to 0 , with four abstentions  --  the Soviet Union , the Ukraine , Byelorussia and Yugoslavia . A Russian " minority report " attacking the Declaration as " unsatisfactory " and as " weak and completely unacceptable " was included at the cad of the commission'g report by a vote of 11 to 1 , with two abstentions . The statement of Prof. A. P. Pavlov of the Soviet Union , endorsed by the other three abstainers , listed all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union . It declared that the document " can not duly insure respect for human rights . " It described the Declaration ' as " very vague and general " statements which " 150 years ago would have been a very substantial move forward . " It emphasized the " rejection of effective measures to combat fascism and nazism " and the refusal to specify the individual 's obligations to the state . Despite these criticisms , none of the Slav bloc voted against either the preamble or the Declaration itself . Similarly , in the final vote by roll-call on the adoption of the commission 's report to the Economic and Social Council , under which it works , the four Slav countries merely abstained . All other members of the commission gave support except Iran , which was absent . Draft Goes to Council The importance of this vote and the historic significance of the adoption of the draft Declaration were stressed by several speakers . The draft now goes to the Economic and Social Council for consideration at its coming session in Geneva . It will then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Declaration constitutes the first part of a bill of human rights that the commission , under the chairmanship of Mrs. Franklin 1 ) . Roosevelt , has been working on for more than two years . The remaining two parts are the Covenant , which will cover " a smaller field of rights , but will be legally binding on member states that ratify it , and provisions for implementing the Declaration of Human Rights . By a vote of 11 to 0 , with 4 abstentions , the commission voted this afternoon to recommend in its report that a meeting be held " early in 1949 " for the completion of the Covenant and the provisions for implementation . Much of today 's session was taken up by a prolonged controversy arising out of a protest by Mrs. Roosevelt against the sixth paragraph of the report , which indicated that the delay in the arrival at Lake Success of the representatives of Byelorussia and the Ukraine on the Commission was " in violation of the agreement adopted by the General Assembly on 31 October , 1947 . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these two rep- , resentatives by the United States consular representative in Moscow . Mrs. Roosevelt proposed a : . amendment to the article , making it read that these representatives could I not arrive in time for the beginning of the third session fin reasons independent of their . will and " that certain members felt the delay was " in violation of the agreement between the United States and the United Nations regarding the admission of delegates . The Soviet Union , Byelorussia , the Ukraine and Yugoslavia fought ageinst this amendment bitterly , and at times there were sharp clashes between their representatives and Mrs. Roosevelt . The Russians maintained that the commission as a whole had adopted a resolution blaming the United States for this violation . No Vote , Mrs. Roosevelt Says Mrs. Roosevelt insisted there was no vote taken , and that the summary record of the proceedings on that day , which said the Russian proposal had been adopted , was " in error . " She maintained that all that had been decided was that the the sense nf , the meeting  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recur  --  should be communicated to the Secretary General of the United Nations . After lengthy arguments and an attempt by Professor Pavlov to have the verbatim phonograph records of the session listened to by the commission , Mrs. Roosevelt 's amendment was finally passed by 12 votes to 4 , those of the Slav blob . Another East-West fight took place at today 's session on the question of whether to transmit to the Economic and Social Council only the completed Draft International Declaration of Human Rights or the incomplete versions of the Covenant and the provisions for implementation as well . With the same four Slav states voting against , it was finally decided to transmit as annexes the unfinished draft documents , but the Soviet , Union won ? the right to include references to its op-posing  --  views on this point . The United States and China submitted this afternoon a joint proposal for transmission to the Economic and Social Council on the implementation of the covenant of human rights . This provided that procedures for dealing with violations " should be developed gradually in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special Court of Human Rights , the Chinese - American suggestion called for settlement of complaints by negotiation , . and the appointment of a committee to which matters not settled by negotiation could be referred . Eventual recourse to the International Court of Justice under the Charter was provided . No vote was taken on be proposal , which was simply transmitted along with other viewpoints to the Council . One of the final decisions of the commission was to fix the name of its document . Rejecting the terms " United Nations " suggested by the United States , the commission voted to call it the " Draft International Declaration of Human Rights . "                     