@@711938

txt The House voted to let each state , county and city decide for itself whether to keep rent control . By a nose-count vote of 198 to 150 it added this " home rule " amendment to the federal rent control bill . Under it , local governing bodies could toss out rent control any time they wish . The vote is subject to a roll-call count later . Farmers may plant too much cotton , corn , rice , and spring wheat if Congress does not act to head them off , the Department of Agri. culture says . Failure to act may cost the government hundreds of millions of dollars . All Congress has to do is exclude 1949 plantings from the data used to plot future planting goals . Boston : Safety Group Told of Highway Needs Urgent appeal for a network of modern highways in Massachusetts to meet problems of traffic congestion " growing more complicated each year , " was made by Rudolph F. Xing , Registrar of Motor Vehicles , before 28th Massachusetts Safety Conference , at Hotel Statler . Page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former temporary mayor of Boston , announced his , candidacy for the November , 1949 , mayoralty race against Mayor Curley . Page 4 . BusinesS and education join forces in helping American youth to become more intelligent , more effective , and more conscientious consumers . Page 2 . D ? National : West Coast Army Dock Is Destroyed A waterfront fire in Oakland , Calif. , destroyed the army 's largest West Coast dock and warehouse . The fire burned itself out by 4 a.m . ( PST ) , leaving only red embers of debris on the concrete wharf . The cause of the fire has . not been determined . . Valentin A. Gubitehev , Soviet ' engineer , stood mute in New York 's federal court when to plea to an indictirtedt charging him with espionage . The court entered a plea of innocent on his behalf . The engineer contends the court has no authority in his case because he claims diplomatic immunity . Far East : 75 Guerrillas Killed . in South Korea More than ' 75 Communist-led guerrillas were reported killed during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Rhee government is said to be asking the United States for additional arms for the Republic 's army . In Europe : Two U.S. Soldiers Face Czech Trial iwo united States soldiers , held in Prague since their arrest Dec. 9 on the Czech side of the Bavarian border , are to face trial before a Czechoslovak court on espionage charges , Reuters said . London shops noted heavy buying today as clothes came off Britain 's ration list for the first time in eight years . Board of Trade Minister Harold Wilson also relaxed restriction on certain types of leather goods .                     