@@709104

txt On the basis of first-hand investigation on the spot , Under-Secretary of the Navy Gates sends back word that th , - situation in China is more serious and the danger of American involvement more acute than is generally realized . The Chinese civil war , which is rapidly passine from a war of words to a war of arms , is lighting new fires n the East which could set all Asia aflame again . It was Asia rather than Europe that was the immediate cause of America 's entry into the war , and American forces are now deployed throughout the Orient to help liquidate that war , a fact which puts them in the direct path of any new conflagration . Under these circumstances it behooves the American Government and the American people to be very clear about the reascis which brought our forces to the Orient , and about the policy we wish to pursue there . The temptation is great to avoid possible danger simply by withdrawing all Americans from the danger zone , and old isolationist voices mingle with those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fundamental causes , principles and methods of our policy in the Far East reveals how contrary such an act would be to everything we have stood and fought for , and how futile and how dangerous such a course might be . For these causes , principles and methods may be summarized as f , llows : 1 . The immediate issue over which the United States was pi ; ed into war was American aid to China , which prevented Japan from conquering that great and friendly nation . America aided China for three reasons . The first was that we stand for a free world and that it is part of nur policy to aid victims of aggression . The second was that we were specifically pledged by policy to defend the Open Door in China , and by the Nine-Power Treaty to uphold " the sovereignty , the independence , and the territorial and administrative integrity of China . " The third ana most fundamental ? ason , proceeding from the elemental instinct of self-preservation , was the realization that the domination of Asia by Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . 2 . American aid to China was extended to the only authority to which it could be extended  --  the Chinese National Government under Chiang Kaishek , which all Chinese factions still recognize . This government was America 's ally during the war . It is now a charter member of the United Nations . To extend aid to any other authority in China would have been tantamount to fomenting rebellion against our ally and a flagrant intervention in China 's internal affairs . It is a curious but revealing sidelight on the situation that some of the same voices which properly demanded American aid to the Spanish Loyalists as the legitimate government of a neutral country now cry out against American aid to the legitimate government of our ally China . 3 . Before Japan surrendered it was feared that American forces would have to fight the Japanese across China even after Japan herself had been conquered . The Japanese surrender fortunately made that great and perilous task unnecessary , but by the surrender terms signed by all the Powers the Japanese armies in China have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms and equipment . Because of the Communist revolt , Chiang Kai-shek hag been delayed in carrying out his part of the surrender terms , and American forces are now aiding him in doing so . They are not there to fight the Chinese Communists , or to take part in a Chinese civil war , but to complete the Japanese surrender in conformity with obligations assumed by the American Government . In the performance of that duty they are entitled to understanding and support at home . 4 . Whatever aid must still be extended to China must likewise go to the National Government , because any other course would undermine the United Nations . In this connection we must note that the other great Western Power in Asia , Soviet Russia , has pledged itself in the Russian-Chinese treaty to extend moral and military support to the National Government and no other . 5 . The National Government of China is not yet as democratic as we should like it to be , but it offers more hope for liberty than the totalitarian regime of the Chinese Communists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy after a long period of tutelage ; it is already beginning to extend democracy to the opposition . The Chinese Communists liquidate all opposition . These are the principles and the practical considerations which have shaped , and should continue to shape , our policies .                     