@@707471

txt The Administration is preparing to ask Congress to relax the antitrust statutes for at least the first two postwar years . Officials propose no general waiving of trust-busting laws , even for this temporary period They want to cling tenaciously to this legislation , which for more than 50 years has been Washington 's barricade against the development of monopolies that might control prices and supplies . They are anxious , however , to permit  --  and promote  --  specific industry-wide agreements to expedite entry into full peacetime production and employment , The scheme will be comparable to the wartime power to suspend the anti-mmtopoly statutes granted to W.P B Chairman Donald Nelson , but it probably will differ in a number of wa.3.s . Its final form will be determined by Bernard M Baruch. chief of the post-war planners , with the approval of Messrs . Roosevelt and Byrnes Suggestions under study by some members of the Baruch Committee deal with the special problems of the oil , chemical and aircraft manufacturing industries Assistant Attorney General Wendell Berge. in charge of the anti-trust division of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forthcoming discussions Prompt Decision Needed Justice Department officials agree with others that a prompt decision is required . There is sentiment even for industry agreements which would directly affect prices . " For example , " says one post-war policymaker. " suppose a number of shoe manufacturers are suddenly faced with cancelled orders and large stocks on hand . They should be able to agree not to dump and demoralize the whole shoe trade " Under normal conditions such a " combination " would be a violation of the Sherman Act . Disposal , of surpluses will be a general problem , of course . not limited to shoemakers . ' The case of the oil industry , v  --  hteb is now being pleaded before the Baruch group . goes beyond surplus disposal to another problem which will affect various industries This industry wants to know how to initiate peacetime output of products drastically altered by wartime technical developments Specifically , some of the petroleum companies believe it would be well to ha . e joint planning of the quantity and quality of high-octane gasoline to be produced for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning too , on such things as what reserves to turn to when , and if . their oil wells begin to run dry . Plane Makers Forekee Competition As for the plane makers . some of them are understood to contend that post-war excess capacity will tend to induce cut-throat competition . Some Government officials agree ? if for no other reason , because the Defense Plant Corp . has a $2.8 billion investment in aircraft plants and equipment . It is apparent that some officials will make strenuous efforts to erect , in any legislation relaxing anti-trust rules , safeguards against what they consider dangerous possibilities of abuse . Some officials fear that the period of transition to - peace may never come to a sharp enough end for there to be a halt to the waiving of the anti-trust laws . They fear entrenchment of monopolistic practices once they might be permitted . For one thing , the Justice Department has made clear that it is dead set against international cartel arrangements . This agency Is pictured as ready to prosecute any American firm entering into international agreements to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this nation 's industry is strong enough to do without such combinations . Officials say , for Instance , they would oppose an alignment of the American chemical industry with the British or any other foreign chemical group . W ' . P.B. HIM Wide Power Trustbusters are anxious that relaxations of anti-monopoly law after the war not be as extensive as those provided for in the wartime arrangement . Under a rider to the Smaller War Plants Act of June . 1942 , the chairman of the War Production Board has sweeping power to issue certificates of immunity from the anti-trust laws and the Federal Trade Commission Act , whenever he thinks it is " requisite to the prosecution of the war . " The Attorney General must be consulted , but his agreement is not required . - The latest public report showed that 135 wartime certificates of immunity had been issued by Mr. Nelson . Many of these have been of a far reaching nature affebting entire industries . Apparently the Administration intends to let them all expire , according to law , six months after termination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reauthorizing some under the projected new peacetime procedure . One of the most important consequences of the authorized wartime agreements has been the exchange of technological information between firms of various industries . Ind . . tries thus encouraged to swap trade secrets range from synthetic rubber manu facture and fabrication to jewel hearing production , from plastics to electronics . O.V .. l . Spon.ored One Application W.P.B. has approved certificates sponsored by no fewer than a dozen federal agencies -- even including the Office of War Information , which pushed a plan for production and distribution of newsreels . Aside from various phases of transportation . the petroleum industry has been awarded more certificates of immunity than any other . They have dealt with nearly every phase of production , transport , storage and distribution . Basic technical information has been exchanged . Special certificates nave dealt with such products as aviation gasoline , asphalt , petroleum , coke , paratone , and fatty oils . Some trustbusters think that Petroleum Administrator , Ickes has won too much freedom for this particular industry By and large , however , they concede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his approvals . The Attorney General has formally differed from Mr Nelson on only one case , which governed group action by common carriers in fixing rates . Officials believe that many industrywide arrangements could oe retained or arrived at , and many multi-company discussions and planning sessions conducted , without infringing on any pre-war anti-trust principle . But it is agreed that business is " jittery " about acting on oral go-aheads ; industrial leaders want binding legal permission . It appears certain that if the Administration presents , through its post-war policymakers , a limited relaxation program , the Congress will accept it without delay . It will be presented as an integral part of the demobilization program . Its proponents will avow that , like a quick and adequate . - ontinct termination procedure , it is required lot orderly economic rehabilitation .                     