@@709879

txt Spokesmen of both political parties prOtegs satiqf actton with President Truinan's. action lifting . livestOck and meat Controls three weeks before the crucial congressional election . Democratic leaders hopefully assert that the President has " taken meat out of politics . " They give audible sighs of relief at the thought . Many Democratic congressmen fighting for re-election urged the step , thougp the desire was by no means unanimous . The feeling is general , however , that the meat shortage suddenly had become the paramount issue of the campaign , and that with Mr. Truman 's decontrol order , Democratic candidates may be freed from the political incubus of carrying ? it and be better able to turn attention to other matters . Republicans Confident Republicans on their part hail the President 's action with glee . They obviously do not intend to lose the initiative which they have held in the campaign . Even before Mr. Truman delivered his speech , they had demanded equivalent radio time from the major networks for reply , charging that the address was " political " and hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rarely in the history of American elections has such . a major economic decision as this been made so close to the actual date of going to the polls . On the Democratic side , Mr. Truman , in effect , held the meat producers and Republicans accountable for the necessity of abandoning controls , and by implication urged voters to put the onus of them if prices begin to soar . Mr. Truman , in fact , went closer than implication , for he laid responsibility for the meat shortage directly at " the door of the reckless group of selfish men who , in the hope of gaining political advantage , have encouraged sellers to gamble on the destruction of price control . " He singled out by name two Republican senators , Robert A. Taft of Ohio and Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , as having injected " profiteering amendments " into the original price control extension bill , forcing him to veto it . Why the Delay ? On the Republican side , leaders , were not slow to make answer ; with an unmistakable note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , expressed satislaction with the decontrol of meat , but demanded . " Why did n't the President . do it in June ? " There were few leading Republicans who did not comment in a similar vein . National Chairman Carroll Reece charged that the President was " locking the barn door after the horse has been taken to the butcher shop . " John Bricker , ex-Governor of Ohio , vice-presidential candidate in 1944 and now candidate for Senator in Ohio , said the order should have been issued " months ago . " ? The only embarrassment the Republicans seemed to suffer was in deciding which of their eager spokesmen should take the 15-minute radio interval to reply to Mr. Truman . Well before these arrangements were complete , it was evident what the pattern of reply would be . Though Democratic leaders professed satisfaction over the outcome , there was evident division in their ranks . This was particularly true of the , left-wing and trade-union element of the uneasy coalition which President Roosevelt forged into the successful Democratic Party . Spokesmen of this group were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been the strongest advocates of price control .                     