@@708758

txt Letters to The Times We Have Interest in India Recognition of Independence and Human Rights Held Essential to Peace To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The San Francisco Charter in Chapter XI , Article 73 , provides that " Members of the United Nations which have or assume responsibilities for the administration of territories whose peoples have not yet attained a full measure of self-government , recognize the principle that the interests of the inhabitants of these territories are paramount , and accept as a sacred trust the obligation to promote to the utmost , within the system of international peace and security established by the present charter , the well-being of the inhabitants of , these territories , and , to this end : * * * to develop selfgovernment , to take due account of the political aspirations of the peoples , and to assist them in the progressive development of their free political institutions , according to the particular circumstances of each territory and its peoples and their varying stages of advancement . " The Simla Conference provides welcome opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain to the leaders of the Indian National Congress and of the Moslem League to a conference " designed to ease the present political situation and , to advance India , toward her goal of full self-government " is encouraging to all who would like to see the attainment of the objectives of the San Francisco Conference . Field Marshal Lord Wavell , Viceroy of India , in announcing the Simla Conference proposals , stated that " this is not an attempt to obtain or impose a constitutional settlement . " He indicated that the aim is the " formation of a new Executive Council more representative of organized political opinion , " also " the appointment of a British High Commissioner in India as in the Dominions to represent Great Britain 's commercial and other interests in India . " Secretary Stettinius at San Francisco stated that the United States advocated " a trusteeship system that will foster progress toward higher standards of living and the realization of human rights and freedoms for dependent peoples , including the right to independence or another form of self-government , such as federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are prepared and able to assume the responsibilities of national freedom as well as to enjoy its rights . " The American people , desirous of close ties with Britain , are interested in India because of a traditional sympathy for those who are striving toward self-government and because of a growing recognition that the development of human rights and the attainment of independence by dependent peoples are essential to lasting : peace . GUY EMERY SHLPLER , Chairman , American Round Table on India . New York , July 2 , 1945 . Horse Sheds Recall Childhood To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I comment on the skill and knowledge of your editorial writer who from time to time gives us those most realistic and homey sketches of rural scenes ? Almost my entire life was spent in the country , and his mention of the horse sheds touched a tender spot in my memory . When I was a small lad and we drove eleven miles to Bellows Falls , summer or winter , Old Bonner , our home , was always hitched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father and I usually ate our lunch there too , and I remember one cold winter day the church janitor invited us in to sit by the furnace . There was the hay on the earthen floor and the birds and mice came to gather up the scattered grain . The same was true at Saxtons ; River , but this was a little nearer home , so did not feed the horse in those sheds , but almost always hitched him there . I lived in Athens and so long ago that I can not quite remember it . The community got together and built a row of horse sheds at the Methodist church . These were well built and roofed with metal and are still standing . But one stall now holds the extra supply of wood for the schoolhouse , and not long ago when the drive was on for old junk another stall was used as the collection depot for old iron and steel . And , strange to say , my father had a two-seated carryall with a fringe all around the top and curtains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sundays that father , mother , my brother and I went to church in this carryall and hitched Old Bonner in the church sheds . These are pleasant memories , indeed . Just what will the present generation have to remember as they some day grow old ? G. W. POWERS . Brattleboro , Vt. , June 21 , 1945 . And since the numbers and policy game can not be suppressed , let the State take it in hand on the plan of a State lottery . If this were done , the net receipts would more than equal the income taxes now imposed by the State . What I suggest should not shock any sensible person . I suggest a commonsense experiment  --  the legalizing of gambling , thus taking it out of the hands of gangsters , tinhorns and such worthies . HENRY WALDMAN . New York , June 16 , 1945 . Falcons Not Wanton Killers Birds Observe Ethics of Hunting and Slay Only for Food TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Publicity given the recent duck hawk episode in New York brought a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find such a large percentage of the people favoring the duck hawks or falcons . Despite the severe penalties imposed by the New York Conservation Department for the protection of these birds , they can not survive without public support . The branding of these magnificent birds as wanton slayers and criminals is not only grossly unjust but misleading and incorrect . The falcon is a real sportsman . He kills only that he may eat ; observing all the ethics of hunting , he strikes only in fair flight . He would not stoop so low as to hit a bird on the ground or resting on a rooftop . How , many of our so-called sportsmen could claim such a record ? The pigeon fancier , it is true , rates reasonable consideration . If he would keep his pigeons under control and fly them under supervision , few would be lost to the falcons . In New York there are pigeons everywhere ; they multiply . incessantly the year round , but the duck hawk and falcon nest but once a year and rarely raise more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city pigeons being depleted . The falcon is the monarch of the air . His stately flight and regal pose are superbly magnificent to behold . We should indeed consider ourselves favored to have our city graced with his presence . New York is the greatest city in the world , the greatest advocate for wildlife conservation , where people demand a square deal and equal rights for all . It is regrettable that in this very city we should deny a safe refuge for our own native and fast disappearing wildlife to make room for imported domesticated barnyard stock . The destruction of the family group of falcons at Seventy-second Street and West End Avenue was not just a regrettable prank played by some irresponsible boys , but a real tragedy executed in cold blood by a group of misguided people unaware : that they were literally incriminating themselves and destroying one of our most prized forms of wildlife . GEORGE G. GOODWIN , Associate Curator , Department of Mammals , American Museum of Natural History . New York , July 2 , 1945 . Wherry Amendment Defended To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regard to the Wherry amendment to the Price Control Extension Act in your editorial " Price Control Amendments " of June 26 is based on a misunderstanding . The cost of production amendment as proposed by Senator Wherry would guarantee to farmers the average cost of production only . The method and formula by which such average cost would be determined have been presented to the Congress time and again . It is simply the application to agriculture of the method used by all businesses in determining costs . It is both reasonable and just . It is an unfair misrepresentation to state that " the least efficient farmers would be guaranteed their costs and a profit " thereby . JEAN BULLITT DARLINGTON . West Chester , Pa. , June 28 , 1945 . Hardy Perennial To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A nephew who is now living in New York after spending some twenty years in South America made a remark which we in this section could well afford to ponder . He said : " When will New York men realize that in summer they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " RAYMOND S. ANDERSON . New York , June 29 , 1945 . Legalized Gambling Proposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The suppression of gambling is a police problem which will never be solved . Long before the beginning of recorded history the human indulged in some form of gambling . Laws forbidding it have been in force for centuries but the evil , if evil it is , not only exists but seems to be growing . From legalized pari-mutuel betting the State derives large revenues . From illegal gambling the State not only receives nothing but expends a great deal of money in trying to suppress it . So , I ask , why continue the farce of trying to suppress something that can not be suppressed ? Why not abolish handbookmaking by establishing mutuel betting offices in as many locations as will meet the demand , and thus have the State treasury benefit accordingly ?                     