@@706280

txt WASHINGTON , March 2 ? A strong appeal in the Senate today that Congress and the public insist that tremendous funds being voted for war be used to put men and arms on the battle fronts and not on " home defense " lines , was followed by the passage of the largest war bill in the nation 's history in almost less time than it takes to tell it . Shortly thereafter the House sent the bill to the President . The appeal for a vigorous offensive on the distant battlefronts as the best defense against possible minor enemy threats at home , such as isolated " token " air raids , was made by Senator Austin , assistant Republican leader of the Senate . The Senator supported his point by reading a letter from General George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff of the Army , urging the same Congressional and public attitude and expressing concern at'the " deluge of requests and demand for the employment of Federal combat troops not only to protect our coastal communities , but to guard installations throughout the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oklahoma that the Senate farm bloc had abandoned its plans to seek to tack a farm parity price rider on the big war bill , the latter measure went through without debate , by a unanimous voice vote which returned it to the House for the final legislation action . The bill carries a total of $32 , - 762,737,900 and provides funds to equip and maintain a 3,600,000-man Army , to build 1,476 additional cargo ships with a tonnage of 16,127,821 tons and to provide an additional ; 5,425,000,000 for lease-lend aid . The War Department will get $23,485,737,000 of the total and the Maritime Commission $1,502,000 , - 000 in direct appropriations plus $2,350,000,000 of contract authorizations which will be covered by later appropriations . The Senate accepted a minor amendment to the House bill exempting Filipinos from provisions in earlier appropriation bills barring payment oaf Federal salaries or wages to noncitieel It also increased the House bill total by $691,836,000 , mist of the increase going the . ArmyPiediets Token Raids General ** as read by ? Senator . Austin , agreed that " isolated air raidsby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but said that these would be designed " for no other purpose than to create a. public reaction which will adversely affect the sound military purpose of defending America by engaging and defeating the enemy in theatres distant from our shores . " It quoted from a letter the general had written to Speaker Rayburn , commenting on an appeal from a legislator for troops to guard Mississippi River bridges and the big Keokuk Dam on the same stream . " The issue raised by Mr. ' s letter , " General Marshall had written , " is of vital importance to the War Department " As would be anticipated , we are deluged with requests and demands for the employment of Federal combat troops not only to protect our coastal communities but to guard installations throughout the United States . " During the first weeks of the war we followed a policy of meeting practically all such appeals because we did have the troops available and it was thought wise to reassure the public in this manner . though this meant the disruption of divisions and , more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time has now come when we must proceed with the business of carrying the war to the enemy and not permitting the greater portion of our armed forces and our valuable materiel to be immobilized within continental United States . " The enemy , calculating on pubGeneral George C. Marshall The New York Times CU . S. Army Signal Corps ) lic reactions , is undoubtedly employing submarines close in shore for the purpose of restraining our efforts to engage our planes and ground troops , so far as practicable , offensively in distant theatres . " Further , I feel that we must expect isolated air raids of a few planes directed against us for no other purpose than to create a public reaction which will adversely affect the sound military purpose of defending America by engaging and defeating the enemy in theatres distant from our shores . " I have gone into this matter in some detail because it is of great importance , and the demands for protection within continental United States are piling up in a forbidding manner . " This is a question of public morale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am hopeful that Con , gress will take the lead in off ' setting the present unfortunate reactions . " The American people have the courage and resolution to face the harsh necessities of this desperate struggle if they understand the situation . " Austin Praises Letter Senator Austin asserted that publication of the letter should encourage the inhabitants of the Southwestern Pacific . " This is the answer , " he said , " to the attempt of our enemies to divide or separate us from each other . This is not propaganda . This is truth that is the sound basis of invincible prosecution of war by democracies . This- represents offensive action as effective defense . "                     