@@708966

txt Letters to The Times BERNARD GELLES.EDWARD J. MARCHESE.PENNINGTON HAILE.MRS . FRANCIS ROGERS , INGER Letters to The Times Crop Reduction Is Opposed Proposal to Cut Farm Output Regarded as Economically Unsound To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Farm Production " was lucid and timely . The Secretary of Agriculture leaned over to the farm bloc , neglecting to remember that he is the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States , which means all the people of the nation . To reduce food production at a time like this , when the world is hungry and when this nation just barely escaped a severe food crisis , is hardly in accordance with the principles of economics . Such a policy invites a number of repercussions  --  strikes for higher wages due to higher living costs ; continued price control ; fewer jobs for shippers , dealers and distributors and their employes , and a general economic dislocation . Moreover , the farm production policy as enunciated by the Secretary of Agriculture clashes with the fiscal position of the nation . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum production on farm and in factory . Unless such maximum production is forthcoming without delay the result must be uncontrolled inflation . History shows that uncontrolled inflation produced in other countries chaos and disaster . It would seem to me that at this hour it should be the responsibility of all concerned to thoroughly inform the American people how farm production directly affects the lives , jobs and social position of the people at large . The people must be educated to understand the implications involved in a subject which may appear remote to them and which actually affects them vitally . BERNARD GELLES , New York , Oct. 1 , 1945 . Former GI Still in Service He Transfers Inspiration of Doffed Uniform to Civilian Life To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Yesterday my olive drab came off for the last time . I was happy , but there was even something of the sadness felt at parting with a high-minded friend . Although my gladdest dreams were of the day I could lay away my uniform , there was no moment in three and one-half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the time it was a pride unnoticed , deep inside of me but surely present even when morale was thinnest . At other times it glowed all over me , and shivered my spine , as when the reverent look of a despoiled native on another shore told me of the hope and promise my uniform symbolized for him . I shall always deem myself favored , in a world where military dress was obligatory , to have worn the uniform which fought on every soil for tha freedom and integrity of every ordinary man . And the lesson of that experience is not lost on me . I know that the highmindedness inspired by the uniform must be transferred to my civilian endeavors in an even broader sense , for my own salvation and as a duty of world citizenship . Unless I believe in ideals strong enough to call out for the pursuits of peaceful living the fires of sacrifice , devotion and energy that were generated by the aims of war , my olive drab will come out of the mothballs amazingly soon for another , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a frustrated human spirit . EDWARD J. MARCHESE . Brooklyn , Sept. 28 , 19,15 . Peace Essential to Freedom Without Amity , It Is Held , There Can Be No True Democracy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On Oct. 2 THE TIMES printed a most interesting letter from William R. Mathews of The Arizona Daily Star urging moderation in our policy toward Japan . Without expressing any opinion on the general issues involved I want to call attention to one section of Mr. Mathews ' letter . He writes  --  with regard to the question of re-education : " Let us not make the false assumption that a democratic society is a peaceful society ; that democratic peoples are peace-loving peoples . " Of course , if we attempt to discipline and guide the Japanese and German peoples into our sort of democratic way of life we must realize that they will not take kindly to it , that it will not of itself therefore make them peaceful , and that we must watch them carefully for many years to come . But at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close , connection between the democratic way of life as we know it and the desire for peace . I believe that one of the basic reasons for this connection is not often stated clearly and simply enough . Whatever else we may mean by our democratic way of life , we most certainly include in any definition or description of it the greatest possible freedom from restriction and regimentation in the patterns of our daily lives . The less we are aware of the hand of government upon our shoulders the better we like it . Such freedom does not seem to be desired by all peoples , but those who have experienced it are almost always reluctant to surrender it . The point I want to make is that such freedom is compatible only with peace and can flourish only i the expectancy of peace . Authoritarian systems flourish , for the most part , only when a nation is malting ready for war or is living in the constant expectancy of attack . This explains the reluctance of people used to freedom to make ready for war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists . This was an important element in our pre-Pearl Harbor mentality . The identification of the democratic system with the desire for peace is therefore a valid one , and will remain so . This may mean that if at last we can engender a liking for free ways of living among the peoples we have conquered we can eventually relax our vigilance over them . But it means more as well . In the world of the atomic age we must remember that either all nations must be safe from attack because of the existence of an adequate system of world security or else that no nation will be safe . It therefore follows that democracy and its consequent affinity with peace must prosper everywhere or else that democracy as we have known and prized it can not long maintain itself anywhere o : earth . PENNINGTON HAILE . New York , Oct. 2 , 1945 . Old Organization Continues  - -   - -  - But Soldiers and Sailors Club Is in Need of Additional Funds TO THE EDITOR OF TI1E NEW YORK TIMES : Now that the fighting war is over many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors . No one could be more happy for the defeat of Germany and Japan than those of us who have known and served these splendid young men and have realized that among the many thousands who have been our guests there were countless lads who might never return . It is right that when the need for them ceases many of the canteens and organizations should close . The volunteers who served in them will miss their service , their contact with youth and laughter , the mutual give and take among the young men and themselves . They will miss the response and friendliness and the call for sympathy and understanding . They will be lost for a time without the need for themselves . We , who serve in the Soldiers and Sailors Club of New York , on Lexington Avenue , between Thirty-sixth and Thirty-seventh Streets , do not face a cessation of service . This is a permanent club for all enlisted men of our United States forces , and of those of the other United Nations . It has never closed its doors since a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men were returning from World War I. These doors will not be closed now . We have a motto for our club : " Service for the Living Is the Greatest Memorial to the Dead . " We think that those of you who read this letter believe with us that this is true . We also think that some of you may wish to express your deep thankfulness that your bpy has returned safely home and may want to record your happiness in some special and tangible way , in a memorial to life . The Soldiers and Sailors Club has a record of over twenty-five years of very active service to millions of service men . We plan to keep our club , with its sleeping quarters , canteen , writing and pool rooms , and its friendly welcome open for the years to come . Our officers of the Army , Navy and Air Force tell us that such a club is a necessity in the great city of New York for the welfare and morale of their men . The men thernsel es ask for it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Without increased financial aid it may be impossible to carry out our plans for its permanence . If you are as deeply grateful as we are to our men who have given us the victory , will you not celebrate your gratitude by a gift to the soldiers ' , sailors ' , marines ' , airmen 's and Coast Guards ' own club in New York ? Checks should be made payable to the Soldiers and Sailors Club of New York , Inc. , and sent to the treasurer , 283 Lexington Avenue , New York 16 . WILLIAM M. CHADBOURNE , President . MRS . FRANCIS ROGERS , First Vice President . New York , Oct. 2 , 1945 . Early American Ships To THE EDITOR OF the NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent letter to THE TIMES Edward T. Oldham raised the question as to what was the name of the first ship ever built in the United States . He referred to a ship constructed in 1526 on the Cape Fear River in North Carolina . On consulting reference books hero in our Conrad Library I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1607 ; the second was the Tiger , built in 1614 , and the third was the Blessings of the Bay . Several authorities seem to agree on this , including Howard I. Chapelle , author of " The History of American Sailing Ships . " INGER . M. ACHESON , Librarian Seamen 's Church Institute . New York , Oct. 1 , 1945 . Cohoes Is a City To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Please refer to Sept. 29 article " Morris Says Fight Is Against ' System . ' " I quote : " Declaring that this city , with 7,500,000 people , has ' no more power than the town of Cohoes with 2,000 people . ' " Cohoes is a city , not a town , and the population exceeds 20,000 . In 1940 the population was 21,955 . ELEANOR M. REED . Cohoes , N. Y. , Sept. 29 , 1945.                     