@@704849

txt The Detain Government of France was reported today to have broken off relations with Britain . There was no official word of the action in London but the French Charg ? d'Affaires protested to the British Foreign Office over the British action against the French fleet in the Mediterranean . The German Government , however , was notified officially this morning by the French Government at Vichy of severance of diplomatic relations with Great Britain . French naval units at Alexandria , Egypt , were still under British guns . The French commander was reported considering British demands that would permit no French war vessels to pass into Axis hands . It was such demands that brought the French-British naval engagement off Oran , Algeria , yesterday . " We do not know what will happen or when the French will make a decision , " British sources at Alexandria said . " We only know that no French ship shall ever leave Alexandria to surrender to the enemy . " By Mallory Browne Stan Correspondent or The Christian Science Monitor LONDON , July ** tragedy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this war . It shows the conflict for what it is : No ordinary war between one geographical country and another , but a revolutionary upheaval . It is a social and moral struggle . It leaps geographical boundaries . It overflows national frontiers . It is assuming more and more the aspect of a world civil war . War  --  that mass producer of tragedies  --  never brought forth a greater or starker drama between two peoples than the tragedy of Oran . For the battle between the French and British fleets there goes further , goes deeper , than an important naval episode in the war . It is that , but it is more . Its historic significance lies in the fact that two nations who yesterday were Allies  --  who yesterday were almost one country as the result of England 's offer of union to France  --  are today very close to being at war with one another . Strategy and Security The French Government is just reported to have broken off relations with Britain . The French fleet has been given an order by Marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet and to answer all further attacks with lire . " This means in practice that on the seas at least the Allies have become virtual enemies . How can this incredible reversal be explained ? There are two aspects to it . One is the immediate problem of naval strategy and national security which Prime Minister Winston Churchill in one of his most dramatic speeches . The other , more important , is the underlying fact that Franre has fallen , momentarily at least , under the hypnotic sway of a totalitarian revolution . The Third French Republic no longer exists . Democracy no longer prevails in France . Revolutionary Changes Faced The French nation is on the threshold of revolutionary changes : Attempt is to be made to impose upon it a modified form of Fascism or Corporatism , closely related in many respects to the present regimes in Germany and Italy . That is the basic explanation of the tragic battle of Oran where a British battle squadron pounded into impotence , burned , sank , or drove ashore many of the principal units of the French Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being sealed up in Alexandria or forcibly taken under British control in Portsmouth and Plymouth . Two facts throw a searching light on this action . One is that nearly a thousand French sailors have declared their intention of fighting on with Britain in the war against Nazi domination , and that several hundred of these have in fact asked for British citizenship and will receive it . The other is that in port at Alexandria after the French squadron there had been notified of measures placing them under British restraint and control many of the French ships joined the British in firing at enemy planes which raided Alexandria that very morning . Clearly the lines along which this war is being fought out are not then purely national , any more than they are geographical . Free men , mentally free men everywhere , are fighting for their men- tal , moral , and spiritual freedom against a system of tyranny which denies and destroys freedom of thought and of conscience as well as political liberty . This system by its mechanized military might has now overrun France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do this by military might alone . I have just been talking to a trained expert neutral observer who happened to be at the headquarters of the Ninth Army when the first German breakthrough occurred at Sedan . When I asked him how he explained this sudden Blitzkrieg stroke , expecting him to say that it was the Germans ' novel use of combined tank and airplane dive bombing attack , he replied : " It was the Germans ' use of their greatest secret weapon  --  the ' fifth column . ' " How Panic Was Sowr . He went on to give me almost incredible accounts of instances he had witnessed or heard at first hand how traitors  --  some Germans planted there beforehand complete with Frene% uniforms , some French citizens with Nazi sympathies  --  had sown panic , confusion , and disorder on such scale that orderly resistance soon became impossible . There is a useful symbol in this to explain the demoralization and sudden transformation of the French Government . It can not be too often repeated , if what is occurring in France is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French people  --  I do not hesitate personally to say the majority of the French people  --  were deeply discontented with the democratic institutions of the Third Republic . During nearly seven years ' residence in France I had opportunity to study this state of French opinion , and in an intensive survey spread over a large part of the French Provinces as well as Paris itself . Drastic Reforms Demanded Shortly before leaving France in 1938 I recorded in The Christian Science Monitor the fact that there was a startling measure of unanim- , ity that some drastic change was necessary , and that this change seemed to be shaping up toward some form of Corporatism . There was definite discontent with the " Old Gang " of political leaders which had run the country during the last two decades . There was a large and active Communist minority . There were numerous openly Fascist groups . There was a deep desire for reformation of the State , for the purging of politics , for cleaning out of corruption and graft . But the force of inertia , the grip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clouds of war made gradual reformative action along constitutional lines out of the question . But I am also convinced that it this was true , it is also true that the mass of the French people are at heart essentially democratic . They wanted democratic reform not acceptance of the imposed regime which the Petain Government is now threatening openly to force upon them if they do not accept it docilely at the Constitutional Convention which is being summoned . France must be free . For France will not be France again until it is free . Great Moment in History It was a deep if unspoken realization of this essential underlying solidarity between the free peoples of Britain and France which formed the tragic backdrop to the dramatic scene in the House of Commons yesterday . No one who was privileged to watch this great exhibition of humanity and democracy could ever forget it or doubt that it was one of the supreme moments id the history of Parliament . e st ent , anxious , tense House , packed more than full , clearly showed the same heartfelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth in a murmur of agreement when he described the news that he had to impart as " grievous . " In his speech Mr. Churchill rose not merely to heights of oratory but he was simple and sincere . The cheers which he received as he sat down were in no sense merely applause for his announcement that a major portion of the French Fleet was now sunk or under British control . Capable Leader Found They were chiefly for this : Britain has proved in the supreme hour of crisis that it has found a leader capable of taking one of the hardest decisions any chief of state ever had to take , and of taking it in a spirit which augurs well for further vigorous prosecution of the war . It was a real ovation that greeted Mr. Churchill at the end of his speech and that brought tears to the eyes of this man who seems to embody so much of the English " bull dog character " in his usually impassive face . There was none of the dignified " Hear , hear " which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " cheers . " The whole House rose to its feet , waved order papers , and cheered for minutes on end . Even in the galleries where the slightest demonstration of feeling is strictly forbidden and instantly punished by expulsion . people unconsciously broke out in brief cheers they could not restrain .                     