@@708293

txt President Roosevelt 's foreign policy and its relation to current political events in Europe had the spotlight in Senate debate today on the half dozen nominees for whom the President has asked for confirmation as " a team " for Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius . Throughout hours of debate , these six men and their backgrounds and foregrounds were subordinated to the anxieties expressed by the Senators over the Greek and Polish issues and their impact on our relations with other countries . From conservatives and ' liberals came demands that President Roosevelt himself define his foreign policy in the light of these events . The debate made little progress toward the adjournment sine die of Congress for which the Senate is striving and which the House , its business completed , awaits . Many Representatives , including Speaker Sam Rayburn , are already on the way home . Early Session Planned Today It is planned to bring the State Department nominations to a vote tomorrow , which if accomplished will be the signal for adjournment . The Senate will meet at 11 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if necessary to decide on the nominees . Only in a minor sense was the discussion confined to the qualifications of the individual members of " the team , " Joseph C. Grew , named to be Under-Secretary of State . and William L. Clayton , Nelson A. Rockefeller , Archibald , Brig . Gen. Julius C. Holmes and James Clement Dunn , as assistant secretaries . The major issue was the British policy in Greece and Italy and the Russian policy in Poland , as it would affect smaller countries and the future of the world , and the responsibility of the United States in this crisis . The protest against confirmation was led by four of the Administration 's adherents  --  Senators Claude Pepper of Florida , Joseph F. Guffey of Pennsylvania , James E. Murray of Montana , Democrats , and Robert M. La Follette Jr . of Wisconsin ; while Republicans , notably Senators Owen Brewster and Wallace White , acting minority leader , both of Maine , supported the President 's list . Postponing to Be Considered Individual Senators have individual objections to each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this situation the first order of business tomorrow will be the resolution to postpone consideration of the issue until Jan. 3 , when the Seventy-ninth Congress converses , as proposed by the three Democrats and one Progressive . It is at present tabled . Senator Pepper , in " a preliminary discussion " of the resolution , which took four hours , asserted that the names submitted did not originate with the President and were not characteristic of his foreign policy , therefore , he hoped that they could be " reconsidered " in the holiday recess and resubmitted to the new Congress . One of his arguments turned on a passage from " Time for Decision , " by former Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles , relating that the Senate had been prevailed upon to pass the Neutrality Law , which prevented United States intervention later in Spain , in the absence of President Roosevelt and of Secretary Hull , neither of whom would have approved the action had they been available . The Senate derived its erroneous impression , Senator Pepper indicated , from Mr. Dunn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While it has been said that the President formulates his own foreign policy and is responsible for administering it , Senator Pepper added , it is not possible for him to be closely informed and wisely advised on all occasions , unless his aides are the best obtainable . He doubted that the six men presented for confirmation incorporated the finest in ability and experience . Senator Brewster defended former Ambassador Grew , demanding to know who had advised this country for years what to expect of Japan and who had predicted Pearl Harbor . " This is the type of man you propose to kick around with a rejection , " he commented angrily ; " this is the type of appreciation You propose to give an able and ' valued diplomat . " Saying he was unable to judge I how to vote until he had heard more about the nominees , Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana admonished his colleagues not to expect any precise formula as to 1what constitutes this country 's I foreign policy . " I do not think that anyone can say what our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because I think it depends upon what Russia does . She holds the trump card . There is not much we can do about it if she says she is going to take over all of Poland , all of Finland and the Dardanelles , and to establish a sphere of influence over Norway and Sweden . She can take a large part of China if she wants to . " Wheeler Outlines Factors " If England says she is going to take over Greece and Italy and France and Holland . what are we going to do about it ? I do not believe , in fairness and justice to the President , that he can possibly say what should be the foreign policy of this country . " Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan said : " The time has come when we should cease acquiescence in unilateral decisions abroad which run squarely counter to and collide with every dedication we have made in connection with this war . " " The time has come when the American position should be clarified , " he asserted . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person who can clarify it is the President df the United States , who stands , at least by indirection , charged by Mr. Churchill in his recent speech with having agreed to the partition of Poland , for example , which is now being contemplated by Russia . " In my humble opinion it is not enough that the State Department should be issuing a statement in respect to Poland this noon . The 1State Department can not speak ' with the authority of the Chief of State , and it is the Chief of State who speaks with respect to these matters in other countries . Issue Put to President " Only the President of the United States himself , the Commander in Chief , can give us reassurance , give the world reassurance , and sacrificial Poland as well as kindred small countries , the reassurance which this tragically prophetic pronouncement sets forth . " As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations , which has the nominations in charge , Senator Tom Connally of Texas appealed to the Senate to register a prompt and affirmative vote on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted throughout the world as a disruption in the Government and a loss of prestige for the President in his dealing with foreign countries .                     