@@710672

txt Postwar improvements in Boston 's fire houses were given renewed emphasis today with the announcement that a new fire station for West . : Roxbury has been placed , on the priority schedule Russell S. Codman , . Tr. , Boston Fire Commissioner , said the site for the new . station has not yet been selected , but two locations on Washington Street are being considered . Meanwhile , bulldozer operations preceding the first . fire-house construction since the end of the war have begun at : 392 Hanover Street at Charter Street . in the north end . At . this location . a $172,000 fire station will house apparatus TO respond more quickly than at present . in alarms in the north end and Commercial Street waterfront sections . lleplacemenl The new fire station will replace old Engine House Eight . now located- on narrow , contested Salem Street , and also will allow the transfer of one ladder company from the Bowdoin Square fire station . One of the most up-to-date features of the new fire house , according to John M. Gray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all traffic lights within three or four blocks to red when an alarm is sounded . Mr. Gray believed that no other Boston station has this device . , , Also regarded as a progressive feature by Mr. Gray was an electrical system by which the firehouse doors close automatically ene minute after the trucks leave . Only the Huntington Avenue fire house , he said , has this modern aid to fire fighters . It . no longer will be necessary to stop the trucks and close the doors , he added . On the second floor of the station will be the Chemical Laboratory of the Fire Prevention Bureau . Beside housing five pieces of equipment , the station will contain a first-floor recreation room , quarters for four officers and a dormitory for 20 men on the second floor , and a roof garden for lounging . Exterior of the building . Mr. Gray added ; will be Colonial , in keeping with the building style of the neighborhood . As for the condition of existing Boston fire houses . Mr. Cod-man observed they ? are " not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to judicious use of the $300,000 appropriated by . the city for use in remodeling present structures . One of the city 's two fire boats is due to be replaced this week , Mr. Codman said . The Fire Department will purchase a converted Navy minesweeper for firefighting purposes . Back Bay Station Only other activity concerning fire-house construction is the consideration of bids for the erection of a fire station for Engine 10 at Mount Vernon and River Streets in Back Bay . Pilings under the building now quartering Engine 10 at the same location , Mr. Codman explained , are irreparable . Therefore , the Fire Department plans to level the present structure and rebuild , using the bricks and some materials of the old building .                     