@@710838

txt In pre-1 senting the case for the Marshall plan . key spokesmen of the Truman Administration , meeting to morrow in secret conference with leaders of industry , business and labor , undoubtedly will seek to win suppore for any emergency adjustments of the national economy that expanded foreign aid may force . This was the view taken today , as the conferees began arriving for the White House meeting , at which , Secretary of State George C. Mar'I Secretary of Commerce W. Averell Harriman , Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P. Anderson and other high Administration figures will give off-the-record talks . lre than 100 invitations to the conferencP rJpjm sent out by John R. Steeirn A *t . Assistant to the President , with the view principally of giving a broader understanding c4 the Marshall plan . Implicit in any such program must be a general , if not detailed , picture of the role the business man , the industrialist and the worker must fill in helping execute the plan . Harriman Data Awaited In view of the fact that foreign aid and domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Administration spokesmen may undertake to indicate at least in what direction adjustments of the domestic economy may go . No definitive statement binding upon the Administration c h. expected until after the President 's Committee on Foreign Aid , headed by Secretary Harriman , submits its report . When named by President Truman in June , this committee , nonpartisan in character , was instructed specifically to consider , as pare of its duties , how the domestic economy would be affected by long-range assistance to other nations . In announcing that his committee would meet Nov. 5 , Mr. Harriman said today that prior differences within the Committee had been ironed out " in every case " by full and frank discussion . Though he left the implication that the committee had completed its work , he did not disclose any of its conclusions . It ' was learned from other committee sources , however , tha ' the report *ill deal at some length with the domestic effects of aid abroad . These same sources said the report would contain little about controls other than on exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many directly to foreign aid , the issue has become more and more explosive . For obvious reasons  --  and the 1948 Presidential election is one of them ? the Administration does not want its position misunderstood or misI interpreted . The conference tomorL row looms as one concrete step designed to prevent any misapprehension . Representative George H. Bender , Republican , of Ohio , commenting on the special session of Congress that President Truman has called for Nov. 17 to deal with foreign aid and inflation , said : " I am wondering whether there is n't some political motive . " In aligning himself with those who have hinted at a political motivation on the president 's part , Mr. Bender asserted the Truman Administration had not been " too cooperative " in 1vorking with the Joint Congressional Committee on - the Economic Report , which is concerning itself largely with the matter of prices . - This committee . headed by Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , Republican Presidential aspirant. is scheduled to meet Nov. 14 , three days before the ' special session is convened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this committee could be counted upon to present at the special session a definite program to meet the high-price situation " in the absence of any program on the part of President Truman . " Said Mr. Bender : " He has n't come up with anything , although he says he will . " In view of the fact , therefore , that there may be a set of committee recommendations on prices that will in effect be opposed to any Administration proposals , the White House conference tomorrow may assume even a larger importance . The Administration has made it plain that plans for expanded foreign aid take into account effects in this country . It may be that tomorrow 's conference will acquaint leaders of industry , business and labor for the first tine with the broad outline not only of what the Administration plans abroad but what it intends to do at home .                     