@@711188

txt The Government rested its contempt of court action against John L. Lewis and the United Mine Workers today and will sum up tomorrow the testimony presented to prove that they should be convicted for civil and criminal contempt . Welly K. Hopkins , union counsel , waived the opportunity of summing up but may review the defense 's case if Associate Justice T. Alan Goldsborough renews his invitation tomorrow morning . With Mr. Lewis , gray and grimvisaged , seated near him , the miners ' attorney was on his feet , almost continuously during the four hours and forty minutes that the trial lasted . He objected several score times but was sustained on only one important point and a few minor ones . As in the 1946 trial before the same court on a similar charge , the union declined to offer testimony . The Government , through Assistant Attorney General H. Graham Morison , introduced a sheaf of documents relating to the cessation of work by more than 350,000 miners on March 15 . It called six witnesses in rapid-fire fashion . ' 46 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government was designed to prove that Mr. Lewis had given the signal for . astrike on . March 13 , when he announced in a letter to the union members that the contractors had " dishonored " their contract by refusing to activate their agreement to grant pensions . In addition , the Government officials placed on the stand were examined by Mr. Morison to prove that the economic consequence of the stoppage had depleted coal supplies and had affected national health and safety . A setback to the Government came late this afternoon when Justice Goldsborough declined to allow in evidence copies of the United Mine Workers Journal of Aug. 15 , 1944 , and June 1 , 1946 . Mr. Morison argued that in 1946 Mr. Lewis in his Journal announced that the union policy was " no contract no work " and that his message to them on March 13 last , saying the operators had " dishonored " their agreement , meant the same thing , namely , that they were to cease work . Justice States His Views Mr. Hopkins argued that this ' was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not justified " in law or in equity or in morals , good morals . " Mr. Morison maintained he had a right to show that the " design " of the 1946 and 1948 stoppages was the same and that through " some trick or artifice of word " ? in this case the word " dishonored " ? Mr. Lewis had brought about " the same catalytic effect as in the catch phrase ' No contract no work . ' " The 1946 " no contract no work policy , " according to the Government attorney , has continued unabated . But Justice Goldsborough said he did not think that because , in the 1946 trial , Mr. Lewis ' " no contract no work " message , standing alone , meant that the miners , should cease work , he had a right to consider judicially that any other letter not containing the same language meant , the same thing . Some in the courtroom believed that the justice 's words indicated his opinion was that the Lewis message of March 13 , alone , could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the mine stoppage . Mr. Morison is apparently not relying on this message alone since he offered in evidence a group of documents , some sent out by Mr.1 Lewis , and he also introduced the union constitution as part of his case . These documents included minutes of the miners ' welfare fund and two messages to the miners sent by Mr. Lewis last Monday an- , nbuncing that their pension dispute had been settled and that they should return to work . At the conclusion of the session today Mr. Hopkins announced that the defense rested . Justice Goldsborough was somewhat taken aback when union counsel said he would waive his right to sum up . If the defendants had advanced their contentions regarding the Taft-Hartley Act 's alleged unconstitutionality seriously the Court said it could not understand why Mr. Hopkins did not wish to press his argument tomorrow . Defense Says Brief States Case The lawyer replied that his argument was fully set forth in his brief and in his formal reply . In view of the Government 's " insufficient facts ' he saw no need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court invites argument . " Observers interpreted Mr. Hopkins ' strategy as an indication of an early move to carry the case to the Supreme Court in the event of a conviction . The court today dismissed defense motions for an acquittal and for discharge of the rules to show cause why Mr. Lewis and the union should not- be held in contempt for failing to end the miners ' stoppage " forthwith " in response to a temporary restraining order issued on April 3 and served on April 5 . These rulings were made after the defendants had pleaded not guilty . A long line of spectators gathered before the courtroom several hours before the trial opened at 10 A. M. Mr. Lewis , accompanied by eight lawyers and members of his staff , arrived in court fifteen minutes before the opening hour . At noon the miners ' president stared straight ahead and remained silent when reporters asked him some questions . On leaving the courthouse he was flanked by his associates . Newspaper photographers had to maneuver quickly to " shoot " him as he hurried past with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today were Dr. W. H. Young of the Bureau of Mines ; V. Lewis Bassie , Department of Commerce economist ; Chairman Nelson Lee Smith of the Federal Power Commission and Arthur H. Gass of the Office of Defense Transportation . Board 's Report Admitted Mr. Morison also questioned John Owens , secretary-treasurer of the United Mine Workers , and William L , P. Burke , counsel for the miners ' welfare fund . Mr. Hopkins fought unsuccessfully to exclude the report of President Truman 's board of inquiry . Later he tried to have excluded coal production figures for the period March 6 to April 3 , part of which covered a time prior to the miners ' stoppage . While the court agreed that there was something to the lawyer 's argument , he said that " in so far as the seriousness of the contempt is concerned the issue is relevant . " Justice Goldsborough ruled out as " hearsay " testimony of Dr. Young to show that all union miners left their jobs at about the same time . The court ruled out objections by Mr. Hopkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the nation was " hearsay . " Justice Goldsborough held that the testimony of experts was necessary " in this day and age in which we live when conditions of business are based almost entirely on tables and indices composed by experts . " Justice Goldsborough sustained a defense objection to a question addressed to Mr. Smith , who was asked by the Government to state the effect of a coal stoppage on supplies and production of electric power . " The court will have to draw the conclusions , gentlemen , " he said .                     