@@710797

txt Washington is taking the revival of- the Russian Comintern very coolly and very calmly . American diplomats are becoming accustomed to violent Communist outbursts and are less jittery whenever the Kremlin hurls the inkwell over the top of the iron curtain . There are several reasons why the United States is not excessively perturbed . Among them are these : The State Department was not caught off balance by the announcement of the alliance of the Communist Parties of nine European nations . ( Only the Communist Parties , not the Governments , of France , I t a l y , and Czechoslovakia joined the new internationale . ) Officials here had full advance intelligence on what was coming . The re-creation of the Comintern , which was disbanded for wartime expediency in 1943 , does not bring a new Communist force into being . The Communist Parties in all these , and other . countries already were functioning as instruments of Moscow and at the behest of Moscow . Therefore - the Communist declaration is seen as merely , disclosing more clearly prevailing Russian purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimate in Washington is that Moscow 's insistence that the European Communists join in launching an all-out fight against the middle-road , and socialist governments which are not already controlled by Russia will prove an embarrassment and handicap to the Communist Parties in France and Italy . There the Communists have been seeking influence and power by offering to " cooperate " as part of the governments . The revived Comintern well may prove an additional reason for continuing to keep them out of office rather than for taking them in . American officials see the new Comintern , founded by Lenin to promote world revolution and reborn this week to fight , as its signers claim , American and British - imperialism " and the Marshall Plan , as more likely to solidify the free world against Communism than to scare it into appeasing Communism . The immediate repercussions at the United Nations General Assembly are construed as evidence that the very bringing of the Comintern back into the open is not helping the Soviet cause . The quoted off - the- record reaction of the most cautious and sober-minded delegates has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive vote of the Assembly 's 57-nation Political and Security Committee approving the American proposal for a special UN " watchdog " commission to guard against violations of Greece 's frontiers undoubtedly was aided by Mr. Vishinsky 's verbal violence and this week 's orders from Moscow to put the Comintern back at the old stand . Finally , there can be no doubt that Russia 's newly organized opposition to the Marshall Plan is solidifying new support for the Marshall Plan fn Congress , just where sup-port was most needed . Moscow has helped out at the right time in the right way , and substantial American aid to Europe , which Russia most fears , I is being made possible . in part , by Russia 's own frantic opposition to it . That 's all right with Washington . * The carefully weighed comment on the Comintern announcement which Acting Secretary of State Robert A. Lovett read to correspondents this week was purposefully addressed both to the countries of western Europe and to the American people . To the people of Europe , Mr. Lovett cited the Comintern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic recovery of the Continent . He urged them not to be " misled by malicious and unscrupulous distortions " and he warned that " there could be no possibility of avoiding economic disaster in Europe if the concepts of the Warsaw conference were to prevail . " To the people of the United States , Mr. Lovett said that this is a time above all times " for coolness and clarity of judgments , " and he counseled that the nation not allow itself to be deflected from wise , realistic , essential action to help " Europe regain its proper place in a stable and peaceful world . " At the moment , th , e Communists seem to be doing their best to hurt their cause , and nobody should stop them . But in the end , it will be what Europe and America do jointly to promote recovery , not what Moscow does to prevent it , which will count most .                     