@@707430

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. ** of State Cordell Hull told Congress today at an unprecedented joint meeting of the Senate and House in a crowded House chamber that the tripartite conference at Moscow would speed victory and that it pointed the way to The text of Mr. IrulPs address will be found on Page 4. an end of the old system of alliances and , instead , to an effective system of international co'operation for the maintenance of peace and security in the postwar world . Mr. Hull made very clear the high hopes he entertains , as a result of the conference , for an international system of cooperation among the nations that will dispense with the need of old-style power politics . In speaking of the four-nation declaration which was signed at the conference pledging cooperation in the prosecution of the war and in the post-war world , he asserted that as the provisions of the declaration were carried into effect there would no longer be " need for spheres of influence , for alliances , for balance of power or any other of the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations strove to safeguard their security or to promote their interest . " Secretary Voices a Warning Mr. Hull gave emphatic warning of the consequences to the world of turning its back on international cooperation for peace in the postwar world . " Only by carrying forward such a program with common determination and united national support , " he said , " can we expect , in the long range of the future , to avoid becoming victims of destructive forces of international anarchy // PACT AT MOSCOW IS HAILED BY HULL // which in the absence of organized international relations will rule the world . " Members of Congress considered the address excellent and one which set forth a good review and explanation of the Moscow conference . Mr. Hull outlined the origin , purposes and problems of the conference at which the United States , Great Britain , the Soviet Union and China joined in a declaration for collaboration for the period of the war and after and emphasized the necessity of an international organization to maintain peace . He maintained that the conference started a forward movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in scope and effectiveness . Stresses Atlantic Charter The basic policy of international cooperation for peace and security , said Mr. Hull , must be carried forward " in the principles and spirit of the Atlantic Charter and the Declaration by the United Nations . " The participants in the conference , he reported , moved forward in a spirit of " mutual understanding and confidence . " The foundation stone of the FourNation Declaration , the Secretary continued , was " the principle of sovereign equality of all peaceloving states , irrespective of size and strength , as partners in a future system of general security . " What he foresaw in this respect was something like the Pan-American group of nations . In introducing Mr. Hull , Speaker Rayburn welcomed hint to the chamber as a former member who had achieved world-wide fame and as one " who at Moscow gave expression to the hopes of millions of inarticulate people here and abroad . Mr. Hull 's appearance at the joint meeting was historic not only because of the report he made concerning the conference but also because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . Before Mr. Hull as he spoke from the Speaker 's dais , with Speaker Rayburn and Vice President Wallace seated behind him and Congressional leaders constituting a reception committee flanking him , were members of the Senate and House . Cabinet Associates Present Just below the dais facing him were three members of the Cabinet , the Secretary of the Navy , Frank Knox ; the Secretary of Commerce , Jesse Jones , and Postmaster General Frank Walker . Seated with the Senators was Justice Frank Murphy of the Supreme Court . Viscount Halifax , the British Ambassador , and other foreign diplomats had places on the floor , where every seat was occupied . The galleries were crowded . Over all , and focusing on Mr. Hull , Klieg lights played . His address was broadcast over all national radio networks . Mr. Hull 's report was extensive in his twenty-five-minute address . He described the over-all significance of the conference , he examined in some detail the formal announcements of the conference , and he told how military questions had first been discussed , and later trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 26,000-mile trip from which he returned only a week ago , Secretary Hull followed closely the text of his address from typed pages . He shook his head vigorously for emphasis , but only once used a gesture , when he pointed a finger at arm 's length directly ahead to indicate " the long range of the future . " There was applause when he declared for the defeat of the enemy " as speedily as possible " ; when he said that the time was nearing when Germany and her satellites " will have to go the way of fascist Italy , " again when he said that the treatment to be accorded Austria would depend upon the contribution she made to the defeat of Germany , and when he said punishment would be administered for all war crimes that had been committed . There was also applause when he referred to freedom of religion , speech , press and assembly as " among the most basic human rights in civilized society , " and when he said that at Moscow the whole spirit of international cooperation " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chamber joined in these outbursts . They did so when he described Marshal Stalin as " one of the great statesmen and leaders of this age . " There was more vigorous applause when he praised the Russian people . And the meeting , quite naturally , applauded when Secretary Hull . praised Congress for its " statesmanship " in adopting by overwhelming " nonpartisan " majorities ( he stressed by intonation the " nonpartisan " ) resolution favoring our participation in a system of international cooperation for peace and security .                     