@@708781

txt Overlooking this city stands an enormously long , grey building full of large windows . Both to the front and back these windows look out upon well-kept lawns and dower-beds , those behind being adorned with a flight of broad stone steps which lead to a wide terrace backed by another large building full of high windows . This serves as the commodious restauranr. and snack-bar. open continuously except for a few hours around dawn . for the denizens of the bigger building , who arc the personnel of Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces , or SHAEF . They number quite a few thousand  --  and they are all doomed within the next few weeks to disappear with SHAEF , and reappear as servants of a new body . the Allied Control Council . Building . Belong to I. G. Farlien The buildings belong or belonged to that famous and gigantic German chemical trust called I. G. Farben , which , in pre-war Ger- , many . was almost as great a power as is its dispossessor in post-war Germany today . ' But , as I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must now SHAEF stirrender its powers to another body which , i born many months ago , is now rapidly approaching adulthood and . ere long , will be ' established in or near Berlin . This is the Control Council . the organization appointed to control the destinies of Germany on behalf of the four occupying powers as represented by their respective military governors ? Eisenhower . Montgomery , Jukov , Delattre de Tassig-ny . It is reckoned that for the first three , powers the personnel requiring accommoda-1 Ural in the new international capital of German ? will number some 15.000. which makes it probable that the seat of C.C. will be near rather than in Berlin . Each of the four branches of C.0 is divided into eleven divisions  --  Land . Sea , Air , Political , Legal . Eco- ; riomic . Financial . Labor . Internal Affairs ! and Communications . Transport and Repara- ; titans . The U. S Branch recently assembled ! in a email town on the outskirts of Frankfort . ' It includes an Imposing list of experts in their several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing lists of ex- ! perts of the other three powers upon lines ! of policy whose execution will he delegated to the military authorities in the four zones . Has Iso Keep Things Going SHAEF wo n't even have had time to , do all tier spadework before it hands over to C.0 It is a huge task even to take stock of post-war Germany  --  to find what is intact . slightly or seriously damaged or destroyed in her productive , transport and communications systems : how many people there are available and where they are . and what they can do ; what food and fuel there is and what can be expected to he produced , the political records and tendencies of all persons in positions of authority : health conditions . etc . etc . In addition . SHAEF has had to keep things going , or in the words of the official textbook . to " A. Assure to the extent that is feasible the production and maintenance of goods and services essential to ( 1 ) meet the needs of the Allied military forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious civil unrest and disorder which would endanger the occupying forces and the accomplishment of the objectives of the occupation : " B. Prevent dissipation or sabotage of German resources and equipment . " C. Secure such other objectives of the occupation and military government of Germany as may he required by civil government . " You can imagine there has been some questioning about the interpretation of A. ( I ) . for example . and that the lot of the military government official has not been a bed of roses . . Neither will he be lying in a bed of roses when he conies to work under Control Council . An Ambitiouo , Neurotic Nation This project of controlling a highly-developed , active , restless , ambitious and somewhat neurotic community of seventy-odd million people in the middle of a continent disorganized and demoralized by war is one - that has never yet been undertaken in modern times except by the Germans themselves . They undertook it solely for purposes of war ; they never had a chance of trying out the experiment in time of peace . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much more difficult for them and will be so much easier for us . The reply is that in war practices which can not be applied in peace are permissible even among democratic peoples . Moreover , during 1940-1944 it was one single government , and that a totalitarian one , which set about ruling the greater part of Europe . Now it is four that are setting about ruling Germany , of which one is totalitarian in the Communist sense and the other three democracies , but including one that does not belong to this continent and another that has been so severely shaken by the war that its eventual form of government is uncertain . It is these four disparate nations which are about to administer a country itself shattered physically and morally by war . Germany Must Be Fed By common consent . it will be a job to keep Germany fed during the next 12 months , but unless is fed there is no chance of keeping order here . You can not begin in control unless there is order to start with . It must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in short , be an asset and not a liability in its own interest and that of the controllers . All four occupying powers will admit that . ' But all four will not see eye to eye on the method of making it an asset , nor on controlling the assets . Before any questions of high overriding policy have been discussed in common by them , Military Government in half Germany adopts a policy of fraternization and Military Governments in the three zones making up the other half forbid all fraternization , though the order is interpreted in three different ways . Hope is for Simplicity of Centro ! Beyond a doubt whatever general policy directives are given out finally by Control Council . interpretations of them in practice will vary widely . The measure of coordination and cooperation between the four zones will depend on the domestic doctrines and traditions of the occupying nations , their economic and political needs and ambitions , their mutual relations . In such circumstances an unwieldy complicated machinery of control is unlikely to work . Armies of occupation ca n't stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in or out of uniform . The aim should he simplicity of control without loss of effectiveness . When the Germans were masters of almost all Europe they discovered the secret of controlling subject nations ' economies . It was control of the supply and distribution of raw materials . In Germany there is no manner of doubt about the essential raw Material , the one on which she built up her strength for peace and war It is coal . which . for instance . supplied over SW- , of electrical power alone , not to mention its manifold other uses Pre-war Germany was producing annually 256 million tons of coal ( inclusive of lignite . reckoned by calorific power I against 160 million for the rest of the Continent , except Britain and Russia . Her resources in coal remain practically inexhaustible . Coal . Key to German Riddle Control those resources and you would seem to have the key to the riddle of making the m-orld sale against German aggressionOne-half the production of coal proper , excluding lignite , came from the Ruhr . It is a question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles of territory , inhabited by four to five million Germans just across the Rhine . It looks simple . It look almost foolproof . According to those who have studied the problem and those who are now operating the military rantrol , it should be simple , foolproof and knaveproof on certain conditiona . One condition is international ownership . embracing at first the United Nations only but later the enemy European states and Itneutrals ; another is that the mines should be worked as a business with German administrative and technical personnel in charge and profits distributed among the owners : a. third is that some share of these profits should go to the miners themselves That , at any rate , might be an experiment worth trying in international economic cooperation , which is the most promising basis for political cooperation . The world 's most densely populated industrial region , Europe 's richest in natural resources , might then be made to serve as something else than a place for the forging of German weapons to establish European unity in slavery under the German heel . PARIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. G Farbenindustrie adopted a three-point program to destroy the chemical combine 's property devoted only to the German war machine , transfer by repatriation to the United Nations any assets which might he used for the Japanese war . and disperse the trust 's ownership . This a as announced by the United States Group Control Council for Germany , which said the newly-appointed Advisory Board was headed by Col. Charles S. Reid , former Chief Justice of the Georgia Supreme Court . A program to manage the combine 's 24 plants is to be carried out by sub-control officers now : n charge of the plants The Advisory Board 's program is subject to revision through agreements by the Quadripartite Geverninent Council .                     