@@709709

txt The Conference of Paris , which began with a revolt of the small nations against Big Power domination , has now led to an open clash between Foreign Minister Molotov and Secretary of State Byrnes . This appears to be over relatively minor issues of procedure , but in reality it goes to the very fundamentals , not only of the Conference , but of international relations and of the peace . This clash has been brewing for a long time  --  ever since the first meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in London last September , when Mr. Molotov first adopted the tactics of needling the " Anglo-Saxon " powers by impugning their motives , questioning their honesty and casting suspicion on their aims , while at the same time twisting and turning to impose Russia 's will on them even at the price of repudiating his own previous commitments . These tactics were not without initial success . They stung the quick-tempered Mr. Bevin into angry outbursts which appeared to give the honors of the bout to Mr. Molotov . But it can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utmost patience and forebearance under constant provocation . Now , in reply to a direct attack on his own motives and good faith , Mr. Byrnes has replied in what is perhaps the sharpest diplomatic rebuttal in recent history , citing chapter , verse and paragraph to show where and to what extent Mr. Molotov has resorted to what Mr. Byrnes characterized as a " misrepresentation " of the American position . It would be both charitable and diplomatic to assume that the clash is an outgrowth of mutual misunderstandings . But the record cited by Mr. Byrnes is far too clear for that , and there appears to be no other way of coping with the Russian tactics than to show them up for what they are . That Mr. Byrnes has done , and in the process he has also apparently succeeded in breaking through the Russian iron curtain by obtaining Mr. Molotov 's promise that for once the Russian press will print the American side as well . The clash has without doubt cast a dark cloud over the whole Conference , but there is good reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thunderstorm that was badly needed to clear the murky Paris atmosphere . Technically , the clash was over the long-contested rules of procedure , involving the question of whether the Conference should adopt recommendations only by a two-thirds majority , which would give Russia an extensive veto power , or , as suggested in the British compromise proposal , by a simple majority as well . That question was settled by adoption of the British compromise in the Rules Committee . which must be ratified by the whole Conference . Like all compromises this pleases few but is the best available under the circumstances . But this action does not settle the great issue which lies behind the clash and which has confronted mankind throughout the war and since  --  the issue whether the world shall be ruled by naked might concentrated in two or three super-Powers , or whether it shall be ruled , at least to the greatest extent possible , by a kind of international democracy based on the cooperation of all states , large and small , and on generally accepted precepts of international law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Big Powin ' unanimity , " is that of Russia , who iemands the right of arbitrary decision or the Big Powers , and " discipline " md " respect " from the small nations . rhe second concept is that of the denocracies , laid down in the Atlantic ** to which Russia herself subscribed . That concept has been immired by far-reaching concessions to lie Russian point of view , but it has iot been lost . It was in its name that he Paris Conference was called , and t was in its name that the small naions staged their revolt against Big'ower domination . Both the United Rates and Great Britain have been trying to meet them at least halfway and only Russia continues in what Mr. Byrnes himself characterizes as Russian attempt to dominate the Con. ference and therewith the peace . M are confident that the American peo ? ple will solidly support Mr. Byrnes it his efforts to prevent this .                     