@@711155

txt Although tension here has risen sharply following the midair collision of a Soviet fighter and a British transport , there are some signs that the big-power quarrel over Soviet rail and road regulations is working itself out . Some observers believe a compromise will be found in the disputed issue of control of Allied military rail and road transport between this city and the western occupied zones . Food Trains Cleared Two facts stand out : 1 . The United States has decided no more food will be transported by air , as food trains have been coming normally from the western zones ; 2 . Letters exchanged ' between Soviet and United States Military Government representatives contain offers from both sides to meet and discuss details of the ' situation . Since Great Britain and France have taken identical positions with the United States on disputed questions , whatever applies to one western power presumably applies to the other two also . No serious incident has occurred . American military guards have been withdrawn from before the Soviet railroad headquarters , situated in the American sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the building . Meeting Set Lt. Gen. Sir Brian Robertson , British Military Governor , is scheduled to dine with Marshal Vassily Sokolovsky , Soviet Military Governor , on the evening of April 6 . It is a safe guess that recent Soviet activities will be discussed , even though the meeting is due to the visit to Berlin of Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery , Chief of the British Imperial General Staff . Lord Montgomery will confer with all four military governors during his Berlin visit , but British officials warned against attaching special significance to this fact , the Associated Press reported . But even if the present intensified phase of the war of nerves passes without much more ado , still it would be misleading to imagine this means the end of Soviet efforts to circumvent the quadripartite control of Berlin . The fact is that only the united efforts of three western allies and especially the resolution shown by Washington have achieved this temporary success . Letter Exchange The exchange of letters between Lt. Gen. M. I. Dratwin , Deputy Chief of Soviet Military Administration in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Chief of Staff , just published here , adds little to what already was known regarding the reasons for Russia 's sudden unilateral action . Nor do these letters produce the text of any agreement between the Soviets and the other occupying powers on free use of corridors linking Berlin and the : western zones . General Gailey protested against " certain restrictive provisions with respect to highway and railway travel for American personnel and cargo into Berlin . " He objected because ' ' the agreement under which we entered Berlin clearly provided for our free and unrestricted utilization of the established corridors . This right was a condition precedent to our entry into Berlin and to our simultaneous evacuation of Saxony and Thuringia . " He added that the Soviets ' newest demands were inconsistent with this agreement and said , " We do not propose to accept changes in this agreement . " In reply to this , General Dratwin denied any sort of agreement concerning " free and unrestricted use of the established corridors " connecting Berlin with the western zones of occupation in Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more explicit , stating . " American representatives who were present at the meeting in Berlin on 29 June 1945 with Marshal Zhukov clearly understood that the United States forces in Berlin would have free and unrestricted use of the established corridors to meet their requirements , subject only to normal regulations of movements . Berlin Entry Recalled " The withdrawal from those parts of the eastern zone then occupied by United States forces was undertaken concurrently with the move of United States forces into Berlin in this understanding . " Whatever may have been such an understanding , it may be stated in passing that many persons who entered Berlin on July 3 , 1945 , saw evidence  --  both in the manner of entry and in what happened almost immediately afterward  --  that the western allies were unwanted guests even at that time . General Dratwin said previous lack of control of traffic in the corridor had been taken advantage of by " shady individuals for all kinds of illegal operations . " This charge was rejected as " beside the point since American military trains never have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such use . " Inspections Ruled Out General Galley emphasizes more than once the United States ' determination not to tolerate entrance of any Soviet representative into any United States trains for examining individual documents or belongings or inspecting cargo . He concluded by stating bluntly that " a discussion predicated upon our acceptance of your entry into our military trains , while in transit through your zone , could lead to no results . " At the same time , however , the American spokesman expresses United States readiness to discuss whether or not each military commandant of passenger trains would furnish at established entry points copies of the documents covering each passenger and manifests of the cargoes of freight trains . Picture .. ? Page 6 U. S. Road Block in Berlin Associated PreFs Radiophoto As- armed American million , police stand by , a German policeman checks the identity of car occupants at a check point leading into the American occupation zone of Berlin .                     