@@712045

txt The prospect at the present time is that fourth-round demands will be presented soon on behalf of some 3,000 , - 000 workers in the steel , coal , automobile and electrical manufacturing industries . In a number of respects this drive will be conducted in a strikingly different economic climate than that which prevailed at the time of rounds two and three , in 1947 and 1948 . Those were , broadly speaking , " cost of living " rounds . Over the last twelve months , however , living costs show a rise of but 1.3 per cent , and are actually down some 3 per cent from the postwar peak of August , 1948 . Moreover , " disinflation " has automatically created other conditions calculated to create resistance to a general pay increase at this time . Wages represent the most important single element of cost for industry as a whole . In contrast to a year ago , or two years ago , when we were in a " sellers market , " increased costs can not now be passed on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time collide head on with the hard fact that industry is under pressure to reduce its prices . In mapping their strategy for the fourth round ( and this began as far back as last November ) , union leaders made at least theoretical concessions to the possibility that the inflationary spiral had ended . They decided to put less emphasis on wage increases , as such , and to move the so-called " fringe " demands of earlier years to the center of the target . But while this shift of emphasis in the fourth round from higher wages to increased security is understandable from the standpoint of union members , it is pretty much an empty gesture so far as industry is concerned . If industry is called upon to meet demands involving a rise of 30 cents an hour in costs , it is small comfort to it to know that 20 cents of this is in the form of social benefits and only 10 cents of it in direct wage rise . Indeed , a rise in security costs is likely to be a heavier burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise , since it represents an addition to the industry 's permanent fixed costs . The proposed fourth-round demand . with its emphasis on security , not only presents all the problems that would be raised by demands for outright increases in wages , but other basic problems as well . Congress now has before it a comprehensive program to extend social security benefits of all kinds , which will add many millions to national costs . At the same time there is afoot this movement to set up industry welfare funds to accomplish the same purpose . These plans , directly or indirectly , have to be financed , of course , by the general public , just as does the federal system of social security . This tendency to set up a jerry-built system of industrial security programs side by side with , or on . top of , the Government 's own , contains a number of manifest dangers . It increases production costs ; complicates collective bargaining and thus increases work stoppages . But more important than any of these is the fact that because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incidence of their cost they complicate emu , : mously the task of setting up a genuinely coordinated , comprehensive security system . The problem of determining how much the economy can afford in the way of social security is not a simple one at best ; it becomes almost insoluble if we are unable to determine what that cost really is.                     