@@705326

txt Production workers at the River Rouge and Lincoln plants of the Ford Motor Company " have become organized into unions chartered by the American Federation of Labor , " William Green , president of the federation , said tonight . " A majority of the employes of these two plants have taken the necessary preliminary steps to become organized into American Federation of Labor unions , " he said , " The next step to be taken will be to establish collective bargaining and the recognition of these American Federation of Labor unions as collective bargaining agencies , in accordance with the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act . " The Congress of Industrial Organizations , which has been attempting to organize the Ford company , asserts that it has a majority in the Lincoln plant . A request for a collective bargaining election is before the National Labor Relations Board . It was supposed here that the A. F. of L. also would ask an election . On Thursday a War Department defense contract was denied to Ford because the company declined to accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE STATEMENT Mr. Green 's statement was as follows : The production workers employed at the Lincoln plant and the River Rouge plant of the Ford Motor Company have become organized into unions chartered by the American Federation of Labor . A majority of the employes of these two plants have taken the necessary preliminary steps to become organized into American Federation of Labor unions . Unions have been formed , the details of organization consummated and charters of affiliation have been issued iiy the American Federation of Labor . The next step to be taken will be to establish collective bargaining and the recognition of these American Federation of Labor unions as collective bargaining agencies , in conformity with the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act , for the employes at the Lincoln plant and the River Rouge plant of the Ford Motor Company , Thousands of members of American Federation of Labor unions have been regularly employed by the Ford Motor Company inside its plants ever since it was established . None of these employes was ever discriminated against by the management of the Ford Motor Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For instance , building construction originated and carried forward by the Ford Motor Company // eproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . GREEN SAYS A. F. L. ENLISTS FORD IVIEN // was always performed by building trades mechanics affiliated with the American Federation of Labor . Says Ford Did Not Interfere The right of the production workers to voluntarily become members of a union of their own choosing , as provided for in the National Labor Relations Act , was freely exercised , without interference by the management of the Ford Motor Company . These workers are simply doing now what members of the . Amerlean Federation of Labor employed in the Ford Motor Company plants have done heretofore . They are acting voluntarily in accordance with their own best judgment . It is hoped that a collective bargaining and cooperative relationship , which has always existed between American Federation of Labor unions established in Ford Motor Company plants and the management of the Ford Motor Company , will now be established between these newly chartered American Federation of Labor unions and the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the organizations have been completely and firmly established . These steps , if whole-heartedly and sincerely taken , will prove to be of mutual advantage to the management of the Ford Motor Company and to its employes . The officers and members of the American Federation of Labor extend a hearty welcome to the employes of the Ford company into affiliation with the American Federation of Labor . They will be accorded all the rights and privileges of members of the American Federation of Labor . We will all be very happy indeed over the organization of Ford Motor Company employes into unions directly chartered by the American Federation of Labor . The American Federation of Labor will service these organize. - tions , will advise and counsel with the officers and members of said organizations , and will render all assistance possible in the promotion of industrial peace and cooperation between the employes and the management of the Ford Motor Company .                     