@@708422

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 14 ? President Roosevelt discussed with Premier Stalin and Prime Minister Churchill during the Crimea Conference the possibility of negotiating an inter-Allied treaty to keep Germany permanently demilitarized , it was learned today . It was known before Mr. Roosevelt left Washington that he intended to " explore " the possibilities of the proposal by Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan , that the major Allies negotiate treaties at once to guarantee the world against a revival of German militarism . What , if any , specific decisions were taken on this proposal at Yalta are not known , but it is perhaps significant that Administration officials are // now beginning to talk about the possibility of negotiating separate treaties for policing Germany after the war , in addition to creating an international security organization . The Crimea communiqu ? did not mention specifically any specific instruments , other than the Dumbarton Oaks security organization and the Allied Control Commission in Berlin , to keep the Germans from bringing another war on the world , but it did refer to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose to destroy German militarism and nazism and to Insure that Germany will never disturb the peace of the world . We are determined to disarm and disband all German armed forces , break up for all time the German General Staff and take in harmony such other measures in Germany as may be necessary to the future peace of the world . " Techniques Not Disclosed Just how the Big Three decided that they were going " to insure that Germany will never disturb the peace of the world " and what " other measures " they decided to take against Germany were not made public . But some persons who have information about what happened at Yalta say that an inter-Allied treaty to demilitarize 3ermany was discussed there and that the Administration 's leaders will look into the political possibilities of insuring Senate support for such a treaty soon after Presilent Roosevelt has returned . That the Administration intended to ask the Senate at some point to consider a treaty to keep the Axis powers disarmed , even before Senator Vandenberg made his specific proposals in the Senate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , long before that date , draft treaties of peace between the Allies and Germany contained clauses obligating the Allies to enforce the terms of the peace treaties . Similarly , the last paragraph of Chapter XII of the Dumbarton Oaks proposals , announced last Oct. 9 , read : " No provision of the Dumbarton Oaks charter should preclude action taken or authorized in relation to enemy states as a result of the present war by the Governments having responsibility for such action . " This clause , it is officially explained , was put into the Dumbarton Oaks charter because the delegates had in mind the possibility of writing into the definitive treaties of peace with Germany a clause obligating one another to enforce the terms for a specific number of years . What Mr. Vandenberg 's speech has apparently done , however , is to open up the possibility of negotiating these treaties to demilitarize Germany before the close of the war , and responsible officials here believe that Mr. Roosevelt will examine this possibility as soon as he returns . Influence on Stalin Seen One American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American participation ' in such a treaty to . keep Germany disarmed that helped to persuade Premier Stalin to depart from his original demand that the permanent members of the proposed security council should have a veto on all questions coming before the league for decision . Mr. Roosevelt , he said , made it clear to the Russian Premier that under certain circumstances , particularly if there were unity among the Big Three in support of a just settlement in Europe , the United States Senate might be prepared to ratify a treaty ' placing American forces against any revival of German militarism . As a result , this official said , Premier Stalin offered to modify the position that his delegates had taken on the veto-power question at Dumbarton Oaks . Just how far he abandoned the demand for unlimited veto power , which was also supported by some of the American delegates at Dumbarton Oaks , is , however , still a matter of considerable controversy in Washington . A State Department spokesman said today that the dispatch carried in this newspaper this morning , outlining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaccuracies . The main lines of the compromise , however , were not denied . Under this compromise the Russians gave up the right to veto any non-punitive proposal that might come before the proposed security council . They insisted , however ? and here again there was some official American support ? on the right of the permanent members of the council to veto any proposal to take punitive action . In other words , the essence of the compromise lay in the distinction between ( 1 ) decisions involving the application of punitive measures , such as economic and military sanctions , and ( 2 ) other questions . Whenever a question involving the use of force Is under consideration , it is understood that the permanent members retain their right of veto . On other questions , however , they do not have the right of individual veto . The text of the voting procedure is expected to be published within the next few days .                     