@@705303

txt A proposed order published today by the National Labor Relations Board concerning charges against , the Ford Motor Company would direct that company to reinstate immediately 975 former employes who were replaced after a shut-down of its Kansas City plant in 1937 and to offer re-employment to forty-six others who went on strike there several months ago . Each group also must be reimbursed , under this tentative order , for various losses of pay and , finally , the company would be required to disestablish the Independent Union of Ford Workers . The Ford Company has thirty days in which to file briefs of exception to the proposed order and twenty days for oral argument . A " proposed order " by an administrative agency is an order whose actual enforcement is held in abeyance for a specified period pending appeals to the agency by the individual or group affected . By action of the agency it becomes an order for actual enforcement if after the prescribed waiting period there appears no reason for change . The proposed decision represents conclusions in an organization fight between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of L. affiliate , and the Ford imion , which became familiarly known as the Blue Card Union , or the PCU . The management of the Kansas City plant was charged with failing to re-hire in 1937 , after a shutdown for model changes , members of the UAW ( A. F. L. ) , although this union claimed to represent , in September of 1937 , 90 per cent of the eligible employes in the Kansas City plant . The official summary of the case , as issued by the NLRB , read as follows : " The United Automobile Workers of America , Local Union No. 249 ( A. F. L. ) , began its activities at the Kansas City plant in January , 1937 . By April , it was testified , the union represented a majority of employes . For five months the union and the company concluded a variety of oral agreements relating to working conditions . By September , 1937 , U. A. W. records showed that its membership exceeded 90 per cent of the eligible employes . " On Sept. 17 the plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant reopened two months later practically every employe then recalled to work was a member of the Independent Union of Ford Workers ( otherwise known as the Blue Card Union ) and U. A. W. members were completely replaced . " Company activity which resulted in elimination of the union , the propesed decision stated , reached its full intensity during the seasonal shut-down when persons found by the board to be inspired and assisted by the company formed an inside union , the Blue Card Union . Shutdown of Plant " On Oct. 11 the company shut down its plant ' indefinitely . ' Simultaneously , Blue Card Union officials publicly stated that ' the plant would not reopen with the U. A. W. and that employes could expect to return to work only through the Blue Card Union . ' Just before the shut-down the plant superintendent assembled a group of supervisors and told them to ' scatter the news ' that the company was building a new plant in St. Louis and that , consequently , a sizable portion of the operations would be removed from Kansas City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing was that the October lockout was provoked by a U. A. W. threat to close the plant unless the company signed a closed shop contract . The U. A. W. denied that it had ever demanded the closed shop contract or threatened to close the plant unless it was accrpted . In its proposed decision the board tentatively found that the plant was completely shut down in October as part of ' a plan to destroy the U. A. W. ' and that the company was not impelled to close its plant as a result of any U. A. W. ultimatum . The board cited instructions issued in September by the plant and general superintendents which indicated that measures were being undertaken at that time to ' prepare the plant to withstand the physical stress of a lockout . ' " On Oct. 15 the company officially discharged every employe on its payroll , transferred the operations of its Kansas City plant to the Omaha branch and reassigned its ranking officers to new posts . With the plant seemingly closed permanently the Blue Card Union continued its membership campaign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they joined the B. C. U. ' During the early part of November the company decided to reopen its Kansas City plant . The board 's tentative findings are that workers were told by supervisory officials and B. C. U. organizers , who were in effect given the power to hire during this period , that the ' only way ' to obtain reinstatement was to join the B. C. U. ; that in its selection of employes the company rigidly excluded U. A. W. leaders , including all U. A. W. officers , committeemen and chief and captain stewards ; that other employes were turned away by the company when they reported for work wearing U. A. W. buttons , and that employes taken on were warned by B. C. U. organizers and supervisors that they could hold their jobs only if they joined the B. C. U. What the Board Finds " The board tentatively found that as a result of the direct company support of the B. C. U. and its active repression of the U. A. W. , the U. A. W. was completely replaced ; although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed for the season shut-down in September , practically every employe in November had either joined the B. C. U. before he was recalled or immediately after his reinstatement . As a reward for their services , the proposed decision stated the company gave substantial wage increases to all officers and most of the original members of the B. C. U. " In explanation of its failure to reinstate the employes named in the complaint when it resumed operations in November the company contended that hundreds of these men had engaged in a campaign of violence in the plant from April to September . " The company urged that it was unable to discharge these men at the time they committed the alleged offenses because the U. A. W. threatened a sit-down strike if disciplinary measures were adopted . " The board 's tentative finding is to the effect that the UAW had not indulged in the alleged violence and that the company in making reinstatements had not considered the alleged employe misconduct when it resumed operations in November , that the company reinstated employes only if they joined the B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. A. W. , that the company had given wage increases during April through September to the very employes accused by it later of misconduct ; that it kept no written record of these alleged offenses ; that it was bargaining collectively with the UAW at the time the offenses were supposed to have been committed ; and that company records failed to indicate that the UAW had , as contended , interfered with production . "                     