@@712367

txt CITY HEALTH HEAD WILL RESIGN JAN. 4 Dr. Mustard to Direct State Charities Aid  --  Feels Job He Undertook Is Finished By ARIliutt GELB Dr. Harry S. Mustard announced yesterday that he would resign as this city 's Commissioner of Health by the end of the year to become executive director of the State Charities Aid Association , a private health and welfare agency . The 60-year-old , soft-spoken commissioner , who reorgsni7ed the Health Department during his twenty-two months in office , told of his new plans at his headquarters , 125 Worth Street . At City Hall , Mayor O'Dwyer said he would not appoint a mccessor for the $15,000-a-year city post until " some time in December " because " it will take a lot of searching and a big , big man to fill Harry Mustard 's shoes . " Dr. Mustard 's new salary , it was learned , will be $20,000 annually . The Mayor said he was " sorry to see " Dr. Mustard leave , but that the news of his resignation had come as no surprise . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1947 , " Mr. O'Dwyer continued , " it was with the understanding that he would serve only until July 1 of this year . But at my request he has stayed on since then . " The successful operation of the largest city health department in the world , the Mayor asserted , demands administrative efficiency , understanding and hard work , " plus the knowledge and training in those fields which contribute to public health . " " Dr. Mustard meets those requirements and has given the people of New York City outstanding service , " he added . The tall , gray-haired health // CITY HEALTH HEAD WILL RESIGN JAN. 1 // commissioner , who by virtue of this job also is chairman of the five-member Board of Health , said he expected to assume his duties with the private agency on Jan. 1 . He will . fill the post formerly held by Homer Folks , who was with State Charities Aid for more than fifty years and retired in 1947 . He will succeed Homer Folks , who has been with State Charities Aid for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department , " Dr. Mustard explained , " with the understanding that I 'd return to private work within a short period . I believe that there is need for work through voluntary agencies in order to strike a balance between too much government on one hand and too little government on the other . " Dr. Mustard , who described the Health Department as now running on " a nice , even keel , " said his new position would enable him " to pioneer in fields of public health " that were not open to him as head of an official organization . " An official agency can not pioneer , " he remarked , " because its budget is too rigid . A voluntary agency , however , has more elastic funds with which to blaze trails for the official agency . " Views Columbia Job as Done Asked why he was not returning to his post as director of ' the School of Public Health at Columbia University , from Which he had received a leave of absence to take the city job , Dr. Mustard said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mustard The New " York Times what he had set out to do there had been accomplished . " A modern school of public health at the university has been established with all courses accredited by the American Public Health " Association , " he added . " The school has an enrollment of over a hundred graduate students . I am quite willing to leave my post there to someone who will keep the ball rolling . " Samuel R. Milbank , president of the State Charities Aid Association , which has its offices at 105 East Twenty-second Street , was present when Dr. Mustard made his announcement . " Although Dr. Mustard 's new position will result ' in his leaving public office , " he said ; " the people of the entire state will be grateful that in his new post 3r . Mustard will continue to serve the public . He will have immediate charge of the entire program , of an association that for seventy-seven years has sought to improve health , welfare and Mental hygiene throughout the state . " Mr. Milbank said his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital , nursing at Bellevue iospital and modernize New York State 's legislation for , administration of public health , social welfare and mental hygiene activities . The organization , he added , also pioneered in the campaign against tuberculosis in the state , through various methods , including the annual sale of Christmas seals . Dr. Mustard 's Work for City Soon after Dr. Mustard succeeded Dr. Israel Weinstein as Health Commissioner , he reported to the Mayor that there were " a number of dangerous gaps and omissions in the public health services " of the Health Department . He proceeded to reorganize the agency by pulling together related activities so that the performance of health services could be accelerated . One of the most important changes in the department was in the administrative machinery for maternal and child care services . The Bureau of Child Hygiene was split into three units , dealing with mothers and young children , school health and day and foster care . Dr. Mustard 's guiding principle has been that modern public health must be on a neighborhood basis , with services performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been expanded considerably since he has been in office . During his administration an anti-rabies experiment was begun on Staten Island ; a city-wide educational campaign to wipe out venereal disease was started ; nutrition and cancer-detection clinics were expanded ; a premature-baby ambulance service was provided in cooperation with the Hospitals Department ; an intensified war on rats was begun ; and a plan to set up diagnosti. : clinics for the early I detection of heart disease , diabetes , tuberculosis and mental ailments will soon be carried out . For three years before he was appointed to his Columbia University post in 1940 , Dr. Mustard was Professor of Preventive Medicine at New York University College of Medicine . Born in Charleston , S. C. , he is a graduate . of the Medical College of the State of South Carolina . 