@@711907

txt An army review board found today thatviolence and other improper means were used to obtain testimony from 73 Germans tried by a military court for their parts in the " Maimecty massacre " of United States troops during the ? battle of the Bulge . But the - board concluded that the practices complained of by the defense " were justified by the difficult/ of cracking the case . " The Malmedy massacre involved the slaughter of more than 900 un ? armed American prisoners and Belgian civilians . Among the 73 elite guard men convicted in July , 1946 , were Col. Oen . Joachim Peiper , daredevel tank leader who was one of HiUer 's closest friends , and three other generals . Willis M. Everett Jr. , of Atlanta , Oa. , chief defense counsel , applied to the United States Supreme court for a writ of habeas corpus , charging that the prosecution had used sham courts , threats , and other improper methods to get evidence . Review Ordered After the Supreme court in June , ? 1948 , refused to hear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board set up to investigate the defense charges , and also ordered a stay of execu ? tion for 17 of the 43 defendants condemned to death . Thirty of the 73 defendants had been sentenced to prison . It Was this review board which made its report today . The board found : 1 . There was limited use of mock trials in procuring testimony . 2 . There was general use of the practice of persuading underlings to talk by telling them the prosecution wanted to get their superiors and was not so much inter ested in them . 3 . Physical force was not sys ? temaUcally applied in order to ob ? ? fain statements , but that undoubtedly in the heat of the moment , op occasions , interrogators did use physical force on a recalcitrant suspect . 4 . In certain instances intent ) ? gators made threats to the accused that it they did not talk , their relatives would be deprived of their ration cards . General Use Of Ruses 5 . That the practices referred to above in certain Instances exceeded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identify such cases . 6 . There . was general use of ruses , stratagems , stool pigeons , and similar practices Justified by difficulty of cracking the cage , 7 . Conditions at prison and the methods employed in interrogaUons had a definite psychological effect on the defendants and re ? suited in their being more amenable to giving statements . 8 . The defense had difficulties in the preparation of its case but such difficulties were ironed out and the defense , considering all circumstances of the case , had a reasonable time in which to Prepare its case . 9 . That the remaining allegations of the petition relate to matters which are not deemed to have been substantial abuse under the circumstances . The board did not deal with any questions of law , the guilt of the accused , or questions of possible clemency action . Its findings were confined to the allegations in the petition concerning mock trials , threats , and strategems , and the use of force . The report will be considered by Gee . Lucius D. Clay , United  --  States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Witnesses The board found that in " eight or 10 " instances , a mock trial was used to soften up witnesses . This was the procedure : A defendant would be brought from his cell , wearing a black hood , into a room containing a table covered with a black cloth , on which was a crucifix and burning candles . Behind the table would be seated one or two persons impersonating judges . At the end of the mock trial , the defendant-was maderto. understand it was his last chance to talk , " and undoubtedly in some cases understood he had Seen convicted . " Another device was to nave a man who posed as the defendant 's advocate at the mock trial advise the defendant afterward to tell what he knew . " Undoubtedly some defendants would confess at least part of their crimes under the influence of such procedure . " the report said . lne ware aismissea allegations that floodlights were directed on the eyes of defendants during interrogations , or that they were deprived of clothing while being questioned . Nor could the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who hanged himself in his cell . lie had been under interrogation but the board said it was not convinced that the prisoner received the treatment alleged . Stool Pigeons In Cells Considering the question of inducements , the board found that the prosecution 's strategy was to get statements first from enlisted men " and get them to involve their inynediate sure tiers , then to confront those superiors with those statements and get them to involve people still higher PIO The board also found that stool pigeons were placed in cells with the accused in attempts to get statements . Allegation that physical violence was used to obtain statements is taken up at great length . Practically all of the rienticad In their affidavits considered by the board claimed that violence was used and all of the interrogators and those in charge of them claimed no violence was used . A dentist at the prison made affidavit that he treated 15 or 20 of the suspects for injuries to mouth and jaw " apparently inMeted by blows . " The German camp commander , on the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Take Stand At the trial , only nine of the 73 defendants took the stand in his own defense , and only three of them claimed any physical mistreatment . But . in affidavits written a year and a half after the trial was concluded nearly all of the defendants described physical mistreatment . One prisoner testifying at the trial made no claim of mistreatment , The report mentions as an additional consideration the fact that the accused were hostile witnesses , and that " altho young , they were tough SS men ( elite guards ) who had been trained to hate Americans . " The board was composed of Col. John M. Raymond , Col. J. 1 . Her baugh Jr .. and Dr. Carl J. Friedrich .                     