@@706237

txt The day of the street lamp lighter will return to Boston when the city holds its first test blackout on Feb. 17 at 10 p. m . One of the steps in the vastly complicated problem of suddenly plunging the city into darkness is for air raid wardens to turn out , one by one , the 9,000 gas street lights of South Boston and other sections of the city . You would expect gas street lights only in an old city with crooked streets and a mellowed aspect like Boston 's . As the 9,000 gas lights flicker out , street cars , busses and private automobiles will slow down to a halt on the city 's streets . Motor truck transport will stop . Only transportation will be emergency vehicles such as ambulances , which will drive slowly according to regulated methods , and railroad trains , which will crawl into Boston with shades down and cars darkened . Electric Lights Out Boston 's 16,300 electric street lights will also be darkened , from brilliant Washington Street in the theater district to the quiet residential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be blacked out . Householders will either turn off interior and exterior lights at their homes or apartments , or black out windows and other openings so effectually that no stray light escapes to the outside . It will he the task of air raid wardens to make sure their respective sectors are darkened , and to turn out the gas lights . Ordinarily the gas lights are turned off and on by time clocks adjusted weekly as sun time changes . The mechanism is such that ordinarily a light can not be extinguished unless the time clock is tampered with . A special arrangement has been worked out , however , so that wardens can extinguish the lights by simply pulling a rod that has been installed . These rods may be permanent appendages of the lights . Manual Operation About 2,300 of the electric lights are in alleys of the Back Bay and are operated manually by 1,100 switches . These will have to be extinguished by wardens . The other 14,000 electric lights in the city are operated from half a dozen sub-stations and power houses . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening when there would be a maximum of " lighting activity " ? industrial plants going full blast , many office buildings open , and department stores lighted . It sought also to find a night in which there would not be unusually heavy or difficult crowds to control , as on a Saturday night . Finally , it had to take into consideration objections from various types of business and entertainment whose representatives felt that financial damage might result . According to word from the committee today , the night of Feb. 17 was the night for which there was the least objection . To enforce the blackout and thwart marauders , 12,000 air raid wardens , 2,000 auxiliary firemen and 2,000 auxiliary policemen together with the regular police force , will be on duty patrolling the streets . Unauthorized persons are to be prohibited from wandering about the streets during the 20-minute blackout . Wardens will be charged with seeing that all homes , stores , apartments and other buildings are effectually blacked out . The Boston Committee on Public Safety , which will conduct the test , warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to enforce the blackout , This warning was based on experience of some other cities , where persons have smashed windows or in other violent ways sought to force putting out of lights . STORRS , Conn. , Feb. 10 ( in ? H. N. Scott of the University of Connecticut likes people , but his first thought during a scheduled blackout drill tonight will be about hens . Director of the Storrs International Egg Laying Contest , Mr. Scott wonders if his blueblood entrants may be thrown off their feeding schedule . One egg , at a time like this , may be the winning factor , and the contest involves other large units in this country and Canada .                     