@@708388

txt " Post-War Military Training , " and the discussion at the meeting of the Association of American Colleges , which the editorial purports to answer . The real issue seems to have been overlooked or disregarded , both by Administration spokesmen and the editors who support the plea for universal military service after the war . The real issue is preparedness for any eventuality in the way of attack . Universal military training did not save France . The unsavory story of the armament program of that nation leads one to wonder whether universal training did not give impetus to a program of graft . A similar result was observed in Italy . The only difference was that the graft in France was left wing , and in Italy right wing . What constitutes adequate preparedness ? That is the real issue . Why should we shy away from a discussion of it and cloud the issue by agitation for a year in camp for every American boy when he reaches 18 ? Does an adequate Navy constitute preparedness ? What is an adequate Navy ? There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force constitute preparedness ? How many men are needed for an adequate Air Force ? Two million , three million ? What will be the budget for an adequate Navy and Air Force ? Five million men and fifty billion dollars ? Why not lay out these facts before we begin to collect the men for service ? Will the Navy and the Air Force get their men by the volunteer system , or will they have to resort to a draft ? Will the eagerness of youngsters for the technical training these forces give , plus the pay they offer , suffice to attract enough men to fill them ? Therein is a fine subject for real research , which is always better than theorizing . After the Navy and the Air Force are budgeted on the score of preparedness , there is time enough to look at the ground forces  --  and nothing said thus far by official spokesmen leads us to believe that anything other than ground-force training is contemplated in the proposed legislation . Is a year of training necessary for the ground forces ? Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment will be furnished the men in training ? What equipment will be ready for the men to use in case we are attacked ? Will we have the latest rifles , the latest field and heavy artillery , the latest machine guns and bazookas ; the latest trucks , jeeps , halftracks , TD equipment ; the tents and stoves and commissary supplies ; the doctors , nurses and medical equipment ; the ships in which to carry all of these men and their supplies to the scene of battle ? What will be the budget for these items ? Let 's be realists on the logistic side of war before we take the men . This problem is a large one and should not be made the subject of snap legislation . No one who loves his country wants to see it unprepared to meet the needs of national defense . But there is no reason why we can not be realistic in approaching the problem of what constitutes total national defense . Your Washington dispatch of Jan. 17 calls attention to a treaty proposed in 1919 among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression by Germany . The dispatch states that this treaty , which was proposed by Clemenceau , was " supported by President Woodrow Wilson . " This is an error . Mr. Wilson , far from supporting the treaty , did not submit it to Congress , but kept it from the people until it was unearthed by a New York newspaper . That treaty was , in fact , the quid pro quo upon which France agreed to the Wilsonian League of Nations . When Mr. Wilson scuttled this treaty and made the League the sole issue , the French felt they were betrayed . That was one reason for the removal of Mr. Wilson 's name from scores of streets and parks throughout France , where it had been honored . I have always felt that such a treaty might have helped to prevent the present war . On Dec. 15 you suggested in an editorial that in view of the memory of failure of C-Ileva and the chilly attitude of the Russians , that city has very little chance of remaining the seat of the permanent secretariat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present a certain number of advantages . In this connection I was very much interested in the results of a public opinion poll made by the National Opinion Research Center of Denver University . According to that poll , American public opinion does not favor Vienna at all-58 per cent prefer Washington as the permanent seat of the United Nations . Geneva got 11 per cent of the American votes , Paris 4 per cent , London 3 per cent , Quebec and The Hague each 2 per cent , Vienna and Moscow 1 per cent . To my mind the fact that 58 per cent of Americans want Washington is an interesting indication of the increased interest of the United States in world affairs ; Certainly , those who voted for Washington realized that it probably would mean 25,000 to 50,000 families of international officials staying permanently In Washington ; it would mean an immense increase in travel to and from this country ; it would necessarily tend to broaden the international viewpoint of Americans . Without wishing to exert any influence toward the selection of Washing . ton  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact spot is less important than the spirit which animates the organization  --  I still think that this poll is significant and contains interesting indications for the President at the moment when he meets with Messrs . Stalin and Churchill . I have visited Argentina on several occasions over a period of ten years . and I lived recently sixteen months in Buenos Aires , where I have scores of friends . I believe I know Argentina , and I wish to contest the main thesis of Miss Christine Quigley 's letter 5n THE NEW YORK TIMES of Jan. 23 . That letter 's principal contention is ; that Argentina is not cooperating with the other Ameridan nations because the United States has attempted to coerce her . Now if by Argentina Miss Quigley means the saber-rattling clique now in power , she is probably right . But only in part , because the Argentine militarists  --  like their Spanish prototypes  --  have imperialistic designs of their own , which no amount of appeasement from the democratic nations wilt succeed in altering . But if by Argentina we understand , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is entirely wrong , for as anyone knows who is familiar with the deep-rooted though moderately expressed political convictions of the great majority of Argentines , the only policy which would bring them solidly into the anti-Axis and pro-Allied camp is precisely one of uncompromising opposition to the self-appointed Colonels ' Government , until conditions in the country deteriorate to a point where the dictators ' position becomes untenable and they are forced to make way for a democratic regime , which would be sure to support hemispheric cooperation . Naturally , the most ineffective course is the one consisting of half-measures now being followed . It will get this country nowhere in respect to the Argentine totalitarians , just as it got Europe worse than nowhere with regard to the Nazi dictatorship . Incidentally , the present Argentine situation is potentially as do ngerous to Pan-American unity , and therefore to United States security , as the Nazi regime has proved to be for Europe . As one of the newly defined purveyors of entertainment to the city masses I should like to regale your readers with an anecdote . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in July , a visiting professor from Europe asked a student : " Why is it that in the United States your movie theatres and restaurants are air-conditioned , while your schools , universities and hospitals are not ? " " Because , " she replied , " we in the United States look upon schools , universities and hospitals as places of suffering . Relief from the heat would accordingly be out of place . " But now all this is happily changed by the ukase of our Mayor , who defines colleges and universities as " places of amusement , " along with movie theatres , bowling alleys and night clubs . Could not the new definition of a place of amusement be extended to include City Hall ? I believe more good laughs come from there than from all the colleges and universities combined . Yesterday a lady had a birthday . Instead of confining the celebration to her home , she and her guests came to the United States Marine Hospital here and treated us Coast Guard and merchant marine patients to homemade cake , cigarettes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart-warming deed , and I 'd like it generally known that New York people do such things . We 've also been treated well by those who remembered us at Christmas anti by those who make the trek on Tuesdays , under USO and other auspices , to give us a welcome stage show .                     