@@710843

txt ADVISORY COUNCIL TO BE NAMED TO AID CM 'S RELIEF HEAD Permanent Citizens Committee Will Be Listed by Fielding ? Approved by O'Dwyer ALL FAITHS REPRESENTED Group to Guard All Standards and Costs  --  Welfare Leaders Assail Present Inquiry By A. H. RASICIN A permanent committee of distinguished citizens will be set up to aid and guide the Welfare Commissioner in operating the city 's $142,000,000-a-year relief organization , it was learned last night . A decision to establish the committee has been approved by Mayor O'Dwyer and will be announced by Commissioner Benjamin Fielding soon after he leaves Doctors Hospital , where he is recuperating from physical exhaustion . The Commissioner 's physician , Dr. William Goldring , said Mr. Fielding 's condition was good , but that he would not be able to leave the hospital before the end of the week . The advisory group will be drawn from among men and women of recognized experience and standing in social welfare work . All three major faiths will be represented in the committee , which will have the dual function of insuring the maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of guarding the taxpayers against administrative laxity of the type now under investigation by city and state authorities . High-ranking city officials emphasized that both the Mayor and Mr. Fielding were determined to prevent any retrenchment at the expense of the needy as a result of the current investigations . " There has been no change in the city 's fundamental policy of giving adequate relief to those who deserve it , " one of the Mayor 's closest advisers said . " The attitude of the city administration is that , while chiselers and incompetents must be weeded out of the relief organization , the deserving needy must be cared for . " This assurance was given as leaders in the private social welfare work deplored the hearings being conducted by the State Board of Social Welfare . on the ground that they were calculated to destroy the morale of families on relief and of the Welfare Department staff . The private welfare leaders noted that the state had a continuing responsibility under the law for seeing to it that relief was administered efficiently . They asked why , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was necessary to seek corrective action through " flamboyant " hearings like those held in this city last week . Warns Against Hysteria Edward S. Lewis , executive director of the New York Urban League , said relief investigations always made for " hysterical outbursts that can do grave injuik to innocent people . " " In an organization as large and complicated as the Department of Welfare , " he asserted , " there are bound to be some cases of fraud and spotty investigation . An inadequate staff , burdened with heavy caseloads , necessarily results in insufficient coverage . " Instead of carrying on a political inquisition for headline stories , the present hearings should make an honest inquiry into inadequate relief budgets . They should also look into the low salary levels for investigators and they should give assurance that people who are unemployed through no fault of their own shall not be victimized because of the few who are dishonest , " Fear that jobless families in need of municipal aid would hesitate to apply because of the disrepute into which the relief organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Richard J. Bernhard , first vice president of the Welfare Council . Mrs. Bernhard , who served as a member of the State Board of Social Welfare until last March , declared that the investigation was being conducted on an " inquisitorial " basis , with all the questioning designed to convince the public that relief was being maladniinistered . " This sort of investigation can tend only to discourage and demoralize the Welfare Department staff , " she said . " I am afraid the // staff members will hesitate to perform even their basic and essential services . The effect on the ' clients  --  those who ha-ye all the proper qualifications  --  must be one of confusion and fear . I am also fearful about the people who should apply and those who will need help in the future . They , too , must be frightened by this type of publicity and their faith shaken at a time when they most need help . " A similar fear was voiced by Miss Frances Taussig , executive director of the Jewish Family Service , who said members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certifying new cases for relief because of the complex new procedures that had been set up for determining eligibility . " It is imperative that something g be done to restore the morale of the staff lest all the good people leave the department , " Miss Taussig declared . " We have felt that the record of the department has been increasingly good and that it has been outstanding when compared with public relief agencies in most other cities . " Good administration is not simply a matter of piling one procedure on top of another . It requires flexibility and a concern for human values . The department has a responsibility for preventing dependency and for rehabilitation . It is not just a fiscal agency . Concentrating all attention on getting cases off relief makes for uncertainty , confusion and fear on the part of the decent people on relief and the welfare staff . " Miss Taussig described current family relief allowances as " miserably inadequate " and voiced the hope that attention would be given to increasing family budgets . Henry Epstein , former State Solicitor General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welfare Council , said it was a " travesty to parade the misery of thousands and thousands of human beings in a public investigation " when the state and city administrations already have the power to rectify any defects that might exist . " The unfortunate truth is that this type of scandal-mongering in relief not only gives a distorted picture but is tragic in its effects on the 130,000 families on relief , " Mr. Epstein declared . " It destroys their sense of self-respect , and it is destructive of any decent morale in the professional staff . " Victor J. Herwitz , chief counsel to the State Board of Social Welfare , spent the day at home , preparing material for resumption of the investigating committee 's public hearings Thursday . He declined to indicate whether the committee would continue with its analysis of individual relief cases or whether it would take a new tack in its inquiry .                     