@@710837

txt Maine 's disastrous forest fires , which have taken a toll of thirteen dead , made thousands homeless and affected nearly fourscore communities , were under check today for the first day in seven . Nevertheless , a race exists as to whether the winds which have been quiet for forty-eight hours , permitting fire fighters to get the situation under tenuous control , are going to resume and cause another major disaster or heavy rains arrive in time to eliminate what still remains extreme danger . The official United States Weather Bureau report tonight sounded an ominous note predicting winds rising to rates of fifteen to twenty miles an hour in Maine , New Hampshire and Vermont by tomorrow afternoon , and only a few miles lower in Massachusetts . Although the sky is expected to be partly cloudy , there still is no immediate prospect of rain . Smoke Pall a Danger Signal a Over most of Maine today was a huge , dark gray pall of smoke reaching thousands of feet into the sky . It is many times bigger than any cloud yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eyes and twisting the nerves of the greater part of the residents of this state . It is a signal that real danger still exists . Fires from one foot to twenty feet square are burning near the principal roads . They are not dangerous today because the wind is still , but they can become raging demons and wipe out towns if rains , as yet unpredicted , do not arrive before winds or gales begin . From Bar Harbor came word that plans to rebuild would be worked out so that the town would resume its prominence as a resort . Fully a fifth of the town is in ruins ' but efforts are being rushed to restore the services of , utilities and permit the early return of permanent residents . Gov . Horace A. Hildreth , asserting that the danger from fires still existed , ordered the state police to pick up every suspected pyromaniac in the state . The closing of all secondary roads was also ordered . The Governor 's office revealed that every known Maine firebug had been under surveillance since Thursday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set were the work of men without previous records . Tonight the Red Cross reported to state police that five cars , two of them with Pennsylvania plates , had been " involved in fire setting " in the Denmark area . Police put out a net for them . Tomorrow morning , the Maine Extension Service will begin a survey of the needs of burned-out farmers , many of whose losses were believed to be unreported. // ? Feed for cattle is urgently required it was said . The Sao River Valley , from Fryeburg to Biddeford and Saco , menaced yesterday , was temporarily safe tonight . Hiram 's three blazes were being contained and the Hollis fire was burning on three sides of Clark 's Mills . There was a two-mile , well contained wall of fire along the road between Berwick and Rochester , N. H. , Winds in Maine today were mild , only from three to seven miles an hour . The local weather authorities expect a wind from the southwest tomorrow ranging from ten to twenty miles an hour . Since there are some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading Maine city are almost as dry as the rest of the state , it is impossible to say that Portland , like so many smaller Maine cities , is not in some danger . The Governor has said that there is no moisture to four feet under ground . The respite caused by the lack of wind velocity has given the fire fighters time to hew fire-breaks and burn backfires in various threatened areas , the only two effective means of checking fires of the present potentiality . Whitneyville , near Machias in Washington County , was declared out of danger today . The lack of wind permitted the halting of fires last night within 100 yards of a major lumber mill with millions of feet of lumber in its yards .                     