@@709023

txt A startling lack of interest in the coming election , despite the fact that the results will control France for years to come , is reported from the general countryside . This is one more indication of the excessive war weakness and period of convalescence which France and , In fact , all of Europe Is now going through . Paris and the industrial cities give the wrong impression of France as a whole on this question for /here the lively Communists have stirred up so much rctivity from the other parties as to result in much talk , dozens of posters , and the chalking on walls and sidewalks with " oui , oul , " and " out , non , " referring to the'referendum questions coming up . Gen. Charles de Gaulle asks oul , oui , and his opposition asks oul , non . But going through nonindustrial and smaller cities you see little signs of the pending election , a few standard posters but no great displays or widely advertised party headquarters of the differeqt groups and other usual accompaniments of Intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling of France which is supported by reports from the rest of Europe is that the people do not want to think too strenuously for themselves and only ask that there be a strong leadership which will take care of everything for them while thee merely try to get back their // Yanks Decry Paris Defense By Volney D. Hurd Stop Correspondent o/ The Christian Science Monitor PARIS , Oct , 20 ? With 100,000 ill German war prisoners being returned to the Reich from France . American Army headquarters in Frankfort . Germany . has announced that an investigation has shown little support for Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's sole defense against charges that German prisoners in French hands were undernourished and ill treated . The de Gaulle defense was that many of ? the prisoners already were weak or ill when the American Army turned them over to the French . Complete records of the 700,000 men turned over to France by the Americans show that all were in good condition when they left and that In addition they were accompanied by a two-weeks supply of food and medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General de Gaulle 's defense is pointed out by American Military Government officials , When the prisoners were first taken anywhere , they were herded together until they could be processed by strength and find daily bread and butter . It is paradoxical that following the smashing of dictatorship as a European policy you find some qualities in the people 's mental state which could be txploited by a dictatorship . France faces the vital question of a new constitution . Further is the question of what kind of a government that will run the country while that constitution is being drawn up . General de Gaulle claims progress on the road to recovery and seeks to have his regime continue while the constitution le being worked out . The formal republic is being established and yet a majority of the French people are too tired and worn to be able to think or care vary much about it , judging from these latest reports . General de Gaulle 's radio appeal Oct. 17 stressed the fact that France had come some distance on the road to recovery since liberation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish it could go the rest of the way in gaining a sound position as n world power . // American officials . This processing included thorough bodily cleaning , clean clothes , a medical attention for those needing it , and assignment to clean barracks with proper food . All the 700,000 men Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower delivered to France were from such processed prisoners , so their good condition was assured , At the same time the Americans turned over to the French the present part of Germany they occupy  --  very shortly after it was won in battle .  --  and there were some 170,000 German prisoners merely collected but unprocessed in those zones ' who were taken over by the French atthat time . These men , fresh from battle , well may have been in poor condition and they naturally never received any processing from the Americans , being , to all intents and purposes , prisoners of the French . It is possible that French authorities in reporting to Gen eral de Gaulle would classify these as prisoners turned over by the Americans . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which makes a Nery great difference . But the important point is that the entire discussion centers around the 1,000,000 prisoners duly processed by the Americans and scheduled to be turned over to the French . It is this 1,000,000 and not the 170.000 picked up in Battle who are involved . Seven hundred thousand of these have been turned over to the French and now 100,000 are being returned due to illness acquired during the period they were in French care . On that and that alone the whole case hinges and that record seems clear . Meanwhile , 300,000 Germane due to be sent to France to complete the 1,000,000 promised by General Eisenhower are being kept in American camps because the United States is responsible under the Geneva Con% ention for the prisoners it has taken In battle and kept .                     