@@712026

txt The navy 's 65,000-ton super-aircraft carrier , the keel for which already has been laid , is not going to be built ; not now , anyway ; probably not at all . Defense Secretary Louis Johnson has ordered that it be " discontinued at once and at the least possible cost to the gov- - ernment . " The pulling and hauling , the decision and indecision over this question , which have gone on behind the scenes of the armed services for more than a year . bring sharply into the open the long-standing disagreement among the joint chiefs of staff . But , assuming that Mr. Johnson 's action really sticks and is not subject to reversal , it offers the clearest possible evidence that the new secretary of defense is going to use his authority firmly and courageously . Involved is the central issue pf carrier-based air power versus land-based air power , and Mr. Johnson is quickly proving that when the navy and the air forces can not agree , he will resolve the disagreement on the basis of the consensus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps understandably , the navy still wants to put about $200.000,000 into the huge carrier . The decision to discontinue work on the ship after it had begun resolves the issue on the side of land-based strategic bombing , and there is good reason to believe that Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , acting as chairman of the joint chiefs , advised Mr. Johnson to take this step under his authority to decide these matters when the joint chiefs can not decide them unanimously . , In testimony before Congress last year the navy reported that approval for building the carrier had been given by the joint chiefs . Subsequently , General Vandenbetg , . ccmmander of the air forces , stated that he never had given his assent . and since decisions by the joint chiefs must be unanimous , the navy 's testimony did not square with what seemed to be the established facts . Several months ago work on the carrier vi  --  as begun , and it was announced at the Pentagon that the keel had been officially laid April 18 . Who actually authorized the construction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman stated that the matter never had been presented to him , and the super-carrier never was listed specifically in any budget approved by the joint chiefs . The nearest to the fact would seem to be that if the carrier was to be used only for fleet support . it would be within the role of the navy to use its appropriated funds for its conruction , but that if it was designed for more than fleet supnort  --  that is. for strategic bombing  --  it would require approval of the joint chiefs ' of staff . Since Secretary Johnson now has ordered work on the car- ' rier stopped following the sessions of the joint chiefs at Key West . Fla .. under the chairmanship of General Eisenhower . it is A sound assumption that the majority of the joint chiefs opposed its continuance and that Mr. Johnson acted upon this advice . A A A ' From this sequence of events , these conclusions now emerge : That the decision against the carrier was made on grounds of strategy , not on grounds of economy . since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That the majority view- probably the 3-to-1 majority view , of the joint chiefs  --  is that carrier-based planes are not the best means of delivering the atomic bomb . if it has to be delivered , principally because planes capable of carrying out such strategic bombing can not land on the carrier after they have returned from their target . ' That the long-delayed , urgently needed decision on overall air strategy was made by the joint chiefs at the Key West meetings and that , under the - authority of Secretary Johnson , the majority view of the joint chiefs , buttressed by General Eisenhower 's recommendations , has been made official . Mr. Johnson 's weekend directive to Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan appears to be a clear and firm implication of that decision . There will be honest and intelligent differences of opinion on the validity of this decision , but there are two consequences which will make sense to the layman . One is that a carefully reached team decision is far better than no decision at all . Obviously we are not in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying out decisive . long-range strategic bombing . One air force of maximum strength capable of doing the job is better than two air forces of divided strength with the prospect that neither would be equipped to succeed . That , at least , was the majority view of the joint chiefs . The other consequence is that Mr. Johnson is showing himself willing to take the responsibility of implementing the majority view of the joint chiefs where Secretary Forrestal hesitated to the very end to do so . PreSident Truman and Secretary Forrestal paved the way for this action by bringing General Eisenhower back into temporary service . Secretary Johnson deserves credit for the courage and decisiveness with which he has backed ? up General Eisenhower . 