@@704544

txt Under the Wagner act , an employer is obliged to put into writing any agreement that may be reached through collective bargaining with this employes , the United States I Circuit Court of Appeals here ruled yesterday . This decision was directly opposite to a ruling made by the Circuit Court in Chicago on Jan. 9 , in the Inland Steel Company case . The Chicago decision was unanimous , but in yesterday 's decision Judge Harrie B. Chase dissented from the opinion of 1 Judges Learned Hand and Charles E. Clark . The court 's ruling yesterday upheld an order in which the National Labor Relations Board directed the Art Metals Construction Company to accept Local 1,559 of the International Association of Machinists ' as the representative of production and maintenance employes in its plants at Jamestown , N. Y. Negotiations between the company and the union broke down on July 24 , 1937 , admittedly because of the company 's opposition to a written agreement . Judge Learned Hand , in the prevailing opinion , narrowed the point at issue to whether such a refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectively within Section 8 ( 5 ) of the act . " Judge Hand quoted the employer 's contention that the necessity of a written contract would deprive him of " that absolute freedom in negotiation which he had at common law , and which Congress meant to preserve to him , " and went on : " But he is no longer wholly free anyway ; before the act he was not obliged to bargain with his employes collectively ; he was at liberty to refuse to negotiate with them at all , or otherwise than severally . " The act impaired that freedom ; it meant to give to the employes whatever advantage they would get from collective pressure upon their employer ; and the question here is what are the fair implications of that grant . " They should include whatever is reasonably appropriate to protect it , and no one can dispute that a permanent memorial of any negotiation which results in a bargain is not only appropriate but practically necessary to its preservation . " It is the merest casuistry to argue that the promisor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ascertainment of what he has agreed to do , or indeed whether he agreed to anything at all . " The freedom reserved to the employer is freedom to refuse concessions in working conditions to his employes and to exact concessions from them ; it is not the freedom , once they have in fact agreed upon those conditions , to compromise the value of the whole proceeding and probably make it nugatory . " Judge Chase disagreed with this . Pointing out that nothing in the Wagner act specifies that any agreement need be reached at all or that the agreement , if reached , must be set down on paper , he said : " It is significant that when Congress explored the subject-matter of the relations of employes with their employers and passed the comprehensive regulatory statute known as the Wagner act it did not see fit expressly to require that any agreement which might be reached , after the collective bargaining made compulsory upon the employer , should be put in the form of a signed written contract . " " We have no right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , " he held , adding that the court should not " gratuitously impute bad faith to the employer . " Judge Hand struck out the words " cease and desist " from the part of the board 's order in which the company was enjoined from unfair labor practices in future . He agreed with the company 's plea that the words implied unfairly that the company had been guilty of such acts in the past . Judge Chase agreed with this point , but Judge Clark wrote a brief dissenting opinion on that subject alone . He said that striking out the words served as a fruitless attempt to restore a dignity that had been tarnished by the company 's attitude toward collective bargaining .                     