@@706743

txt The facts of Japan 's military power show that this is not a war for the mere protection of national interests but a fight to prevent enslavement by a ruthless and formidable military and economic machine , Joseph C. Grew , former United States Ambassador to Japan , declared here tonight . Mr. Grew , who spoke at a dinner in connection with a rally at Harding Field at which the ArmyINavy E was presented to the Rem , ington Arms Company , Inc. , for efficiency in war production , declared that he had been impressed by the vast expansion of our war industry and armed forces but that this was fel. from enough . The " punch , the determined plunge which brings victory in the big game , " is lacking , he said . " We must pull ourselves up short , " he warned . " We must stop groping . Let us make no mistake . This is the real thing , played for keeps . An easy-going transformation is not enough . Our effort must be an extraordinary one  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Foe Contemptuous of Us The Japanese are well aware of the technical achievements of the Western powers , but they believe the Americans and their allies , used to a high standard of living , are too complacent , too well fed , too used to comfort , to be willing to make the sacrifices necessary for victory , he said . " This is the real , .. hallenge to America , " he declared , " the challenge of a people who have been hypnotized into believing that democracy weakens those who possess it , that a high standard of living weakens those who enjoy it , that peace and the love of peace weaken those who cherish them . " The Americans on the fighting fronts can handle anything the Japanese can send against them if each American on the industrial front gives them his utmost support , he asserted . The will to conquest of the Japanese nation " is utterly ruthless , utterly cruel and utterly blind to any of the values which make up our civilization . " " The only way to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in. closing . " If you fail  --  please mark my words  --  you pass into slavery and all America passes into slavery with you . " Japan Not Weak Nation Mr. Grew described the poverty and regimentation that is the lifelong lot of Japanese workers , but warned that " even Japan 's hand- ' caps have been used to strengthen her for war . " Speaking from an experience of ten years ' residence in the country of the Pacific enemy , he sought to explode the myth that the Japanese were a weak power . " The ruthless will which is driving the Japanese nation toward conquest knows neither gentleness nor mercy , " he declared . " Too long have we nurtured the illusion that the Japanese is an insignificant person whose achievements are poor imitations of our own achievements . The Japanese is physically small , but he is sturdy . We might say that he is half starved , but he is spartan . He is imitative , but he is also capable of adapting himself easily and quickly to . new conditions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very subserviency is the expression of a fanatical loyalty toward his country and his emperor . He is a clever Iland dangerous enemy  --  one who will compel us to use all the intelligence and all the strength of which we are capable in order to bring about his defeat . " The Japanese workers have accepted a degree of regimentation , which in some respects exceeds that of better known Nazi Germany , Mr. Grew reported . " The very failure of Japan 's war against China has been used to induce the Japanese people to accept placidly severe measures of control and rationing  --  measures of such severity that without the psychology of war they would surely lead to revolt , " he said . By means of an efficient propaganda machine the rulers of Japan have instilled a fanatical devotion to his country in every Japanese , overcoming even the hatred some felt for their entry into the war , he declared . " We would be deluding ourselves if we believed that any personal sacrifices which the Japanese people might be called upon to make would lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Yamato Damashi  --  the spirit of Japan ? has been stronger than ever before . " The undeniable successes of their armies , sweeping across Malaya , Burma , the Philippines , the Netherlands East Indies and many islands of the Southwest Pacific , have given them tremendous confidence in their ability to win . They know that they have a long and difficult fight before them . They believe that by grim endurance they will grasp victory . " 20,000 Attend the Rally C. K. Davis , president of Remington Arms , in an address before the rally of 20,000 employes and members of their families celebrating the winning of the production pennant , announced that all Remington plants were now 100 per cent converted to war production and that the government was the company 's only customer . During July 100 per cent of all ammunition accepted by the government from the Bridgeport plant was classified for aircraft use , which meant that it met the most rigid specifications , with tolerances as low as 1/10,000 of an inch , he said . Plants were expanded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Remington operation in four others , requiring a sixteen-fold increase in personnel . Brig . Gen. Herman W. Schull , former assistant chief of Army ordnance , presented the award . William T. Ashcroft , assistant production manager of the company , and Earl E. Swennson , works manager here , accepted it for the plant . After Gladys Swarthout sang the national anthem , the pennant was flown on the flagpole at the high school athletic field . Lieut . Comdr . R. T. Fish of the Navy presented Army-Navy E pins to veteran workers of the company . Stephen J. Knapik , president of Remington-Bridgeport Employes Union , pledged " renewed and greater efforts to keep this pennant flying . " At the dinner at the Stratfield Hotel , attended by 400 civic leaders , executives and veteran employes , Mr. Grew was introduced by former Senator Frederick C. Walcott after Mayor Jaspar had congratulated company officials and employes on their achievement .                     