@@704959

txt Is Uncle Sam 's huge national defense program going to shell , bomb and torpedo unemployment out of existence in the United States within the next year or so ? Is the . $5,000,000,000 or more which the United States will pour into private industry during the current fiscal year going to eliminate the long , dreary lines of unemployed men and women , changing them into cheerful , hopeful queues of workers waiting for their first pay check in months or even years ? Many authoritative sources in Washington believe so , and while others wo n't go so far , there is little argument but that unemployment rolls are shrinking . Perhaps the best indication of the optimism over employment now prevailing here is to be fohnd at the headquarters of the Amirican Federation ? of - Labor , whose latest monthly survey of business forecasts that unemployment will drop from the current estimated ? figure of around 9,500,000 to around 6,600,000 by June of ' next year . Other sources , no less reliable , feel that the nation may do even better and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next 10 months . Those who predict new ' jobs for 3,500,000 to 4,000,000 within the next year point out that while this many new workers would not be required to supply the huge armaments which the Government is contracting for , large numbers of supplementary workers will be employed by the resulting stimulation to business . Camps Mean Many Jobs One survey holds , for example , that close to 1,000,000 persons will  --  be needed to fill armament orders , 500,000 more will be needed to supply the plant expansion now contemplated , and that . an additional 1,000,000 will find jobs in the thousand and ; one types of work which always expand when times are . good , and contract when they are bad : Chief among these are the service industries . , None of these ; figures , moreover , take into account the stimulus - to employment which , it is believed , will result fro  --  the projected compulsory military training- program . If the Army succeeds in , obtaining 1,000,000 young ' men and National Guardsmen for a year 's course in military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably reaching into the , hundreds of . thousands , will be made in , order to service , their needs , build barracks , supply uniforms and take care of the attendant secretarial , work . - In addition to the persons who would find work through meeting the needs of a compulsory training , program , it is apparent that a year 's training for 1,000,000 would make that many less job-hunters throughout the nation , resulting in an additional 1,000,000-person drop in unemployment . Since no clear picture is yet obtainable on the labor situation in the United States as a whole , there is some confusion in Washington as to the possibility of a shortage of skilled labor when the tremendous industrial pick-up which is looked for this fall occurs . Sidney Hillman , Vice-President of the Congress of Industrial Organizations and head of the National Defense Commission 's labor division , is said to have told President Roosevelt that no shortage of skilled labor is to be expected for some time , whereas Navy spokesmen , in testifying before recent congressional hearings , have declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's shipyards and the Navy will undertake to transport skilled workers from inland cities to shipbuilding yards for work . Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox has already asked the nation 's industrialists not to entice workers away from each other , since this would disrupt the defense program and since additional workers can be easily trained . Runaway Program Unwise Although dealing principally with the expected reduction in unemployment , the latest A. F. of L. statement contains the significant warning that the last few years of rearmament in Europe had even before the war seriously reduced the standard of living in a number of countries . While averring thM this can be avoided in the United States threSugh the latter 's higher productivity and the small portion of industrial production devoted to armament , the Federation points out that " if the defense program is not carefully guided , it can disrupt our economic life , causing booms in some industries and depressions in others , destroy labor standards , leave mills and men stranded after the first years of intense activity are over . " Some quarters ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereby defense production can be so integrated with civilian production that no one-sided development , with its consequent collapse , can occur . The critics charge that a runaway defense program is just as dangerous for the country as the runaway boom of the 1920 's for which the New Deal is still excoriating the Renublicans . Joseph G. Harrison                     