@@707028

txt The comprehensive recommendations combined in the National Resources Planning Board 's " cradle to grave " social security program , transmitted by President Roosevelt to Congress today , were based on the nation 's experience with its social security program over ten years and on the . ability of the national economy to cope with and , remedy the inadequacies revealed by the board 's study . The board would modify , broaden and extend existing social security measures , strengthen the old-age and survivors ' insurance system , ' provide for protection of all youth under 21 , and propose establishment of a Federal works program on a permanent basis . Creation of a single , national unemployment compensation fund is suggested , while a comprehensive public assistance program is " spelled out " in some detail . In addition , the report advocates public social services to meet a need for more adequate medical care , calls for expansion of State and local child-welfare services ( with Federal assistance ) , free school lunches for all school children , and the making available of surplus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public-aid recipients . In its introduction , the report emphasizes these main points : " First , that our economy must provide work for all who are able and willing to work . Included in this is a special responsibility for an adequate youth program which should be an integral part of any governmental undertaking to establish security . This will be peculiarly true in the post-war period . " Second , that for great numbers whose work is interrupted , the social insurances must arry much // , FEDERAL WELFARE ASKED OF CONGRESS // of the load of providing adequate income . " Third , that where the insurances of work policies fail to take care of an interruption in income , adequate guarantees of minimum aid and assistance must be given both to individuals and families through a general public assistance system . " Fourth , that where adequate services essential to tlj , e health , education and welfare of the population are not available , public provision should be made for the development of such services . " The report continued : " We can have work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of income , particularly for the lowest income groups . Full employment makes possible these higher income levels , and without full employment such levels are impossible . " In particular , the board wishes to emphasize the importance of strong Federal leadership ' in the movement to establish freedom from want , and access to minimum security , for all our people . It is essential that the forms of national aid should pay due regard to the genuine interests of local self-government and of unofficial associations , and should avoid excessive entanglement in jurisdictional problems . " The full employment of our national resources of men and materials is a problem in which the cooperation of Federal and non-federal agencies , of the home , the neighborhood , the church , the social agencies , and the associations of innumerable types , of industry and agriculture , of labor and management , is indispensable , and will continue to be ; but the Federal Goverment can not escape national responsibility for its share of broad and effective leadership in truly national aspects of the problem . " Antedated Beveridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and antedated by more than two years the beginning of the investigation on the same problem undertaken by Sir William Beveridge , whose report was finished and made public recently . The present social security program , it is suggested , should be I modified as follows : 1 . There should be developed as system of social insurance to provide at least partial compensation for loss of income due to permanent or temporary disability . 2 . The unemployment compensation system should be expanded as follows : " ( a ) . Coverage should be extended to embrace seamen and employes of non-profit corporations and of firms employing one worker or more . The inclusion of workers in domestic , agricultural and other low-paid employments should be considered. , in relation to the patterns of employment , the character and amount of their earnings , and the feasibility of devising a benefit formula which will yield them significant payments . Consideration might be given to the desirability of developing ; a separate system with its own eligibility , benefit , and contribution provisions for agricultural workers . " ( b @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to twenty-six weeks and should be uniform for all eligible workers . " ( c ) . The benefit formulas should be considered with a view to assuring benefits which will enable the vast majority of recipients to maintain themselves for a period up to twenty-six weeks without recourse to supplementary payments under other forms of public aid . The payment of dependents ' allowances would be a first step in this direction . Would Alter Eligibility Rates " ( d ) . Eligibility rates should be revised so as to admit to insurance benefits only workers whose past earnings and employment records offer a presumption that they will draw significant benefits from the system and yet not such amounts as to induce them to prefer benefit status to self-support . The adopt-ion of duration of past employment in place of previous earnings as a criterion of eligibility should be explored . " ( e ) . Experience rating should be abandoned . If experience rating ' ) is retained , minimum Federal standards relating to eligibility , duration and amount of benefit are ' essential . " ( f ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly Federal administrative organization . " ( g ) . There should be a single national unemployment compensation fund , part of which should be drawn from general tax sources . If , however , the system is not placed upon a national basis , a reinsurance . system accompanied by Federal standards relating to eligibility , duration , and arount of benefit should be developed . As to Old Age and Survivors 3 . " The old-age and survivors ' I insurance system should be strengthened and made more widely available by the following changes : " ( a ) Coverage should be extended to employes of nonprofit corporations . Additional groups of employes should be covered as rapidly as it can be demonstrated that they will receive adequate or significant benefits from the system . " ( b ) Continuing study should be given to the feasibility of revising the benefit formulas and the minimum-earnings eligibility requirement , with a view to-making it possible for the vast majority of covered workers to qualify for benefits , and to enabling the system to offer significant monthly benefits to a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of involuntary unemployment , sickness and military service should not impair eligibility for and amount of benefits . " ( c ) The general principle of a governmental contribution . to the cost of a program should be specifically embodied in legislation . " Public-Assistance Program Besides adequate work and social insurance programs , the report proposed a comprehensive general public-assistance program . Such a program , it was said , should be a Federal grant-in-aid for general public assistance " which should be available on a basis reflecting differences in need and economic and fiscal capacity as between the States . " Thus the report would eliminate the present uniform system of Federal grants-in-aid to the various States and would call for larger grants to the poorer States . Moreover , it was said , the States should be required to distribute Federal and State moneys within their political subdivisions also on the basis of variable grants . The costs of public assistance to the destitute who have less than a year 's residence in a State " should be wholly a Federal charge , " the report added . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single State agency , it was recommended that the Social Security Board be the Federal agency for the program . The program for youth included the following : 1 . Federal aid to assure educational opportunity for all young people above the age of compulsory school attendance who desire and can benefit by continued schooling . 2 . Revision of school curricula " so as to provide that all young people obtain meaningful unpaid work . experience in the school or in community service during the period of school attendance . " 3 . " Young people who are not in full-time attendance at schools or institutions of higher learning or who are not in private employment should be provided with productive work for a wage . " For Greater Medical Care In considering the need for extension of public social services essential to the health , education and welfare of the population , the report said it was essential that " public provision be made for meeting the needs of our people for more adequate medical care " and toward this end the government " should stimulate , assist or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of our people whose need can not be fully met from their own resources . " Expansion of child-welfare services should be undertaken with the assistance of the Federal Government , according to the report , and such services should be " everywhere available . " The report was prepared by a special committee of the National Resources Planning Board , consisting of William Haber , Profes-sor of Economics , University of Michigan , chairman ; Will W. Alexander , former administrator , Farm Security Administration ; C. NI . Bookman , executive vice chairman , Community Chest of Cincinnati ; Corrington Gill , former assistant commissioner , Federal Work Projects ; the Right Rev. Francis J. Haas , dean , School of Science , The Catholic University of America ; Fred K. Hoehler , executive director , American Public Welfare Association ; Katharine F. Lenroot , chief , Children 's Bureau , Department of Labor ; Mary E. Switzer , assistant to the administrator , Federal Security Agency , and T. J. Woof ter Jr. , director of research , Federal Security Agency , The director of research for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the graduate faculty of Columbia University and an authority in the field of social security . Dr. Burns , a native of London , who became an American citizen seven years ago , was for three years director of research of the London School of Economics and was associated with Columbia University from 1928 to 1942 . Dr. Burns was assisted by Franz Huber and Herman M. Somers , economists ; Glen B. McClelland , technical secretary , and a group of economists and research assistants on the staff of the National Resources Planning Board and the various Federal agencies concerned with work , security and relief policies . The board 's chairman is Federie A. Delano , an uncle of President Roosevelt , and the vice chairmen are Charles E. Merriam- and George F. Yantis . Charles W. Eliot is director and Thomas C. Blaisdell Jr . assistant director .                     