@@710680

txt As thousands of American Legionnaires continued to pour into New York for the opening tomorrow of the Legion 's twenty-ninth annual national convention , its standing committees began consideration yesterday of problems of national defense and security . A blunt warning to the Legion that universal military training , for which it has stood consistently since 1919 , was by no means sure of passage through Congress at its next session was presented before the national security committee by Representative Harry L. Towe , New Jersey Republican . Mr. Towe , who is the author of the bill for universal training that was favorably reported by the House Armed Services Committee just before the adjournment of Congress , said that there was considerable opposition to any such measure , particularly in the interior of the country and among " some members of the clergy . " " Pressure Program " Suggested Warning that certain opponents of the program would not hesitate to misinform the public , Mr. Towe urged the Legion to generate a. " pressure program " by informing the people of the nature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were done , Congress would act favorably , despite the difficulties of a short session and a Presidential election year . Raymond H. Fields , director of public information for the Legion , told the public relations committee that plans for an elaborate publicity campaign in behalf of universal military training , including the use of motion pictures and " canned " radio programs , already had been formulated . He said the specific training program that the Legion would back would be determined by the coming convention , but he pointed out that the Towe bill had been endorsed by National Commander Paul H. Griffith . Vice Admiral Robert B. Carney , deputy chief of naval operations for logistics , told the Naval Affairs section of the Legion 's National Defense Committee that the Navy was now preparing its estimates for the 1949 budget with great care . He called upon the Legion to support the Navy 's requests for funds , as insurance for the nation . Scores of other speakers on a wide variety of topics appeared before various Legion committees at meetings at the Central High School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at other points in the midtown section . The housing committee heard a prediction by Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin that the TaftEllender - Wagner housing bill would be defeated in Congress . Legionnaires Start Antics Until a series of thunderstorms sent them scurrying for cover late in the afternoon , hundreds of Legionnaires gathered in busy midtown streets and started the antics for which Legion conventions have been famous . Even after the rain came , they carried on their activities in such places as railroad stations , hotel lobbies and bars . A promise that these activities would be limited to " good , clean fun " and would be halted by 1,600 volunteer patrolmen of the Legion itself whenever they threatened to become " obscene or destructive " was made by Arthur W. Price , chairman of the Legion 's service committee . Mr. Price said that these volunteers would begin duty at 8 A. M. today and would remain for the duration of the convention , which ends on Sunday . He said that the volunteers would be divided into six tours of four hours each daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will patrol in pairs , be said . The greatest concentration of strength will be in the area bounded by Thirty - fourth and Fifty-ninth Streets and Third and Ninth Avenues , he said , but a smaller detail will be assigned to Greenwich Village , and an allNegro detachment of 170 Legionnaires will be assigned to Harlem . He said that they would cooperate with the police . Mr. Price said that a similar // plan had worked so well during the 1937 Legion convention here that not a single Legionnaire was arrested , Unlike most Legion officials . who have expected that this year 's crowds would be larger than the records set ten years ago , Mr. Price said he did not believe they would be as large . Many Hotel Rooms Unclaimed Evidence indicating that this view might be true came yesterday from the managements o , the Hotel Pennsylvania and New Yorker ! large numbers of rooms that had been reserved for Legion members Hotel , both of which reported that had gone unclaimed . The Pennsylvania made 300 and the New Yorker 100 of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away many applicants . Donald G. Glascoff , national adjutant of the Legion , announced that all of the 17,500 spectator seats at Madison Square Garden for the opening session of the convention on Thurday had been reserved for members of the Legion and its auxiliaries , but that seats unclaimed by 1 P. M. would be thrown open to the public at that time . Officials of the Legion finally gave up hope yesterday that President Truman would appear to address the opening meeting . They received word from Washington that he would definitely leave there tomorrow morning for Brazil , where he will address the Inter-American Defense Conference . Mr. Truman , who has attended many previous Legion conventions , was elected a delegateat-large from Missouri to the present one . Bernard M. Baruch , elder statesman and formerly United States representative on the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission , will be the principal speaker at the dinner that National Commander Griffith will give at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel tomorrow evening for distinguished guests of the Legion . Mr. Baruch consented yesterday to substitute for Secretary of State George C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Several hundred Legionnaires , headed by Commander Griffith , will make a pilgrimage to England and France shortly after the convention ends . The French National Tourist Office in the United States announced that plans were being made for a cordial reception to them . They will attend the dedication of the Highway of Freedom , along the route taken by the Third Army from the Normandy beachhead across France . Seven warships , including the 52,000-ton battleship New Jersey , the 2,200-ton destroyers Fiske , Kennedy , Johnson and Rush , the storeship Malobar and the attack transport Noble , will be moored in the North River during the convention and will permit general visiting , the headquarters of the Third Naval District announced yesterday . Navy 's Plan Outlined Capt . F. P. Williams of the Navy outlined before th'e national security committee yesterday the plans of that branch of the service for utilizing the youths who would be assigned to it if the Towe bill for universal training should become law . He said that for the first twelve weeks all would receive the same training and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for various kinds of specialized training . Perry Faulkner , chief of the Veterans Employment Service , told the national employment committee that while veterans as a whole had fared well in finding jobs , disabled veterans had not done so well . He said that in the last year the backlog of disabled veterans seeking jobs had been cut from 229,000 to 130,000 but that this figure was still far too large . Robert C. Goodwin , director of the United States Employment Service , said that maintenance of a level of high employment nationally was essential to continuance of the favorable position war veterans now have in the national labor market . He suggested that because of the short time World War II veterans have been working and their consequent lack of seniority , they would be the group most adversely affected by any recession . Vice Admiral Charles E. Rosendah/ , retired , famous lighter-thanair expert of the Navy for many years , urged the Legion to back the removal of lighter-than-air ships from the Bureau of Naval Aviation to the Bureau of Ships . He also urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Civil Aeronautics Authority to the Merchant Marine . The New York Chapter of the , American Red Cross announced it ! would provide a casualty information service covering legionnaires who may require hospitalization edurin the convention . A twenty-during four hour service will be maintained at the chapter house , 315 Lexington Avenue . Legion officials announced that James C. Petrillo , president of the American Federation of Musicians . AFL , had given permission to Federation members to artpear at a celebrity performance for legion members in Madison Square Garden Saturday night , which will be telecast . They said that it was the first time he had given such approval and that he had done so because the television broadcast would be shown to disabled veterans in hospitals ,                     