@@708844

txt Japan has handed its surrender offer to the Swedish and Swiss governments  --  for transmission to the British and American , Russian and Chinese Governments  --  according to advices from Bern and Stockholm Earlier reports , based on this morning 's Tokyo radio-cast , said the Japanese were ready to quit on the condition that the Emperor retain his position as sovereign of Japan . The radiocast said they would accept the terms of Potsdam , but added their own condition . Meanwhile , in its English-language radiocast just before 6 o'clock , London time , the Tokyo Radio repeated the surrender offer to the Allies . It was first read at dictation speed , and then at normal speed , Reuters reported . During the interim be-between the early Tokyo radiocast and the breathless waiting for official word on the Japanese offer , London and Washington indicated that the conflict was Continued on Page 14 , Column 1 still on . Tokyo told the Japanese people nothing about the peace offer . There were no reports from monitoring stations that the Japanese Radio had carried any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another power declared war on Japan . This time it was the Mongolian People 's Republic , faithful ally of the Soviet Union . While official Washington and London kept their , fingers crossed , elsewhere throughout the world vic- night ago shorflag airward against enemy raiders let loose their guns in celebration . The island and naval anchorage rocked with gunfire , cheers , and the roar of rockets . The air raid sirens wailed a prolonged " all clear " signal . One outdoor movie , showing " Captain Eddie , " the story of the life of Eddie Rickenbacker , had reached a sequence where the hero , just back from World War I , tells his bride he bets millions of other former soldiers are going fishing . At that moment distant cries and cheers echoed above the sound-track , and the G. I. 's , on edge since the first atomic bomb was dropped and Russia entered the war , yelled for word . It came . The operator announced : " Japan has asked for terms of surrender ! " The film was forgotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depots received calls for gas masks as conjecture spread that Japan might try a last desperate effort to attack this island . Conservative Attitude American overseas broadcast today treated the Japanese offer of surrender " conservatively . " This is the policy " for the time being at least , " an official of the Office of War Information said . The Japanese people  --  at least some of them  --  may be getting their first news of the surrender offer from American radiocasts . As far as Government monitors have been able to determine , news of the peace offer has not been given the Japanese people by any domestic radiocast . The Tokyo announcement , radiocast to this , country and Europe , is being broadcast back to Japan " with clear attribution , simply as a part of the news of the day , " OWI said . " In each case , these items are being accompanied by a clear statement that no official action by this Government has been announced . " Celebration in BerlinAmerican occupation troops in Berlin received the news almost as jubilantly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war would hasten the date of their own departure for home . Russian soldiers , who showed no excitement when they heard the news of their country 's entry into the war against Japan , appeared outwardly just as unconcerned today . The one element in the situation which might yet hold up the speedy conclusion of the war appeared to be Japanese insistence on the retention of their Emperor , a point which the initial statement of the surrender offer and subsequent Japanese radiocasts stressed over and over . Otherwise the Japanese appeared reconciled to unconditional surrender . Hirohito 's hopes of retaining his soverignty  --  a term as yet undefined  --  seemed mainly predicated on the significant omission from the Potsdam declaration of all reference to him or his future status . In Britain , a statement from Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee 's residence said the people would be advised officially when the situation clarified and that " meanwhile , everyone.should continue work as usual . " The text of the British state-ment : " His Majesty 's Government have not yet received any cemmunication from the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governments of the United States , Russia and China about the radio broadcast from Tokyo as to surrender terms . " A further statement will be made by His Majesty 's Government as soon as the situation is clarified . Meantime , everyone should continue at work as usual . " Several Developments There have been several developments since the Potsdam declaration , not favorable to the Emperor 's cause . The Australians loudly protested any move to retain him ; the replacement of Winston Churchill and the Conservatives by a Labor Government in Britain , and , last but not least , Soviet Russia 's entry into the Pacific War , Which presumably will , give Premier Joseph Stalin some say in determining Japan 's future status . Meanwhile , the mills of war ground on . The Russians lost no time before invading Manchuria , Korea , and the southern Japanese-held half of Sakhlin Island . Military observers agreed that the start of the Soviet Far Eastern offensive action showed careful and complete preparation . The impact of the initial onslaught , prefaced in the usual Red Army manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words of Soviet commentators , so overwhelmingly effective that the Japanese were unable to hold a single defensive line along the frontier . The initial picture of the Red Army attack appeared as a well-mapped campaign directed toward the very center of Manchuria , supported by small pincer moves designed to isolate the - northern Manchurian armies of the Japanese . Supplementing this land campaign was an offensive by the Red Army Air Force aimed . at destroying the entire Manchurian communication system and the links between Manchuria and the Japanese homeland . The main Soviet attack ap- back under heavy attack in the region west of Vladivostok . The fighting , however , was spreading rapidly and might easily have developed along the entire frontier of Manchuria and the Soviet Union . The story of the terrible destruction caused by the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki on the Japanese hOmeland was emerging gradually from the reports of returned fliers and from Japanese eyeWitness radiocasts . Gen. Carl Spaatz announced that damage assessment photographs of Nagasaki , the second target , taken 31/2 hours after the bombing showed the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ havoc caused by the previous atomic bombing of Hiroshima was described over Tokyo Radio by a " certain Army corporal attached to the staff headquarters of the Central Army District . " Eyewitness Report The corporal was in a Hiroshima hotel the day of the blast and stuck his head out the window when he heard the Superfortresses overhead , he reported . " I looked up , " he said . " Simultaneously a lightning-like flash covered the whole sky , blinding my eyes . Unconsciously , I dove for cover and a tornquilt miraculously was blown over me , which I hugged to myself for dear life . " Several minutes later I was outside . All around I found killed and wounded . Some were bloated and scorched  --  such an awesome sight . . . . Their legs and bodies stripped ' of clothes and burned with a huge blister . " All green vegetation from grasses to trees perished in that period . It was the most awesome sight I have ever witnessed . " 