@@709254

txt The possibility that China will make further economic concessions to Russia in Manchuria was , disclosed here today by Generalis- I simb Chian &; Kai-shek . In one of his rare press interviews , the Generalissimo was asked , " Are any negotiations going on with Rustia regarding economic and political concessions to Russia by China going beyond the published terms of the Sino-Soviet treaty ? " At first the Generalissimo answered that no formal negotiations were under way . He later amended that statement to say that informal discussions were under way dealing with economic questions only . This disclosure is taken here to be highly significant , especially in view of the information that the Russians ' withdrawal from Manchuria once again has been postponed . Delayed Twice Before Twice before the scheduled Rus-sian withdrawal from Manchuria ! was postponed . Reliable inform- ; ants here state that in the first two instances postponement was the result of a request from the Chinese Government , which was unable to move sufficient troops northward to take over and at the same time to maintain any sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on between Chinese Nationalist and Communist troops . These same informants now state that the third postponement from the scheduled Feb. 1 with- drawal deadline was not requested by the Chinese Government , but was made ostensibly because of holdups in Russian transportation . A large number of Russian troops already . have moved across the ' border into Siberia , but Russian forces still occupy most key points in Manchuria . Just what sort of delicate international chess game is being played in Manchuria at present can only be guessed . The most prevalent theory among official observers here is that Russia is using China 's inability to carry out logistical requirements for the reoccupation in line with its policy of surrounding Russia 's borders with a security belt ' of " friendly states " Soviet Motive While it might be difficult to prove this is the basis of the Russian action in Manchuria , it should be pointed out that Russia 's continued refusal to permit foreign correspondents into Manchuria makes it difficult to relieve the Soviet of the onus of suspicion . Meanwhile , the Generalissimo made another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governed in the future by a dual Capital , with the Government officials divided between Nanking and Chungking . Hitherto it has been supposed that the Government would proceed with previously announced plans for moving to Nanking some time this spring . The Generalissimo explained here today that cabinet and other important Government offices will move to Nanking shortly before the convening of the National Assembly May 5 . But he said other government offices would remain in Chungking and that he himself would visit Chungking at least once yearly . Compromise Move This appears to be a compromise between the Generalissimo 's desire to see the Capital restored to its historic site of Nanking and his personal attachment to Chungking where the Government spent the eight wartime years . It seems likely , however , that only the least important Government offices will remain here . For while the Government is undertaking extensive civil improvements in this battered and dirty overgrown country town , Nanking 's admirable geographical situation just up the Yangtze River from Shanghai far outweighs any advantage that might attach to Chungking . There is also considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually to Peking . It seems doubtful that such a move would be considered officially , at least until the political situation in North China becomes more stable . 