@@710081

txt Labor legislation in the 80th Congress may be delayed somewhat by a three-way contest developing here between separate divisions of the Government . As the possibility of this contest - develops , drastic new bills to curb trade-unions continue to be introduced almost daily . The three parts in the unfolding strategy over proposed labor legislation are as follows : House The most militant drive for new labor legislation is developing in the House of Representatives , as in times past . Republican House leaders are intent on imposing their desifes and are planning an ove ? - all , master labor bill , to which they expect to give the authority of an almost unanimous Republican report from the Labor committee . They fear efforts to modify it in the Senate and are planning strategy to prevent such a de-v elopmen t . Senate The Senate Labor Committee , headed by Senator Robert A. Taft . ( R ) of Ohio , shows signs of going more slowly and cautiously than the House . Though dominated by Repub -- cans , two new majority leaders , George D. Aiken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R ) of Oregon , are friendly to trade unions , as are a majority of the Democrats ; Republican Senators H. Alexander Smith ( R ) of New Jersey , Forrest C. Donnell ( R ) of Missouri , and Irving Ives ( R ) of Nei ? York are middle-roaders , and Chairman Taft himself warns against hasty drastic action . The Senate as a whole in times past , for one reason or another , often has acted as a brake on the House in labor legislation . White House President Truman made mild recommendations for new labor legislation this week which were politely received and which will be now , it appears , largely disregarded . Mr. Truman 's importance will come later , when an almost inevitable compromise is worked out between House and Senate versions . of new labor laws . Presidential veto power requires any measure which runs counter to Mr. Truman 's wishes to have a two-thirds majority behind it . It became obvious ' here today That House leaders were fully aware of the obstacles they might encounter in the Senate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develops out of the flood of proposed labor bills now being introduced in Congress . Representative Francis Case ( R ) of South Dakota yesterday introduced a revised omnibus " Case " bill , covering most of the points which the previous bill bearing his name covered before presidential veto last year . New feature is proposed authorization to the Federal Government to issue injunctions.to block industrywide strikes like the coal walkout . Senator Joseph H. Ball ( R ) of Minnesota , meanwhile announced the third of his series of labor bill , to be introduced formally on Jan. 13 . Senator Ball said in an interview the measure would " pretty much prohibit " bargaining on an industry-wide basis , as in the coal industry . It would reverse the trend of recent years , in which he said " more and more power has been concentrated in national and international unions . " Senator Ball 's fourth labor bill will be introduced soon , with important amendments in the Wagner Act . In two previous bills he has proposed outlawry of the closed shop and a new version @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. 0 . P. House leaders are not averse to bills like that of Mr. Case , now being introduced . But they recall many times in the past where the House and Senate have not seen eye to eye on such controversial matter . In this case , they seek to strengthen their bargaining position for drastic legislation in advance at every point . The strategy is in the hands of Representative Fred A. Hartley , Jr . ( R ) of New Jersey , new Chairman of the House Labor Committee , apparently backed by Speaker Joseph W. Martin , . Jr . ( R ) of Massachusetts and House Majority Leader Charles A. Halleck ( R ) of Indiana . The proposal is to write a master bill , get unanimous approval of it by the close-knit Republican members of the Hartley Committee , who have been picked for this purpose , and then send it speedily to the Senate with the authority of a big House majority . There is a certain element of Presidential politics in this . Representatives Halleck and Martin are often described as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspirations , as against Senator Taft . Some Republicans complain that Senator Taft is moderating his labor stand in deference to labor votes . Accordingly , a situation is taking shape in which Senator Taft may find his labor views challenged by , members of his own party in Congress . Unions Hit Ball Bill WASHINGTON , Jan. 10 ( / ' ? ) - Labor leaders centered their fire today on a proposal to ban the closed shop while blasting away generally at congressional plans to change the labor laws . Both the A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0 . singled out for specially sharp criticism the bill of Senator Joseph H. Ball ( R ) of Minnesota , to outlaw union membership as a condition of employment .                     