@@705998

txt President Roosevelt today placed the entire Coast Guard under the orders of the Secretary of the Navy as an emergency measure . The action amplified an order of June 4 by which the President transferred the ocean-going part of the Coast Guard to the Navy . The June 4 order was affirmation of verbal instruction given about four weeks earlier . There was no immediate transfer of Coast Guard ships , however , because of the difficulty of providing replacement for the functions provided by these vessels , which engage in iceberg patrol and send weather information from points at sea . The full import of the announcement today was not indinediately clear , but it was indicated that the Coast Guard would remain under Navy jurisdiction for the period of the emergency . The action was manifestly taken to strengthen the defenses of the nation and had , perhaps , some connection with the Battle of the Atlantic , in which the Nazi submarine campaign has been intensified . TEXT OF EXECUTIVE ORDER The executive order , dated yesterday but issued today , read as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a part of the Navy . By . virtue of the authority vt .. sted in me by Section 1 of the Act of Congress approved Jan. 28 , 1915 , 38 Stat. 800 ( U. S. C. , Title 14 , Sec. 1 ) , as amended by Sections 5 and 6 of the Act of July 11 , 1941 , Public Law 166 , Seventy-seventh Congress , first session , it is hereby directed that the Coast Guard shall from this date , until further orders , operate as a part of the Navy , subject to the orders of the Secretary of the Navy . All Coast Guard personnel operating as a part of the Navy , subject to the orders of the Secretary of the Navy , pursuant to this order , shall , while so serving , be subject to the laws enacted for the government of the Navy . Provided , That in the initiation , prosecution and completion of disciplinary action , including remission or mitigation of punishments for any offense committed by any officer or enlisted man of the Coast Guard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the laws and regulations of the department having jurisdiction of the person of such offender at the various stages of such action . Provided further , That any punishment imposed and executed in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall not exceed that to which the offender was liable at the time of the commission of the offense . Mackenzie King Departs After a two-day conference with President Roosevelt on international problems , Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King of Canada left Pougkeepsie in his special car at 11:03 tonight for Ottawa , where the Canadian Parliament opens tomorrow . Before leaving Mr. King said that he had had " a happy , pleasant and profitaole week-end . " He stated that , " as usual in our visits , " he and the President had discussed various situations . He insisted once again that the visit " was purely personal , " adding that he would not make a statement to Parliament tomorrow upon its results . The implication of his statement , particularly his assertion that the trip was " profitable , " was taken as a hint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Canadian-American problems had been reached . President Roosevelt was scheduled to make an informal speech tomorrow to a group of Dutchess County editors at the Roosevelt High School here . There was some speculation whether he would choose , as he frequently does on informal occasions , to touch on world affairs . Aides indicated , however , that they believed he would confine himself to educational matters . It was uncertain today whether the President would arrive in Washington late Tuesday or Wednesday . Crown Princess Juliana of the Netherlands and her two children , who came here from Canada with Mr. King , will remain as the guests of the President and first lady until Tuesday , it was announced . Attend Church Services President and Mrs. Roosevelt took Crown Princess Juliana and Prime Minister King to an old Dutch Reformed Church founded here only a few years after the American Revolution . In the quaint white wooden edifice in this little town on the Hudson the President and his guests heard simple prayers for the restoration of the Netherlands ' liberty , now blacked out by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world peace . From the time that the pastor of the church , the Rev. Lyman A. Talman , recalled that for the 152 years of its existence the little church had " never had such distinguished guests worship within its walls " until , on leaving , Princess Juliana graciously accepted a bouquet of Autumn flowers from 6-year-old Beth Schuster of Hyde Park , today 's was a homely , friendly event . " We are just Dutch cousins together , " was the way Benjamin H. Haviland , first elder of the church , expressed it after greeting President Roosevelt as " senior warden of our sister church , " St. James Episcopal Church of Hyde Park . Ancient Motto Recalled Mr. Haviland pointed to a window at one side of the church , remarking that on it were the names of two persons who were direct descendants of William of Orange . He nodded at Princess Juliana as he said this . The Rev. Mr. Talman expressed " sympathy for the Princess and her honored mother now exiled from their national land " and added with obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true  --  Resurgat  --  it will rise again . " ' We do pray for the time when peace shall again come , " he continued , " we pray for a speedy coming of that time . " Even a ruler , the pastor declared , may find solace in serving God . " Christ is our King , " he remarked . " Christ is not a dictator compelling men to do His bidding ; you see all too much of that about us in the world today . The man in the street may envy the life of a King or President or Prime Minister , but the fact is that the farther one rises the greater his responsibilities . I think the King or President may envy the man in the street  --  not having to sleep with their cares . "                     