@@705984

txt Industry enters the winter with bituminous coal stocks at the highest level of the year . Reserves , such as now exist , afford a strong buffer against routine delays in deliveries of coal even at the present high rate of consumption . But present stocks of bituminous constitute no guarantee that essential defense production would not be seriously affected by a miners ' strike . President Roosevelt yesterday fumed John L. Lewis , United Mine Workers president , to call off his threatened strike of 53,000 workers in mines owned by industrial companies who take most of the output . Story on Page 2 . On September 1 . the latest date for which official figures are available , industrial stocks of bituminous were substantially back to the large tonnage which had been built up on April 1 in anticipation of the spring strike . Total inventories , including supplies in the hands of retailer dealers . exceed the spring peak . Currently , both industrial and retail dealers ' stocks are believed to be at a new high for the year . On the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present rate of consumption  --  a better gauge of the adequacy of reserves than tons in storage - , ' idustry is also comfortably situated , provided there is no lengthy strike . Large . 4t iteservea Since 1937 Bituminous reserves held by industry at the beginning of September were 45.029,020 tons and by retail yards 7,790.000 tons , a total of 52,819,000 tons . The latter tonnage was the largest since April 1 , 1937. when it reached 53,153.000 tons , and compared with 50,690,000 tons on April 1 . last . Industrial stocks on September 1 were sufficient to last 43 days at the daily rate of consumption then prevailing , while retail dealers ' stocks were sufficient for 31 days . Industrial reserves-43 days ' consumption ? were larger than at any time since November 1 , 1940 , when they were estimated sufficient to meet requirements also for 43 days . Electric power utilities on September 1 had 60 days ' supply : by-product coke ovens , 31 days ; steel and rolling mills 28 days ; coal-gas retorts 70 days ; cement mi " s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and railroad 's 31 days . Stocks Spread Unevenly While bare stock figures indicate industry is comfortably situated , reserves of bituminous are unevenly spread among companies in the same industry . The result is that production of some units is almost immediately affected by even a short interruption of a steady run of ccal from the mines . For short periods . companies caught short of coal supplies may borrow or buy fuel from other companies more favorably situated , but this makeshift arrangement is not very satisfactory . Steel producers usually are the first to feel , through the coke bottleneck , the effects of any impediment to continuous and smooth receipts of bituminous This is particularly true when steel operations are at high levels for many months , as at present , and the mills are forced to depend on " beehive " ovens for coke to supplement their byproduct coke . The " bce-hives , " fired only in times of intense and sustained steel operations are not equipped to carry stocks of coal , and depend pretty much on day-to-day deliveries of bituminous . Were it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . now that no car shortage has developed , would be concentrating on the 1942 market for coal . Present indications are that demand for bituminous next year will exceed 1941 consumption by a substantial margin . although volume of production allowed non-defense industries obviously will have cons.derable bearing on the nation 's coal requirements The coal industry is completing its best year since 1929. both in production and earnings . The past six months , during which a remarkable job of wiping out the deficiency in coal c  --  utput caused by the April strike has been done , have been the busiest in the industry for many years . particularly for warm-weather n-.onths . When the mines resumed operations on May 1 . production to that date was 12 million tons , or about 8%. under output in the first four months of 1940 . But oil October 11 , last , tons mined in the 41 weeks to that date were 24,532.000 tons ln excess of production in the same weeks of last year . an increase of 9.9% . If production over the balance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1941 , output for the year will be about 500 million tons compared with 453,245,000 tons last year and 534,989,000 tons in 1929 . Output Near Capacity For the past several weeks the mines have been turning out slightly more than 11 million tons a week , not far from estimated capacity of 12 million tons on the present five-day week . Excepting for the two or three weeks immediately preceding April 1 , when fears of a suspension of operations became pronounced . current production is at the peak for the year and for many years . The April stoppage gravely delayed the movement of coal into the Great Lakes industrial area and it was feared that the lakes would freeze before ample stocks to tide that important defense-producing region over the winter could be delivered . Those fears have been dispelled because the movement up the lakes since May has been tremendous . It appears now , with a month or more of navigation still possible on the lakes , that the bituminous movement in the present season will about equal the record of last year . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bituminous loadings amounted to 1.628.143 tons . a substantial increase over the 1.168,716 tons in the comparable 1940 week . In the season through October 11 , 36.992.055 tons of lake cargo coal were dumped into boats compared with 39,924,261 tons in the same weeks of last year . May Have Reached Peak Peak of weekly output may have been seen for 1941 . In the first place , major consumers are adequately stocked to meet the ordinary hazards of the winter , or have no available storage space for additional reserves . More important , demand for coal has been adversely affected to a degree . though a minor one as yet . by reduced working time in non-defense enterprises The latter condition . however , has become of increasing concern to Washington officials , and may be rectified to some extent by relaxing of priorities regulations which have brought on the downturn in a number of nondefense fields . Improved financial results this year have stemmed primarily from the high rate of mine operations since last May . Selling prices . it is true , are higher than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than cover the materially higher wage and vacation-with-pay bills of the producers As in most industries . unit costs are reduced with higher rates of operations . and with many mines at practical capacity for six months , per-ton costs of mining have been cut satisfactorily . 