@@712000

txt The Republican Party can not say that its best friends wo n't tell it the unpleasant facts ? at least as they see them . Ever since that political tornado swept the country last Nov. 2 the GOP has been undergoing a good deal of self-examination . But this political soul-searching also has had quite a bit of political scapegoat-searching in it . It has led to as much confusion as anything else because Republican voices have been producing so much conflicting counsel . Now comes a truly remarkable agreement on what the Republican Party needs to do if it is to rescue itself from being buried permanently in second place  --  agreement on the part of two of the most respected , influential Republican leaders who often have found themselves in conflict in the past . One is the only Republican in American political history to be nominated for the presidency and defeated twice Thomas E. Dewey . The other , whose all-wooland-a-yard-wide Republicanism can not be tainted with any slurs of " me-too-ism , " is the most effective and highly regarded spokesman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dewey , having twice done so unsuccessfully , knows what it means to run for the presidency , and he is convinced he knows what the GOP has got to do if it is to have a chance of winning . Senator taft , has met all Comers in the pivotal state of Ohio , and there is no doubt that he would like to be his party 's presidential candidate in 1952 . He is convinced he knows what the GOP has got to do if he , or any other Republican , is going to have any chance of winning . A A A Senator Taft always comes to the point , and this is his point : " The Republican Party must honor its platform commitments to pass social welfare legislation or itself pass out . " This is what he told his colleagues at a closed senatorial policy conference this week at which he again appealed for support of his public housing bill , which for three years he has tried unsuccessfully to get his party to enact . Governor Dewey came to the point after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His point was this : " If , as a party , we try to go back to the 19th century , or even to the 1920 's , you can bury the Republican Party as the deadest pigeon in the country . " This is what he said to the Lincoln Day dinner in Washington a few weeks ago . and he was talking frankly about the failure of the Republican Party to redeem its " liberal and progressive " platform pledges . Among these measures he listed unemployment insurance , old-age assistance on an increased basis , broader social security , slum clearance , public housing , public development of water power , and vigorous protection of the rights of labor . A A A There undoubtedly will be some Republicans who will disagree with these prescriptions of what is constructive Republicanism , but it would be begging the issue and unfair to dismiss Mr. Dewey 's and Senator Taft 's views on the ground that they are simply Justus , Minneapolis Star The Thinker talking as expedient politicians and what is needed is to " stand on principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies which they believe are at once good for the country and . good for the Republican Party . The extent of the Dewey-Taft agreement on this broad issue is striking . On policy they say : Dewey : " All these things are good . They are necessary . They are right . They are the officially declared principles of the Republican Party as solemnly adopted in convention assembled . As representatives of our party we are under a duty to carry them out . " Taft : " I believe it unwise policy for the party to take the position that these and other welfare matters are affairs of the states in which we ought not to concern ourselves . - We must support the free-enterprise system , but we had better take care of those in the lowest income brackets or we will lose the free-enterprise system . " And on the politics involved they say : Dewey : " Those who disapprove of these social welfare policies and want to fight them ought to go out a'nd try to get elected in a typical American community and see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you deny the ? Republican Party 's interest in the welfare of the low-income people of this nation , there soon wo n't be any Republican Party . " What Mr. Dewey and Senator Taft are telling their colleagues , in effect , is that unless the Republican members of Congress actually start voting for the public-welfare measures which their platforms have long been advocating , the party is going to devote itself ' exclusively to nominating presidential candidates for a long time to come . These Republicans are not talking just to hear themselves talk ; they are discussing nothing less than the survival of the Republican Party .                     