@@711230

txt Railroad strike or no , Massachusetts legislators put on extra steam today as they headed the " June First Prorogation Special " down the track at a fast clip toward the end of the 1948 legislative session . Hoping to complete their lawmaking activity in about three weeks ? though some observers see the time extending to four or five weeks  --  state solons still must dispose of a dozen-odd major issues before they can pack up to go home and mend their election fences . ? Among the steep grades the legislative train must encounter are the following major issues on which a certain amount of momentum already has been achieved : Highway Program The $100,000,000 highway program . Widely indorsed by civic , business , and industrial interests , this project is strongly desired by many Massachusetts drivers and those from out of the state . The Boston City Charter issue . Opportunity is asked for Bostonians ' to change the administrative structure of the city to a more progressive confidence-inspiring setup , if they so desire . Increased salaries for state employees . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they may receive amounts to " only a 7 per cent raise , " according to employees ' representatives . 65-Cent Wage Minimum Not as much in the limelight , perhaps , but nevertheless important , are other pertinent bills . among them one to provide for a 65-cent wage minimum in Massachusetts . Another would permit the sale of colored margarine in the Commonwealth . Then there is the weighty issue of whether to establish a new airport authority for Logan International Airport , Boston , and other State airports in an effort to make them better revenue producers . The so-called Staves bill , to float a $100,000,000 bond issue for state highway construction , is due to be reported out soon by the Legislative Committee on Highways and Motor Vehicles , perhaps this week . 10-Year Program It will represent the first " big bite " in the proposed 10-year expenditure of $667,000,000 for the state 's sadly-run-down road system . It initiates no new taxes , but would be supported by current gasoline tax and other highway revenue . With the public demand for better state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very unlikely that there will be much opposition to the principle of the measure . However , legislators who feel that their district might not get a large enough share of the $100. - 000,000 may oppose the bill . In past years this attitude of " what 's in it for me ? " ? neglecting the over-all state picture  --  has meant the downfall of highway expenditure programs that had some vision and foresight . The strategy this year of Senator Edward W. Staves ( R ) of Southbridge , Chairman of the Highway Committee , has been to put off the question of just where highways would be built until after the bill is passed . The State Public Works Department would make the construction allocations . This strategy may save the bill . A peculiar uncertainty regarding its passage surrounds the measure , however , despite its high intent . A report on the Boston City Charter bill , long overdue from the Legislative Committee on Cities , is looked for soon . Supporters of a charter change are hoping the measure will not be discharged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of the legislative session . Lobbying . Expected Too often , in the past , some weird parliamentary technique or scramble of lobby bargaining has been employed to defeat or pass cgtain measures . One thing is certain on the charter measure which would allow the Boston electorate to vote on one of three types of city charters , Plan A , D or E. There will be heavy and expert lobbying against the measure . Last year 's extremely effective lobbying against a Boston Plan E City Manager bill by George J. Leary , Mayor Curley 's Legislative Agent for the City of Boston , is credited with having defeated that measure . Three Choices The current charter bill , if , reported out substantially as expected , would allow 10 per cent of Boston 's voters to petition for a vote on one of the three charter plans . The Plan A form provides for a nine-man city council , elected at large , and a mayor . Plan D is the city manager-council type of government , using the limited plurality method of electing councilors. and Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finally , the supplementary budget , yet to come from Governor Bradford , must be dealt with , in addition to making some relief provision for municipal snow removal costs . And there is the Old Colony problem . Plebiscite Scheduled Just how the legislators handle the southeastern Massachusetts commuter transportation problem will depend considerably on the outcome of the plebiscite to be held tomorrow , May 11 , in Quincy and Braintree on the question of whether 's . Boston 's rapid transit system should be extended to those communities . Postponement of abandonment of passenger service on the Old Colony branch until March 1 , 1949 , gives the Legislature at least some time in which to make decisions ,                     