@@705784

txt Henry Morgenthau Jr. , in addition to being Secretary of the Treasury , is a farmer , and a successful one . He is. moreover , a mild-spoken man , little given to extreme statements . When he says that the Congressional legislation to force up farm prices by " freezing " Government stocks of cotton and wheat is " terrible " and " wicked , " we may safely assume that he has not overstated the case . The proposal is , in fact , as viciously selfish as it is stupidly unsound . The Government holds , as a result of price-supporting loans to farmers , upward of 7.000,000 gales of cotton and nearly 300,000,000 bushels of wheat . Now that prices are rising sharply and an opportunity presents itself to stabilize the markets and relieve the Government of some of its huge holdings . Senate and House , under pressure of the farm bloc , have passed bills forbidding the Government to market its holdings during the European war . A conference committee of the House and Senate promptly and unanimously agreed on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report . Unfortunately , the freezing bill is only one of a cumulating series of moves by Congressional farm leaders which reflect a reckless determination to exploit the national emergency so as to grab everything possible for agriculture while the getting is good . It is no longer a question of relieving distressed farmers or of bringing about a fairer balance between agricultural and other prices . The farm bloc in Congress , having achieved its long-sought goal of pre-war purchasing power parity for farmers , has unceremoniously dumped that concept and is now franky out to boost farm prices as much as possible . Its members are competing to see which can outbid the rest in the rapacity of his demands for agriculture . This is a challenge which must be met . No more than business , labor or any other economic group are the farmers entitled to exploit the national emergency for their own advantage at the expense of the rest of the country . Nor would the overwhelming majority of farmers want anything of the sort . Yet if there are to be continued concessions to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we shall inevitably face soaring costs of living , provoking in turn continued demands for higher wages and thrusting us violently into a spiral of inflation . If this happens , the Congressional farm " leaders " are not the only ones who will hear from home . They will face a wave of popular resentment and indignation that might permanently crush the extraordinary power they have achieved in the national legislature . The sensible representatives of farming areas realize this . It is time for them to call a halt to their reckless colleagues . It is time for the rest of Congress to get some starch in its backbone and refuse further to surrender the interests of its constituents to the rapacity of the farm bloc . It is time for the Administration to stand up , speak out , and refuse further weakkneed surrender to this bullying pressure group . It is time for the country as a whole to become aroused to what is happening . The farm bloc must be put on notice that it can not play fast and loose with the economic stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political aggrandizement . If a price-control bill can not be obtained except at the cost of unlimited concessions to the farm bloc that will destroy the whole purpose of the bill , then we must do without the bill and the farm bloc must bear the responsibility to the country .                     