@@708888

txt Problem Set for Ministers Matter of Sudetenland Suggested for Action by London Council To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The impending departure of Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and his aides to the first session of the Foreign Ministers Council in London , which , according to a dispatch in THE NEw YORK TIMES , will most likely decide a series of important questions in camera , makes it imperative to call the attention to one of the thirty unsolved territorial problems  --  namely , to the question of the Sudetenland . So far this problem has been presented merely from the Czech viewpoint . The reason for this is , of course , the memory of Munich . Tire brutal way in which Hitler forced his decision upon the world , the turbulent weeks that preceded the conference , have tended to obscure the real merits of the case of the Sudetenland . A true picture , showing both sides , should be presented . At present seven million Czechs are engaged in mass expropriations and mass deportations of three and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by President Benes , 175,000 " German " properties , ranging from large factories to small farms and comprising more than six million acres of valuable cultivated land , have been seized without compensation . To give their acts a vestige of justification the Czechs are trying to create abroad the impression that the people involved had come to the country only during the last few years in the wake of the German occupation . Regarded as Germans But the victims of this persecution and their families have been living in the country for centuries . They are Jews and Gentiles alike , since now everybody is considered a " German " who  --  even before Czechoslovakia was constituted  --  went to German-language schools , spoke German at home and in his business and truthfully declared so in the Czech census of 1930 . Thus , fifteen years later people are punished for exercising their constitutional rights , guaranteed by the very peace treaty that created Czechoslovakia . One of the reasons this war has been fought was just to eliminate this kind of persecution on racial grounds as practiced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Czechs ? The ardent Nazis and war criminals among the Sudetens ought to be punished mercilessly . Nobody objects to their deportation as part of their punishment . But the rest of the population ought to be left alone . Opposition to Dr. Benes and his regime does not necessarily qualify a man as a Nazi . Invaded by Czechs It is well to remember that the Sudetens had never wanted to become part of Czechoslovakia . Therefore they could never " betray " her . The Sudetens had been for centuries Austrian citizens . In 1918 , after the Austro-Hungarian Empire had been broken up , they decided to stay with the new Austria . They had already formed a provisional provincial government under a member of the Vienna Parliament from Teplitz , Dr. Rudolph Lodgman , when the Czechs , anticipating the methods used by the Nazis twenty years later , occupied the Sudetenland by armed force , disregarded the freely declared will of the population , silenced their opposition voiced in peaceful mass meetings by rifle fire and incorporated the area within their state . Dr. Benes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fait accompli . Similarly the Czechs are now trying to create a fait accompli by deporting the Sudetens before the victors can catch their breath . So far they have succeeded only partially . At Potsdam it was decided to have the Foreign Ministers Council study the question . Dr. Benes ' Government was told to stop the deportations in the meantime . Winston S. Churchill has declared himself against large-scale deportations . President Truman has repeatedly declared that justice shall be the foundation of the coming peace . Justice demands that the Czechs be prevented from executing their scheme , devised to Ichieve for them the " aggrandizement " 3utlawed by the Atlantic Charter . To get an idea of the numbers involved it should be remembered that there are more Sudetens in the Suletenland that there are Norwegians n Norway , more than there are Gernan-Swiss in Switzerland , and almost Is many as there are Danes in Dennark . The economic importance can best be gauged by the fact that alnost all the goods the American public mows as " Bohemian " or " Czech " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annually the Sudeten pas of Carlsbad , Marienbad , Franzen'ad , Teplitz and St. Joachimsthal , vhere in the mint of Count Sclalick the American " dollar " was born .. In order to achieve their ends ' the Czechs utilize the hatred accumulated a the world against the Germans . Hungarians and Ukrainians . The question of the latter has been solved by Soviet Russia by separating the Carpatho-Ukraine from Czechoslovakia . The same pattern should be followed with regard to the Sudetenland and the purely Hungarian area in southern Slovakia . This solution would leave an estimated 300,000-500,000 Sudetens in Czech districts and an equal number of Czechs in Sudeten districts . These people then should be given the choice of staying where they are without minority rights or being transferred in an orderly fashion , with their properties being exchanged . After the separation the Sudetenland should be given the option of reuniting with Austria , as it wanted to do in 1918 . This would simultaneously solve another problem  --  the economic independence of Austria , which caused such a headache after the last war . Supplementing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new Austria can face the political and economic future without fear . This solution , which takes into account the will of the peoples concerned , would be in the true spirit of the Atlantic Charter and other subsequent declarations . It would forever pacify that region and form a firm basis for a just and lasting peace in Central Europe . H. F. MARCH . New York , Aug. 29 , 1945 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Most Naval Reserve officers are today mulling their peacetime plans . Many are men who were making their mark in industry before defending their country in war . Now , before going back to their business careers , they are thinking of the need of keeping this nation internationally strong . They see the prime need for a dynamic , highcaliber State Department in the years to come . Here are their questions : Is the awaited plan for sincerely revamping the State Department to be effected ? If so , will the modernization be great enough so that competent young reservists who might otherwise become future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department ? Or is the prospect for their talents a fight with bureaucracy , seniority and department-made stone walls . And will personal wealth or a rich wife be prerequisites to opportunity for high success in State ? Mr. Byrnes has a mountain-high day-to-day agenda . But perhaps his basic public obligation is to unshackle the men of great ability already in his department and simultaneously court America 's very best new blood as insurance against future departmental decadence . HALSEY V. BARRETT . Washington , Aug. 29 , 1945 . Apartment Service Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As one goes apartment hunting one learns that invariably , according to the superintendents or agents , some of the tenants in each building are anxious to move either to larger or smaller quarters , to better or cheaper apartments or to different sections of the city . I believe that this situation could be relieved to a great extent if the real estate owners and agents formed a clearing house which would list the wants of each family desirous of making a change and in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. GUCCIONE . New York , Aug. 29 , 1945 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; I wish to protest against the further drafting of teen-age boys into the armed services . The shooting war on all fronts has ceased ; it will certainly not be renewed for some time to come , if ever , and there is no pressing need for youths of 18 to be forced against their will into the armed forces . When the age limit was lowered to 18 , we were told that boys of that age could " take it , " whereas the older-age group could not stand the strain so well . We believed it . The only excuse for drafting those under 21 was that the country was in great danger . That danger has now passed ; neither Japan nor Germany is any longer to be feared ; neither one can even threaten us ; and since the advent of the atomic bomb no one else can either . Let us look to the human side . The manpower emergency no longer exists . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was called upon only in the extreme emergency . This does not prevent them from enlisting if they so desire . CAROLUS T. CLARK . Westfield , N. J. , Aug. 25 , 1945 . British Soldier Likes Us To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK'TIMES : In these days , when so many of the United States armed forces are leaving the British Isles , one reads a good deal in the American press about the hospitality afforded by the British people . One hears in Britain also a good deal of what is described as the " American invasion of the British Isles . " May I take this opportunity of expressing to the American public our pleasure at being able to do a little to help the American boys away from home . The only regret that we have is that the British ration system has been such that we have , after all , been able to offer little but our good wishes and invitations to our homes . I should like also to state that we British service men have not been slow in appreciating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is my sincere hope that the interchange of relations during the past few years between members of our respective countries will go far to unite us in forming a new world of peace and plenty for all . Flight Sgt. STANLEY HALE . British Honduras , Aug. 22 , 1945 . Canada Seems to Hold Record To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' THE TIMES printed an article on Aug. 28 that the Great Lakes cargo record for grain was broken today for the third time in less than a month when the steamer Col. J. M. Schoonmaker , carrying 535,459 bushels of Canadian wheat , docked at the Canadian Pool elevator . The S. S. Lemoyne , owned and op- 1 erated by the Canada Steamship Lines , in 1929 out-turned 571,885 bushels of wheat at Port Colborne , a figure substantiaily in excess of that carried by , the steamer Col. J. M. Schoonmaker . N. J. REOCH , Operating Manager , Canada Steamship Lines . Montreal , P. Q. , Aug. 29 , 1945 . Use of New Blood Advocated Revamping of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE NEW IORK IlMbb ; A few days ago you published a letter under the heading " Use for Alien Funds , " which suggested that Hitler 's assets in this country together with other assets of the kind s:lould be used either for UNRRA or for education of young people all over the world . Such a suggestion , though well-intentioned , fails to recognize the real character of Nazi assets . They are stolen property , and for this reason should first be dedicated to the indemnification of those who have been robbed . The right of restitution of recoverable property has already been recognized by the laws of all countries formerly occupied by the Nazis , including Austria . Those who can not recover their property , without distinction of religion , nationality or residence , have a first claim against the assets of those who acted jointly in the looting and therefore are jointly responsible . To divert these assets to another purpose would mean to deprive these victims of funds destined for the satisfaction of their just claims . E. VON HOFMANNSTHAL . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with interest in the Aug. 28 issue of THE TIMES the following : " Firemen and an ambulance were there , but , as usual , policeman delivered the baby . " The facility with which New York 's " finest " usher these little strangers into this distracted old world should merit a commendation . A really versatile group of men these , who can guide the roaring traffic of Times Square , ride their sleek steeds with the ? clat of a king 's guard , shoot it out with lawbreakers , or kindly and gently launch another life onto the ' great stream of time . In this world where life and death rub shoulders , Gotham should be grateful for such men as the patrolmen who can fit so capably into the intricate pattern of its pulsating life . G. E. APPLEYARD. , Port Jervis , N. Y. , Aug. 28 , 1945 . Continuing Policy of Security and BM of Drafting Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMM:1'f As an advocate for many years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been heartened by the expressions of THE TIMES on this subject . In 338 years which followed the Jamestown settlement , through American colonial history and our history as a republic ; we have been in many wars . It is probably true that in all of them polls would have shown an overwhelming majority of the people favoring adequate preparedness while the war was on . But when each of these wars was over , opposing influences killed any adequate and sustained preparedness program . The same influences , which are already at work , will prevent legislation , now that we are through another war , if the civilian elements who believe in preparedness do not both express themselves and act . The military are largely discounted in peacetime because the claim is made that they represent their own special interest . JAMES M. THOMSON . Gaylord , Va. , Aug. 25 , 1945.                     