@@708361

txt AMERICANS CHARGE OVER RIVER IN BLITZ Barrage , Assault-Boat Crossing of Sauer , Rampant Tanks ? Give Foe Lesson in Power By GENE CURRIVAN By Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . ON HEIGHTS OVER DIEKIRCH , Luxembourg , Jan. 17 ( Delayed ) ? In a pre-dawn attack that made these magnificent Luxembourg valleys reverberate with the crackle and crunch of shot and shell , elements of the United States Fifth Infantry Division crossed the Sauer . River at several points and virtually surrounded Diekirch . Tonight almost all the enveloping high points are ours , and in the town several German suicide squads still are holding out while the main forces are retreat- ' ing to the German border , five Miles away . This picture - postcard town sprawls along the river for more than a mile in a valley setting that probably gave inspiration to countless artists in centuries gone by . It nestles in thesnow-covered valley whose hills were meant by nature to give it sanctuary and protect it from the elements . But it was from these same heights today that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wooded vantage point less than a- quarter of a mile away and well above Diekirch this correspondent watched our infantry and artillery reduce it from a for // midable strong point of yesterday to an isolated German outpost where men were dying so that others could make a get-away . As our shells continued to crash upon the city and explode against the far white hillsides beyond the river it was apparent that Diekirch was in its death threes as a military factor . The German return fire became weaker and weaker and the staccato sound of small-arms fire within the town became more scattered . There did not seem to be much hope that this town would survive the night . This attack was launched in conjunction with another by the Fourth Infantry to east of Diekirch and along a seven-mile front . From long before dawn troops of both divisions crossed the river in assault boats , rafts , and pneumatic reconnaissance craft even before the artillery had tipped off the Germans that an unfriendly act was about to be perpetrated . Gains up to two miles were made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hill half a mile north and silencing harassing artillery there . Just to the northwest of Hosdorf , which is on the German border , the Fourth moved to strategic high ground . As the Fifth 's attack reached its zenith this afternoon , with German artillery firing but weakly from behind the city , engineers were still at work perfecting a bridge . When fire directed their way reached what they considered haltpering proportions they uncorked a few barrels of chemicals and shrouded their work in a blanket of smoke . The Jerries could no longer see them ; so the firing stopped . Although nature worked against the Americans today by grounding planes with bad weather , she compromised by laying an effective ground fog over one of the few hills from which the Germans could obtain artillery observation on one of the main roads leading to Diekirch . It was along this road that one had to travel to reach the hill from which a panoramic view of the battle could be seen . Just as the road enters a winding firflanked valley there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy observation . " It is unfortunate for Diekirch that by its geographic position it blocked one of the strategic valley passes leading to Germany , but the war gave it that status , and today it is paying the price . From many heights around it this morning our troops converged on this Old World objective with a fury that surprised even blitz-conscious Germans . The Americans moved to within striking distance even before the artillery barrage had been unleashed , lest the element of surprise be destroyed prior to the actual siege . When they were ready to charge , long before darkness , artillery smothered the city and all its surrounding countryside with a devastating barrage of thousands of rounds that left the German garrison shaken and bewildered . Some prisoners taken have not yet recovered from this onslaught . Meanwhile combat engineers were at work at several places along the river constructing bridges for units that were to cut off the flanks and occupy high points on the far side . Infantry poured into the city from the east and west , while tanks and heavy caliber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south side of the river and from hidden crevasses in the hills overlooking the town . After the town had been virtually taken , with the exception of several fortified points , and two of its flanking hills on the north side of the river were in our hands , the Germans continued to fire Nebelwerfers ( multiple-barrel mortars ) and other artillery from a point on a height directly behind the city . The guns were well camouflaged in white against the snowy hillside , but each time they fired , their telltale orange and black bursts pinpointed their positions , and it was necessary for them to move their guns or lose them . Our observation was excellent and artillery observers did not need anyone to draw them a diagram after spotting these colorful flashes . But precipitous hills on either side were in our hands , and the only possible observation could come from one directly ahead . This could barely be seen . A front-line point on the toad was a little stone farmhouse , above which was a vantage point whence the Diekrich battle could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass because we had dotted the road with mines . Eastward of the farmhouse , over a sloping field that curved up to the snow-covered hill with green coniferous patches , there were tanks and tank-destroyers hidden in these clumps . All of a Sudden they all opened up at once , as though on the downbeat of a baton . Although the valley was still reverberating with the shock of occasional heavy artillery , this new note , which sounded like a ballistic jam session , had an eerie effect . Because the crisp winter air and the valley walls provided perfect accoustics , the concerted crash of so many guns firing at once seemed greatly exaggerated . It was this terrific barrage that covered the troops entering the town and discouraged a good many Germans who originally intended to remain and fight . On the opposite side of the farm house , but high in the wooded area , were artillery observation men , dug in their foxholes and recording every flash of enemy guns . Two foxholes away was a machine gun nest with First Lieut . Boris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any German patrols that might attempt to mount the hill . A few yards below him were shell crater holes , showing poor German marksmanship . While all this was going on and incoming Jerry shells were adding their bit to the general din , a little old weather-beaten farmer sat in his dingy kitchen-workshop keeping the fire stoked so that he could provide hot water for the boys who occasionally drifted in from foxholes . He appeared oblivious to conditions around him while he kept the 126-liter iron water tank filled to the top . He had seen the Germans pass through on two round trips and even housed a few of them , but now he was content to sit out this particular battle and provide whatever comforts he could for the current road show . Out in his farmyard were a flock of well-fed turkeys and strutting among them but obviously " pulling their rank " were a pair of gorgeous peacocks.                     