@@704703

txt Misconception Is Charged Government Theories of Purchasing Power Called Incorrect To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Taxpayers and consumers will recall that the Senate recently voted agriculture another two billion dollars to recompense it for its annual lack of " purchasing power " under AAA tactics . Under crop-control methods farmers are advised to raise only enough to supply the existing profitable demand . The two billions to be filched this year from the Treasury are supposed to return , like bread cast upon the waters , to industry and all the rest , without which big business would go into bankruptcy . This is why the manufacturer , the storekeeper , banker and baker have grimly countenanced agriculture 's insistent sharing in public funds at their and all Others ' expense . Unfortunately , the Administration 's conception of purchasing power in the cases of both agriculture and organized ' labor is wrong and misguided , as a recent TIMES editorial , " Income Is Production , " clearly showed . Government theorists running the country today believe that high wages and bonus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power . They put the cart before the horse and decree that skilled workers must receive increased hour rates for decreased work weeks in order to spread employment and jobs  --  or purchasing power . In the farmer 's case he is encouraged to raise fewer products for more money , and in addition must receive parity payments to recompense him for crops he might have grown were general purchasing power more active . Unfortunately again , employment has not been increased where wages are too high and exchange of services too curtailed in comparison with the great majority of people . And the national economy has not been benefited by the farmer 's annual two-billion-dollar handout , because this literally unearned money has been taken from the Treasury  --  the taxpayer and consumer  --  without turning it into additional wheat and cotton and beef and milk , so that more people can eat and wear more of these essentials at cheaper prices . In the long run it makes no difference whether farmers or business tycoons spend two billion dollars . What matters is that the farmer grow bigger and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better and cheaper cars , so that in the end every one within reason is producing and purchasing according to his talents . We have been fooling ourselves about purchasing power . Until the industrial worker is convinced that his own security depends on giving more services at wages the consuming public can pay , he is hindering instead of increasing production and consumption . Until the farmer is willing to call off the parity emergency and grow more food for less money , finally realizing that his socalled surpluses are the result of improper and too costly distribution and not lack of demand , the country will never know real production , employment and enjoyment . Your editorial sums it up perfectly , " Our central economic problem is to stimulate  --  and not to embarrass  --  a maximum balanced production . " HELEN S. K. WiLecox . North Norwich , N. Y. , April 29 , 1940 . Printing Inquiry Clarified To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE NEW YORK TIMES of April 28 , under the headline , " Printing Practices Revised by Lehman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State printing contracts submitted to the Governor by Frederick E. Crane , Moreland Act Commissioner , and Bernard Botein , Commissioner Crane 's counsel . The last paragraph of this story states , " Reliable reports at the Capitol have placed the impetus for the triplebarreled inquiry  --  by William B. Herlands , City Commissioner of Investigation ; District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey and Governor Lehman through Commissioner Crane  --  at the door of a leading association of printers who desired to break up the virtual monopoly enjoyed by the Burland and Lyons companies . " Most persons connected with printing would infer that THE TIMES referred to the New York Employing Printers Association , which represents 80 per cent of the printing industry in New York City . The truth is that the " triple-barreled printing inquiry " was undertaken solely because collusive bidding and other irregularities were uncovered by the city and State . The printing investigations would undoubtedly have progressed irrespective of any interest in them by any printing association . The New York Employing Printers Association is cooperating with public officials by encouraging printers who have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus insuring open competition on public business . The activities of the association are not aimed at any particular printers . They are designed to aid the printing industry as a whole and to protect the public . DON H. TAYLOR , Executive Vice President . New York , April 29 , 1940 . Vote of Thanks to the Circus To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Surely I am only one of thousands of midtown citizens who were impressed tonight with the good manners and splendid discipline of the circus horses and the men who rode those horses across town from Madison Square Garden to the East Side to entrain for the next engagement . On second thought , probably most of the sleepers in the area surrounding Fiftieth Street were not even aware of the departure of the horses . Not a raucous sound , not a lifted voice , not a whisper , not a disturbing sound of any kind . Just the rhythmic , quiet beat of horses ' hoofs upon the pavement as the troupe went on its way after 1 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " good nights " mixed with noisy arguments , impatient tooting of horns and drunken humor which night after night disturb the rest and put the nerves of midtown sleepers on edge ! The lack of consideration by many who are out about the city at hours when most citizens must seek rest is noticeable at all times , but on nights when the great hotels and halls have special attractions the departing guests and the taxicab drivers make sleep impossible for many of us . A vote of appreciation to the circus management and to the beautifully mannered animals who tonight made a silent departure with consideration for sleeping citizens . EULA MCCLARY . New York , May 1 , 1940 . The Investment Trust Bill Commissioner Healy of SEC Explains Purpose of " 5 Per Cent Clause "  - -   - -  - To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Timm : In an editorial comment upon the recent speech of Chairman Frank ( in which he expressed his personal proposal for a means of aiding small and medium sized business ) you state that his proposal was inconsistent with the provisions of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrict investment trusts from holding more than 5 per cent of the common stock of a company . As the commissioner in charge of the investment trust study I feel compelled to call to your attention the fact that the proposed legislation ( S. 3580 ) contains no such limitation . Indeed , the bill in no way circumscribes investment policy , but requires only that the policy be announced and adhered to , unless a change is approved by the stockholders . Specifically , the bill does provide that if a company desires to be known as a " diversified investment company " it must , among other things , have at least 85 per cent of the value of its total assets represented by cash , government securities , ' and by " marketable securities of issuers of which it does not own more than 5 per centum of any class of securities outstanding . " If an investment company desires to hold larger blocks of the securities of portfolio companies , it is free to do so . In such event , however , it may not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a " securities finance company . " In other words , the " 5 per cent " clause is inserted only for the purpose of classification and disclosure , a purpose which is , I think , being increasingly recognized as sound . In this connection I call your attention to the recommendations of Arthur H. Bunker on behalf of twenty-five investment companies submitted to the Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee wherein it was suggested that the present subclassification ( of which there are three ) he revised " to provide for only two types of companies perhaps known as diversified investment companies and securities finance or holding companies . " It was further recommended that a " diversified " company he permitted , among other things , to own " not more than 10 per cent of the voting securities of any company . " ROBERT E. HEALY . Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission . Washington , May 1 , 1940 . Taste for Blends Growing To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : L. A. E. wrote THE TIMES his regrets over the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is due to the age of specialization which had been creeping on us for a generation . What few things we take straight today ! Teas , coffees , tobaccos , liquor and countless foods offered are a blend of two or more commodities . So it has been with cheese . They take some old natural cheese and some young natural cheese . The blend obtained by a fixed formula produces a taste that is always uniform . Another formula produces a milder cheese which , too , will possess its original flavor to the end . Still another formula produces a sharpness comparable to the natural cheese of longest ripening . I was surprised to find that in Wisconsin , the largest cheese producer , thousands prefer blended cheese to natural in any state of ripeness . Permit a regret on my own account ? that on the passing of cheese with pie in many of our eating places . HOWARD A. WYMAN . East Orange , N. J. , April 30 , 1940 . For Amortization Payments To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Lewis A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortgages by home owners , alleging that these payments would ordinarily be used for payment of " consumers ' goods . " The shortsightedness of this statement is in the fact that the payment by the banks to builders was first made , which is equivalent to their purchasing the materials used in the construction of these buildings . If amortization payments had been used prior to the advent of the depression , real estate would not have suff ered and mortgage certificates would have maintained some of their value . The great funds in the banks are always available for more of these mortgages , which means builders can continue their expansion program . JOSEPH BERGER . Brooklyn , May 1 , 1940.                     