@@711199

txt President Truman has appointed another nonpolitical figure to his Cabinet , and within a week the newcomer has become , outside of Secrefary of State George C. Marshall , the most influential member of the Administration . He is Paul G. Hoffman , administrator of the Marshall Plan , for which the official United States name is the European Cooperation Administration . Enjoying Cabinet rank , Mr. Hoffman is a new and prime force in the Government for two reasons . One is that his large authority stems not only from the confidence the President imposes in him but ftom Congress , which brought the ECA into being . The second reason is that he brings to the post a personal prestige , a detachment , and an insight into both business and government which make him outstandingly equipped to perform what is very nearly the hardest job in Washington today . Mr. Hoffman is a Republican , and will be greatly in demand to serve in the next Republican Administration if one is elected this fall . But his politics is incidental , indeed irrelevant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nonpolitical figure to fill a nonpolitical position to carry out a completely nonpolitical program . Mr. Hoffman is that kind of man . He has the confidence of Congress . He has the confidence of the President and the Secretary of State . A A A Mr. Hoffman is a new-style businessman who is neither disdainful of government nor awed by government . He knows economic theory and the inner problems of the business cycle as well as production charts and sales graphs . He was the Chairman and moving force behind the Committee for Economic Development , which did more than anything else to help give business leadership an enlightened , progressive , and socially conscious view of its postwar responsibilities . He does n't assume that everything is idyllic about free-enterprise capitalism , but he is convinced that only free-enterprise capitalism has within itself the powers and means to correct its own weaknesses . Few can expound democratic capitalism to Europe better than Mr. Hoffman . This automobile **25;335;TOOLONG , who is as at home in Waghington or ? Chungking or Paris or Brussels as he is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be politically wise , though he is not politically minded . His first action in Washington , after visiting the President , was not to confer with his fellow bureaucrats but to call upon the leading members of Congress of both parties who are most actively and strategically interested in the Marshall Plan and how it is going to be administered . He made it clear that he had n't sought the job , and accepted it only because the congressional leaders and the Administration agreed in wanting him to . I am told that he even got on well with Representative John Taber , who , as the Republican watchdog of Federal spending ; left the impression that he . and Mr. Hoffman should have no trouble on appropriations . ? A A A MrfHoffman approaches his job with a full awareness that the . very core of . European recovery is Germany itself  --  that there can be no adequate recovery in western Europe unless there is recovery in Germany , since Germany is the productive center of the European economy . Here he comes up against the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany must be kept under severe industrial restraint , and runs into the psychological hangover of the " Morgenthau Plan , " which , temporarily adopted by President Roosevelt , aimed to transform Germany into a peasant economy . Obviously , this issue has to be faced clearly and frankly or ' ECA will not be made to work . It is a dual problem , and both sides of the coin have to be seen . German industrial recovery is needed if there is to be a European recovery , and if there is to be a German industrial recovery , then there must be Allied controls ( Franco - British - American ) which will prevent German industrial recovery from becoming German military rearmament . American policy is not yet fully formulated on this issue , and it is likely that Mr. Hoffman will run into forces within the Administration which will want to put lots of different things ahead , of European recovery . He himself sees the prospect of ECA producing at least a 33 per cent increase in the productive level and standard of living of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy are not absolute . But Mr. Hoffman will be a powerful advocate and a hard man to buck . If he runs into Cabinet disagreement , the President has the final say , but Mr. Hoff. man has a potent lever : hi ! prestige is such that Mr. Tru ? man hardly can afford to driv ( him to resignation . ?                     