@@710985

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 22 ? Reports have reached here of serious discussions in industrial circles of voluntary measures to halt inflation , and the capital would not be surprised , if one materializes rather soon . The immediate proposal  --  that an important segment of industry offer- to reduce prices by about &per; cent if its organized labor agrees to seek no general wage increases while the plan is bejng tried ? was under consideration before Congress passed the Taft anti-inflation bill . But it is said the measure has acted as a strong stimulus . If this move were mane contingent on concurrent action throughout industry , the President would have to approve the project , taking counsel with i the Attorney General . That is because the ' anti-trust laws can be invoked against voluntary trade agreements or held consonant with their objective , as the administration may elect . Since the objective would be in the public interest , and not the product of a conspiracy in restraint of trade or competition , the President would not be condoning or overlooking a true violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be just as easy for an Attorney General to give an opinion to the contrary . Already some Democrats in Congress have assailed the Taft bill as a studied device to nullify the Sherman Act and its corollary measures , and this has been a good political war-cry in the past . Also , the Department of Justice has been unusually active of late in filing anti-trust suits against prominent corporations . That may indicate a settled administration policy for the campaign year of 1948 which would make it impossible for industry as a whole to lead this type of battle against inflation regardless of the welcome it might receive from the people . Furthermore , if the proposal of which Washington has heard rumors comes in industry-wide form , organized labor may decline to be a part of it , which would automatically end the effort . Then the only alternative course would be the one-company move , very bold and involving great risk . The Guinea Pig Plan A large producer would announce that for a year he will not increase prices and seek to reduce them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his branch of this par ' ticular industry decided on the policy in the hope and belief that other branches and other industries would follow and that labor would support the plan for a year without seeking more wages except for increased hours reflected in increased production . His company would then take the plunge on its own . No Presidential approval ' would be required and there would be no question of violating any law , however rigidly the statutes might be construed by the administration . This course has been suggested , and there is a report that the President may soon receive an important visitor from one segment of a large industry who will inform him that such a plan is to be announced . But if this should happen , without the proviso that the unions in this industrial segment agree at the same time to forego further wage demands for the same period , Washington would indeed be surprised . With or without this pledge from labor , the movement would , of course , have little effect of itself . It would amount only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to halt rising prices if the example were widely imitated . But there are men of great worldly experience , accustomed to deal with vast organizations and all kinds of people , who believe that the psychological value of this example would be great and would soon create the prevailing policy in labor and industry " if , " as one of these men said , " there is any enlightened spirit of cooperation left in this country and if these leaders have any conception of the national peril . " The Obstacles Economists would be less likely to expect important consequences from either of the moves described above and reported to Washington as under consideration in industrial circles . While economists usually split into many groups over any solution proposed among themselves , they readily unite against that suggested by an outsider who is unfamiliar with their mystical parts of speech . Politicians , even those who might qualify as pragmatic economists ( though the term seems self-contradictory ) , would also see many flaws other than legal in either of the two procedures . They would be quick to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to support the current high prices of farm products , which , to the general citizen , represent the infla1 tion that is troubling him . They would note that every visible trend in union labor leadership is away from cooperation of the type discussed ; that these leaders are permanent captives of the propaganda to their rank-and-file that industry -- can cut prices , raise wages and still earn swollen profits . And many Democrats among these politicians are not as interested in getting prices down as they would be if they did not believe the Republicans will be charged . with responsibility by the voters of 1948 . These factors form a high Obstacle to the wide industrial advance that has been under discussion , or to the flanking movement by one large ' producer only , with the-aid of his organized employes . But one or the other may be seriously explored with the administration . 