@@710699

txt JERUSALEM , Sept. ** League states are so closely integrated into the British economic system and so dependent upon dollar income that their economy would collapse if economic sanctions were seriously undertaken . The Arab League 's secret plan also envisions generous assistance to any Arab uprising in Palestine , but does not contemplate open warfare by the Arab states against Britain or any other power . As a last resort the Arabs of Palestine will surely offer some sort of armed opposition to partition . They are grimly determined , if not yet aroused , and capable of frightening heights of fanaticism . For a long time the Mufti of Jerusalem , Haj Amin el Husseini , and his associates in the Palestine Arab Higher Committee have been openly preaching ultimate rebellion in Palestine . Certain preparations for battle are being made , but no two authorities agree on their precise extent . A uniformed semi-military organization of Arab Youth operates openly , dedicated to the defense of Arab national interests . Its actual effectiveness is discounted even by the Arabs , but it serves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revisionist party , as a recruiting and indoctrination organization for more sinister forces . Guerrilla Force Rumors are heard of a secret force being formed by the Mufti 's agents in the villages of Palestine  --  a defense force of ten armed men in each of 900-odd villages , a potential guerrilla army , most loosely organized but ready to serve as a reserve . A check-up is reported to have been made on young men who have had some military or police training  --  a total of some 30,000 ? who might be employed as a cadre for a national liberation army . The existence of quantities of small arms among the Arabs is apparent . During the first six months of this year the Palestine police reported an average of more than two crimes a day involving the use of firearms by Arabs . Seizures of arms from Arabs during the same period are comparable to those of 1935-36 prior to the longest and most serious of the Palestine Arab uprisings . From neighboring Arab countries , which are pledged to defend the interests of their blood brothers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gun-running . Except in manpower , the fighting potential of all these states is small by the standards of the atomic age . What they speaking , the Zionists have accepted the fundamentals of the United Nations Special Committee 's recommendations for Palestine . The question that now arises is whether the opposition of the second party , the Arabs of Palestine and neighboring countries , will outweigh Zionist approval . The answer to this question will undoubtedly be a factor influencing the attitude of the great Powers who will ultimately decide the fate of Palestine . Newspaper readers are already familiar with the warnings made by practically every artittulate Arab statesman that a decision tp establish a Jewish state in any part of Palestine would entail armed conflict in the Middle East . Colonial servants in Jerusalem this week were pondering the seriousness of that threat and putting their conclusions into writing for the edification of Whitehall . Certainly , there would be no occasion for surprise if fighting did break out in the wake of a decision unsatisfactory to the Arabs . Everyone in a responsible position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expects the Arabs to fight to the last niplomatic ditch to prevent the implementation of the United Nations committee proposals for partitioning the country into Jewish and Arab states . The Arab states are sending their most forceful personalities to the United Nations General Assembly session at which the report will be considered . Economic Sanctionn : Seen If routed at Flushing Meadows the Arabs will exert every pressure they dare employ to prevent Britain and the United States , the powers they consider primarily responsible for Palestine policy , from giving effect to the Assembly 's recommendations . Plans for political and economic sanctions against Britain and the United States have been reposing for more than a year in a secret file of the Arab League . These plans call for a meeting of the Arab leaders to consider breaking diplomatic relations with Britain and the United States in case of an unfavorable decision by the United Nations . The severance of commercial relations would also be proposed  --  meaning particularly the stoppage of British and American oil supplies from the Arab states . The latter prospect does not unduly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are promising is not an invasion of Palestine against its foreign occupants but undercover aid for a people 's uprising . All these rumors  --  and they are admittedly rumors  --  do not add up to a major war effort in any sense . Jewish Agency officials whose business it is to keep watch on the Arabs simply do not believe that a full-scale revolt in Palestine is possible . Consequences Weighed Zionist spokesmen have often said that Palestine 's Jews alone could deal with the Arabs . If the 100,000 British troops in this country , which include about two and a half combat divisions , were used with uncompromising firmness , the Zionists contend that the British could readily suppress any Arab revolt . However , the question is not who would win the war but whether it should be started at all and what its consequences might be to international amity and peace . It is practically positive that Britain will not go to war with the Arabs ? perhaps not even with the sanction of the United Nations and assistance from other powers .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        