@@710283

txt WASHINGTON , March ** Have Barred Efforts several fronts there was evidence this week-end of a determination to do something positive against communism . Today the President issued his sweeping executive order designed to insure the loyalty of employes in the executive branch of the Government . At the same time Congress was preparing to seek a way to outlaw the Communist party , an endeavor beset by many Constitutional difficulties . The House Un-American Activities Committee will open hearings on this difficult project on Monday . The growing opposition to MarxIan politics was emphasized by the Supreme Court 's attitude this week in a case concerning a Government employe . Returns on Poll sect Little In The Nashville Tennessean To Outlaw Party " IT SPREADS " and the German American Bund to register . Even in the war year of 1942 his effort failed as the cry of attainder was raised in the House . The Constitutional obstacles to bills directed at mere membership in the Communist party appeared most imposing , and in fact insuperable , to an official who held a key position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court This same official stressed that it was not a crime for anyone to be disloyal . A man may get urt in Union Square , he said , and say that " I 'd like to see the Russians come over here and knock us out " ; or " I 'd like to see the Communist way of life roll over us . " He could do that with impunity , and he would not be violating any law . But the same man , as Justice Holmes once said , could be jailed for shouting " fire ! " in a crowded theatre . Justice Holmes ' doctrine of " proximity and degree " was recalled . Attorney General Palmer feared that the Communist party might merely change its name and go under cover . It was recalled by officials trying to cope with the problem of subversion that former Representative Martin Dies tried to amend the Foreign Agents Registry Act to compel the Communist party Indicative of rising public sentiment is this week 's Gallup poll report that 52 per cent of the American people believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective of the bills to be considezed by the House committee is doomed to failure , in the opinion of qualified experts on American civil liberties . Past efforts to destroy the Communist party have crashed on the solid judicial rock called " attainder . " The Supreme Court has jealously guarded against bills of attainder , which threatened to kill civil liberties . During the war , when critical secrets were at stake , the high tribunal stood firm on this precious doctrine , and it is deemed unlikely that it will budge even during the uneasy peace . Significant is the position of a majority of members of the UnAmerican Activities Committee . According to reliable reports , they do not think that the Communist party should be outlawed . They are understood to believe that even if it were legal , such action would merely drive communism underground . Thus the problem of dealing with subversion would be made even more difficult . Bills Considered The committee has before it one bill to proscribe the party entirely and another to curb Communist activities . Another outlawry bill has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of New Jersey , After considering the problem for more than a week , however , with the aid of legal and legislative experts , Mr. Hartley said today that he frankly did not know how to approach his objective . He , too , pursued a militant policy in prosecuting alien radicals after World War I. In that period Justice Holmes ruled that in cases of freedom of speech , of the press and of assembly there must be a showing of " clear and present danger to bring about the evils interdicted by the ( sedition ) statute . " His doctrine is still valid in the courts . In essence , officials say , you may prosecute a man for an overt criminal act , but not merely because he is a member of a particular kind of organization . Even when the organization is the American Commiinist party and its aim , as many officials and members of Congress are convinced , is to overthrow the American form of Government , many obstacles to its outlawry or prosecution remain . Determination to Act Nevertheless , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to somehow destroy or curtail the American Communist movement . As far as disloyal employes are concerned , officials were considerably heartened this ' week by the Supreme Court 's tacit approval-of the Circuit Court of Appeals doctrine in the Morton Friedman case . ? It was held that a Federal employe may be discharged for holding Communist sympathies . The ruling is expected to hasten the removal of Communists and their fellow travelers from the public payrolls . The Friedman easels regarded as particularly far-reaching because it was not alleged that Mr. Friedman , ousted from his job in the War Manpower Commission , was a Communist . It was deemed sufficient that he was a member of an alleged Communist-front organization , the American Peace Mobilization . Legislative Approach As for the legislative approach , it is believed that the movement to outlaw the Communist party , as the difficulties become apparent , will turn toward a tightening of present espionage and security statutes . This is said to be the feeling of is majority of the House Un-American Committee as it begins its first effort to draft any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing committee last year did this group win the right to consider measures . The country 's top crime fighters , Attorney General Tom lark and Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , are expected to recommend an overhauling of existing laws when they appear before the committee next week .                     