@@708990

txt A century from now historians will reflect that they would give all their earthly possessions  --  let alone anything they could borrow ? to have been present at yesterday 's first attack on the problem of the atomic bomb  --  and what to do about it ? by a Congressional committee . For this was the first face-to-face glimpse by a regular and established Congressional agency with the new , revolutionary thing that has altered the world . Members of Congress , who know how to carry an election district and all the tricks of public debate , looked down from their seats in baffled concern on the physicists and chemists who were testifying in the well of the hearing room of the House Military Affairs Committee . Air of Uncertainty They looked like a group of elderly and stay-at-home gentlemen who had by some untoward experience , and by no desire of their own , been brought to the summit of a tall cliff and were peering over a precipice . They looked reluctantly . All they had to do was to build a bridge somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep valley beneath . There was no doubt of the mood . Thire was an air of urvertainty , of urgency , of bewilderment , of an anxious attempt to erect a scaffolding that might somehow bridge the clumsy parliamentary procedure of the present with the atomic world of the future . In fact , there was a mixture of deep drama with high comedy . The Committee hearing room is an intimate place . The committeemen sit in a horseshoe on an elevated platform looking down in normal complacency on the witness below them , in the well of the chamber , and the reporters and spectators behind . On one side of genial Chairman Andrew J. May ( D ) of Kentucky extends the line of 16 Democrats , on his other side the phalanx of 13 Republicans . Among the middle-aged politicians who compose the Committee is the one unusual figure , that of the lovely blonde-haired Clare Boothe Luce , Congresswoman of Connecticut , who , in such a setting often seems an orchid in a parsley bowl . From their semicircle of chairs and desks the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' men , baby-kissers and table thumpers , and down below them sat the men of natural science and the men of war  --  not one of whom could carry a precinct or would care to : Dr. Vannevar Bush of the Office of Scientific Research and Development ) . James B. Conant , chemist and President of Harvard University ; Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves , head of the " Manhattan Project " ; Robert P. Patterson , Secretary of War . All that the scientists asked  --  and they asked it calmly and confidently as of men having a right to what they asked  --  was a brand new nine-man " atomic energy commission " ? which would have more power and potential independence than any other peacetime federal Agency ever established in American history . Committee With Power It would have full control of atomic energy . It would have the power to take patents , sequester processes , confiscate property , seize whole areas to secure necessary supplies of two ores , uranium , and thorium . It would employ tens of thousands of men for mysteri @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget , but its procedure would be secret and its Ilecounting only partial . It would make reports to Congress , but expurgated reports : its only real revelation the he to ' he Presi- dent of the United States . This commission would take over the going concern of atomic energy that has already cost the United States over $2,000.000,000 and won a war , and pick it up from there . It would be as unprecedented as anything in the course of history ? as unprecedented , in fact , as the atomic bomb . The politicians shifted and stirred uneasily , asked worried questions . demanded scientific facts which they obviously failed to understand , glanced covertly at each other . Chairman May repeatedly intervened to rush matters and kept insisting , unnecessarily , as it seemed , that no " secrets " be divulged , though often he intervened over items which have long since been published . Yet he gave an appropriate background of mystery and uncertainty to the whole affair . A New World Some Congressmen reverted to type in their juxtaposition with the brand-new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned the excessive cost of it all , some ominously pointed out the danger to the " free enterprise system " of governmental control , some demanded if this meant a lot of new TVA's. or the " seizure of the oil industry " ? To all this the men in the well of the chamber , the chetnists and physicists , patiently pointed out that this , indeed was a new world : that the abyss was there , whether it was terrifying or not . Occasionally it almost seemed as though the witnesses were purposely discomfiting the Politicians . Thus Dr. Bush casually observed the dangers of permitting unlicensed experimentation with atomic energy . Some well-meaning experimenter un in an attic , he remarked , might " sterilize all the passers-by . " " You mean ? ? " said the chairman . " Exactly , " said Dr. Bush . Dr. Conant later lightly mentioned the hazard of an " experi-                     