@@711812

txt Standing with a bare head beneath a bright , cloudless winter sky , Harry S. Truman took the oath of office as President of the United States in one of the most impressive inaugurals in the na7 tion 's history . Thousands thronged the wide east plaza before the national Capitol and millions more stood by radios and television across the land when Mr , Truman appeared with Vice-President Alben W. Barkley for the swearing-in cerembnies . A prayerful mood marked the solemn ceremony , now hoary with tradition , as President Truman swore to support and defend the Constitution " against all enemies foreign and domestic " and to " bear true faith and allegiance " to it . At the ceremony itself  --  apart from other festivities  --  the crowd was peculiarly undemonstrative as though sensing the solemnity of the occasion . The marine band , wearing long olive-drab great coats against the wind 's clear , sharp edge , struck up the traditional , " Hail to the Chief " as the President entered the huge white temporary stands from the Capitol rotunda . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little cheering as the ceremony got under way . Mr. Barkley was the first to take the oath , repeating after Associate Justice Stanley Reed , the moving words of the oath which every federal servant sweats to . Members of the Supreme Court appeared in the impressive dark robes of their high judicial office . Mr , Justice Reed was the first to congratulate Mr. Barkley when the new vice-president had kissed the Bible . President Truman then clasped Mr. Barkley 's hand warmly , Blessing Invoked Rabbi Samuel Thurman of St. Louis asked the " God of all nations " to invoke his divine blessing on President Truman , " a son of the people , champion of social justice , and civil righteousness . " Marine sentries paced the balustrated wings of the Capitol like sentries manning the ramparts of a lofty fortress where the sun glinted from their burnished trappings . A flourish of trumpets brought a hush over the crowd . The crowd leaned forward , sensing the big moment had arrived in the life of a one-time Missouri farm boy . Leslie Biffile , Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silk hat , just as a United States senator named Stephen A. Douglas had reached to hold Abraham Lincoln 's hat here in this hallowed setting nearly a century before . Truman Voice Clear Pulling off his black silk skull cap , the chief justice asked Mr. Truman to repeat the oath after him . As the words . " so help me God , " rang out , the President bent and kissed the Bible held open to the Beatitudes . Again the band sounded off with flourishes as the President began his inaugural address . " Mr. Vice-President , Mr. Chief Justice , my fellow citizens ? , " Mr. Truman 's voice rang out sharp and clear . A battery of television and movie cameras stared into the rostrum from a forest of steel stilts midway over the sea of faces directly in front of the classical columns in the wooden , white-painted inaugural platform . Familiar faces flanked the microphones on the official platform . Senators and former senators mingled on the ' President 's left and Representatives thronged the space on the House side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of Florida loomed up conspicuously in his tall silk hat . Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr . ( R ) , of Massachusetts , young , eager , animated , stood next to Senator Pepper ; then Senator Margaret Smith ( R ) of Maine , with her white hair glistening , and Senator Owen Brewster ( R ) , the senior senator from Maine . Next to them a wan , swarthy little man wearing a five-gallon hat peered out intently from the folds of an old olive-drab army blanket . This was the senior senator from New Mexico , Dennis Chavez . Immediately after the inaugural address , the President was Mr. Biifie 's luncheon guest in the Senate secretary 's office . Then , a man with a get-up like a palace guard dropped a silver baton on the crowded concourse and the Truman inauguration turned into a Roman holiday . Parade Starts A band soundksd off as the President settled himself with the vice-president in a big top-down convertible sedan . One by one , more bands crashed into stirring march tunes . The show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the presidential car carrying a blue and gold standard , second in line . Then came machines carrying Mrs. Truman and the daughters of the nation 's first and second families ,                     