@@708082

txt Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet , announced tonight that Gen. Douglas will command the campaign to reconquer the Philippines , in a message sent here to the national convention of the American Legion . Admiral Nimitz 's message was the first indication that General , who left the Philippines early in 1942 when the Japanese overran the islands , would have sole command of the reconquest . The Navy 's task , Admiral Nimitz said , will be to protect and support this campaign . Earlier today Gen. George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff , warned against international " bickering " over the United Nations post-war policies that might delay victory , while announcing that sixty combat divisions with supporting forces are overseas and that eight more divisions will sail this month . Gen. Henry H. Arnold , head of the Army Air Forces , appearing personally at the legion 's dinner tonight , asked that American air power be maintained superior to keep America " first in the air " after the war . Admiral Nimitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner , said that the seizure of Palau , 600 miles east of the Philippines , would isolate the Japanese in the Carolines and make their base at Truk " next to useless . " It would also provide , he added , a base " from which to strangle communications between Japan proper and Japan 's conquered territories in New Guinea and the Dutch East Indies . " " When Palau falls , " he continued , " we will have a base from which to cover and support General 's Philippines campaign . " Admiral Nimitz again , as in previous statements , cautioned the United States against overoptimism . We have no room for this , he said , although - the Japs have no room for optimism . " He emphasized that the Japanese defenses become tougher as the campaign progresses nearer the heart of the empire , and that our own lines of communication grow longer . " We have yet to come to grips with the main bodies of the welltrained Japanese armies , " Admiral Nimitz continued , adding that the Japanese Navy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He also cautioned the Legionaires that victory in Europe " will I not immediately provide us with all the means quickly to overthrow 1Japan . " General Marshall said in his address that " bickering over post-war Tights should not be permitted to delay the armistice or sully the victory . " " Bickering over post-war rights , " he said , " should not be permitted to delay the armistice or sully the victory . Let 's finish this terrible business as a great team the greatest the world has ever known , and then resolve the conflicting peace-time interests of our countries with something of the orderly procedure which has enabled us to compose our military differences in the much more difficult business of conducting a global war . " In voicing this warning , General Marshall revealed that the United States had sixty combat divisions overseas , and more than 2,155,000 other soldiers in service units supporting these fighting troops . Eight more divisions will embark for the fighting fronts this month , he added . General Marshall was introduced by Warren H. Atherton , national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Staff as " the captain of the backfield . " It was the first of three days of meetings at which the Legionnaires are expected to act on numerous resolutions , including one endorsing universal selective service for young men in the post-war years , and to outline views of the organization on many post-war problems , particularly the place of the veteran of the Second World War when he returns . The routine of the convention was all but lost in a parade of distinguished speakers and messages from persons directing the war in its several zones and phases . In addition to the military speakers and those who sent messages , the convention also heard Senator Truman of Missouri and Governor Bricker of Ohio , Vice Presidential candidates , respectively , of the Democratic and Republican message expressing regret that he could not accept an Invitation to attend the convention , complimented the Legion on its " vision and broad liberality . " General Eisenhower , the Allied ' Commander in Chief in Europe , and Admiral Nimitz , head of the Pacific Fleet , also sent greetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , flew here from Quebec to accept the Legion 's highest honor  --  its Distinguished Service Medal  --  for his leadership in building the air power of the United States . Speaking tonight at a dinner by the Legion General Arnold said that " we are all thinking now of re-employment upon defeat of Germany , " and warned that the Pacific war will be quite different from the European war and will require the services of many men now fighting in and over Europe . Relative to post-war problems , General Arnold said that our future security requires our citizen reserve " be trained in advance and ready to go when it is needed . " " Everything possible should be done , " he added , " to build up a healthy , progressive aircraft industry  --  one that will keep our aviation development second to none . Inevitable destruction faces nations that do not have adequate air power . " Delegates to the opening session of the convention in the Coliseum were formally greeted by Governor Dwight Green of Illinois and by Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not speak were four major generals ; A. D. Sillies , chief of the Bureau of Public Relations ; Lewis B. Hershey , director of the Selective Service Administration ; James Ulio , the Adjutant General , and J. N. Dalton , director of personnel of the Army Service Forces .                     