@@708146

txt With tally clerks still trying to Patch up with returns at 2:30 A. M. today , the indication was that New York City had failed by a fairly wide margin to match the record-breaking registration of 3,390,460 rolled up in 1940 , the last Presidential election year . On the basis of returns from thirty-nine of the sixty-seven Assembly districts in the city it seemed likely that the city-wide figure for registration week this year would not exceed 3,100,000 . The only complete borough return was from Richmond , which reported a registration of 71,272 , against 79,823 in 1940 . With ten to twelve Assembly Districts complete in Queens , registration there totaled 604,989 . The complete figure for 1940 was 634 , - 022 . Queens set the pace for the city in registration this year . Because the morning rain stopped before noon it had been hoped the city might equal or top 1940 registration . This drop in civilian registration seems certain , however , to be offset by the soldier vote . The State War Ballot Commission disclosed yesterday that 170,000 war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the armed services . 10,000 " GI " Votes a Day The commission 's tables also revealed that executed war ballots from city service men are being returned currently at the rate of 10.000 a day . The deadline for the return of soldier votes is Nov. 3 , still nineteen days away . This would seem to assure the fact that , despite the expected drop in civilian enrollment , the city will cast its greatst vote in history this fall . Meanwhile , the New York County organization of the American Labor party sent a telegram to Governor Dewey petitioning him to convene a special session of the State Legislature immediately to establish an additional period for the registration of voters . It also asked that voting hours on election day be enlarged " so that the breakdown of the election machinery which occurred during the past week will not be duplicated . " The telegram , signed by Vito Marcantonio , county chairman , and Eugene P. Connolly , secretary , follows : " Every observer agrees that insufficient time permitted for registration and inadequate facilities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been disenfranchised from their most precious American right through no fault of their own . " You have professed yourself as being in favor of giving every citizen his rightful opportunity to vote . The acid test of your sincerity is whether you will back up your words with action . " We call upon you to convene a special session of the Legislature immediately to establish an additional period for registration of voters . We also ask that the hours of voting on election day be lengthened so that the breakdown of the election machinery which occurred during the past week will not be duplicated on election day . " With a total of only 2,419,861 registered during the first five days ending Friday , the final-day enrollment in the city started slowly as the doors of registration places were opened during a heavy downpour at 7 A. M. Even when rain stopped falling soon after 10 A. M. , the expected crowds failed to come because the skies remained I overcast , with an almost constant I threat of rain . With the sun breaking through in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Soon there were sizable crowds at most of the polling places and the lines grew as the day progressed . Most of the " bugs " that had held up registration earlier in the week had been eliminated by yesterday . New clerks at the polling places had familiarized themselves with the routine and lines kept moving at a good clip . Many voters had learned from neighbors who already had registered where the proper polling places were located . Incidents were few at the polls . In one case , Supreme Court Justice Louis A. Valente signed an order directing the registration board of the First Assembly District of Manhattan to register a first voter who did not produce his naturalization papers . The voter , Philip Alexander of 17 Park Avenue , was registered subject to challenge after lie swore to his citizenship .                     