@@712321

txt A comparison of wage rates , showing public transit lines pay more than privately owned systems , appears on page 4 . Mayor Kennelly , indicating disapproval of a proposal that Chicago transit authority fares be raised 2 to 5 cents , suggested yesterday that the rate structure be analyzed and that the entire setup of the CTA be examined by the state legislature in the light of experience . The proposals for fare increases , which aroused a storm of protest from riders . were made to the CTA board Thirsday in a report by Walter J. McCarter , the authority 's general manager . He advocated that basic surface line fares be boosted from 13 to 15 cents and the basic fares for elevated , subway , and express buses be increased from 15 to 20 cents . The board will consider the rec.ommendations next Wednesday . " 1 urge the transit board not to raise the fares until they 've had a complete public hearing and complete analysis of McCarter 's recommendations , " Kennelly said . " I 'm sure they would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyway . Sees Mileage Difference " I 'm not in entire agreement with the principle that the way to increase earnings is to raise prices . Many good merchants re-i duce prices to secure volume . I think the whole rate structure of ; the CTA ought to be analyzed , forl it does not seem right to be able to ride 25 miles for the same price ! you ride one or two.lf they have n't ) made a study of this it should be I made . " I think a proper committee of the city council ought to analyze this report . It should get figures as to the savings In dollars that , have been effected since the formation of this authority , " If this theory is followed out , with a decrease in the volume of business , there is no ceiling on the rates . " It might be that the whole setup of the CTA should be examined by the state legislature to see whether , in view of experience , it is the proper one . " Praises Ralph Budd The mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Burlington railroad , has taken the Job as CTA chairman " because he really knows transportation . " " Should the city council , " the mayor was asked , " have some Jurisdiction over the CTAl " " Absolutely not , " he replied . " Should the CTA have some taxing power to permit more flexpile rate structure ) " " No , " Kennelly replied . " The taxing power is used in New York City but I hope It wo n't be used here . " Sees No Heason For Boost Asked to elaborate on his proposal that the legislature examine the entire CTA setup , Kennelly said , " I do n't see why , when such and such a thing happens , you shouldshave a raise in rates . " Then Kennelly noted that the law specifies the exact amounts the CTA must set aside for such purposes as depreciation and interest and that " when there is a rjse in any of the costs there is ' no alternative except raising rates . " He said there might be some way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more leeway in fixing rates . Young To Act Aid . Young ( 46th ) , Chairman of the council local transportation committee , said . he would summon his committee soon to consider the proposed fare increases , despite the fact that the city government has no direct control over CTA . The rate proposals by McCarter came a day after wage increases were announced for CTA employes to coat about 4 1/2 million dollars in the contract year to end next June 1 . Motormen , conductors , and bus drivers are being given 5 cents an hour increase retroactive to last June 1 , with another 5 cents to be added Dec. 1 . Others of the 22,000 CTA employes are to get proportionate boosts . Under McCarter 's proposals , which would give Chicago the highest transit fares in the nation , the cost would be 20 cents for a ride involving transfer between surface and rapid transit lines . The fare to all suburbs served by the elevated would be 20 cents . The fare for children - and students would be boosted from 6 to 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering the authority 's operations for the first seven months of 1949 . They showed wages constituted 68.6 per cent of operating costs and that the CTA net loss for the period was $1,012,821 , Meanwhile Joseph Kehoe , president of division 241 of the AFL Amalgamated Association of Street , Electric Hallway , and Motor Coach Employes union , said union negotiators representing the CTA motormen , conductors , and bus drivers had been assured the CTA will grant their fringe demands for three weeks vacation after 15 years service , instead of 20 years , and a guaranteed 40 hour work week for extra men whenever they are called out . At Thursday 's meeting the CTA board authorized McCarter to negotiate with thd-union on the fringe issues . It was estimated that 1,200 men would benefit by the a change in vacation pay , with a cost to the CTA of about $75,000 a year . No ? estimate was available as to the cost of guaranteeing the 40 hour work week for extra men . 2,000 Extras On Call Kehoe said about 2,000 extra men are on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' barns , notified they were not needed , and sent home without Day . Under the guaranteed 40 hour work week , he said , the CTA bosses are expected to be certain that a man will be needed before calling him out . " I think it is completely out of line to arouse public sentiment against this proposed fare increase , " Kehoe said . " The CTA is entitled to a return on its money the same as any other enterprise . I do n't know much about CTA 's financial affairs , but if this fare increase would enable CTA to provide better equipment and service then it would be to the benefit of the general . pubLc . " Kehoe said he thought the wage increase granted to the CTA workers was fair . He declined to say whether wage increases would be sought ' again next June , observing that " nobody knows what economic conditions will be at that time . " 