@@710883

txt Ry CHARLES GRUTZNER A down-the-bay salute , a parade up Broadway and a City Hall welcome were given yesterday by New York to the world 's lcurrent champion  --  food for the hungry mouths of Europe . Eight trucks laden with food rolled ' - behind blaring bands from Bowling Green to City Hall at noon along the route of earlier parades of Channel swimmers , royalty and war heroes . Their cargoes were a token of the donations of the people of this city to the Friendship Food Train , which ended its transcontinental run here yesterday . In the morning , thirty-three box cars from the 214-car train were borne on two railroad floats in a marine procession with fireboats and police launches past the Statue of Liberty . At the City Hall exercises , Warren R. Austin , United States permanent delegate to the United Nations , described the mission of the train as " peace-mongering . " He said the two-hundred-odd carloads of food gathered by the train as individual gifts would be followed , by " thousands of carloads as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who formally conveyed the contents of the train to Mr. Austin , said they were " a material symbol of the desire of our people- to relieve the hunger and suffering of our fellow humans in Italy and France . " Drew Pearson , " father " of the Friendship Train , predicted that New York 's contributions , still being made at schools , police stations and fire houses , would amount to thirty to forty carloads . He estimated . that this , and food sent to New York by truck arid // plane , would bring total collections to 270 cars . Arrangements have been made by the French and Italian governments , Mr. Pearson said , for the I assembling in Europe of two Friendship Trains to take the food to communities in France and Italy . The food will be carried to i Europe without charge by shipping companies . The Friendship Train , which left Los Angeles eleven days ago with twelve cars of food , reached this ' port in four sections after adding cars of food at dozens of stops . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its yards at Weehawken and one of twenty-eight cars into the West Side yards at Sixty-second Street . The Pennsylvania Railroad brought seventythree cars yesterday into its Greenville yards at Jersey City , where its first section had pulled in with twenty-six cars Sunday night . Twenty-two cars of wheat had been dropped off at Philadelphia for milling into flour . The Pennsylvania Railroad loaded eighteen cars aboard a float yesterday morning . A New York Central float had fifteen cars . Each float had three of the original Los Angeles boxcars , painted blue , white and yellow and bearing slogans such as " Vive la France , " " Viva l'Italia , " and " From the Heart of the American People . " Some boxcars had French and Italian flags painted on their sides . The floats flew the flags of the United States , France and Italy . Railroad officials ran into temporary difficulty getting Italian flags . The flag dealer who usually supplies them said there had Seen no call for Italian flags since before the war . All those in his stock still had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The royal insignia were hurriedly removed to make the flags representative of the new republic of Italy . Off Bedloes Island the floats picked up an honor escort of four police launches and the fireboats William J. Gaynor and Fire Fighter . As the procession went past the Statue of Liberty the Fire Fighter shot fountains from eight nozzles 100 feet into the air and the Gaynor let go with seven streams . The refracted sunlight turned the mushrooms of water and spray into rainbow colors . The whistles of harbor craft joined the salute and there were flurries of torn paper from tall buildings facing the bay as the maritime parade neared the Battery . The confetti of office stationery was heavier , after 11:30 A. M. , when the second parade ? trucks , bands , marchers and offi ' cial cars  --  started up Broadway . Assistant Chief Inspector Frank Fristensky Jr. , in charge of police arrangements , said that 100,000 persons lined lower Broadway for the parade and 25,000 witnessed the ceremony in front of City Hall . The bands of the Police , Fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Girl Scouts and persons of French and Italian extraction in national costume . Several thousand children , excused from school , formed a cheering section on Broadway and others had seats at the City Hall exercises . Grover A. Whalen , chairman ' of the Mayor 's welcoming committee , who presided at the ceremony , was cheered by the youngsters when he said they were an important part of the show because of their gifts in the schools . Twenty children , many of them in costume , presented token packages of essential foods to Mayor O'Dwyer . Three of the children made presentation speeches . Deborah Sussman of Midwood High School , Brooklyn , spoke French ; David Pitcher , another Midwood student , spoke English , and Mary Louise Coscia of Sacred Heart School , spoke Italian . In a shortwave broadcast from France , the crowd at City Hall heard a French child express thanks for America 's food gifts . The French Consul General here , Ludovic Chancel , told the gathering that " France shall never . forget the generous nation who came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian Consul General , Luigi Nardi , and Signora Alberto Tarchiano , wife of the Italian Ambassador , also spoke expressing thanks . Signora Tarchiano had ridden with one section of the food train from Chicago to this city . Mr. Austin declared that the Friendship Train , arriving here in the closing weeks of the United Nations General Assembly , brought " a message of hope and confidence to the delegations before they leave for their homelands . " He said the spontaneous outpouring of brotherly sentiment by so many Americans assured the people of Europe " that Americans understand and are prepared to act in the future as they have in the past . " He said the many gifts to the Friendship Train " should leave no doubt that the policy of the Government is the policy of the people . " " The hundreds of thousands carloads of food which have gone through this port since the war were no less characterized by the spirit of friendship , " said Mr. Austin . " But the cars of the Friendship Train have brought the personal touch and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if helping people to help themselves . " Mr. Austin said that the Friendship Train had done " in a dramatic way , exactly what the General Assembly in a recent unanimously adopted resolution requested all members of the United Nations to do . " " This , " said the nation 's delegate , " is one of the most appropriate steps ' ? to use a phrase from that resolution  --  to promote friendly relations among nations and to encourage the dissemination of all information designed to give expression to the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace . ' " City Markets Commissioner Eugene G. Schultz will direct the transfer of donations from the schools and i.re and police houses to Pier 42 , North River , where the city 's gifts will await shipment to Europe .                     