@@709471

txt Voluntary brownouts were continued last night in New York and New Jersey as fuel conservation measures , but officials were hopeful that the need for them would be short-lived in view of John L. Lewis ' offer of a strike truce issued on behalf of the United Mine Workers in Washington . Charles P. Gross , chairman of the Board of Transportation , indicated that the cut of 10 per cent in rush hour and 35 per cent in non-rush hour rapid transit service scheduled to take effect next Wednesday would be canceled if mine operations resumed Monday . Acceptance by mine operators of Mr. Lewis ' truce terms appeared to mean that the reduction in service had been averted for the present at least . Mayor O'Dwyer announced at City Hall that he was withdrawing his request for declaration of a state of " imminent peril " which the Board of Health was to consider Monday , but said he would not call off the voluntary brownout until he had definite word from the Civilian Production Administration as to the amount of coal the city will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . Walter E. Edge and the New Jersey Board of Public Utility Commissioners adopted a similar attitude with respect to lifting the " state of emergency " in effect there . Noting that it will require ten days to two weeks after resumption of mining to replace present stocks , the Governor said that " only good will ensue if dim- out and other voluntary measures remain in effect . " The New Jersey Governor also recalled that the more stringent conservation measures embraced in emergency regulations of the Public Utility Commission do not go into effect until 12:01 A. M. Monday . The PUC is meeting Monday to consider changes in the light of new developments . Railroads serving the New York area which had put into effect the freight embargo and a 25 per cent cut in passenger mileage on coalpowered lines were waiting last night for instructions from the Office of Defense Transportation in Washington before announcing any further change in plans or schedules . There was hope that the additional 25 per cent cut in passenger car mileage on coal-burning lines , scheduled to go into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite word had been received and the roads went ahead with plans to achieve the reduction . The cut in passenger mileage went into effect yesterday with virtually no confusion although it inconvenienced some commuters , particularly in New Jersey . An incidental effect was to delay mail deliveries in Elizabeth and near-by points for two and a half hours due to elimination of an early morning mail train . Mayor O'Dwyer said he would make a check on available fuel supplies before reaching any decision on lifting the voluntary brownout . " I do n't like brownouts and I do n't like to interfere with business unless it 's necessary , " he commented . The Mayor reported that compliance with his voluntary brownout request had been very good . Times Square Darkened Times Square was darker last night than it has been since its lights darkened under another coal conservation order about sixteen months ago . All the spectaculars  --  the brilliant electric signs  --  were off and even the painted signs that usually have night illumination receded in nocturnal shadow . The greater signs  --  Rem , Four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMES running news bulletins , Toffenetti 's , the great theatre displays ? were switched off . All the shops , restaurants , bars , theatres and doughnut shops in the square proper confined their night lighting to window illumination , with two exceptions  --  the Astor Hotel and a clothing shop above Toffenetti 's . These displayed the only lighted signs in the square above shop level . Theatres used only under-marquee lights . The only painted sign with illumination above shop level was a meat sign in Broadway just above Forty-seventh Street , and this uses only nine sets of hooded lights . Side streets off the square , east and west , on the other hand , kept their outside display signs going full glow , with the blocks east of the square the worst offenders . Dr. Israel Weinstein , Acting Health Commissioner , joined with the Mayor in requesting continuation of voluntary conservation measures . Commenting on Mr. Lewis 's strike truce offer yesterday afternoon , he said : " I am , of course , delighted at this good news . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the meantime I urge everyone in New York to conserve coal and power that comes from coal . This truce is for two weeks only ; beyond that lies uncertainty . " Asked the effect of the Lewis offer on subway curtailment plans , Mr. Gross said : " If ? it . means that . the subway system will get coal , then the order for reduced subway service on May 15 will be suspended for as long as the Board of Transportation can be assured that it will get fuel for its powerhouses . " Mayor O'Dwyer indicated that he would have an announcement to make sometime today on the future of the voluntary brownout . Sees Small Plants Closing Before Mr. Lewis had made his announcement , Herbert Pfaff , regional representative of the Solid Fuels Administration , predicted that continuation of the strike would force the closing of half the small manufacturing plants in the New York-New Jersey area . It might also affect some buildings in New York which use coal to generate their own electricity , he added . Early in the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by H. R. Searing , executive vice president , pledged his company 's full cooperation in all conservation measures ordered by public authorities . Howard S. Cullman , chairman of the Port of New York Authority , announced that cable lights on the George Washington Bridge would be blacked out and that lighting on other bridges and in the tunnel plazas would be cut 50 per cent . ' All navigation and aviation warnning lights were left unchanged . Tavern keepers in New Jersey1 indicated great concern over the 10 ' P. M. curfew embodied in the PUC regulations scheduled to go into effect at midnight Sunday , and flooded the New Jersey Alcoholic Beverage Commission with telephone inquiries during the day . Deputy Commissioner Irwin B. Hock said yesterday afternoon that he would consult with liquor control authorities in other states to see what they contemplated , but added he was sure New Jersey , liquor dispensers " would cooperate ! patriotically " with the conservation program until a change is announced officially . Concern Over Warehouses Concern was expressed during the day over the effect of a continuation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but these were predicated on an uninterrupted shutdown of the mines until present stocks are exhausted . The freight embargo caused by the coal shortage made little impression on the city , but trade associations and official agencies predicted its effect on local commerce and industry would become serious within a few weeks unless the embargo were lifted or relaxed , With the exception of eleven : itms , mostly pertaining to fuel , food and medicine , the edict virtually bans railroad transportation of freight . Presidents of twenty-seven of the city 's commercial organizations joined yesterday in an appeal toj President Truman and Congressional leaders for action to end the strike which , they said , had reached " the proportions of a national disaster . " Among those signing the appeal were Peter Grimm , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York ; Col. V. Clement Jenkins , Avenue of the Americas Association ; Robert K. Chriscenberry , Broadway Association ; Dr. Harry S. Rogers , Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce ; William H. Hall , Jersey City Chamber of Commerce ; Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bull , Maritime Association of the Port of New York ; Van B. Simms , Retail Dry Goods Association , and James A. Lundy , Chamber of Commerce of the Borough of Queens .                     