@@705529

txt Informed quarters said tonight that the White House had made cautious inquiries as to what would be the Senate 's attitude toward legislation authorizing convoys to beleaguered Britain . As a result , it was said , an informal canvass was made which indicated that forty-five Senators ? three less than a majority of the present membership of ninety-five ? were likely at this time to oppose such legislation . Included in this tentative list , one legislator said , were twenty-five of the Senate 's twenty-eight Republicans . Most of these have been recorded as likely supporters of a resolution by Senator Tobey , Republican , of New Hampshire , to put Congress on record against use of the Navy to guard the transportation of war materials across the Atlantic . The Tobey resolution is scheduled to receive consideration next Wednesday by the Foreign Relations Committee , with indications that it will be smothered there by an Administration majority . While some convoy advocates had proposed that the measure be carried to the floor in the hope of defeating it decisively there , such strategy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate cleavage on the issue . Would Avoid Bitter Debate Similarly , some legislators were said to take the view that if President Roosevelt decided convoys were necessary it might be better for him to order them on his own authority rather than seek Congressional action , likely to be preceded by long controversial debate . Senators divided sharply during consideration of the lease-lend legislation on the question of the President 's authority to order convoys , with Administration leaders generally contending he had such power and opponents denying it . Taking cognizance of this difference of opinion , Senator Nye , Republican , of North Dakota , has placed before the Foreign Relations Committee a proposal which would require Congressional approval before convoys could be ordered . Senator Barkley of Kentucky , the Democratic leader , said he thought both proposals would be voted down when the committee meets Wednesday . Some other members said , however , that final committee action might be delayed while a subcommittee investigated the two measures . The President 's announcement yesterday that the neutrality patrol was being extended as far as might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convoys to seek a showdown on this issue . They called a strategy meeting for next Tuesday . Nye Predicts Convoys Senators Nye and McCarran , Democrat , of Nevada , among others , expressed the view that the extended patrol would lead to convoys . Mr. Nye said , too , that the President 's statement would strengthen " growing demands for legislation to prevent convoying . " Mr. Roosevelt said emphatically that the patrol 's duties would not be changed by its extension  --  that it would merely keep a watch over vast ocean areas and report what it saw . In naval quarters it was said that such action should enable the British to release many warships from convoy duty in the Western Hemisphere . Nazi raiders- would lose much of their effectiveness , it was explained , if their movements were known as a result of the American patrol . Informed quarters expressed belief that with the arrival of more dependable weather German surface raiders and ocean-going submarines would range ever farther to the west to attack munitions ships from Canada and the United States at points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to protect them . Extension of the lines of the neutrality patrol was interpreted in some quarters as indicating a decision to make virtually the entire // SENATE POLL CLOSE ON CONVOYING // western half of the Atlantic as safe as possible for British convoys . Senator Hill , Democrat , of Alabama , the Administration whip , asserted that American convoys were necessary to get United States war materials and food to Britain . " From the information we are getting , " Mr. Hill told reporters , " there is no other way to get the stuff over there . There is no use in making materials over here and then having them go to the bottom of the ocean . " Mr , Hill expressed the view that the use of convoys " would not mean at all that we would send an expeditionary force abroad . " He said there was now no place to land an expeditionary force in Europe and added : " Our problem is to supply the British  --  why send additional men over there to be supplied ? " At his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be operated anywhere in the seven seas necessary for the protection of the Western Hemisphere . Should the President care to amplify the reason for placing the neutrality patrol on an elastic basis , two speeches scheduled in the next eight days might afford him an opportunity . He will speak here Wednesday , inaugurating the drive for sale of defense bonds . On Sunday , May 4 , he is to deliver an address at the dedication of the restored birthplace of Woodrow Wilson at Staunton , Va .                     