@@711374

txt The showdown has come in the East-West struggle . Washington . London . and Paris now have made public the texts of the almost identical notes which earlier in the week were handed to the Russian Ambassadors in these three capitals regarding the blockade of the western sectors of Berlin . The notes are in two parts . One part states the legal basis for the presence of western troops in Berlin . The . other part states the position which the western governments now take on that legal basis . The statement of position , made public on July 9 , is notable for its finality . In each note , the Government concerned ? British , French . or American  --  says that it is " obliged to insist " on the reopening of road and rail traffic from the western zones to Berlin . Not One Weasel Word In each note , the Government concerned " declares that it will not be induced by threats , pressures , or other actions to abandon these rights . " In each note , the Government concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entertains no doubts whatsoever on this point " ( the point just mentioned above ) . These are categorical statements of position , uncomplicated and unqualified by a single weasel word . The western governments do offer to " participate in negotiations in Berlin among the four Allied occupying authorities for the settlement of any question in dispute arising out of the administration of the city of Berlin . " But this offer is made valid only if the communication lines between the western zones and the western sectors of Berlin shall have first been " fully restored . " Hint 1 ' se of Force In other words , these notes are not just . diplomatic maneuvers . They state a position without one single loophole for any possible retreat from that position . If they mean what they say , there seems no way for western retreat . And there can be little doubt that they do mean what they say . The only possible way to read them is that the western powers are prepared to use force if necessary to reopen the rail and road lines to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stated . Official quarters decline to discuss what comes in the future . It is hoped that the Russians will now reopen the lines . But if the Russians either fail to answer the notes or give an . unsatisfactory answer , then the United States , Britain , and France apparently must do one of two things . Either they retreat from the position taken in the notes , which would be politically catastrophic in Europe , or they take positive steps to reopen the lines themselves . doubt that a failure of the Russians to meet the terms of the notes must lead to some such form of action . Official quarters say that the notes are not an ultimatum . That is true . An ultimatum calls for certain . - pecitic action by a certain specific time , with a statement of the consequences to follow if the conditions are not met . In this case , no specific time is set and no consequences are stated . Russia is given reasonable time to reply . So it is not an ultimatum , best it most certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Berlin , and it hbviously can not stay indefinitely by means of the air shuttle . That is an emergency measure taken to meet an emergency . It suffices for perhaps a matter of another two or three months . But it would not be possible for the West to meet the consumer needs of its sectors of Berlin by alit alone . Fond can he managed , but not the fuel needs of winter . So it has been necessary for the West . to lace either a showdown or a backdown . Clearly , Washington . London . and to a less decisive degree Paris have elected the showdown . West States Positive Case The other part of the notes , the m ? ? t. dealing with the legal basis of the western position in Berlin , is important in that it explains primarily for the benefit of western opinion why the western powers do have a valid basis for their decision . It explains what some may have forgotten and what Russian propaganda has tended to gloss over  --  that western troops entered Berlin as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Potsdam Agreement . The Russians have claimed that the West has violated the Potsdam Agreement by setting up western ' Trizonia and by halting the shipment of reparations to Russia from western Germany and that in consequence the West has forfeited its rights m Berlin . The notes make it clear that Potsdam had nothing to do with the case . The story goes hack to the Yalta Conference , which designated zones of occupation and four-power occupation of Berlin . Then , in the closing stages of the war , western troops ended up in occupation of large . parts of the allotted RuSsian Zone of occupation while Russian troops held all of Berlin . After the final German surren- der , Russia requested western evacuation of the whole of the Russian Zone , while western armies requested permission to enter their assigned sectors of Berlin . There was a period of stalemate , broken when Winston Churchill and President Truman sent messages to Premier Joseph Stalin on June 14 , 1945. proposing that on June 21 the respective armies shift to their assigned zones and sectors . Stalin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Truman-Churchill proposals except to propose that the date be changed from June 21 to July 1 . This was agreed to . Must Respect . Bargain Thus , the western position in Berlin derives from Yalta and from the Churchill-Truman-Stalin exchange . In that exchange , Messrs . Churchill and Truman specified full air , rail , and road access to their Berlin sectors . Stalin made no protest and set down no conditions . The Russians now contend that Berlin belongs to their zone of occupation . This is denied in the western zones . The Russians like to claim that Berlin also belongs to them because they " liberated " it . The notes point out that British and American armies were in possession of Saxony . Thuringia , and parts of Mecklinburg at the end of hostilities . Thus if Russia obtained any special rights to Berlin from - liberation , " the West would have the same rights to those parts of the Russian Zone which it liberated . It was a bargain . Part of Berlin for part of the Russian Zone of occupation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain and that it must be respected . So the issue is now posed . Either Russia or the West must give way over this matter of Bertin , and much history will depend on which does . Arbitration Possible Washington and London certainly are not disposed to try to make the Russians crawl in the dirt . They are ready and willing to arbitrate any phase of the Berlin problem , either in Berlin or according to the provisions of the UN Charter . Perhaps negotiations Might even lead to a withdrawal from Berlin of all occupying forces . It could even , in theory , lead to a withdrawal from all of Germany  --  as the Russians now apparently desire . The one thing the West insists upon , however , is that it does not leave Berlin under " duress . " It may be unfortunate for all concerned that the showdown has come in this time and in this way . But at least in London and Washington , and perhaps to a lesser degree in Paris , the feeling is that this is the time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace is to be forged by fair negotiation or by military and economic pressures . At this point in history , the West is ready to insist that there neither can nor will be any more western retreats under pressure . if the West succeeds , this undoubtedly will be the major divide in the course of postwar European history .                     