@@712564

txt Great names were flung at a jury in federal court today as Alger Hiss , 45 , took the witness stand on the 21st day of his second trial for perjury to conceal state department spying . The defendant 's denial that he had stolen government secrets for a soviet spy was almost submerged in references to Hiss ' proclaimed intimacies with celebrated figures in the last decade . In effect , Hiss summoned as Character witnesses Winston Churchill , Franklin D. Roosevelt , Clement Atlee , Anthony Eden , Edward R. Stettinius , Harry Hopkins , Gen. George Marshall , Adm . William D. Leahy , State Secretary Acheson , and a host of comparatively minor figures , Including Sen. Vandenberg of Michigan , Gov . Stevenson of Illinois , and former Minnesota Gov . Harold E. Stassen . Mentions Each One Mentioning each by name , Hiss said he had worked on the closest of terms with all these persons at the Yalta conference in the Cri.m mea , February , 1945 ; at the Dumbarton Oaks conference in Washington , 1944 ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There has never been a suggestion that I violated my trust at any of these conferences , " he said proudly . This mode of testimony was in direct contrast to that uttered by Hiss at the first trial which ended last July with a jury split , 8 to 4 , for conviction . Then , Hiss had been boyishly shy about his state department work , giving the impression that he was just a background figure . Tells Aid to F. D. R. " At Yalta , " he now said , " I advised President Roosevelt on all matters pertaining to the proposed United Nations . I handled all of Mr. Stettinius ' communications and drafted replies to them . " Mr. Roosevelt at Yalta designated me as secretary-general of the San Francisco conference . Forty-nine nations later confirmed that appointment . " Hiss omitted any mention of contacts with Russian leaders at these conferences until he remarked casually that former Foreign Minister V. M. Molotov at San Francisco had been among those who indorsed him as the official selected to protect " security " at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrogant attitude at the first trial , Hiss was a vastly changed man . He was thinner , there was a droop in his tall frame , deep shadows under his eyes . The flashing smile , practically continuous at his previous court appearance , flickered only once or twice . Urged to . Raise Voice His voice , which ran clear with confidence before , was now lowpitched and Judge Henry W. Goddard urged him to raise it . He swallowed nervously before an . swering some questions put to him by Defense Atty . Claude B. Cross . He was impeccably clad , as always , in a dark gray suit , with gray silk tie against a white shirt . A handkerchief peeped from his breast pocket . In 90 minutes of testimony , before court adjourned , he was led thru only the first part of a tale which kept him on the witness stand four days , including crossexamination , at the first trial . It was the account of a brilliant diplomatic career which led him to the presidency in 1947 of the Carnegie Endowment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his world fell in ruins around him as Whittaker Chambers , confessed soviet courier , later a senior Time magazine editor , charged that Hiss purloined state department documents for him in 1938 . The perjury charge against Hiss is based upon his denial of that charge to a special grand jury investigating espionage . " In My Handwriting Cross handed Hiss the four handwritten memoranda on confidential subjects produced by Chambers to support his charge . " They are in my , handwriting , " conceded Hiss , calmly . " But I never gave them to Whittaker Chambers or to any other unauthorized person . " Similarly , the sheaf of typwritten copies of top secret dispatches , dated in the first three months Of 1938 , which experts have testified came from a typewriter in the Hiss home , was shown him . He took the stack of documents , rifled them with his fingers , brandished them in the air . He looked at the jury and flashed his smile for the first time . " Why I never had these papers in my hand until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not give them to Chambers or to anyone else . They were not typed in my house or by Mrs. Hiss . Chambers testified that Priscilla Hiss typed the copies I have no idea where or how they were typed . " Tells of Memo The same answer was given when the witness was shown the microfilmed copies of state department papers which Chambers produced last year from a pumpkin hiding place . Hiss sought to show an antiRussian attitude in 1939  --  a phase of evidence neglected at the first trial . After Russia and Germany , in August , 1939 , concluded a nonaggression pact , he testified , he wrote a state department memo arguing that international law did not require the United States to remain neutral  --  that it could help Great Britain and France . The American Communist position during the period of the Stalin-Hitler pact , ending when Germany marched into Russia , was one of strict neutrality for the United States . - However ! some Communist party members deserted the party at this time because of that attitude . Talks About His Mother There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told it for the second time . There are eight women , middle aged and older on the jury , and Hiss was careful to note that his mother was still alive at 82 and that he had always had " the most pleasant and cordial relations with her . " Hiss also volunteered information concerning some of his government associations which had been wrested from him under cross-examination at the first trial with damaging effect . He told of his friendship with Lee Pressman , a government lawyer who later became general counsel of the CIO , and Nathan Witt , another government attorney , both named as Communists by Chambers .                     