@@705435

txt The British are forwarding to Washington an outline of the conditions under which they might be willing to relax their sea blockade to permit food cargoes to reach France . The outlines of these conditions , which apparently are being submitted mainly because President Roosevelt wants them , are still somewhat vague . In summary they seem to visualize an almost unlimited supply of wheat and a limited supply of other food for North Africa . That probably means that this food would find its way to unbccupied France eventually , even if the plan does not end up with food from the United States reach-1 ing France directly . Britain 's Conditions The first condition put forward by the British is that the French shall promise in return that all German infiltration into French Africa shall cease . At the moment the British believe there are not many more than about a hundred Germans in Casablanca and other places as attach ? s of the armistice missions . But some of these are military technicians and the British definitely fear this is the thin end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Information from ? another source received by THE NEW Yona TIMES reports the British also demanding a new pledge from the Vichy government that no vessels of the French Navy and no naval bases shall be permitted to fall into the hands of the Axis . Another British condition is that the distribution of food must be supervised by British or neutral observers , who will be required to make absolutely certain that whatever is sent to France or French Africa remains there and does not get either into Germany or into German-occupied territories . The British apparently are adamant on that point . No matter what they let into France and the French colonies , there can be no relaxation of the blockade on any occupied country , they say . Northern France , the Netherlands , Belgium , Norway and Poland have no hope of getting any food through the British blockade , even if unoccupied France does . There is a large school of thought here that regards the whole proposal with distrust . This group argues , with facts and figures to back it up , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unoccupied France . They point out that during three comparatively recent weeks seventy-eight ships arrived at Marseille and most of their cargoes were taken by the German and Italian Armistice Commissions . Even if assurances were given , they argue , any food sent to France might have the effect of releasing food which otherwise the Germans would have to leave for the French to keep them from rebellion . In other words , this school of thought believes that it is time to face the fact that Vichy is completely controlled by Germany . They point out that Vice Premier Francois Darlan 's threat to use French warships to convoy food cargoes was anticipated by twentyfour hours over the Nazi-controlled Paris radio . If the British expect any gratitude from France for relaxation of the blockade , it is argued they will be disappointed since the Germans control all newspapers and the radio in both zones of France . It would not be entirely accurate to say that there is an actual fight going on in the British Government on the food relief question , because the whole matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war policy and the decision will be taken not solely from the blockade point of view , but with other considerations in mind as well . First , the British are worried about Admiral Darlan 's threat to convoy food ships . In fact , the French have been convoying on a small scale for some time , and the British have let escorted ships pass because they did not want naval action with the French . They still do not want such encounters . Therefore Admiral Darlan 's statement , which it is believed here was clearly inspired by the Germans , has made them uneasy . These proposals now being formulated may be designed to prevent a showdown between the French and British at sea . More important , however , is the United States . Relaxation of the blockade probably would not be undertaken without the United States ' help . Indeed , it would probably not be undertaken at all unless Washington has asked it . Even then it would probably not be granted to former President Herbert Hoover 's organization or any other relief group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal hand . Apparently the United States Government is insisting on feeding France , and perhaps Spain , too . And for the moment what the United States wants is virtually law for Britain . Thus it is a question of high policy . not merely one of the blockade . If it were just the latter , the British would never consent . Even now it may be the British Government 's hope that the terms will not be accepted or that the Germans will order Vichy to refuse to give the required guarantees . It would certainly be widening a gap in the blockade that already exists . The British dislike the idea , and so do " Free French " circles here . The argument is that the sooner the British can make Germany feel the squeeze of the blockade , the sooner will France be free again .                     