@@707211

txt AFL , CIO OFFER AID Green and Murray Write President , Assailing Vote by Congress LEWIS WANTS M ! , NERS BACK He Is Declared to Be Acting Within New Law  --  Ickes Is Gloomy Over Stockpiles By JOHN H. CRIDER Special to Tam NEW YoRK WASHINGTON , June 26 ? President Roosevelt received written pledges today of continued allegiance to labor 's no-strike pledge from William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , and Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , as John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers , principal target of the Sm. - . th-Connally AntiStrike Bill which Congress passed yesterday over an Executive veto , strove to get his miners back to work . While Mr. Lewis cooled off by sitting in the yard of his home at Alexandria , Va. , between telephonic contacts with agents in the field , it was the consensus of informed labor officials that as of Itoday the mine chief is in an adhirable position in so far as the new law is concerned . This is because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Secretary of the Interior and Solid Fuels lAdministrator , in trying to get coal mined . Mr. Ickes now operates the mines for the Government . The new law , which provides criminal penalties for those who lead or instigate strikes , was still a legal puzzle to the Government departments affected , except that Wayne L. Morse , public member of the National War Labor Board , who acted as chairman today , said that he was confident " the existing major policies and procedures of the board will be found to be entirely consistent with the act of Congress . " Attention on the Coal Fields Except for the immediate reaction of Government and labor officials , attention was focused on the coal fields , from which came reports that there was " very little " coal mined today . While the stayat-home action might have been influenced in some cases by unfavorable reaction of the miners to the Congressional vote yesterday , it was not wholly significant , because miners ordinarily do not work on Saturdays if they do not want to . Although Mr. Lewis issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that reports from field agents indicated that they were having difficulties in overcoming the miners ' disapproval of Congress ' overriding of the President 's veto . However , he said , he was confident that most of the miners would be back to work on Monday . This view was generally shared by informed officials here . Mr. Ickes , who was reported to have had " very successful " talks yesterday with twenty-nine owners or operators of the biggest mines ' n the country , issued a gloomy statement on the present national coal stockpile situation at a time when the War Department is calling for expedited munitions production on the eve of the probable invasion of Europe . He said that only 838,000 tons of bituminous coal were added to stockpiles of coal in consumers ' hands during May , although at least 3,000,000 tons should have been added under non-strike conditions . There were 79,505,000 tons of the coal in consumers ' stockpiles on June 1 , an average of fiftyfour days ' supply at the relatively low rate of consumption in May ? low compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About 1,700 plants , including many war industries , had only ten days ' - supply on hand . " It will be hard work to regain the ground we have lost , and we may not be able to do it , " Mr. Ickes said . " Whether we can avoid an emergency in the fall and winter will depend upon how much coal we can get into storage between now and fall . " The presidents of the AFL and CIO , in letters to Mr. Roosevelt , praised as statesmanlike his action in vetoing the Anti-Strike Bill and pledged their full cooperation in furthering the war effort . Mr. Green commended both the President 's " courage " and " statesmanship , " while Mr. Murray expressed gratitude for his " statesmanlike attitude . " Mr. Murray signed himself , " Gratefully Philip Murray . " Both labor leaders referred to the statement in the President 's veto message that parts of the bill might make prevention of strikes more difficult and said that on this account they would redouble their efforts to see that work was maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , I hasten to asure you , " wrote Mr. Murray , " that our organization will maintain their no-strike pledge . " Mr. Murray called an " extraordinary session " of the CIO 's international executive board to discuss the " many perplexing problems " created by the new statute . The meeting will be held here on Wednesday morning , July 7 . " Yesterday , in a treacherous , sneak attack upon the Administration , Congress , within minutes of the Presidential veto , rushed through a vote making the notorious Smith-Connally bill law in the face of the President 's warning that the bill would harm rather than help production , " said Mr. Murray in a letter calling executive board members to the special meeting . Although he told the board members that recent developments " are already taking their toll in terms of national confusion and discontents , and in terms of the general morale of the people , " he also cautioned that victory in the war against the Axis " requires that there be no faltering , no deviation from our no-strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Says Congress Acted in Anger Mr. Green said in his letter to the President that Congress showed it was " moved by anger and resentment rather than by careful consideration of the facts . " He also expressed the hope that " the workers of America can render the Smith-Connally act inoperative and pave the way for its early repeal . " The AFL and its unions , he said , " stand committed to our non-strike pledge for the duration of the war . " Much doubt over the wisdom ) of the Congressional action was expressed by owners and operators of the . mines , who said privately that they feared it might lead to the socialization of all of American industry , at least for the duration of the war . Secretary Ickes is continuing I conferences with a group of eight of the most important mine owners and operators , who came to confer yesterday at his request as I part of a group of twenty-nine such owners and operators . Heretofore most of the talking in WashIington in behalf of the operators has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executives themselves . A spokesman for Mr. Ickes reIported that the talks , which concerned how the Government was to conduct its operation of the properties , were not only " highly successful , " but added that the eight executives accepted the Government operation arrangement as essential at the moment for the producing of coal and would cooperate in every way to achieve maximum output . They agreed , I said the spokesman , that Mr. Ickes and the owners had a mutuality of interest in this respect . In the interchange between the owners ' representatives and Mr. Ickes , the latter made it clear , it was reported , that he did not want to operate the mines any more than the owners wanted him to do it , and that it was everybody 's interest to get and keep the mines on a maximum production basis . At such time as Mr. Ickes could certify to the President that there was no stoppage and no threat of a stoppage , the mines would be turned back to their normal operators , but on the basis of present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ickes signed a contract with the operators , it was said . The UMW , at Mr. Ickes ' request , today sent out a request to miners not to take vacations this summer . The same was done last summer , except that then it was he regular operators who wanted : ontinued production because of large outstanding orders . Fear that the labor members of the National War Labor Board would resign as a result of passage of the Smith-Connally bill was dissipated by their representation this morning at a board meeting at which about twenty cases were disposed of . Mr. Morse , who acted as chairman , was to have testified late this afternoon before a Senate Appropriation subcommittee in an effort to get more funds for the board , but the committee was tied down all afternoon in hearing representatives of the Office of War Information . Mr. Morse expressed gratification that " many outstanding lead , ers of labor have reaffirmed their no-strike pledge . " He said he was satisfied that the board would have the continued cooperation of " responsible leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes should result from Mr. Murray 's insistence , as stated yesterday , that a roll-back of prices to the level of Sept. 15 , 1942 , be accomplished by July 15 , a large area of American industry would , under the new anti-strike statute , be taken over for Government operation . Senate and House action through today showed little prospect of Congress providing the funds with which to accomplish the contemplated roll-back program .                     