@@705745

txt Topics of The Times Citizens are reminded that Clash the government wants only of ? their time-worn and battleMetal scarred aluminum pots , and it turns out that all was for the best . The young bride 's first experiments in the kitchen with inevitable wound stripes on roasting pan and cake mold . . . . The Summer widower keeping house for himself and producing wonderful and fearful effects both inside the frying pan and outside . ... The new maid insisting on the cooking traditions established by her ancestors about the time of Leif Ericsson . .. . The young folks in a midnight quest for more ice cubes . . . . The youngest member of the house borrowing his mother 's kettle for his first night out with the Boy Scouts ? they also serve . Aluminum scorched and frozen out of shape , aluminum bent and dented and battered ? it was all for the best . Their day has come . The government wants them for the national defense . Aluminum spattered with the Keep young bride 's tears ; aluminum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spilled raw eggs ; aluminum bearing the marks of the ice-pick and the campfire  --  the casualties of other days are the national reserves of today . It was all for the best . The government does not want your new aluminum pots for a very good reason . Only virgin aluminum will be used for the war planes . The citizens ' present contributions will be recast into aluminum for civilian purposes so as to release the virgin ore for military use . So there is obviously no advantage in giving away a good aluminum pot to be melted up and turned into a new aluminum pot . A nation 's savings are to - Our a very considerable extent Kitchen in its kitchens . Twenty Wealth years ago , when the national Wealth of the United States was estimated at something over 300 billion dollars , a value of 40 billions was assigned to " clothing , personal adornment , furniture and similar property . " Plainly several billions out of that sum must have stood for the utensils in which the nation 's food was prepared and auxiliary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher today with the rise in standards and costs  --  electric refrigerators , stoves , washing machines and the various smaller tribes ? the cleaners , the mixers , the toasters , the percolators . We call them a nation 's Forks savings because in times and of national emergency they Knives are discovered to be essential supply reserves . It has always been like that . Church roofs are stripped for lead and copper . Church bells are melted down . Park railings are torn down for iron . We laughed at ' the Nazis when they started in to demolish their park fences . Today we know how their seemingly endless stores of bombs and torpedoes and tanks and planes and heavy guns were built up . We should have learned the lesson before that , but one very seldom does . Even while we were making epigrams about our junked New York elevated lines going into Japanese bombs for use against the Chinese we failedi. to guess what Germany might be doing with the iron railings from her parks . Today we know better , and we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , of course , Plowshares the picture that Isaiah Into drew , of swords beaten Swords into plowshares and spears into pruning hooks . Today we are compelled to think of the metal cup used for warming baby 's milk bottle turned into shells and bombs and planes , directly or indirectly . But it should be remembered that before Isaiah 's golden age comes to pass , when nation shall not lift up sword against nation , neither shall they learn war any more , there were drastic preliminaries to be fulfilled : " And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together ; and they that forsake the Lord shall be consumed . " You can almost hear You the scales falling from Too , sentimental eyes over a Noncoms ! dispatch from Skinners Corner , Va . It says that noncommissioned officers , " particularly sergeants , " of the Forty-fourth Division are to be " observed closely " in this fortnight 's manoeuvres ; and the unfit , " because of a lack of professional knowledge , force , initiative and judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have garnered our military information from novelists - and poets . The perfect teacher of the soldier is the corporal and the sergeant . They are hard-boiled regulars who must have been rookies once . Having acquired their art , can they ever lose it ? One thinks of them as resisters of time , immune to demotion . In the National- Guard or among drafted men the vocation of the noncom may not be as sure or his education as thorough . It , is a shock to find that it is thought possible for him to be subject to errors lightly and maliciously attributed to the bigwigs . But sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander ; , and the noncom must show his fitness to survive examination .                     