@@707728

txt Driving ahead with unrelenting vigor , a Russian army is. closing in on Odessa and has already reached its suburbs . Once more the roar of battle is echoing through this great Black Sea port that fell to the Germans and Rumanians in the dark October days of 1941 when Nazi armies were hammering at the gates of Moscow . But now it is an avenging army of liberation which is entering.the city , and it is appropriate that this army should be commanded by one of Odessa 's own sons , Gen. Rodion Malinovsky . The German Army Command announces that east of the lower Dniester River , which is the Odessa sector , it is " disengaging its troops according to plan , " to which a report from Tokyo adds quaintly that " the Soviet defense is now aiming to disturb the German withdrawal . " There is no doubt that the Germans are withdrawing , and that the Russians are doing everything to " disturb " their retreat . They are converging on the city - from three sides ; they have captured the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rumania ; and they are rapidly pushing through the quagmires west of the city to cut the last remaining escape route by ferry to Akkerman . Meanwhile the Russian fleet is waiting outside to nip any German attempt to evacuate the trapped garrison by sea . The success of these Russian operations will determine the length and intensity of the battle of Odessa . According to Russian reports , Malinovsky 's army has tied down " big " German forces in that sector . Estimates of their size run as high as 100,000 . If this is true , the German strategy becomes more inexplicable than ever . For ever since their offensive failed in July last year the German armies have been on retreat along the whole front and have been cleared out of all but a tiny remnant of prewar Russian territory . Yet while they gave way in the center and in the north , they continued to cling desperately to their positions in the south long aster every military consideration called for withdrawal , until their southern flank was exposed to constant danger of encirclement . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them , but when the pressure became too great and they were forced to withdraw in the south as well , their " disengagement " movements turned into a costly retreat in which more than once whole clusters of divisions were cut off and cut to pieces . One possible explanation is that the Germans constantly underestimated Russian power and continued to hope that they would be able to tire out the Ru.t.dian armies . That is suggested by their caN .. i military commentators . But there is also the possibility that in going over to the defensive and concentrating on defensive weapons the German Army has been forced to sacrifice mobility and that the Russians , motorized with American and British aid , have simply been too fast for them . At the same time , wherever German troops have been trapped they have continued to fight with the courage of desperation , and sometimes with success . According to German claims , the encircled German garrison of Kovel has just been freed by a relieving force which broke through the Russian ring . That seems out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menaced both by Malinovsky 's army and by the Russian advance into Rumania . But if large German forces have been really trapped in Odessa , and if escape becomes impossible for them , they must be expected to put up a fight which will add to the price Odessa will have to pay for liberation .                     