@@710368

txt Thirty million Japanese are expected to take off their shoes and enter the nation 's polling places today to vote for a parliamentary Lower House which well may be the most important governing group in Japanese history . Today 's election of 466 members of the new House of Representatives actually is only one of four elections which have been crowded into the month of April . But it is by far the most vital . The voting today will result in the formation of a new streamlined group which wields more power than any elected group in Japanese history . Primary Control Unit From the standpoint of Japan 's immediate future , today 's , balloting will control selection of a new Prime Minister and his Cabinet , determine the nation 's political course under the new Constitution , and set up the Government through which the Allied powers will impose the future peace treaty . The new Holtse of Representatives will be something unique in Japanese dolitical history . Never before have the people been privileged to elect a legislative group whose powers literally entitle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason , popular interest in today 's election has been built up to a 15 oint far surpassing any other election held since the surrender . Here in Tokyo , newspapers for the last week have given little space to anything else . And heated campaign speeches , sidewalk pleas , and door-to-door visits have whipped up interest even among the amahs who do cleaning work in the homes of occupation force personnel . Interest has been particularly keen , because it is plain that various major political parties will run a close race and because it now appears that no single party will win a majority or even a decisive plurality . This is . largely attributable to the fact that the Socialist Party within the past , fortnight has shown unexpected strength and now appears likely to capture at least 110 out of the 466 seats . Socialists Surge Up Passage of an electoral law just before the elections began on April 1 was believed to have weighed heavily against the pros . pects of the Socialists . The shift from the prefectural electoral district to the medium district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threw the balance , it was felt , onto the side of the conservative parties whose established political machines were in a better position to garner votes in a medium electoral district than in a large district where many candidates are less well known . This initial advantage , how- ever , apparently was offset to some extent by the organized labor following , which , for the most part , supports the Socialist Party . This trend was seen clearly in the election of April 20 for the House of Councillors , the Japanese Upper Chamber . Although returns are not yet complete , it now is fairly certain that the Socialists will emerge as one of the largest parties in this Upper House of 250 members . Conservative Premier ? That the Socialists can make a similar showing in the Lower House elections is regarded as doubtful . Socialist achievements in the Upper House were due mostly to the use of the nationwide electoral district for 100 of the members . And whereas this method originally was designed to assure the election of nationally known nonpartisans , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighed in favor of the Socialists who , through the nationally organized labor movement , were able to get votes even for candidates who were relatively little known . From the standpoint of political parties , elections for the Lower . House are expected to result in a fairly close race between the four major groups  --  the right wing liberal and democratic parties the Socialists , and the independents .                     