@@705734

txt The campaign for the re-election of Mayor La Guardia will begin Monday , it was disclosed yesterday , with activity first on the part of Ills supporters and then on the part of the Mayor himself . Samuel Seabury , father of the Fusion movement that resulted in an eight-year La Guardia Administration , has called a conference for Monday afternoon at which the 1933 Fusion movement again will be revived by formation of a committee . Mr. Seabury , William J Schieffelin , Thomas D. Thacher and others are scheduled to take part . They plan to fight for the reelection of the La **29;211;TOOLONG triumvirate that now is in control of the Board of Estimate , as well as take whatever other steps are necessary to preserve what they regard as the cause of municipal good government . Mayor to Give Decision This will be in the afternoon . At night Mayor La Guardia will make a. radio speech at 8:45 o'clock over stations WOR and WNYC , in which he will give his final decision on the Mayoralty campaign . He had left this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mayor 's decision , it is said , I will be to announce himself as a candidate for re-election and to pledge himself to work for four more years of government of the type he has given . He has been told by friends , it is understood , that he faces a more difficult battle this time than . in either of his two previous campaigns , and he has been urged to make it clear that he intends to devote himself more to the job of Mayor than of Civilian Defense Administrator . The possibility that he can do so has increased , rather than decreased , it is held . In just what form the Mayor 's announcement of his definite intention to run will be phrased is not known at present , but it is said the circnmctances call for a definite announcement and he is understood to be ready to make it . With only informal knowledge of the Mayor 's intentions , the two men upon whom the responsibility for giving the Republican nomination to the Mayor rests had lunch and discussed the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and John R. Crews , Brooklyn leader . Leaders " In Accord " They issued a joint statement after their meeting in which they said they had discussed the entire Mayoralty situation , naturally could pick no candidate without a city-wide conference of Republican leaders , which will be held next week , and added : " We are in accord as to the availability of certain candidates . " While they declined to amplify this , it is known that both are agreed on the necessity for a La Guardia renomination by the Republicans , but have no intention of doing anything about it until the Mayor makes known the fact that he is definitely a candidate and wants the Republican nomination . The negative announcement of yesterday by the two leaders was necessary , it was explained , since if the Mayor took himself out of the picture or announced that he did not want the Republican nomination they would have committed themselves unnecessarily , in advance . Despite the discussions by various Republican leaders and elements , no candidate of substance willing to run against the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked to Mr. Curran on Thursday , is now understood to favor the Mayor 's renomination . While the Republican organization leaders in New York County continued yesterday to be almost unanimous in their belief that Stanley M. Isaacs , the Borough President , is ineligible for renomination because of the Gerson incident , the Citizens Union sent a letter to all of the district leaders urging them to change their minds . Isaacs Receives Support In a letter signed by George H. Hallett , the secretary , the group declared that while Mr. Isaacs had made a serious mistake in appointing and sticking to Mr. Gerson , a Communist , Mr. Isaacs is not a Confmunist or a Communist sympathizer , had made an excellent Borough President , and that to deny him renomination would mean turning the office back to Tammany Hall . " In spite of one serious mistake , he has given the borough an outstanding Administration and has been a tower of strength on the Board of Estimate , consistently on the side of good government and the best interests of the people of Manhattan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two developments of interest on the Democratic side became known yesterday . One was the dropping ' of Robert F. Wagner Jr . from a place of serious contention tor the Democratic nomination for Borough President . His friends were informed that , despite his record , the situation called for the naming of some one else . At the same time strong pressure was being exerted for the nomination for the same post of Paul P. Rao , recently named by President Roosevelt as an assistant United States attorney in charge of customs . Mr. Rao 's name has come forward as the result of insistence by important Italian leaders in the city that an Italian receive a post of prominence on the Manhattan ticket . NO final decision has been made so far as could be learned last night . The Affiliated Young Democrats , 4 lines deleted city , noting that the request that the group be allowed to sit in on the discussions leading to the selection of a Democratic city ticket had been ignored . Without committing themselves on the O'Dwyer-Knott-Fertig ticket , they declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young members of the party had been snubbed and affronted ; that they will therefore take whatever steps in the Mayoralty campaign they deem proper , and that they will therefore decide next week whether or not they will enter Mayor La Guardia in the Democratic primaries .                     