@@711648

txt Congressional and administration leaders appeared agreed today in the %pinion that federal rent control will be extended another year and , In addition , strengthened . This became ' evident after an announcement by Tighe E. Woods , housing expediter , that he will ask the new Democratic controled Congress for a stronger rent law to be extended 12 months beyond the expiration date of the present law next March 31 . He said he will recommend the closing of what he considers three major loopholes in the present statute and probably will ask congress to grant him authority to restore controls or impose them for the first time in areas that may develop a housing snortage as the result of increased rearmament activities . . Pledged By Truman The recommendations to be submitted to congress by Woods would restore almost all the war time " teeth " and powers contained in rent control when it was administered by the office of price administration . President Truman is scheduled to ask for an extended and stronger rent law shortly after the 81st congress convenes in January . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the housing shortage is ended . An identical pledge is made In the Democratic party platform . When Mr. Truman signed the present rent legislation enacted last March by the Republican congress , he said the law was not strong enough . Woods concurred with Mr. Truman that there must be continued recierai rent control unlit there is no longer a housing " emergency . " The housing expediter said the shortage of rental housing is more serious at present , particularly in smaller communities , than it was a year ago . Changes Proposed Inquiry among congressmen in Washington disclosed most of them believe federal rent control should be extended . Some said they felt the present law adequate , but would not be opposed to increased federal powers in a new law it the need for them could be shown . Here are the changes Woods said he would ask congress to make in the present law to eliminate what he considers " loopholes . " I. Restoration of federal controls over evictions , which at present are left to local courts under local laws in each community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenants a period of time during  --  " Grant e housing expediter authority to sue rent control violators for treble damages or three times the amount of their rent overcharges . Only tenants tan now file such suits . The only penalty which can be evoked by the housing expediter is restoration to the tenants of the actual amount of the overcharge. 3 . Provide criminal penalties ? jail sentences , tines or both  --  for convicted rent law violators , 1711S proposal is designed to give the housing expediter " weapons " to back up his orders . Wo n't Ask Appeal Change Woods did not mention any proposal to change the provision in the present rent law which deprived him of his power under the previous statute to reject arbitrarily recommendations of local rent boards . The present law provides that the emergency , court of appeals established under the - 1942 price control act shall review decisions of local boards which the housing expediter refuses to approve . A spokesman for Woods said he does not plan to seek a change in this provision . There was also no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision that landlords and tenants could voluntarily enter into leases calling for a 15 percent rent increase and extending thru Dec. 31 , 1949.                     