@@705838

txt CAMDEN , N. J. , Sept. ** a vote of 382 to 5 , delegates to the seventh national convention of the United Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers of America , C. I. 0. , approved today President Roosevelt 's policy of aid to Great Britain , Soviet Russia , China and all other nations resisting Hitlerism . In a resolution adopted without discussion the convention urged that the policy of cooperation with foreign foes of fascism be applied with all possible speed and energy " to the end that this menace to our country may be defeated for all time . " The overwhelming vote in favor of the resolution was regarded as a blow to John L. Lewis , former president of the C. I. 0. , who has condemned the Roosevelt policies land has urged the United States to stand aloof from the conflict abroad . The U. E. R. M. W. A. , with collective agreements covering 316,000 workers , is one of the five largest unions in the C. I. 0 . Bitter Fight on Red Issue The statement on international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention today , but there was bitter debate behind the closed doors of committee rooms on the issue of granting local unions the right to bar Communists , Nazis or Fascists from holding office . James B. Carey , president of the Electrical Workers and national secretary of the C. I. 0. , has set forth his conviction that locals should- have the right to define their own standards for office , but he was able to command the support of only two of the eleven members of the union 's general executive board when the matter was considered by the board six months ago . Mr. Carey 's refusal to abandon his insistence that locals receive autonomy to decide who might be excluded from positions of leadership was reported tonight to have given impetus to a movement to I displace him as president of the union . Albert J. Fitzgerald of Lynn , Mass. , and international vice president and president of the union 's New England district , was mentioned as a possible candidate against Mr. Cai ey but there remained a strong possibility that the entire issue might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carey 's reelection came from two main sources  --  delegates who believed that the pressure of his duties as C. L 0 . secretary left him insufficient time to devote to the a ltivities of the U. E. R. M. W. A. and those who asserted that he had " given comfort to reactionary // C. I.0 . UNIT BACKS U. S. WAR POLICY // forces " by condemning the role of Communists within the union . Mr. Carey 's supporters acknowledged the sincerity of some of those subscribing to the view that he had been obliged to neglect the work of his own union because of his C. I. 0 . post , although they maintained that this criticism had been fostered be left-wing elements with a view to undermining Mr. Carey 's position . The Carey backers said the protracted illness of Phillip Murray , C. I. 0 . president , had made it necessary for Mr. Carey to assume a larger share than usual of the administrative work of the C. I. 0. , but that the electrical workers had benefited through the increased influence of the head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Carey adherents for his hostility toward Communistic influence in the union . In the period before the Nazi invasion of Russia the left-wingers opposed the Roosevelt policies on aid to the Allies and Mr. Carey , a Roosevelt supporter , found himself in constant conflict with this group because of his endorsement of the efforts of the National Defense Mediation Board to settle strikes in which the union was involved . Since the switch in the Communist " party line , " Mr. Carey has twitted the left-wingers in the columns of the union newspaper on executing " a back flip with a full twist . " In one signed editorial he declared that the performance of a circus trapeze artist constituted entertainment but that " political acrobats in pink tights " posing as labor leaders were a disgrace to the union and an insult to the intelligence of the membership . " Asked to End " Red Baiting " Out of the welter of rumors that came from the committee rooms today emerged an authoritative report that Mr. Carey had been assured that he could return to office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " but that he had greeted this suggestion with a flat " no . " He made a similar reply when asked whether he would renounce the C. I. 0 . secretaryship if reelected president of the U. E. R. M. W. A. Mr. Carey , it was understood , took the view that he could not conscientiously abandon his duties in Washington while Mr. Murray was still ill . The C. L 0 . president is not expected to return to his office before the C. I. 0 . national convention in mid-November . Mr. Carey declined to make any commitment on whether he would limit his service in the C. I. 0 . post to the period of Mr. Murray 's recovery . Compromise Proposals Gain The possibility that Mr. Carey would have to fight to hold this job was reduced when it became known that compromise proposals on the question of barring subversive elements had made headway in the committees on resolutions and constitution and that unanimous reports might be presented by both committees . The resolutions committee , according to informed sources , will bring out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member who commits acts of disloyalty to the United States or the union , but will omit specific mention of communism . The constitution committee , these sources said , is studying a companion proposal to give locals power to define their own standards on who might run for office . Like the other , this resolution would not refer directly to communism but it would allude to the motion to be offered by the resolutions committee on allegiance to this government and the best interests of the union . This compromise formula , it was said , would be acceptable to Mr. Carey and to those opposed to any direct condemnation of communism . Mr. Carey 's associates as national officers of the U. E. R. M. W. A. are Julius ? rnpsak , secreIftary-treasurer , and James J. Matles , director of organization , both of whom have been identified with the left wing . No opposition to their redesignation has been announced . The balloting for all three posts is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon 's session . 