@@705324

txt Bomber and fighter planes of the British Royal Air Force , over Saturday night and in daylight yesterday , attacked docks at Brest , Boulogne and Ostend and maintained an almost constant vigil over the Nazis ' invasion coast between those ports and over the Strait of Dover . The counter-offensive action was on a mass scale , officials stating that " well over 100 British planes " took part . Throughout the Sabbath Britain went her quiet way with only a few attacks by Nazi raiders . Last night and into the early hours of today no German planes were reported over England . Fog that had hung over the Channel for days was replaced yesterday by bright sunshine . Off Dover , howeyed , there was a strong northwest wind , it was bitterly cold and there remained enough haze to blot out the French coast . At night the haze was thicker and the sea was fairly calm . Guard Against Surprise All things considered , the activ ties of the R. A. F. , beginning after dark Saturday , were not without significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were seeking to impede Nazi invasion preparations at the source and guarding against a surprise attempt . Needless to say the land forces on this side of the Channel were on the alert . Both British and German fighters were extremely active over the Strait , maintaining constant patrols . R. A. F. fighters with a small bomber force penetrated to parts of occupied France , despite furious efforts by the German ground batteries and fighter squadrons to drive them off . This daylight raid followed an attack by aircraft of the Coastal Command Saturday night on the docks at Brest . Just before dawn yesterday a small force of R. A. F. bombers blasted explosives on the piers at Boulogne and Ostend . Later raids were made . the Air Ministry reported , " by single aircraft of the Coastal Command on enemy airdromes at Ostend and Berck , " which is on the French coast south of Boulogne . All the British planes engaged in the daylight raids returned to their bases safely , but two of those on reconnaissance patrols Saturday night failed to come back , officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escorted bombers that strafed barges along the quays at Boulogne and others intercepted German fighters assigned to meet the attackers . American-Born Pilot Gets Foe One Messerschmitt 109 was shot down by a 28-year-old Americanborn pilot of an R. A. F. fighter squadron . The R. A. F. claimed destruction of four Nazi planes by the fighter and Coastal Command craft while carrying out sweeps of the Dover Strait and enemy-occupied territory . Three of the German planes were reported shot down by the British fighters and the fourth by the gunner of a Coastal Command bombing plane that the Nazi was attacking A British fighter pilot whose engine stalled over Northern France managed to glide eighty miles back to his base in Southern England , it was stated . While London had another quiet day , other parts of Britain were not quite so fortunate . A Dornier dropped eight bombs on the outskirts of a town in East Anglia yesterday morning . They broke many windows , but caused no casualties . Likewise there was 1I " slight " enemy activity over the southeast coast , but so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Northeast England a Nazi plane circled over a coastal town , but fled when the anti-aircraft guns went into action . I At another Northeast town a Nazi plane flying low pumped machinegun bullets into the streets , but inflicted no casualties . A few persons were reported injured and some damage done by bombs dropped in the afternoon along the Kentish coast . Forebodings of Blow Increase Such respite as the people of this country have from the air war is an uneasy one . The week end brought a sense of mounting tension and spread the conviction that before much longer they will face Armageddon on their own shores . The Sunday papers were full of articles by military experts predicting that Adolf Hitler inevitably must try soon to win the war by a decisive stroke against this country . Unanimously they predicted that he must fail ; but they likewise asserted that in beating off the attack Britain must expect to suffer grievous losses and tremendous destruction . There are few illusions here about what may lie ahead , and yet there is an equanimity that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes . Yesterday , for instance , A. A. Somerville , a member of Parliament , speaking at Maidenhead , calling on his constituents to carry gas masks , remarked that now hardly one civilian in fifty was doing so . This was British understatement , for in recent weeks people have fallen almost wholly into the habit of leaving these cumbersome appurtenances at home on the piano or in some other more or less convenient place for them to gather dust . ; east September it wag rare to see any one of any age without one . The newspapers lately have taken up a drive to impress on people that it is not the mark of a sissy to carry a gas mask , but that it is unpatriotic not to do so . Warnings in Washington Noted Statements Made by such officials as American Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox before the Congressional committees on the LeaseLend Bill have perhaps heightened the feeling here that the crisis of the war is approaching , for there have been no contraditions from the leading statesmen here . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every quarter here that , now more than ever , every soldier , sailor , aviator and Home Guardsman must be on his toes to defend Britain from invasion . London has had its twelfth raidfree night in thirteen . True , air circles are inclined to attribute the lull in Nazi activity to the bad weather over the Continent , but in the average citizen 's mind there remains a suspicion that peaceful nights may have a more ominous significance . While Prime Minister Winston Churchill was showing Harry L. Hopkins , President Roosevelt 's special envoy , around Portsmouth recently , an air raid was under way there , it is now disclosed . Also , in a recent raid on Portsmouth , the George Hotel where Admiral Lord Nelson breakfasted on Sept. 14. 1805 , before embarking aboard the Victory to die five weeks later at the Battle of Trafalgar , was destroyed by fire . Bombs dropped by the Nazi planes started a blaze that burned out the whole interior of the hotel , including the Nelson Room , in which was a four-poster bed , supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England .                     