@@707789

txt ! MADRID RETREATS Reduces Nazis ' Wolfram Flow to Trickle , Begins Eviction of Spies WILL FREE 5 ITALIAN SHIPS Spain Again to Get Oil Under Anglo-U . S. Accord  --  Talks With Portugal Proceed The State Department 's announcement , Page S. 13y 131M2-1.1 " 11 .. A111 JD . EICIDJLEN Special to . TMCID Wa-Ev Voris Mrsa . WASHINGTON , May ** important source of supply of the strategic mineral wolfram , used in hardening steel , has been substantially denied to the German war machine through an agreement with Spain , announced simultaneously today here and in London . Under its terms Spanish exports of the mineral will be reduced from a normal volume of 1,000 tons to 280 tons for the rest of this most critical war year . In addition , Spain has agreed to expel designated Axis agents from Tangier , Spanish zone in North Africa , and from the Spanish mainland and to close the German consulate and other Axis agencies in Tangier . In no month will the volume of Spain 's exports of wolfram to Germany exceed forty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazards , if fortune favors the Allied arms in the next few weeks and months . Spain produces annually 4,000 to 5,000 tons of wolfram . Other Points in Pact The wolfram issue was the most important covered by the agreement , which dealt with a number of other matters discussed in recent months by the Americans and British with the Franco Government . Spain has agreed to release five Italian merchant ships that have been interned in her ports , leaving two for arbitration of their ownership . Six previously were released , thirteen having originally been interned . She also will arbitrate the question of releasing interned Italian warships , the exact number of which is not known here . Spain has given assurances that // ? she has withdrawn all her forces from the Eastern Front , except possibly wounded and small administrative groups connected with their impending removal . In return for the Spanish concessions the United States has agreed to lift its embargo and permit Spanish tankers again to obtain petroleum from the Caribbean and packaged petroleum products from the United States . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Germany , but bowed to the insistence of Great Britain and accepted a compromise in view of over-all considerations in the war situation . Therefore Spain may export to the Reich twenty tons in each month of May and June and forty tons a month the remainder of this year . Hopes are entertained that Portugal will also consent to curtail sharply her wolfram exports to Germany . Negotiations with Portugal were described today as in process , but officials were not prepared to forecast how much longer they would require before a decision was reached . Sweden Still Holds Out The agreement with Spain followed shortly the one with Turkey under which chrome shipments were stopped from that country to Germany . However , Sweden has thus far failed to yield to Allied insistence that she reduce her shipments of ban-bearings to the Reich . The success thus far achieved in reducing the flow of supplies vitally needed by the German war machine is a result of the firmer policy adopted in recent months toward neutrals , by Washington and London . This attitude reflects the rowing confidence felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospects of victory . Before the petroleum embargo Spain obtained in her own tankers from the Caribbean 48,000 tons a month for metropolitan Spain and 1,300 tons a month for her colonies . In addition she obtained 1,500 tons of packaged petroleum products from the United States monthly . It is estimated that it will be forty-five days before Spanish tankers can go to the Caribbean and return with oil and oil products . The time element was also emphasized at the State Department concerning the agreement on wolfram . It was said that wolfram shipments from Spain had been so held up that there was little , if any , practical possibility that they would contribute to German military power this year . Last year , it was said , the Germains acquired licenses to export from Spain more than 1,100 tons of wolfram , of which about 800 was exported in 1943 and the rest in January , 1944 . The outlook for this year was more serious , for the Germans had acquired ' in settlement of some of ' their claims against the Spanish Government large purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to acquire wolfram . They had already purchased and ' had ready for export 1,300 tons . The exports were shut off entirely during the three months of negotiations . Germany is to get 280 tons , at the most , for the rest of this year . This is estimated to be about 10 per cent of what the Germans would have been able to buy .                     