@@710740

txt Storm winds of seventy-five miles an hour or more threatened this city early today as a vicious , unpredictable hurricane swept toward Louisiana from the Gulf of Mexico with widespread distress and multimillion dollar damage in its wake . The Weather Bureau reported last night that the center of the hurricane was expected to strike by mid-morning near the mouth of the Mississippi River , about fifty miles south of the city . Blasts of hurricane force were predicted for that area by daylight and for New Orleans a few hours later . Velocities up to 100 miles an hour prevailed at the storm 's core , located at midnight , Eastern daylight time , 140 miles , east southeast of Burwood , La. , east of New Orleans . Its lateral movement at that time was about fifteen miles an hour . Panicky refugees were fleeing from coastal danger spots or were waiting in boarded-up buildings for the blow . Winds at Gale Force Extreme caution was urged by the Weather Bureau against devastating winds and tides from northwest Florida to Louisiana . Winds of gale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were posted from Cedar Keys , Fla. , to Morgan City , La . The great storm 's path has been erratic since it rose up out of the Caribbean eight days ago . After pointing northward , it veered westward into the south Florida " gold coast " and lashed the heavily populated peninsula for twelve hours . Winds rose to 120 miles an hour and higher . Florida property damage was estimated at $12,000,000 , with the figure still mounting . Only four persons were known to have lost their lives but hundreds received minor injuries and thousands were driven from their homes and suffered hunger and other hardships . The winds left Florida at Fort Myers on the west coast at midnight and began weaving offshore up the Gulf Coast . At first they threatened to center their fury on the Pensacola-Apalachicola sector of the Florida coast . New Orleans , huge port city and center of Southern culture , is no stranger itself to storm disaster . A 120-mile-an-hour blow struck it in 1915 and left 350 persons dead in the city and in neighboring Louisiana and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snuffed out 3,000 lives in coastal Louisiana , although the city itself did not suffer heavily . With these disasters still remembered , Gulf Coast residents took every precaution against the latest threat . Schools Are Closed Along the Mississippi and East Louisiana coasts , boats put into harbors , aircraft were stored or flown out of the area , schools were ordered closed and a general alarm was spread . Some sixty ships tied up or anchored in the Mississippi River at New Orleans . At Mobile City buses evacuated 3,500 persons from a wartime housing project on Blakely Island . Acting Mayor Charles Baumhauer said the Bankhead vehicular tunnel under the Mobile River would be closed if waters inundated the approaches . A two-masted schooner , the Valkyrie , her decks awash , was reported breaking up in choppy seas of Timbalier Island . Two crewmen were sighted from the air on Isle Derni ? re , fifteen miles further west , and signaled they were safe . , A low-flying coast plane from Biloxi patrolled coastal waters between Mobile and the Mississippi passes , warning fishing craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against damage of several vessels under construction . Meanwhile , in the wake of the hurricane , water swirled over thousands of acres on Florida 's lower west coast , and Fort Myers estimated up to $1,000,000 damage . Highways around the city were thin ribbons in a vast grassy lake , and water stood twenty-four to thirty inches deep in the lowlands . Citrus groves were hard hit , with oranges and grapefruit almost carpeting the ground in some places . A weak radio report from Naples , a small town thirty-five miles south of Fort Myers , said roofs and sides of houses were crushed . Emergency crews feared they would find dead or seriously injured , as they began digging in the wreckage : Word from Nassau said the hurricane destroyed or severely damaged most of the houses and all the docks on the west end of Grand Bahamas . The island , most westerly of the Bahamas , is seventy-five miles east of Palm Beach . In Florida , the office of Gov . Millard F. Caldwell disclosed that President Truman had proclaimed an emergency in Florida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rehabilitation . Direct communication with most of Florida was impossible , but a partial appraisal of damage was as follows : Boca Raton-Miami Army Airfield ? $3,000,000 . Miami Beach ? $2,000,000 . Del Ray Beach ? $1,000,000 . Fort Myers ? $1,000,000 . There was no estimate from many communities , and tabulation was a slow process . Boulders Hurled 1,000 Feet At Palm Beach , the ocean highway was ten feet beneath the pounding waves , and the sea tore up a coral reef on the ocean floor and pitched boulders 1,000 feet inland . At Miami property damage was low , but twenty planes were destroyed . Heavy damage was reported in citrus and truck-farming areas of South Florida . At Vero Beach , some seventy-five miles above West Palm Beach , growers reported grapefruit loss of 40 to 50 per cent . Oranges withstood the pounding better , and only 5 per cent loss was expected in those areas which escaped the direct blow . There was no loss of life in the Okeechobee area , in contrast to the catastrophic storm of 1928 , when 1,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to roofs , trees and power lines . At Clewiston an airport hangar and several planes were destroyed . Heeding a Red Cross distress call , the Navy dispatched a bus with twenty cooks and three trucks of food for some 5,000 Everglades refugees who fled to Sebring . Alabama and Mississippi shrimp fishermen fled to safety as the , storm churned the Gulf , and seven I Cuban fishing boats sought skel-1 ter at Alligator Point . The Army Air Base at l3rooldey Field sent home about 4,500 civil- I ian workers , and emergency shelters were established in seven brick buildings . Opening of public schools , scheduled for today , was postponed until next week . Some business houses were boarded up . All Army and Navy bases in the threatened area evacuated all airworthy planes . At Montgomery nearly 300 Army and Navy planes , sent there for safety , were ordered still further inland .                     