@@711099

txt Driver education and less speed are responsible for Boston 's ' highway accident fatalities dropping to one sixth the national average , for cities with a population more than 100.000 , Rudolph . F. King , State Registrar of Motor Vehicles , said today . Mr. King was at the Charles Hurwitz Company in Brighton . where Mr. Hurwitz presented two sets of testing devices to Mr. King for use in classrooms where driver education courses are offered . Mr. Hurwitz is President of the Metropolitan- Boston Used Car Dealers Association that donated the testing devices . Big Drop Shown Throughout the Commonwealth said Mr. King , there were 33 highway fatalities during January and February , compared to 68 last year Co ? the same two months and 100 in 1941 . " Other New England States have had practically the same weather conditions as the ? Bay State this year , " continued Mt . King , " but the safety record fate of Massachusetts is ahead of them all . " Safety programs and driver education classes in many of Greater Boston high schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In the last four years , since these classes started , the accidents of youths 16 to 17 years of age have dropped 37 per cent . " Boys and girls , " he continued , " have realized their shortcomings through training devices , such as the two sets just donated by the MUCDA , and therefor , are taking the necessary precautions . " Many Off Road ? 111 .. King agreed that . heavy snow no doubt has kept many motorists oft the road this winter . but so it , has in other New England States , he pointed out . " At the end of February in Massachusetts , there were 51,000 more cars registered than for the same period the preceding year , and 45,000 more licensed drivers , " he said . " Speed kills , " said the Registrar . " We have been trying to make the public realize it for years and , slowly but surely many drivers are beginning to believe it . " The training devices presented to Mr. King will be displayed in a Boston department store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be turned over to the Driver Education Section of the Registry of Motor Vehicles by Mr. King to be loaned to schools teaching driver education . The equipment includes a " Finger Reactometer , , " which consists of a red and green light , that may be turned on or off by the teacher . When the green light goes off and the red on , the pupil puts his foot on the " brake . " Disk Shows Speed As , soon as the lights change a pencil traces on a graph that is on a rotating disk , such as on a phonograph . When the pedal is depressed , the disk stops rotating . The graph shows in hundredths of a second , the reaction time of the student . Another teSt is the rod test , which checks the depth perception of the motorist . Two small model cars must be lined up op. , posite a stop sign via strings from a distance of 25 feet . An inch is allowed for good perception by the student . Glare devices measure the time in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lights destroy good night vision . Another device measures the peripheral vision , or the side vision . A motorist should have 160 degrees of vision when look ' ing straight ahead , Mr. King said . One hundred and tiventy , degrees of vision is acceptable , he added . " A driver aware of his shortcomings has a chance to overcome them before it is too late , " Mr. King said .                     