@@712021

txt is " Adoption of a system of politically controlled medical practice , as recommended by President Truman would turn back the clock of medical progress in this country 50 years . " The American Medical Association so charges in a statement by Dr. Elmer L. Henderson , chairman of its board of trustees , adding : " The inevitable deterioration in the quality of care which would result from government herding of patients and doctors into assembly-line medical mills would lower the standards of healthy America to those of sick , regimented Europe . " Dr , Henderson 's statement follows in part : President Truman 's special message , asking enactment of a national compulsory health insurance program , deserves ? most careful scrutiny by Congress and by the American people , whose health would be seriously endangered if this Old World scourge is allowed to spread to our New World . There is neither hope nor promise of progress in this system of regimented rnedical , care . It is the discredited system of decadent nations which are now living off the bounty of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jeopardize the health of our people but would gravely endanger our fi eedom . It is one of the final , irrevocable steps toward state socialism  --  and every American should be alerted to the danger . , Objective Endorsed The President sets forth an objective which all of us can warmly endorse  --  namely , bringing adequate health services within the reach . of all the people . The doctors of America , in cooperation with the prepaid medical and hospital care plans and the many splendid voluntary health insurance systems , have made great progress in achieving that objective , so we have no quarrel with the President on that score . President Truman , however , proceeds from a desirable objective to a highly undesirable proposal for achieving that objective . There is a great deal of double talk in the President 's message , but what he actually proposes is a national compulsory health insurance system which would regiment doctors and patients alike under a vast bureaucracy of political administrators , clerks , bookkeepers , , and lay committees . Every wage earner , every self- employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payroll taxes , eventually mounting to a tax of 8 or 10 per cent on every paycheck , to support this system  --  and the . cost of medical care , instead of being reduced , would be doubled and trebled by bureaucratic overhead . Extravagant Price The record is clear in every country where compulsory health insurance has been adopted , It is cheap in quality , but extravagantly high in price . There are many fallacies and misstatements in the President 's message , some of which can not go ? unchallenged . President Truman , for example , is about a decade behind the times in his statistics on the growth of the voluntary health insurance systems . He reports that only 3,500,000 people have insurance which provides adequate health protection . Ten or fifteen years ago that was true . Today , Mr. President , 55. - 000.000 Americans are protected , under the voluntary health insuralice systems of this ' country , against the costs of hospital care , and 3:7,000.000 policyholders are insured against surgical or medical bills , Misstatement Cited The most serious misstatement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is regrettable any President of . the United States would have uttered  --  is the repetition of that now completely discredited statement that tens of thousands of persons die needlessly in this country , due to lack of medical care . The President , in this instance , as in others , undoubtedly based his statement On the distorted report of the federal security administrator . whose listing of " needless deaths " included 40,000 deaths from accidents and 115.000 from cancer and heart disease .                     