@@710863

txt Baruch Says United Nations Must Be Made to Succeed With a prayer for a revisitation of Woodrow Wilson 's spirit Ito lead the nations to world order , Bernard M. Baruch last night uttered a solemn warning that despite " clashing ideologies " the - United Nations must be made to succeed . The world , with the failure of the League of Nations a historical fct and the present concert of nations beset by difficulties , " can not count on a third chance , " he declared . The text of Mr. Baruch 's speech is printed on Page 22 . , Baruch , aWessed a nati2nwide radio audience and 300 distinguished guests at the WaldorfAstoria Hotel on the occasion of receiving the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award for distinguished service . It was the organization 's twenty-fifth anniversary dinner . Presentation of the award was made by Josephus Daniels , Secretary of the Navy in the Wilson Cabinet . It was conferred in recognition of Mr. Baruch 's " wisdom and courage , dedicated without re , serve to the service 3f his country during and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dinner were Warren R. Austin , United States representative the United Nations and Mr. Baruch 's successor as this country 's representative on the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission , and Frank Altschul , president of the foundation . Mr. Baruch 's remarks 4vere broadcast nationally over facilities of the American Broadcasting Company and heard here over WJZ . Among the guests on the dais were Mrs. Woodrow Wilson , Mrs. Eleanor Wilson and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt . Of . Wilson , Mr. Baruch said that he was " one of ' the few great men I have known " and that " as events crowd upon one another his figure looms constantly larger as a landmark of history . " Mr. Baruch recounted this nation 's failure to enter the League of Nations , whose goal he said was set by America 's first World War President as " the reign of law based upon the consent of the governed and sustained by the organized opinion of mankind . ' He said // we now have another chance but under more difficult circumstances . Today , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as contrasted with seven a quarter century ago , none of whom , with the single exception of the United States , was strong enough to defy the others in a league . " This is a very different state of affairs , particularly since clashing ideologies complicate the situation , " Mr . Baruch said . " It is much more difficult now to make the United Nations work than it would have been twenty-five years ago . We would deceive ourselves if we thought that all of the techniques of the old League of Nations are adequate today . New devices and methods are required especially in this air and atomic age . Yet this time we must suc teed in making the United Nation live and grow . We can not count on a tiiird chance . " Cites Mass Ferments The world after 1918 , he said , permitted gangsters who took advantage of the mass ferments of the times to come into control of governments . The police states of Italy , Germany and Japan led their peoples into chains and were destroyed . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' unfree ' way of life , which claims to be ' democratic . ' " Without mentioning Russia , Mr. Baruch said it was up to us to demonstrate our belief that no government should impose its ideas upon another , " either openly or surreptitiously . " and that we believe " not in coercion but in the propaganda of example . " He asserted our only motive was one of peace and to this end we were extending unselfish aid to help others to help themselves . ' We do not , he declared , seek intervention in other governments and want none in ours or in those of small nations who must rely on the United Nations for aid and protection . Mr. Baruch undertook to dispel the " legend " that Wilson was harsh and dictatorial . He said he always found him ready to seek the advice of others but he never would permit friendship to interfere with the public interest . Mr. Baruch closed with a simple expression of thanks at the bracketing of his name with that of " this great leader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atomic control discussions since the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima . He credited Mr. Baruch with being the foremost spokesman of the United States " for a specific proposal which pushes the concept of world organization to a new forward position . " The American proposals on the control of atomic energy , outlined broadly by Mr. Baruch , were of " unprecedented boldness , generosity and fairness , " Mr. Austin declared , and came to be regarded as " the bedrock of effective control . " Later , he said , the majority of the control commission set up safeguards they considered " essential in order to prevent national rivalries in the field of atomic energy and to provide security against atomic warfare . " Despite the non-acceptance and non-cooperation of the Soviet Union and Poland , the delegations of ten other countries and their scientists have devised practical measures " that will be effective and accomplish the task , " Mr. Austin said . " This is not something on which people can choose up sides on the basis of one 's preference for a philosophy of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must choose on the basis of the merits of the proposal  --  and its effectiveness in meeting the terms of the atomic problem . " Mr. Daniels spoke of Mr. Baruch 's services to the nation . He said Mr. Baruch twice declined a portfolio in the Cabinet , and for thirty-five years has placed his " unselfish counsel " and his knowledge of national and international affairs at the service of Presidents and other leaders of the country . Daniels Praises Baruch Mr. Daniels recalled milestones in Mr. Baruch 's career , as unpaid chairman of the War Industries Board in World War I when he was " Wilson 's right-hand man ; " as a trusted and able adviser in peace negotiations in Paris ; as a co-worker and friend . " closer than a brother , " in the fight for the League of Nations at home . Mr. Altschul said the United Nations " proved a belated victory in the cause for which Woodrow Wilson died , " and that " in spite of early difficulties , some of which seem at times almost insurmountable , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mankind . " Tracing the history of the foundation , Mr. Altschul said it held its first meeting at the home of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in December , 1922 ; that in 1929 it acquired from the League of Nations Association the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Library , and that the Foundation ) now published The United Nations News , a digest and summary of all important United Nations happenings . In 1944 , he said , the foundation acquired the building at 45 East Sixty-fifth Street , next door to the one where the first meeting was held .                     