@@712188

txt Edward F. Prichard Jr .. 34 , former boy wonder of the New Deal , was convicted of election fraud conspiracy by a federal court jury here today and was sentenced to two years imprisonment . Prichard 's law narrner . A. E. Prichard Funk Jr. , 27 , son of Kentucky 's attorney general , who was a co-defendant with Prichard on charges they conspired to forge and cast 254 ballots in the general election last Nov. 2 in Bourbon county , was found not guilty . The jury deliberated 5 hours and 10 minutes before reaching its verdict . Federal Judge H. Church Ford summoned Prichard to the bench as soon as the verdict was-announced and asked him if he had anything to say . " Not At This Time " " Not at this time , " responded the former New Deal luminary , whose meteoric career in high government office followed his graduation from Harvard university law school in 1938 and an apprenticeship hi the office of Felix Frankfurter , now a Supreme court justice . Prichard 's government service included jobs as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Vinson . He was chief counsel of the office of economic stabilization under James F. Byrnes . He became counsel for the Democratic national committee , resigning last year to.practice law here . After Judge Ford had meted out sentence , defense attorneys asked him ' to permit Prichard to remain at liberty on bond pending appeal . The judge refused , stating he had no further jurisdiction in the case . Deputy marshals then conducted Prichard to the county jail and locked him up . His attorneys said they will ask the Circuit Court of Appeals to fix an appeal bond tomorrow . Prichard was visibly shaken by the verdict . A few moments before he heard his own fate he had listened to the jury report its not guilty finding for Funk and had heard his law partner give a suppressed whoop of joy as he and and his distinguished father embraced at the counsel table . " Cut Us To Size " United States Atty . Claude Stephens . who prosecuted the case , warned the jurors in his summation not to be awed by the prominence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to your jury room , you cut us all down to our size . " Funk had been linked to the ballot forgeries only by handwriting . vidence but Prichard was accused of making a voluntary confession to Bourbon County Circuit Judge Nilliam B. Ardery . Judge Ardery testified for the government that Prichard came to its home and sought advice about ; he ballot . frauds , admitting he and ; wo others had engineered ballot Norgeries . The judge was not permitted to name the two persons mentioned by Prichard as his associates . Prichard failed to take the stand phis own defense .                     