@@706427

txt Gasoline rationing for some 9,000.000 motorists along the Atlantic seaboard will become a reality today . How long this novel experience will last for these motorists , living in a nation having 65 per cent of the world 's oil production on a restricted basis , depends on how rapidly alternate methods of transportation are put into use . Tankers normally supplied this area with 95 per cent of its requirements . With the best railway system in the world , aided by inland waterways , highways and pipe lines , the oil industry and American ingenuity , given a ieasonably free hand , can meet the East Coast oil demand even if the tanker movement should not be resumed . The consumption of oil products in the Eastern area , including the ninety-three counties in Pennsylvania , New York , West Virginia and Maryland which are exempt from rationing , is about 40 per cent of that of the entire nation . Last year , consumption for the Atlantic seaboard area averaged about 1,500,000 barrels daily , a new record . At present , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,250,000 to 1,300,000 barrels of oil products daily . No new automobiles are being built , and it is estimated that there are roughly 1,000,000 fewer automobiles now registered in this area than in 1941 . In addition , many industries using fuel oil have been converted to coal , and it is considered likely that this trend will continue . The industry already has made a good start in meeting the demand . Por the week ended last Tuesday , the railroads brought East in tank cars an average of 652,000 barrels of oil daily . An additional 210,000 barrels daily is being brought in by pipe lines and other methods of transportation , excluding tankers . Also , there is a crude oil production of 100,000 barrels daily in Pennsylvania , New // AMPLE OIL SUPPLY POSSIBLE BY LAND // York and West Virginia . The present available supplies thus lack only 275,000 barrels daily to meet the requirements of 1,265,000 daily as recently estimated by the Petroleum Industry War Council . The present large movement of oil by rail is being carried out without any difficulty . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement could be stepped up to 800,000 or 850,000 barrels daily without straining railroad and terminal facilities . This would leave only 75,000 to 125,000 barrels daily to be brought in by other methods . The oil industry now has under way plans to bring in more than this quantity of oil . Two pipe lines which have been moving oil westward from Bayonne and Philadelphia are having their flow reversed . Combined they can bring in 50,000 barrels daily . Also , by the installation of additional pumping stations , the capacity of the Plantation Pipe Line in the Southeast can be increased to 90,000 barrels daily from the present 00,000 . With the aid of tank trucks and barges , the rest of the . estimated demand can be met with ease . These methods of moving oil cost considerably more than tank ships , which have proved the cheapest form of transport . Usually , the cost of bringing oil to the Atlantic seaboard in tankers is no more than ' h-cent a gallon . By rail the cost is about 4 cents . At present prices for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is estimated that the companies are losing 2 to 214 cents a gallon on all the oil brought here in tank cars . Stimulus Seen in Price Rise Anticipating that eventually they will receive adjustment , the large oil companies so far have not allowed the price situation to retard the use of alternate methods of transportation . If a proper price were established , however , the belief is that it would stimulate the use of these methods of transport by the hundreds of independent distributors in the East , some of whom formerly obtained their oil products in tankers from the Gulf Coast and California . The oil industry generally is not interested in taking advantage of the present situation in order to make big profits , petroleum officials here have emphasized repeatedly . However , the companies can not afford to operate at such a huge loss indefinitely despite their present financial strength . The Atlantic Refining Company , which markets exclusively in the East , reported a net loss of 47 cents a share on its common stock in March in contrast to a net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by tanker began to decline . Just what should be done relative to the absorption of higher transportation costs on oil is a question on which there is a difference of opinion in Washington . Some believe that the burden should be assumed by the government , while others think that the price should be increased to a point where the consumers would pay the higher freight charges . The objection to the higher ceiling price to cover these costs is that it would add to the dangers of inflation . It is argued that to cover the full cost of bringing fuel oil here in tank cars would result in a rise of $1 a barrel in that fuel . A large part of the fuel oil consumed in the East is used by public utility companies to generate electric power . At the present rates for electric service , it is stated that the utility companies could not possibly absorb the higher fuel cost . The utilities would demand higher rates , which they would receive . In turn , the wage earners would ask higher rates of pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is maintained , would be set in motion a dangerous inflationary spiraL Under the proposed government subsidy plan , the companies bringing oil into the East would be reimbursed for all transportation expenditures above 40 cents a barrel . If the cost should amount to $1.75 a barrel , the United States , Government thus would pay $1.35 of the total . There would be no increase , however , in the present ceiling prices for ' oil products . Such a subsidy plan , it is contended , would give government authorities in Washington another excuse for assuming complete control over distribution . The government , because of its investment , would be interested in restricting consumption as much as possible . If such a subsidy were put into effect , it is feared that in the course of time oil consumption in the East would be limited mainly to those engaged in essential war activities and in government service .                     