@@709191

txt Assistant Secretary of State Braden was preaching good democratic doctrine and good American policy when he said he conceived it to be the duty of this country in its relations with others to speak out against tyranny and oppression wherever it flourished , and always to " throw our weight on the side of the principles of justice and freedom  --  the principles for which this country . was born and for which we have just fought a tragically costly war . " This was the policy that Mr. Braden followed as our Ambassador to Argentina . It is quite obviously of Argentina he is thinking when he speaks . He did not conceive it to be his duty while he was in Buenos Aires to align himself with Colonel Perlin and the rest or even pretend a great friendship for them . He considered himself to be an Ambassador to the Argentine people , not just their Government . In language that may not have been always diplomatic but at least was not ambiguous , he told the people of Argentina what the United States thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy the Colonels ' Government dared not attempt to silence . It is a good answer to Mr. Braden 's critics that it was after his fighting speeches  --  and not until then  --  that the democratic elements of Argentina began to speak out and to go into the streets for great democratic rallies such as Buenos Aires never before had seen . As courageous an Ambassador as Mr. Braden proved himself to be would not be amiss in Buenos Aires again . Unaccountably , Mr. Braden 's post has not been filled since his elevation to the Assistant Secretaryship . It was promising too for the forthcoming Pan American Conference in Rio de Janeiro to have Mr. Braden again espouse the Uruguayan proposal for collective intervention in countries where basic human rights are denied the people by dictatorial Governments , as in Argentina . Mr. Braden 's remarks give hope that the Uruguayan proposal will be added to the agenda of the Rio conference , not put aside for some later consideration . It quite reasonably can be included there , we believe , even if the primary purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pact of unity against aggression from without . Aggression from within is as much to be feared . In our relations with other countries , as Mr. Braden says , it must be our rule always to strive for collective action . Especially must we follow that rule in our own hemisphere , because we are by far the most economically and militarily powerful country in the two Americas . But that does not mean we should always wait for someone else to take the lead , that we should keep silent when evil is before us , that we should ever fail to throw our weight on the side of justice and liberty and against tyranny . A see-no-evil , hearno-evil policy is as bad , or worse , than one of unilateral and hasty intervention in any country of whose Government we do n't approve .                     