@@710522

txt WASHINGTON , June ** M. Baruch urged today enactment of a sixteen-point , work-or-fight mobilization program which he said would enable this country to cope with an emergency without repeating the preparedness errors of the two World Wars . Speaking at the graduation exercises of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces , the adviser of Presidents put universal military training at " the apex of the PYr.alnld . " Mr. Baruch said that he saw no immediate threat of war with Russia . He asserted , however , that he found " irritations , " which he did not fear would become " explosions , " then added : " But in the cold war that is being waged against us , we must , always remember that their objective is our unrest . We can guard against that by a firm belief in ourselves , under the mignificent flowering of our century and a half of national life . " Russian Failure Predicted Mr. Baruch said that Russia would be disappointed if she expected the United States to suffer an economic collapse . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asserted as he denounced Russian sympathizers who were trying to change the American way of life . Mr. Baruch said that he doubted that Great Britain 's " great experiment " would succeed . He questioned whether Britain could go on with collectivism , socialism and regimentation without endangering the principles for which she fought alongside this country . Presented as " father and master of economic mobilization " by Brig . Gen. E. B. , college commandant , Mr. Baruch read an outline of action drawn up by the War Industries Board of World War I , of which he was chairman . President Wilson had accepted it , he added , " as the mandate of our existence . " That formula of thirty years ago was still good , Mr. Baruch as // serted , and yet he added , the early 1 errors of World War I were repeated in World War II . " Faltering step by faltering step we moved towards controls , " Mr. Baruch said , " but those controls were never sufficient and farreaching enough . If they had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our casualties lowered and billions saved . Despite warnings of graver danger , the English and French made even more mistakes . " Also , as a result of piecemeal price control , we are now faced with inflation which , next to human slaughter , maiming and destruction , is the worst consequence of war . It creates lack of confidence of men in themselves and in their government . " If , from the beginning , there had been an effective over-all price control law including everything  --  regulation and control of all prices , wages , rents and food ? there would have been a quicker ending of the war , a lessened cost , and less dissatisfaction among all classes . " But after having granted favors to one class , group after group fought for favors , until we found ourselves upon economic stilts . Then restrictions were removed while peace was still distant . " In addition to his sixteen points , he endorsed the pending bill for uniform hemispheric armament and training to " make South , Central and North America a complete unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobilization to Executive action , Mr. Baruch proposed that his " minimum program " should be " placed upon the statute books , ready to function , should war come . " The points of his plan were as follows : " Mobilize the full might of America  --  militarily , economically and spiritually . " Have universal military training . " All men and women subject to mobilization with a work-or-fight clause . The same applies to all professions , science , callings , crafts , industrial and agricultural efforts , including labor of all kinds . In other words , there should be a pool of all our manpower  --  brains and brawn  --  ready to be tapped at any moment for war purposes . " An industrial plan ready to go into effect with full control of production , distribution and prices , with the power of allocation , priority and even exclusion for everything . The wisdom with which we organize our resources , men , money and materials will make for the greatest of all  --  winning morale . Would End War Profits " Taking unfair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price regulation , tax and savings program There must be only enough profit to keep our economy and production going . That can not be done by favoring any one segment of our society . " While we must keep our civilian structure alive , skeletonize by restricting materials and manpower for unnecessary wants . In the last war too much went for wants rather than needs . " An organization to export materials in demand by other nations and to buy the things our nation needs or desires to keep from enemy hands . " Accumulation of critical imports . " Retention of war plants , particularly synthetic rubber plants . " Intensified scientific research . " A standard form , of contract set up now . " An Intelligence Service enlarged far beyond what now exists . " Information and propaganda organized , gone over and continually improved to be ready when action demands . " Until some effective international guarantee of security has been established , as envisioned by Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt , or resort to war eliminated , we can not disregard the dangers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made of underground industrial establishments , refuge for civilians and dispersal of populations . " These organizations should be planned in considerable detail and gone over every three or six months by the National Resources Board . Competent men should be trained to fill the key positions . The Chiefs of Staff should make recommendations to the Resources Board for such changes as they deem wise and necessary . Setting up of industrial and social machinery should not be left to M-Day . " All organizations continually exposed to the proper Congressional committees , keeping them in touch with defense plans . The American people must be taken into the fullest confidence . They will do anything required of them if they are told why . Do not try to fool them . "                     