@@711234

txt John L. Lewis gave hard coal operators a 60-day notice of intention to end the UMW contract covering 80.000 anthracite workers . Mr. Lewis told the producers he wants a new contract for the UMW by July 10 . He also asked for wage conferences to begin May 20 . A bill to admit 200.000 European refugees into the United States went before a House Republican Steering Committee session for a party policy decision . President Truman formally accepted the resignation of Clinton P. Anderson as Secretary of Agriculture with an endorsement of his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for the Senate from New Mexico . Boston : Improved Air Service Pattern . Set Northeast Airlines of Boston and E. W. Wiggins Airways of Norwood disclosed the terms of ap agreement whereby it was hoped an improved pattern of air service for New England would result . Page 5 . Legislation to place the State of Massachusetts in the lottery or sweepstakes business to raise funds for veterans housing was given an adverse report by the Joint Committee on Ways and Means . President Truman nominated John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Internal Revenue for Connecticut . He is to succeed Frank W. Kramer , who was removed after his conviction on charges involving campaign solicitations . In Europe : Soviet Team to Visit U. S. Zone Soviet repatriation team of 10 men is expected to enter the United States Zone of Austria today for a six-week visit in an attempt to persuade Russian citizens to return to their homeland . The United States Army announced in a Viennese dispatch that no displaced person would be forcibly repatriated . Prime Ministers of Norway , Sweden . and Denmark urged strengthening ties between their countries to " secure freedom and peace . " A Stockholm dispatch said the three spoke at the 18th congress of the Swedish Social Democrat Party . Czechoslovakia 's new constitution was adopted by unanimous vote of Parliament , Alois Prochazka , general rapporteur for the docu ment , reaffirmed that his country wanted to pattern itself more after Russia . Former Prince of Russia , August Wilhelm , faces a de-Nazification court in Ludwigsburg , Germany , today . The third son of Kaiser Wilhelm Joined the Nazi Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists Move on Mukden Heavy Chinese Communist forces are moving on Mukden in what a Nationalist dispatch described as a prelude to a decisive battle for the big Manchurian city .                     