@@708515

txt ARGENTINA LIKELY TO JOIN WAR TODAY Cabinet Decides Unanimously ; but Defers Announcement ? Protest to Reich Bared By ARNALDO CORTESI By Cable to THE NEw YORK TIMES . BUENOS AIRES , March 26 ? The Foreign Ministry announced today that on March 3 it had sent through the Swedish Foreign Ministry an energetically worded protest to the German Government against the brutal treatment suffered by an Argentine citizen , Silvio Vaccarezza , his wife and two minor children at the hands of German military authorities in Italy . This announcement followed by a few hours another Cabinet session called to consider the situation created for Argentina by the Inter - American Conference on Problems of War and Peace , held in Mexico City . Acting Foreign Minister Cesar Ameghino told the press that " the final decision concerning Argentina 's international position was unanimously reached " at the meeting and that " the Cabi // net will meet again tomorrow at 11:30 A. M. to sign the pertinent decrees , which will be made public immediately afterward . " The timing of the two announcements left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Cabinet , though Dr. Ameghino carefully abstained from giving the slightest hint . Most Argentines will be surprised if they do not find themselves at war tomorrow . The newspaper Critica said that the Government had decided to " declare Argentina in a state of belligerence with the Axis , " press services reported from Buenos Aires . Quarrel With Berlin Significant Some doubt was still felt whether the intention was to declare war on both Germany and Japan or on Japan alone . That the news of Argentina 's quarrel with Germany was kept hidden until today suggests , however , that Argentina will go the whole distance and declare war simultaneously on both surviving Axis partners . The presumed imminence of a declaration of war gave rise this evening to demonstrations by groups of young Nationalists , who paraded in groups a few hundred strong shouting against war and asking for Vice President Juan D. Peron 's " head . " The police were prepared for them . Strong contingents were kept in readiness at all strategic points , including the United States and British Embassies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as tear gas squads intervened repeatedly , dispersing the demonstrators . The Argentine note to Germany said that Senor Vaccarezza and his family not only were arrested in Santa Maria del Taro , Province of Parma , Italy , but also suffered " se-1 rious bodily lesions , " were about to be shot and had all their goods , amounting to about $35,000 confiscated . All this was defined by the Argentine Government as " a brutal attempt . " The note added that " these acts require no qualification and are added to acts formerly perpetrated by the armed forces of the Reich against persons and property of Argentine citizens . " The note ends with a demand for moral and material reparations . If Argentina declares war tomorrow , her decision will have been reached after three weeks of heated , often dramatic , discussions in which first one tendency and then another seemed to prevail . Officers Debate Issued Numerous meetings of officers have been held at the Army base at Campo de Mayo on the outskirts of Buenos Aires , and at the Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , among other things , the elimination of Dr. Romulo Etcheverry Boneo , Minister of Justice and Public Instruction from the Cabinet . His resignation was made known Saturday . There was evidence that up to the last minute the Cabinet had considerable difficulty making up its mind . Even today 's events did not occur according to the established plan . The Argentine press and all foreign correspondents were summoned to Government House at 10 o'clock this morning and the stage was set for a historic communication to be made . After having been kept waiting three and a quarter hours , they were finally told that the decisions would be made known tomorrow . Today 's Cabinet council was attended by all Ministers except Dr. Etcheverry Boneo , whose resignation was accepted later . Col. Amayo Avalos , Minister of Agriculture , was appointed to act temporarily in his stead . The meeting was attended also by Gen. Carlos von der Beck , Chief of the Army General Staff ; Vice Admiral Hecfor Vermengo Lima , Chief of the Naval General Staff ; Brig . Gen. Bartolome de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Eduardo T. Lapez , secretary general of the defense committee . Military Controls Axis Firms BUENOS AIRES , March 26 ( UP ) ? The Argentine Government decreed today that Axis firms were to be under military control , effective immediately . Chile Nears War on Japan By Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES . SANTIAGO , Chile , March 26 ? Chile is taking steps to declare war on Japan shortly after Congress meets in special session April 2 , it was learned today . The public , usually unmoved by foreign affairs , now reveals great excitement as a result of the widespread cry of " sabotage " that followed the unexplained sinking of Chilean passenger and freight steamers off the coast a few hours after they had loaded nitrate for the United States .                     