@@711435

txt diplomats spending three hours in the Kremlin , as the representatives ' of the United States , Great Britain and France did yesterday , may reflect a turning in the tide of Europe 's and the ? world 's affairs . Let us hope so . But we must not overlook less dramatic incidents . When Foreign Minister Carlo Sforza stated a few days ago that Italy was ready to take the lead in surrendering national sovereignty for European unity the future may have been in these words as well as in the ones uttered in the Kremlin . For Sforza spoke not for himself alone but for the country . The Italian Senate 's vote of approval of the ERP accords was accompanied by a strong recommendation that the program should be made the basis of an effective union among the participating states . This official action gives weight to Count Sforza 's " statement that there is no cure for the ills of Europe save the abolition of I customs frontiers and customs duties . Useless competition , anti-economic distribution of tasks and functions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autarchies , " Count Sforza says , that cause the misery of Europe . It is fitting and significant that the nation that invented and tried out the ruinous autarchy called fascism should now aspire to lead the movement to break down national frontiers . Italians know better than most people the crushing cost of inflated nationalism and make-believe self-sufficiency . They beat the drums for European unity because they are returning to their old tradition , and because they need to belong to a large free-trade area . But so do their neighbors . It is this necessity , . plus a sense of common weakness and common danger , that cuts through the ' fibroid growths that divide them and makes the idea of federation the most magnetic idea in Western Europe today . One reason for this , of course , is the European Recovery Program . In the American view . as Mr. Paul Hoffman emphasized in his recent discussions with the European directors , the cooperative aspects of this great enterprise are more important than the benefits to any one country . We have made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the participating countries are expected to work out over-all rather than separate plans for recovery , the fact that aid is available for projects of multilateral scope in preference to narrowly national developments is slowly laying the foundation for an integrated structure . Even more important , perhaps , is the effect of the ERP on the nations outside the direct beneficiaries . The Marshall Plan was not originally intended to apply to Western Europe alone . After Mr. Molotov had rejected it for Russia and the states within the Soviet orbit , the European committee representing the cooperating nations was the first to point opt that their task was rendered doubly difficurt by this artificial division . Proceeding on the assumption that it had to be broken down , they went too far , in the opinion of some economists , in basing their calculations on the resumption of trade between East and West . . But if Western recovery is difficult Without commerce with the East , Eastern recovery is impossible without trade outlets in the West . This is why the Economic Commission for Europe , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map out a plan for economic cooperation and an expansion of trade among all the continental countries . The . resolution to this effect was worked out by France and Poland , in itself an unusual sign of East-West Collaboration , and adopted unanimously by the eighteen nations of the United rations Economic and Social Council . This is a remarkable development . To say that it is the first step toward the economic organization of Europe as a whole may be wishful thinking , but it can be hailed as the first open recognition on the part of all the nations concerned that one-half of Europe can not live without the other . And certainly it proves the irresistible attraction of ERP and therefore the soundness of the policy on which it is based . Moscow is finding it difficult to unify Eastern Europe by force , and nobody imagines it will be easy to draw the free nations of the West into a voluntary working partnership . To bring all of the continental states together , even into the loose economic pattern of prewar days , will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western movement toward some form of unity is already started , and tke magnetism of this movement begins to be felt in the East . The impetus given to this process by ERP may well turn out to be the most lasting by-product of the Marshall Plan .                     