@@710074

txt The three sections of the President 's : Message which seem certain to be exainined most closely by the Republican Congress , whose cooperation he invites , are those dealing with foreign affairs , with fiscal policy and with labor prob -- lems . This is because time and events Jiave made these three , today , the top : Subjects of public interest and concern . In foreign affairs we still stand in an Unsatisfactory halfway state between - . Far and peace . In the field of fiscal policy seventeen consecutive years of enormous Federal deficits challenge the leadership of the Republican party , newly come to power in Congress , with an oft-reiterated pledge at long last to balance the Federal budget . In the field Of industrial relations there is the equally challenging problem of more than a hundred million man-days of work lost in this country in the year Just ended , through strikes which have crippled American production and increased the scarcity of needed goods and the prices at which these goods are sold . Mr. Truman dealt with the first of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his message yesterday . He reviewed the progress made thus far in the writing of peace treaties and the development of plans for international control of Atomic energy ; called for measures including the probable continuation of ' Selective Service and the establishment of a system of universal military training ) to maintain an adequate national defense until the outlook for peace be:domes more certain , and urged upon this Republican Congress the importance of economic cooperation with other nations in the field of post-war reconstruction . On this last point it seems to us that the President might well have put much more emphasis than he actually did . We have arrived , fortunately , at a wide acceptance of a f , enuinely bipartisan foreign policy in the field of political action . We have not yet reached the same point in the field of economic action . Yet it is in this latter field that the most immediately important problems now arise . And it is in this field , in such matters as the encouragement of international loans and the lowering of barriers to international trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappointing . The President might have used this section of his message to set the stage more effectively for action that the Eightieth Congress will need to take , unless we are willing to let war-wearied and war-weakened nations drift into the welcoming arms of international communism . On the second major point  --  fiscal policy  --  the President was equally brief , said what he had to say will not give much present cheer to the more enthu .. iastic Republican tax-cutters . He has prepared a budget ( it will be submitted ter this week ) which he reports is in lialance by a narrow margin . He wants it kept in balance . Therefore he has nothing to recommend at this time about a reduction of income taxes . And tie wishes those existing excise taxes V.rhich are now due to expire on June 30 BD be continued for another year . It teems to us that a strong argument Can be made for this latter action , since excise taxes are imposed mostly on luxuries arid semi-luxuries , since they Earnish a particularly stable source of hcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now vitally important to take the government out of the red ink in which It has operated for a decade and a half . is for the over-all fiscal picture : the President 's budget can perhaps be cut , end Perhaps be cut drastically , but tax buts at the expense either of adequate Rational defense or of an adequate : American contribution to international reconstruction would be short-sighted policy . In either case , the budget comes First and tax reduction second . It would be a mistake to put the fiscal cart before the fiscal horse . We come , finally , to the important question of labor legislation . Here the President is ready to go further than he has gone before ; ready , in fact , to invite the enactment of new legislation dealing with such problems as jurisdictional strikes , secondary boycotts and lack of respect for existing contracts . He also wants more effective machinery of conciliation and a year 's study to be made of the more fundamental " underlying causes of labor-management disputes . " But we know enough now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million man-days of work lost in 1946 , to know that one of these " underlying causes " is a present unbalance in labor legislation which has had the effect of creating a monopoly power and putting a premium on strikes and threats of strikes . The President is right when he says that we should not adopt " punitive legislation " or " vindictive laws " or measures that will " endanger American freedom . " But all this is one thing . It is quite another thing , and a very necessary thing , to overhaul existing Federal labor legislation  --  beginning with the Wagner Act ? in order to weaken the power of artificially created monopolies and create the conditions which will foster more even-handed collective bargaining .                     