@@708332

txt We hope and believe that a new Congress which has met at a critical moment in the war will give its prompt endorsement to the proposal made yesterday by President Roosevelt for the adoption of a National War Service Act . We believe that such a measure would be useful in solving the problems of manpower which now threaten to curtail the production of weapons for our troops precisely at the time when these weapons are needed most . But we believe that even this supremely important purpose does not measure the full advantage of the course of action which the President has proposed . The prompt adoption of a National War Service Act would be the best possible answer Congress could make to the new hopes of our enemies that they may succeed in tiring us into an inconclusive peace . It would be equal in that sense to the dispatch of a whole new army to the western battlefront . It would give fresh faith and spirit to our allies . Above all , it would say to our own fighting , men on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in a thousand high-sounding after-dinner speeches about an all-out effort , that at last they are really going to be backed up by the full strength of this nation . We come to this action late in the day . The President himself told Congress , a full year ago , that the adoption of a measure of this kind was essential to the winning of the war in the least possible time and with the least possible cost . But thereafter he made no public move whatever to achieve the . enactment of such a measure . Congress , left without national leadership on the issue , and subject to all the qualms of an election year , did nothing beyond holding a series of hearings in which the interest of its own members petered out . No National War Service Act was enacted . There is room for debate about what t:ind of Service Act would be most use .. - 111 , most flexible , best adapted to solve the problem of inadequate manpower . i3ut there can not be much room for doubt , at this late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad to impose upon the whole adult population of this country the same binding legal obligation to help win this war which has hitherto rested exclusively on young men of draft age . Nor can there be much room for doubt that if it is fair and proper and in the spirit of democracy , as we know it to be . for the Government to draft a man for military duty and send him across the seas to endure hardship and danger for an indefinite period , then it is not less fair and proper and in the spirit of democracy to require other men to do war work at home , in comfort and security , when the nation 's needs demand it . The declarations of war against Germany and Japan conclude by saying : " To bring the conflict to a successful termination , all the resources of the country are hereby pledged by Congress . " The time has come to make that promise good .                     