@@710580

txt For the second time in four weeks the Republicans failed in efforts to reduce taxes today when the Senate sustained President Truman 's veto of the GOP bill to cut personal income levies by from 10.5 to 30 per cent . The ballot of 57 to 36 fell short by five votes of the two-thirds majority required to enact a measure over Presidential objections . The House overrode the veto , 299 to 108 , with twenty-seven votes to spare , only to see the bill killed by the Upper Chamber a few hours later . Whether a third attempt will be made next year to enact such a measure , which President Truman called unsound , unsafe and unfair , remained undecided . Representative Harold Knutson , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and author of both vetoed bills , told the House jus ' : before the vote that it was " highly improbable . " Issue Declared Up to People Instead , he said , " the issue will I be submitted to that great tribunal  --  the American people ? in 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax reduction . " Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , majority leader of the House , said in a statement later that the Republicans would " keep fighting for tax relief and for economy . " " But we may not win until the country elects a Republican President next year who will cooperate with a Republican Congress , " he added . The stage was thus set , whether or not a similar bill should be passed next year , for a major Presidential election campaign issue to be made that fall . This , of course , would be based on Mr. Truman 's vetoes of a program which the Republicans twice put through Congress in fulfillment of a major pledge of the 1946 elections . In his veto message , Mr. Truman pointed out that the second bill was identical to the one he had vetoed on June 16 except for a change made in the effective date from July 1 of this year to Jan. 1 of next . He said in June that it represented the wrong kind of tax reduction at the wrong time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind and this was still the wrong time . Need for Revenues Stressed The reasons for a veto were more compelling than their were a month ago , he asserted , pointing particularly to the necessity of keeping revenues high in order to maintain national defense and discharge responsibilities for international rehabilitation . Alluding to the failure of Russia and its satellites to take part in the current Paris conference on European rehabilitation , he declared : " The recent refusal of certain nations to join in common eniieavors to establish conditions of world stability increases the difficulty of our task and exposes us to greater risk . " Until we are better able to estimate the cost of our investment in world peace and collective security , it is unwise to make so large a cut in our Government 's future income that our ability to meet our needs would be impaired . " Mr. Truman also repeated his criticism of the $4,000,000,000 tax relief bill as unfair to low-income groups . He reasserted his arguments that enactment would pre- vent a substantial payment on the national debt , contribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recession and jeopardize an overall revision of the tax structure at some future date ; He did not say when he would favor tax reduction . Nor did he specify what provisions he would substitute for the bill 's graduated scale of percentage cuts . He stated , however , that the tax burden of low-income groups was increased to a much greater extent during the war than that of larger taxpayers . It was " only fair , " he said , that any reductions follow a compensating pattern . Whereas the House shut off further discussion and voted as soon as Mr. Knutson had made his brief remarks , the Senate engaged in four hours of debate before reaching a decision . It was led off by Senator Eugene D. Millikin of Colorado , floor manager of the bill , who made a detailed reply to the President 's message . Truman Views Assailed Mr. Millikin , chairman of the Finance Committee , was especially critical of Mr. Truman 's argument that the integrity of the national debt was at stake . Enactment of the bill , he contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt payment and contingencies in 1948 . The finance chairman said also that the bill would give small taxpayers a 30 per cent cut while Mr. Truman " gives them nothing except sympathy and the possible imputation of class warfare . " He said it was " sheer ignorance or sheer demagoguery " to talk of removing from the tax rolls most of those in the low brackets . Calling Mr. Truman 's action " an unwise and foolish veto , " Mr. Millikin said there had been Presidents with " a decent respect for the right of Congress to control fiscal policy . " In a warm exchange , Senator Claude Pepper , Democrat , of Florida , asked if he were accusing the President of " indecent " action . Mr. Millikin replied that this . was an understatement . Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , the minority leader , upheld the " moral and constitutional right " of a President to veto a tax bill " or any other bill . " He presented figures to show that the Republicans had made a t " net saving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? $37,500,000,000 budget for the cur ! rent fiscal year and asserted that 3 " we may be fortunate to come out of the present fiscal year without As it turned out , the lines of Administration supporters held firm while three Senators reversed the position they had taken Mon ' , day and voted to sustain the veto . They were Senators George D. Aiken , Republican , of Vermont , and Millard E. Tydings of Maryland and William B. Umstead of North Carolina . Mr. Tydings , in a Senate speech , : ascribed his switch to " recent de ; velopments , " among which was the intensification of warfare in Greece . " I want to keep our guns behind the door for the next twelve months , with plenty of ammunition , " he asserted . The others gave no explanation of their change . In the deciding ballot , ten Democrats joined forty-seven Republicans in voting to override the veto . Thirty-three Democrats and three Republicans were recorded on the other side . Besides Senator Aiken , the Republicans who joined the Administration forces were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oregon , both of whom had opposed the bill from the beginning . While the trend in the Senate was entirely away from the Republican camp , as compared with Monday 's test , the opposite was the case in the House . Different Trend in the House Except for one absentee , all representatives who had voted V ) override the President 's veto of the first tax reduction bill June 17 did so today , while twenty-five who had supported the first veto switched to the Republican side today . In addition , four who had been absent June 17 voted with the Republican majority today . Observers attributed this apparently puzzling difference between the two chambers to the fact that Democratic leaders had long conceded defeat in the House and consequently had made little effort to line up vote. , there . The opposite was the case in the Senate , where Administration supporters maintained an edge over the Republicans from the standpoint of the two-thirds idea . Although the House had sustained the first tax reduction veto by a margin of two votes , killing the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than necessary to override in passing the second bill July 8 . Today 's roll call showed 236 Republicans and sixty-three Democrats for enactment of the bill over the President 's objectiops . On the other side were 105 Democrats , two Republicans and one American-Laborite . The Republicans voting with administration forces were Representative H. Carl Andersen of Minnesota and Merlin Hull of Wisconsin . Except for Representative Albert J. Engel of Michigan , who switched before action on the first veto , they were the only House Republicans to oppose their party leaders ' tax reduction bills from the start . Reece Attacks President The Republicans ' intention to make a campaign issue out of the tax question was emphasized by Carroll Reece , chairman of the Republican National Committee . He issued the following statement : " Apparently Mr. Truman is determined that his three-and-a-half year tenure in the White House shall go down in history as the veto Administration and you can spell it either " Veto " or " Vito " without doing violence to the facts . " Once more Mr. Veto in the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vito Marcantonio . " It will be quite satisfactory from the Republican standpoint to have Mr. Truman campaigning next year for a fifth term for the New Deal with the slogan , ' Relief for Everyone But the American Taxpayer . ' Nevertheless , national ? interests should be put ahead of political considerations . "                     