@@709480

txt A peace conference to assemble on Nov. 12 to draw up a peace treaty for Germany . has been proposed to the Big Four Foreign Ministers Council by United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes , a source close to the American delegation has disclosed . Mr. Byrnes is understood to have proposed that representatives of the United States , Britain , France , and Russia begin meeting at once to outline a draft treaty which the Foreign Ministers could present to the peace conference . The United States Secretary of State reportedly proposed that these tepresentatives first report on the economic status of Germany to the Foreign Ministers Council at its next meeting , perhaps on June 15 . Anniversary Date If a Nov. 12 date should be agreed upon , the peace conference would gather on the 25th anniversary of the opening session of the 1921 Washington Disarmament Conference and 28 years and a day after the 1918 Armistice . Sources close to the Russian delegation predicted that Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov would agree to the proposed peace conference and also to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference beginning June 15 . However , it was said that he definitely had decided against placing the Austrian treaty on the agenda of the June session . Basic Differences Meanwhile , both sides are blaming the other for failure to achieve more satisfactory results , and the same dissimilarity of views which makes inherent the line of demarcation between Russia and the western nations is indicated at all stages . Thus  --  the Soviets , having compromised on the Italian question on Tripolatinia , feel Britain and the United States should yield on Trieste . The fact that there is no comparable value between the two issues does not enter the Russian arguments . They also claim that theirs is a real democracy , a thesis with which the western nations can not agree . Another indication of the inherently opposite viewpoints is seen in the question of troops remaining in the Balkans and Italy . Everyone is really aiming at the Austrian occupation but is talking about only the contiguous areas . It was suggested that Russia withdraw its troops from Bulgaria . The Russians said they needed them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that they already had troops in Romania able to do this . Mr. Molotov suggested withdrawal of British and American troops from Italy and he was answered with his own device  --  these troops were needed to guard the communications line from Italy into Austria . Neither of these is an important issue , yet the same head-on collision occurred . The Tripolitania issue really has not been solved . Russia 's relinquishment of its demand for a trusteeship is one positive result . But British insistence on controlling Cyrenaica and French opposition to 10-year limit for independence mean that this issue , too , is on ice . The French explain their opposition to a joint or an individual trusteeship by pointing out problems in Tripolitania such as the large nomad population , largely backward and illiterate , imports of a 92 per cent against exports of only 8 per cent , the large Jewish group which would be left in a completely Arab-dominated country , and the great land areas with scattered population. ? " How can one set a time limit on such a place as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this possibly most poorly prepared of all colonial areas for giving a fixed time for independence ? " ask the French . At the same time , British lifting of the Senussi tribes into an important place is discussed with smiles in diplomatic circles ' sere It is felt the very oratorical display attending the British demand for Cyrenaica with the statement that " too much British blood has been spilled on the sands of Cyrenaica for it to be given up " makes British motives questionable . On that basis , it is pointed out , the United States should take over the Ruhr , for its ? was entirely American troops who fought to take it , while the British now have it . The real motive behind British demands for Cyrenaica , it is generally conceded , is the need for an area for air bases along the Mediterranean now that Egypt is in process of being given up .                     