@@708245

txt The long-expecthd governmental crisis broke today when Premier Ivanoe Bonomi presented his own and his Ministers ' resignations to Crown Prince Humbert . The Ministers Without Portfolio were still meeting as party leaders late this evening and it seemed probable that Signor Bonomi would be asked . to form a new Government . Count Carlo SfOrza remains a possibility , but not a likely one . A communique from the Quirinal Palace ? said tonight that Prince Humbert had summoned the Presidents of the Senate , the Marchese Pietro della . Torretta , and of the Chamber , Vittorio Emanuele Orlando , for regular consultations such as used to be held before fascism . He will confer next with the , political party leaders , finally summoning one  --  presumably Signor Bonomi  --  to form a Government . Then , in accordance with the armistice terms , the Allies ' approval must be received for the Whole governmental list . As far as the Government is concerned , no one expects anything more than a drastic reorganizaiton and the infusion of new blood , including some leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week or more , taking part in the discussions leading to the crisis . What is new and most important today is the role of Prince Humbert , who returns on behalf of the monarchy to his constitutional position of genuine head of the State . King Victor Emmanuel has delegated his powers to him and appointed him Lieutenant General of the Realm . It was Signor Bonomi who put his foot down and forced this issue , having gained courage by the storm that THE NEW YORK TIMES article on Prince Humbert had caused for him and others . His position having been ' forcibly made clear , he is now under no compulsion to straddle . After yesterdays ' meeting of the Ministers Without Portfolio , the Premier refused to have any reorganization without consulting Prince Humbert or ' going through the regular constitutional procedure . He went to see Prince Humbert on Friday to discuss the matter . This morning he presented himself at the Quirinal and turned in the resignations . Now it will be the Prince who summons the next candidate and asks him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different affair from last June , when Signor Bonomi 's first government was formed . That was done without in any way consulting Prince Humbert or having him nominally summon the new Premier . So one has to chalk up a considerable victory for him . It does not in any sense mean that he has saved the monarchy , but he has gained ground and given it a new lease on life . Orlando Also Mentioned Besides Signor Bonomi , only two men are being mentioned  --  Count Sforza and Signor Orlando . They are not considered probable choices because they would call for a one-sided Government ? in Count Sforza 's case , predominantly left , in Signor Orlando 's , right . Such a Government will become possible if the parties can not agree on a true coalition Government at least containing the six parties of the Committee of National Liberation and possibly figures from the former opposition parties . If Signor Bonomi Is chosen again , It will settle the question of the Allies ' consent , since he has always been persona grata to them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday was to see the British Ambassador , Sir Noel Charles . This time it is hardly likely that the Allies will make the mistake of trying to insist on Marshal Pietro Badoglio or any other military figure . If , however , an attempt were made to form a leftist Government , that might cause much heart-burn in the Anglo-American camp . It is a possibility because , during the past week , both the Communists and the Socialists have made it clear that they are willing to take a greater share of the Government 's responsibilities and posts . Role of Leftists Important One of the political questions of the greatest importance in all Europe is the part that the left is going to play . Here , as in France , Belgium and Greece , it has generally been made clear that the left will no longer be satisfied , as in the past , to play its traditional role of political opposition . No strong government can be formed in Italy without the Communists and Socialists and , if they abstained now , it would be only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here again the probabilities are that the Communists and Socialists will be satisfied with a reorganization in which they hope to be a little stronger than before . One snag is that the Socialists want the Ministry of the Interior , with its control over the police . The rightist parties are objecting strenuously , for they charge that the Communists and Socialists have weakened and discredited the police , especially the Carabinieri . Prince Humbert , however , has made it clear that he has no fundamental objection to a Social Minister of the Interior . This crisis has deep and complicated roots , but what has brought it to a climax is three or four particular questions . One is the purge of former Fascists . In general , it has been going slowly and inefficiently , but what caused ' trouble , paradoxically , was the efforts ' of Mauro Scoccimarro , the Communist deputy chief of the purge commission , to clean out some of the Ministries . In so doing he stepped on some pet corns and , as a result , various Ministers handed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another knotty problem ' is how much power to give to the Committees of National Liberation in the northern zones . The leftists want to give them all the power ; the rightists want the Rome Government to retain control and appoint its own men when desirable . The presence of some important Partisan leaders , political men and big industrialists from northern Italy in Rome has made this question a burning one . Differences over the various aspects of the reconstruction problem are another cause of dissension . The monarchy is still another . All these problems have been coming to a head in the past felt , weeks and yesterday they overflowed , bringing on today 's crisis . This has given the various party organs a chance tt , let off steam and even the sedate Risorgimento Liberate came out today with a hot editorial accusing the Communists and Socialists of breaking the political truce . " Their tactics and practices ; " it said , " have been directed at festering bitter , hostile criticisms of all the Government 's acts ; at threatenini , recourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purging in state offices and die- ' crediting their executives , and at claiming more influence and more power to- confine the other parties to the position of helpless onlookers or accomplices of their gradual seizure of state power . " The Communist UnitA and the Socialist Avanti , on the other hand , have been charging bitterly that the forces of reaction are trying to suppress the true democratic parties by conjuring up the old " Red specter . " The cleavage between left and right , in short , has become acute . It was one of the important developments leading to today 's crisis . However , neither side is ready for a showdown .                     