@@711879

txt Spokesmen for parent , civic , edu- 1 cational and labor groups angrily accused Mayor O'Dwyer yesterday of " political interference " with the city 's system of higher education by his intervention in the pending appointment of a Queens College president . Bitter and indignant , many influential organizations and responsible citizens protested that the Mayor had flagrantly violated the independence of the Board of Higher Education . Threats of political reprisals and a warning that " we 'll fight the issue out to the end " were made in various quarters . This overwhelming outburst developed as a result of Mayor O'Dwyer 's unprecedented action on Thursday in calling the board to City Hall . After rebuking the body for its anticipated selection of Dr. Bryn J. Hovde of the New School for Social Research as president of Queens College , the Mayor insisted that only a person acceptable to the majority of the people of Queens should be chosen for this important $15,000 post . In the last several months the question as to who would be chosen for the Queens College post , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has created considerable controversy in educational circles . It was known that a majority of the board favored Dr. Hovde , but Dr. Margaret V. Kiely , acting president and former academic dean , had substantial support among various groups in Queens . After the blast by the Mayor against Dr. Hovde  --  the Mayor did not mention him by name but the infer4nce was inescapable  --  the board members left City Hall in a fighting-mad mood . However , it became known that some of the members would not go against the wishes of the Mayor . The election of Dr. Hovde would now be exceedingly difficult . At the same time , the board felt that Dr. Kiely could not be elected either . Although most of the board members continued to remain silent publicly , Mrs. Ruth Shoup , a member from the Bronx , and also on the Mayor 's Committee on Unity , was outspoken in her attack . The Mayor 's action , she said , was " unfortunate . " Actually , she pointed out , it was wholly unnecessary because the board always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . " We do deeply resent anything which gives the impression that politics enter into the decisions of the board , " she said . " It would be a tragic thing for the students of all the city colleges if this thoughtless move of the Mayor 's led to the withdrawal of the colleges ' accreditation by the regional associations as happened in the case of the University of Georgia when the Governor interfered with its board . " However , the firm stand the Board of Higher Education expects to take in basing its judgment only on sound educational practice should show that it is not susceptible to high pressure tactics . " New School Assails Mayor A slashing attack on the Mayor and a statement of confidence in Dr. Hovde came from fourteen members of the New School 's board of trustees , headed by Dr. Louis S. Weiss , chairman , and Dr. Alvin Johnson , president emeritus . The issue , the trustees said , is whether the Board of Higher Education is to remain free to make its appointments independently or is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign to the purposes for which the board was created . " " This spectacle of public bullying and private wire-pulling directed against the integrity of the Board of Higher Education is an ominous portent , " the trustees held . " It concerns all education , whether private or public , for if ever the principle is established that government officials may use the power of their office to interfere with the free choice of educational leaders and to encourage organized groups in fomenting for their own ends attacks on responsible persons engaged in the teaching profession , academic freedom will become only a polite fiction and our colleges and universities will be converted into the creatures of particular pressure groups . " Praising the record made by Dr. Hovde , the trustees called him " a scholar and educator of the first rank " and " a staunch defender of the basic principles of our democracy . " Dr. Hovde 's elevation to the presidency of Queens College , they added , would deprive the New School of a leader " whom we deeply respect and admire . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor with misusing his power in interfering with the city colleges . Queens College is not a purely local institution , the association held , adding that it was a city-wide institution and is of conThcern to the people of all boroughs . e association said it did not believe that the board would yield to the " shocking interference " of the Mayor . " The choice of a college president is perhaps the most important single function that the Board of Higher Education is called upon to perform , " the association declared . " The selection must be based on the qualifications of the respective candidates . It can not be dependent on local pride or narrow prejudice . It can never be determined on the basis of a local popularity contest . " Robert P. Patterson , former Secretary of War and president of Freedom House , in a statement in behalf of the board of directors , charged that Mayor O'Dwyer " flagrantly violated the principle that there must be no political interference with our educational system . " Pointing out that never before had it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Thursday 's move by the Mayor was " a step we dare not overlook . " Berle Deplores " Intrusion " Speaking as state chairman of the Liberal party , A. A. Berle Jr . deplored the " intrusion " by the Mayor into the board 's educational functions . For years , he observed , a struggle has been going on to preserve the independence of the educational system . " Now by a single act the Mayor is setting a precedent which if permitted to succeed will place under political control not only the Board of Higher Education but the faculty , administrators and personnel of municipal bolleges as well , " Mr. Berle warned . " If the Mayor succeeds in making this board bow to his dictates , he will have badly served the cause of education ' in this city . " Members of the board were urged by the United Parents Associations to resist strenuously the " political interference " by the Mayor . David L Ashe , president of the association , in a letter to the board members , said " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist any interference of this nature . " Not only was the Mayor 's action unwarranted , Mr. Ashe said , but it set a dangerous precedent for his own and future administrations . The Mayor has " shocked " many teachers by his " crude effort " to influence the Board of Higher Education , Prof. John L. Childs of Teachers College , Columbia University . and a member of the national commission , American Federation of Teachers , declared . The autonomy of the board , he said , is a fundamental principle and should not be violated . " A Mayor who weakly yields to pressure from either secular or ecc ! dastical forces shows that he does not understand the way in which we expect our educational institutions to be directed , " Prof. Childs declared . The Teachers Union , through its legislative representative , Mrs. Rose Russell , charged that " this is nothing more nor less than an attempt by a certain religious grouping to control our public colleges as they already hold an enormous measure of control over our public schools . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrusion and dictation . " One of the bitterest attacks on the Mayor came front Dr. Johnson of the New School . He urged the Board of Regents to end the scandal that threatens to " tear the repute of Queens College to tatters . " Dr. Johnson added : " An ignorant and foolish politician , flanked by a Tammany judge and a group of parishioners pretending to represent the people of Queens , presume to tell the constituted educational authorities who may be elected president of Queens 1College and who may not . "                     