@@709914

txt A controversy between. , the United States and soviet Russia over the explosive issue of the veto power of permanent United Natio ns security council members was presaged here today as the 51 nation general assembly of the United Nations held its first business meeting of the present session . The American delegation , headed by Warren R. Austin , former senator from Vermont , unanimously agreed at a special conference to oppose an attempt by the Russians to prevent consideration of the veto question by the general assembly . Under the United Nations charter , a negative vote by any of the five permanent members of the security council  --  the United States , Russia , Great Britain , France , and China  --  blocks action . The Russians , who have exercised the veto most extravagantly , are seeking to eliminate from the provisional agenda two proposals by Cuba and one by Australia for modification or abolition of the veto power . - U. S. Opposes Abolition Members of the American delegation insisted that the general asscmbly should have an opportunity to consider the veto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be heard . The United States itself opposes abolition of the veto right , but the American delegates have indicated willingness to accept a modification that would prevent use of the ' power in procedural matters . The American delegation agreed to support all the 53 items on the assembly 's provisional agenda , which must be approved by the general committee before it reaches the assembly itself . The delegation also agreed that President Truman 's foreign policy address to the dolegates at yesterday 's opening meeting would be this nation 's contribution to the preliminary speechmaking which began today and will continue four or five days . The veto issue was carried to the assembly floor In the first round of general debate this afternoon . Dr. Castillo Najera , head of the Mexican delegation , delivered a pessimistic address questioning whether justice always takes precedence over politics in current international affairs . Decisions Given as Facts " NVe should be deceiving ourselves and consequently doing wrong to the peoples we represent here if e presume to deduce from the simpie fact of our presence in this assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A simple man , one who accepts in good faith the promises of his leaders , one who regarded the Atlantic Charter as the dawn of a new day and who welcomed wholeheartedly the declaration of the United Nations , can not understand that de . cisions In which he regards himself as entitled to take part should be presented as accomplished facts . " Nejera recalled that the veto pro . vision was adopted at the San Francisco conference to assure unanimity of the permanent members of the security council . Far from assuring unanimity , he said , the veto has undermined it . Cites Lack of Unanimity " In fact , " he added , " while there exists the certainty that no power can suffer a legal defeat , there is no need to compromise and no need to go half way to meet the opposing view . If , on the other hand , the danger of a defeat remained latent , it would be natural to seek a compro ? mise and thus to achieve unity . " Unless the Russians should agree voluntarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears unlikely , modification of its use could be accomplished only by amending the U. N. charter . And in the end Russia could veto any proposed amendment to the charter . Cuba has proposed calling a general conference of U. N. members , as provided under article .9 of the charter , for the purpose of eliminating the veto . Under article 9 , a general conference must be called to review the charter If such action la proposed by two-thirds of the general assembly and any seven of the 11 security council members . It would require a two-thirds vote of the conference to propose alteralions of the charter and such changes would become effective only if ratified by two-thirds of the members of the assembly , including all five permanent members of the security council . In the case of the United States , approval by a twothirds vote of the senate would be required . Asks Action on Franco Trygve Lie of Norway , secretary general of the U. N. , sought to Inject the controversial Spanish question into the assembly 's deliberations when he delivered an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. Lie , who was supported by the Russians and their satellites for his five year term as secretary general , told the delegates it is " an unhappy fact that the fascist control of Spain has eontinued unchanged despite the de . feat of Germany and Japan , It seems to be clear that as long as the Franco regime remains in Spain it will remain a constant cause of mistrust and disagreement between the founders of the United Nations , " Altho the Spanish question has been considered by the security council and still remains on its agenda , Lie suggested that the general assembly should give " comprehensive guidance " to the security council and other U. N. agencies . Later he told reporters he had no specific action In mind but wished to express his " deep con-cern , " Accept U. S. Proposal The general committee of the assembly , which is considering the agenda , quarreled futilely for three hours tonight over the treatment of Indians in South Africa and did not reach the far more controversial veto issue . Field Marshal Jan Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treatment of its nationals be removed from the agenda . The committee accepted an American proposal to send India 's protest to the . legal and political commit . tees separately . Embassy Charges " Secret " Washington , D. C. , Oct. 24 ( ff/ ? The Spanish embassy said tonight it is convinced there is a " secret " reason for U. N. Secretary Gen. Trygve Lie 's " tirade against Spain " and suggested he had acted " for the special benefit , of some of his friends , "                     