@@706224

txt Gov . Leverett Saltonstall stepped into the Long-Bushnell controversy over the 5 per cent meal tax , by announcing that he will confer with the State officials involved late today . The Governor 's action came after Henry F. Long , State Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation indicated strongly that he will make no change in the meal tax assessment system unless ordered to do so by the Governor . Robert T. Bushnell , Attorney General , has charged that the Commissioner is defying the Legislature in failing to confer with him on the Meal Tax Law and to issue rules and regulations to carry out the intent of the Legislature that the meal tax apply only to individual meals costing $1 or more . Informed of the controversy , Governor Saltonstall said : " I have n't seen or heard from either party . . . . I will be glad to inquire into the subject this afternoon . Any further statement I make will be made ... after seeing the officials involved . " On the closing day of the Special Session , the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Bushnell and to issue rules and regulations making the meal tax conform to the intent of the Legislature . Individual Meals Commissioner Long is forcing jpersons paying several meal checks totaling $1.00 or more to pay the I meal tax , although no single check amounts to $1.00 . Legislators insist they intended the tax to be levied only against individual meals costing $1.00 or more . Informed of Mr. Bushnell 's statement , Commissioner Long said : " I am always amenable to orders from I my boss . You determine who is my boss . " Observers immediately assumed Mr. Long referred only to Governor Saltonstall . Mr. Long said he had not read Mr. Bushnell 's statement and did not intend to do so . Furthermore , the Commissioner said he has issued no interpretation or regulation regarding the Meal Tax Law , that he has only answered questions and talked before groups on the system . Mr. Bushnell 's attack was issued last night after Assistant Attorney I General Harold E. Magnuson had talked with Commissioner Long regarding the controversy . Mr. Bushnell charged that for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him regarding the Legislative order . Expressed Surprise Instead , he said , the Commissioner asked the Attorney General for an opinion " as to what extent , ' if at all , it ( the Legislative order ) is constitutionally binding upon me as Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation . " The Attorney General , who has already indicated he could rule the meal tax applies only to each separate meal , expressed surprise at the Commissioner 's request , and stated , " I dislike to believe that Ilyou are deliberately attempting by such a reply to avoid compliance with the order . " Whatever its technical , legal effect may be , this order , voted by both branches of the General Court , is a clear expression of intent by them to remedy , if possible , ' confusion and differences of opinion ' which , if allowed to con ' tinue , may result in injustice .                     