@@709472

txt Demands that the Potsdam Declaration be discarded and that Britain recognize the importance of Germany and Austria as " battlegrounds in which former allies are maneuvering for position " were made during today 's House of Commons debate on German policy . Though this was technically a debate on an item in the recent budget estimate of the cost of administration of the British zone of Germany , members of the House took this opportunity for // the first general debate on Germany since hostilities ceased . It was clear from the views expressed by the members on both sides of the House that , just a year after V-E Day , British opinion has come to regard the need for building up . a stable political and economic life in Germany as equal to if not more important than , the need to carry out measures designed to weaken the German warmaking potential . Alarmed at Germans ' Condition This is not to say that the British have lost sight of the fact that Germany was and may be again a threat to peace . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been one of concern for the miserable economic conditions of the Germans today and the consequences of this situation on the political future of Germany . " A nation without hope ; a nation in despair is a menace , " a Labor Member said after he reviewed the housing , food and health conditions seen on a recent visit to the British zone . " It is surely inhumanity on the part of the Allied Control Council to allow these things . " John B. Hynd , Chancellor of the ( Duchy of Lancaster and head of the British Government department charged with carrying out the policy for the administration of the British zone of Germany , was very careful in his exposition of the policies of his office and in his replies to various points made ' during the debate to cast no aspersions on the Potsdam decisions under which Germany supposedly is being governed to date . Other speakers did not show so much respect for the Big Three decisions . " The Potsdam agreement was madness and moonshine , " said Michael Foot . " Potsdam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable new economic reconstruction to be undertaken . " Other speakers , mostly from the Labor side , echoed these sentiments . Though the general tone of debate was the most significant thing about it , Mr. Hynd had to answer to charges that denazification was proceeding slowly in the British zone , that too much money was being spent , that officers were loafing on their jobs , and that insufficient speed was being shown in bringing about a unified administration of Germany . Hynd Says Nazis Are Ousted Mr. Hynd said that the British were getting rid of the Nazis but pointed out that it was an enormous task . As proof of the adequacy of the measures taken so far , he cited the fact that no major resistance to the Allied occupation had developed . He also said that there was good material in Germany on which a democratic regime could be built and stressed the desire of the British administration to develop this " material . " He did not say where the democratic element was to be found but a number of Labor members suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope for political revival should be placed . It remained for Miss Jennie Lee , Labor member , to put into words the underlying concern that is dominating British thinking on Germany to an increasing extent . " I think I should say in public what many are saying in private , " she said . " Germany and Austria at this moment are diplomatic battlegrounds in which former allies of this country , America , Russia , France and the rest , are maneuvering with one another for present position and future support . " The answer of the British Labor Government to this challenge , Miss Lee said , should be a clear statement of policy to guide the German people and lead them " altogether outside the area of international rivalry . " The British Government undoubtedly would like to accomplish something like what Miss Lee suggested . The Foreign Office is hop-1 ing that United States Secretaty of State James F. Byrnes ' proposed four-power treaty can be developed into a way out of what is regarded here as an impossible situation in Germany . The matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was originally put forward , and though the Government has not made any formal declaration it can be accepted as a certainty that the British will back Mr. Byrnes ' proposal . It is hoped that by satisfying the security demands of Germany 's neighbors a basis can be provided for a revision of the Potsdam agreements that will release the occupying authorities from responsibility for placing denazification and security consideration before those of economic reconstruction . It was announced today that four civilian " commissioners " had been appointed to head the administration in the four of five sections into which the British zone is being divided for administrative purposes . A fifth commissioner will be appointed soon . Today 's appointments included William Astbury , commissioner for the north Rhine ; Henry Vaughan Berry for Westphalia , Air Vice Marshal Hugh Champion de Crespigny for Schleswig-Holstein , and Lieut . Gen. Sir Gordon Macready for Hanover .                     