@@711757

txt The Massachusetts Senate tied itself in a 20-20 knot over the Senate presidency today as the 156th legislature convened at the State House . The anticipated deadlock first occurred at 12:10 p.m. when Senator Harris S. Richardson ( R ) of Winchester and Senator Chester A. Dolan , Jr . ( D ) , of Boston netted 20 votes each . A fourth ballot . held after the recess showed no outward change in the situation , and the senators settled back expecting an extended session . The contest remained locked on the second and third ballots before the Senate recessed until 2 p.m . The delay prevented the upper branch of the legislature from organizing , and it may lead to prolonged balloting , perhaps into the night . GOP Plan Defeated Republican concern over the situation was shown in the futile half-hour attempt of Republican leaders to alter past customs and vote by a record roll call vote . Under such a change , it would be impossible for a senator to switch his vote without being publicly recorded . Democrats , however , downed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being necessary for passage . The exchange over the proposal to revise the previous rule typifies the attitude of the two parties  --  the Democrats remaining adamantly opposed tp compromise while the Republicans sought time to settle the conflict through negotiation . Both parties you 'd be forced into a trading position if party solidarity were maintained in the early ballots , In addition . Republican leaders said their anxiety over the situation was due in part to a wish to avoid making a spectacle of the balloting . iO'Neill Heads House Meanwhile , the House of Representatives elected Representative Thomas P. O'Neill ( D ) of Cambridge as speaker of the House by a vote of 122 to 116 over Representative Charles Gibbons ( R ) of Stoneham . The House adjourned shortly thereafter . The vote on the speakership was strictly according to party lines , the House being split 123 to 117 . The discrepancy in the tally was due to Mr. Gibbons voting " present " and the absence of one Democrat . Members of the Senate and the House of Representatives were sworn into office by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Referring to the impending deadlock , Governor Bradford said he hoped the " spirit of sweet reasonableness . . . will continue to hover over this chamber . " ! itouncil Bows Out Meanwhile , the executive council  --  now under eight to one con-f trol of the Republicans  --  held a final session before the new seven to two Democratic dominated council is sworn into office tomorrow . The controversial question over veterans ' preference in civil service promotions was turned over to the incoming council because of lack of time for a public hearing . A continued tie vote in the senate would ? affect the formal proceedings in tomorrow 's inauguration of Gov , - elect Paul A. Dever . Normally . the oath of office is administered to the incoming governor by the Senate president . If no Senate president is elected before the inaugural , Mr. Dever may be sworn in by Secretary of State Frederic W. Cook ? as was done in 1935 when a similar deadlock in the Senate lasted eight days . The Democratic resistance to compromise in the Senate apparently was centered on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a later ballot . Democrats ' Grip Secure However , the Democrats would not be seriously affected by the losing of the Senate presidency to the Republicans . The House leadership under Mr. O'Neill will name 11 of the 15 legislators to joint committees . The Senate president can name only four . Thus , under the terms of any conceivable compromise over the Senate presidency , the Democrats would remain in control of the legislative machinery . One iAsue on which Republicans and Democrats agreed today was on the reelection of Sergeant-atArms Charles 0 , Holt and House Clerk Lawrence R. Grove . The House reelected both of these men , and the Senate is expected to rename Mr. Holt later . Mr. Holt will retire this year . Through campaign speeches , later comments by ' Democratic legislators , and legislative petitions filed by Democrats , the majority party is committed to a slightly left-of-cente ? program this year . According to Mr. O'Neill , management has had the edge over labor in past legislatures . However , he said , this year the situation will be equalized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show up principally in old-age assistance and workmen 's compensation legislation . Higher Taxes Hinted Also , in a pattern similar to that being developed by Washington Democrats , higher taxes are a definite possibility in Massachusetts . Several far-reaching programs are before the Legislature , including revision of the presidential primary to permit voters to designate their choice for presidential nominations .                     