@@712081

txt With hopes tempered by past disappointments , the eyes of the world turn today to Paris , where four men , comprising the Council of Foreign Ministers and representing all the effective power in the world , meet around the diplomatic bargaining table in a new effort to determine the fate of Germany , which involves the fate of Europe . They meet under the shadow of both the " cold war " between East and West and the Council 's own previous inability to resolve the problems entrusted to it . But they also meet under circumstances far different from those which led to the failures of Moscow and London in 1947 . Then the West was disarmed and divided , and Continental Western Europe was a political and economic vacuum inviting Soviet penetration . Now , by virtue of the European Recovery Program , the West-European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty , the West has achieved new unity and strength , and can meet the Soviets on far better terms . Yet in fundamentals the problems confronting this Council session are still the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands above all the problems is whether the victors can make peace among themselves , or , failing that , whether they can at least reach a modus vivendi permitting both victors and vanquished to recover from the wounds of the war and contribute to their mutual well-being . This issue involves many other questions , including Austria , Greece and China , which may be discussed on the periphery of the Council meeting . But the central problem is and remains Germany , the explosive nature of which has been and is still being illustrated by the events in Berlin . And . the German problem inevitably resolves itself into the following subdivisions : 1 . Unification , to which both sides are committed in principle and which the Germans themselves demand . But unification involves several other i , 9-sues , including : 2 . Frontiers , which must be agreed upon before the Council can be clear as to exactly what Germany it is talking about . The legal frontiers of Germany were fixed by the Berlin occupation agreement of June 5 , 1945 , which stripped Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 31 , 1937 . The Yalta agreement , which turned nearly half of Poland over to Russia , promised Poland substantial compensation in German territory , and under the Potsdam agreement the Western Powers undertook to support both Polish and Russian claims to such territory , meanwhile turning over nearly one-quarter of Germany to Polish and Soviet administration . But the Potsdam agreement specifically provided that all frontier changes were subject to final determination at the peace settlement , and the Western Powers have never recognized the Polish and Russian annexations of their administrative areas . In consequence , the question of German unification is not merely a question of joining the Russian occupation zone to the Western zones , but also of determining Germany 's final frontiers . 3 . Government . Under the Potsdam agreement Germany was to get a democratic and decentralized Government based on local self-government . This has been realized in the new German Government sponsored by the West . The Soviets , however , are creating a highly centralized " all-German " Government under Communist domination in their own zone . But even the Getmans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Western Powers are determined to per mit governmental unification only under the same kind of democratic guarantees incorporated in the Bonn Constitution . 4 . Reparations . Under the Potsdam agreement Germany was to pay reparations in capital equipment , the transfer of which was to be completed by Feb. 2 , 1948 . But reparation payments were subject to the provision that Germany should retain enough resources to subsist without external assistance , and that current production should be used in the first place to pay for imports necessary to a balanced German economy . The Soviets , besides receiving substantial capital equipment from the Western zones , have stripped their own zone and have used most of its current production for reparations for themselves to a total estimated at $7,000 , - 000,000 , while the West , which means the United States ; has to pour billions . into Western Germany to keep its people alive . Obviously , some equalization will have to be found for that . 5 . Security , which in turn involves permanent demilitarization , control of the Ruhr , sthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run , both defense against and the defense of . a revived Germany itself . Demilitarization has long since been completed in the West , though its status in the Soviet zone is still unclear . Now the Soviets demand complete withdrawal of all occupation forces , which would expose all Germany to Communist penetration and a voice in the Ruhr Control Authority , which would bring Soviet influence to the Rhine . It is on these issues that they base their main propaganda drive . It must be expected that the Western policy agreed upon in Paris has found the answer to such a strategy .                     