@@709315

txt Dr. Alan Nunn May , atomic energy expert , who returned recently from Government research in Canada , appeared at Bow Street , Magistrates Court , London , today , charged under the official Secrets Act , following his arrest at Kings College , London , where he is a lecturer on physics . By Morris Star Correspondent o ) The Christian Science Monitor OTTAWA , March ** is impressed by the extremely wide scope of the information sought from Canada through the network of agents operating under the direction of Soviet Embassy officers . me secret service forces of Russia always have been strong and very acute . In addition to American troop movements and information on the atomic bomb , the information sought is felt to encompass at complete picture of this country 's war potential with all advances in the fields of natural science . The fact that plans were laid to fill in component parts of the picture is well established , according to the report of the commissioners , but the full extent and importance of the information gathered through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two men and two women whose activities have been reviewed  --  and who are now under trial in the police court in Ottawa on charges under the Official Secrets Acts and under the criminal code for conspiracy  --  information was given on the latest developments on radar . The contents of secret telegrams were divulged , and documents were taken from the library of the National Research Council . Another interim report is expected from the commission within ' the next three or four ' days . The report already issued says that " the evidence indicates that in addition ( to the four named ) many other agents active and that information intrinsically important has disclosed . " It is regarded that only when the final report is issued will the importance of the information actually secured through the ring of agents be gaugtd with any degree of certainty . For the present it is in the air . It is acknowledged on all hands to be extremely difficult to obtain anything like a clear perspective of the setting of the investigation and its disclosures in the events of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course the investigation itself has taken in two sentences in the report . " It has been stated to us by commission counsel , " the commissioners say , " that the method of presentation of the evidence before us is with the object of ultimately establishing the identity of the greatest number of those persons who have acted as agents , " To proceed in any other manner might have been prejudicial to the ultimate attainment of the purposes of the investigation . " The relative importance of the subjects on which disclosures were made had for the time being to take second place . The commission began its work Feb. 13 , and the piecemeal reports which are beginning to appear are being given out as soon as a number of persons have been fully questioned and their activities fully investigated . The reports are being speeded up through the general demand that the curtain be raised . There is obviously no other timing to the issuance of these reports . It was always intended that while the commission held hearings in camera its report or reports should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is based on the ground that those who are custodians of official secrets must be made fully aware of the seriousness of breaking their injunctions of silence and that those who break their oath must be punished according to the laws of the land . It is an acknowledged right ? and duty of a nation to guard the safety of its people . There is no apparent question of treason . There has been no commerce with an enemy , because no enemy is involved . It is , however , a question of infractions of the Official Secrets Act .                     