@@711126

txt Congress was urged by the country 's top military officials today to approve promptly a stop-gap selective draft which might call a minimum of 340,000 men into service for at least two years . This number , it was conceded , probably would go much higher , for the defense establishment is ready to approve recommendations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the authorized strength of the armed forces be increased vastly . Such a draft program , operating simultaneously with the universal military trfkining also called for by President Truman yesterday , it was held , was vitally necessary to enable the United States to back up its foreign policy . If war started in Europe now , it was stated by these military spokesmen , the United States could not rescue European nations . It was admitted , too , that , should the United States itself come under major attack today , fewer than 30,000 " usable " trained combat troops would be available for defense . Fate of Corregidor Recalled At one point of the hearing , it was contended that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were finding themselves in possibly the same danger as those who were at Corregidor . It was against such a background that the civilian heads of the country 's armed services testified today before the Senate Armed Services Committee . James Forrestal , Secretary of Defense , was the principal spokesman . Flanking him were Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall , Secretary of the Navy John L. Sulrivan and Secretary of the Air Force W. Stuart Symington . The UMT and stop - gap draft programs , Mr. Forrestal said , constituted the only foundation on whicIP. to build a great , balanced and mobile striking force essential to American security and world peace . Questions from committeemen brought out estimates of a Russian armed force of around 4,050 , - 000 , and that uncertainties over the motives behind the foreign policy of Soviet Russia were creating today 's situation Announcement at Moscow on the day before President Truman called for UMT and an emergency draft that the Soviet was " demobilizing " brought a retort from the State Department today . The department stated that // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in military service , this was being done , according to the State Department 's best information , only to make way for replacements in new age categories . Earlier Estimates Unchanged In the net , it was said , the Russian military forces would not be reduced in total numbers . The previous American estimate of Russian forces containing more than 100 combat divisions was not changed . At the same time it was stated that United States combat divisions " available " here numbered about two . As the chiefs of the military were testifying there was speculation in Congress that the President might get one of his programs through , but not both . It appeared that there were sufficient votes in the Senate Armed Services Committee to take a UMT bill to the floor for a showdown . The new draft program , however , found many members noncommittal . On the House side , where a UNIT bill has been blocked for eight months by the Rules Committee , there were signs that the draft possibly would be accepted there , though reluctantly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as of today . Secretary Forrestal told the Senate committee that it was not a question of selection between the two programs . One program , he contended vehemently , would not work without the other . The ' UMT , he detailed , was to provide trained civilian reserves for availability in a long-range program . The proposed draft , he emphasized , was to provide essential military Imanpower until the UMT program became effective as a supplier of trained reserves . Nor , the Secretary of Defense said , were the UMT and draft programs all that were needed for making the country strong . They constituted , he held , the only I means of providing personnel to fill the key posts in a vitally necessary over-all program which ' demanded all the following elements:A welding of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps and Air Force into a strong force of completely balanced strength . One service , Mr. Forrestal emphasized , should not get ahead of another in manpower if efficiency were to prevail . Strong , well-trained reserve components subject to future call , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Forrestal maintained , was the only program through which such reserves could be supplied . An early filling up of the gaps in present service personnel , a situation due to the ineffectiveness of the return to the voluntary system of enlistment . It would require 340,000 men to fill the gaps of the prevailing authorized military strength . A raising of this limitation is concededly coming . An increase of at least 350,000 of authorized strength for the Army alone was hinted by Mr. Forrestal today . He had no worked-out figures for the other services . New Types of War Cited The supplying of trained civilian reserves to meet possible emergencies throughout the country under prospective present-day war crises was emphasized . In instances where another country might have the atomic bomb , or resort to guided missile or germ warfare , it was stated as examples , trained men would be needed on every scene . The UMT , it was argued , could supply such trained and deployed men . Also coming up in Congress , it was disclosed , were programs for industrial mobilization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern warfare . Congress , it was evident , was waiting to hear " from the grassroots " before making its decisions . Questions today indicated that many members were not yet certain that their constituents had been convinced of the necessity for the programs presented by the President . Demands were made on the spokesmen for the armed services to produce facts , figures and clearer outlines of national and international situations before committee recommendations were made to Congress . Mr. Forrestal said the program presented was designed to enforce peace . He warned it would be very costly . He held that if it failed as a peace measure , its cost would be " sound insurance " in case of war .                     