@@704941

txt In the Far East : Japan Expands Chinese Blockade Japan extended Its blockade of the China Coast , announcing plans to close a number of areas along Fukien Province . China warned that it would take " adequate steps to back Indo-China . with force , " a declaration directed toward reported Japanese expansion plans . The American Methodist School 's dormitory wing at Chungking suffered $10,000 damage in renewed bombings which already have wrecked 900 buildings in the Chinese provisional capital . Demand for actual transfer of control of British areas in Shanghai to Japanese troops was heard in military circles following British withdrawal of its armed forces from ' the International Settlement . Details : Page 5 . In Washington : Return of Americans Aided The Treasury amended its regulations so that Americans now in invaded countries may use any wealth they have in the United States , provided they come home . Under previous orders , such wealth was " frozen . " The House Ways and Means Committee resumed excess-profits tax hearings . Yesterday it heard defense leaders ask removal of tax " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of the Marine Corps would be sent to strengthen the garrison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , a base for warships guarding the Caribbean approach to the Panama Canal . The Senate started its debate on the conscription bill with an assertion by Senator Morris Sheppard ( D ) of Texas that there was " an emergency for democracy throughout the world . " Senator Burt K. Wheeler ( D ) of Montana declared that those who fear a Nazi invasion of the United States should seek an immediate declaration of war on Germany . Details : Page 1 . New Naval Air Base Largest in Hawaii Honolulu ( /P ) ? The Navy disclosed plans for its largest Naval Aviation Base in the Hawaiian area , 2,700-acre airport at Barbers Point on Oahu Island . It will accommodate planes for the aircraft carriers , supplementing the Ford Island Field in Pearl Harbor . Liner America Sails on Maiden Voyage New York ( iP ) ? The liner America , largest and fastest ship ever built in the United States , sailed today on her maiden voyage  --  a 12-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ booked for the cruise , which includes celebrations at the America 's ports of call ? St. Thomas , Virgin Islands ; San Juan , Puerto Rico ; Port-au-Prince , Haiti , and Havana , Cuba. , Farley Becomes Corporation Executive Wilmington , Del. ( in ? James A. Farley , retiring Postmaster General and Democratic National Chairman , today was appointed Chairman of the Coca-Cola Export Corporation . Mr. Farley 's resignation as Democratic Chairman becomes effective Aug. 17 and he leaves the Cabinet Aug. 31 . War Summary : Rival Air Victories Claimed The war remained in the air as both Britain and Germany claimed substantial successes . The British said they turned back heavy German air raids at a cost to the Germans of far more than to the defenders . Germany concentrated its attacks on British ports as observers believed the Reich to be focusing on destruction of British shipping facilities in an " intermediate " phase of the war . Details : Page 1 . Italy claimed that its troops have passed Adueins in their drive toward the Coast of British Somaliland . Its High Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port of the British colony , and damage to a British battleship . In the Balkans : Dobruja Decision Imminent Rumanian-Bulgarian negotiations over Bulgaria 's demands for return of Southern Dobruja are now announced for this week end . Berlin . through diplomatic commentaries , has made clear its irritation over the " slowness " with which the Balkan nations are settling their disputes . It urged them to speed up territorial revisions . Rumanian police arrested scores of persons yesterday on charges of spreading false news and hustled them off to concentration camps . All the prisoners were identified with the liberal and democratic factions , and most of them were Jews . Lithuanian Legation Refuses to Surrender Lithuania 's Legation in Berlin has refused to " surrender " to Russia . Germany is thus faced with the task of deciding whether Russia 's absorption of Lithuania entitles the Soviets to take over the Legation in the German capital . Russia has taken control of the three Baltic Legations in Rome . U. S. Airplanes to Britain Total 2,900 New York ** British Purchasing Commission revealed that 2,900 United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated at 1,000 to 1 Germany 's chances of starving the British Isles by a blockade . The Commission estimated at $2 , - 000,000,000 the value of war orders already placed by Great Britain in the United States . French Government Announces Trade Control France introduced Government control over all foreign trade including imports . It will be exercised by a newly created foreign commerce office . Financial institutions in occupied France have been placed under German supervision by orders of Commander-in-Chief Walther von Brauchitsch . Carl Schaefer was appointed German Commissar for the Bank of France and Director of the German supervising board for banks in France . Herr Schaefer was President of the Bank of Danzig before that city 's incorporation into the Reich .                     