@@705355

txt President Roosevelt dispatched Dr. James B. Conant , President of Harvard University , to England today as head of a special new mission charged with expediting directly to Washington " recent scientific information of importance to national defense . " Other natural scientists will receive assignments " from time to time , " the White House announced . Dr. Conant , a research chemist , was scheduled to leave New York today for Lisbon on the first leg of his journey , accompanied by Frederick L Hovde , assistant to the President of the University of Rochester , and by Carroll L. Wilson , special liaison officer of the National Defense Research Committee . The Harvard President , who testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Feb. 11 in support of the Administration 's British aid bill , thus joined the growing group of prominent American visitors to the beleaguered British Isles . During the World War Dr. Conant was a member of the division of chemistry , and served with the Bureau of Chemistry and Bureau of Mines upon America 's entry into the World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major in the Chemical Warfare Service and was transferred to Cleveland to establish and take charge of a production unit for the Chemical Warfare Service . He was in charge of the research development of poison gas . Dr. Conant went back to Harvard after war to become Professor of Chemistry , and was elected President in 1933 . In 1925 he spent eight months in Germany studying research methods . llopk ins On Way Home Among these Harry L. Hopkins , whom the President sent as his personal envoy to London pending appointment of an Ambassador . ' was homeward bound today . He stopped overnight at San Juan . Puerto Rico . where he was flown from Trinidad by a Navy plane when unfavorable weather delayed Pan American 's Yankee Clipper . Mr. Hopkins ' return apparently signalized the departure for London within a few days of John W. Winant , whom the President recently named Ambassador . The appointment received Senate confirmation this week . Mr. Hopkins said at San Juan that he wanted to confer with Mr. Winant before the new Envoy leaves . Dr. Conant and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will remain in England about a month and Mr. Hovde will stay there as permanent secretary . Member of Defense Unit In this capacity he will represent the Research Committee and be in a position to facilitate the work of the successive scientific groups visiting England . The Harvard President is a member of the Administration 's National Defense Research Committee and one of his associates in that agency , commenting on the significance of the London assignment , said that heretofore information on the latest military devices had been exchanged indirectly bye Britain and the United States through Canada . " This will be the first time it will have been handled directly , " he said , The White House statement said that " first-hand observation of recent English scientific research and experience is important for the prosecution of America 's program of research on problems of national defense . "                     