@@704967

txt Aircraft , planes and engines , held important places in yesterday 's news . The British government has decided to go ahead with plans to erect aircraft plants in the U. S. with capacity enough to turn out 1,300 planes monthly by the end of 1941 . And the American aircraft engine Industry was estimated to have reached an output of 1.500 military power units monthly . with indications that 2.000 monthly would be reached early in 1941 and 4,000 a month by the end of next year . BY THOMAS W. WILSON Staff Correspondent of The Wall Street Journal WASHINGTON  --  The British government has decided to go ahead with plans to construct a chain of aircraft factories in this country designed to produce 1.300 planes per month by the latter part of 1941 , it was reported reliably last night . Although there is no official confirmation , It is understood also that William B. Knudsen. production chief of the defense commission . Neill sound out aircraft manufacturers on the plan during his country-wide tour of manufactur.ng facilities . Mr. Knudsen left Washington yesterday in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . chief of the Air Corps , on a trip that will take him to ii.dianapolis , Wichita . Los Angeles . San Francisco , Sacramento and Seattle  --  important centers of the airplane industry . British officials are reported to have discussed the new production scheme in considerable detail with officials of the U. S government . Presumably . Mr. Knudsen will bring back with him a survey of the attitude of manufacturers toward the feasability of the idea . Estimates of the cost of creating facilities to turn out 1,300 planes per month by late in 1941 were drawn up by the defense commission several weeks ago and turned over to Arthur B. Purvis , bead of the British Purchasing Board In the United States . This was in response to a British request ' for data on the cost of building factories to manufacture 3,000 planes per month . Mr. Knudsen earlier estimated that the latter plan would require the construction of 38 airframe , engine and accessory plants . Presumably the smaller program would require the construction and equipment of roughly half that number of new factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the time the 1,300-per month plan was turned over to Mr. Purvis he said he had been told by the defense commission that such a program would not interfere with the U. S. armament effort . It is assumed that the British would undertake to finance completely the entire new construction program . British purchasers already have expended over 51,000.000,000 for aircraft in this country . It is estimated they will receive between 200 and 300 combat planes from U. S. factories during the current month and that the figure will move upward sharply in the early fall .                     