@@705369

txt Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek declared that by achieving " unity in thought and action " China had carried on a resistance against Japan which had cost the invader 1 , - 700,000 casualties and 18,000 , - 000,000 yen ( about S4,200 , - 000,000 ) . Speaking on the seventh anniversary of China 's " New Life Movement " which he founded , the Generalissimo outlined a new four-point program which included eradication of gambling and opium smoking , popularization of thrift savings and promotion of public welfare and athletics . By Randall Gould Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor CHUNGKING , China  --  One man today sums up in himself the hopes of national freedom for a quarter of the world 's population . He is China 's Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek , leader of Free China 's forces through more-than three and one-half years of resistance to a Japan which , after first striving to ignore him and then to put a puppet into his place , has at last reluctantly come to face the fact that only with his consent can peace once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many years of varying fortune , meeting him from time to time and especially in these trying war years  --  first in the temporary capital at Hankow , then at the more permanent base in distant Szechwan Province . Now I have once more seen and talked with this man whom his enemies call a " warlord dictator " and I find him mellowed and developed with the years into a figure of greatness in the democratic pattern . Personal Composure Marked It is impossible to write history ahead of time but those who have been received by General Chiang during recent months seem united in belief that here is a man whose influence is being , and will continue to be , thrown into the balance not only for final victory of an independent Chinese nation , but also for constructing this nation along liberal and democratic lines rather than in the totalitarian mold into which efforts are being made to press it . General Chiang 's attitude was never more serenely confident than it is today . He is a man of great vitality yet he expresses this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Benito Mussolini but rather in the classic Chinese attitude of an unfearing relaxation beneath which there is readiness for any necessary action . He receives callers in the sitting-room of a private residence often bombed by the Japanese but never ( as yet at least ) directly hit . Entering in simple khaki military uniform , either entirely devoid of any insignia or rank or sometimes bearing three stars on the collar , the Generalissimo at once advances to give a quick firm shake of the hand and to motion his visitor to a sofa . His head and face are those of a military man , decidedly , especially in such details as the close-cropped hair and mustache ; but his eye is friendly though sharp , and he often smiles . He understands some English but speaks in Chinese , decisively and to the point yet in a courteously modulated tone . Just before his arrival on the present occasion , a secretary had been putting me through an intense fire of questions shot at me in English with the speed and general morale-breaking effect of a machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief ! Because I came from Shanghai , and perhaps because he himself has spent some crucial periods . there , the Generalissimo first asked about people and conditions in what the Chinese now call " the isolated island , " the atmosphere of which ( as I assured him ) is much different from that of Chungking ? in Chungking 's favor . Next , the Generalissimo took up a broader issue  --  what China 's futtlire will be after the war . That the present hostilities will conclude in a Chinese victory has always been presumed in Chungking . Neither now nor at any time in the past has the Generalissimo , or those about him , ever shown the slightest doubt but that Japan would finally dash herself to weary destruction against the rock of Chinese resistance . But the question is beginning to be asked in ' creasingly , in China and in the world outside , as to whether " dictatorship " was to spell the way of salvation to China . Chiang Kai-shek , the man who has been accused of setting himself up as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponens of totalitarianism as a workable post-war scheme for China . " The Chinese character is democratic and China as a nation has cast her lot with the democracies , " said he . " China chose this course before the war , she has persisted in it through the war , and she will continue the democratic course in future . " In trying to weigh the probabilities , I had asked various people their views and had received various answers . The then United States Ambassador , Nelson T. Johnson , had spoken of China as in a period of revolution , arrested by the hostilities but with the revolutionary trend bound to continue when the war finished . Looking at the entire affair in a detached historic perspective , he felt that foreigners tend to be impatient of ' China because she does not quickly seek solutions satisfactory to the Occidental mind . " China will find her way , " Mr. Johnson said , " but it will not be dramatic and final and black-andwhite . It will not be  --  a foreign way but a Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a bit elusive . There must be more concrete signs . Others pointed to the People 's Political Council , which has already proved a salutary corrective  --  possessed it is true of only advisory functions , but able to criticize and bring things out into the open , as well as put forward suggestions which usually are ratified by the Executive Yuan and go into effect . Its membership has broadened with 240 members instead of the former 180 . I asked General Chiang if this , to him , represented the most vital signpost on the way to future democracy . The Generalissimo surprised me by brushing this aside as " an interim measure " ? useful for the time , but not important in the long view as compared with what must finally come . " When the war is over , " he slid , " we must at once put into full effect our new Constitution which has liberal democratic ) provisions . " ( The Constitution was to have been promulgated last autumn but it was put off until three months after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present ( the ruling Kuomintang ) we shall have many parties . along the lines indicated by America and other great democratic countries . We must convoke a Parliamerm hold elections and introduce the whole democratic system . " The United States , General Chiang declared , ? is the greatest of the democracies and her example will be followed by China as far as is practicable . Those who know the Generalissimo well feel that he is sincere in this , as in his profession of the Christian religion and his never-flagging struggle for unity among the various factions of his followers . At one time he may have wished to be a dictator but today , when he might be , he knows that democracy is best . This is the second of a group of articles by Mr. Gould , written as the result of revisiting Chungking.                     