@@711046

txt The Italian Government is becoming increasingly strict with those groups or parties which may just possibly be toying with the idea of trying to takb over this country by rioting or even revolution . Spurred on by a growing volume of reports that Italian Communists are planning to uniform , and perhaps arm , the partisan organizations led by them , the Government is drafting drastic measures to prevent any such act . Acting on the grounds that Article 18 of the new Constitution forbids both secret organizations and those which have military form but political ends , the national Cabinet now is engaged in defining such organizations . It is suggested that an organization should fall within this ruling if its members wear a uniform , or have officers , or undergo training , or adopt a particular manner of marching . , Heavy Penalties Violation of this measure can mean from two to ten years in prison for those heading such an organization  --  and up to three years for those participating . Although Communists and left-wing Socialists always have been loudest in their demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for some reason this new and broader interpretation of the law has net struck their fancy . Indeed , those who long have suspected that the Communists had some unpleasant plan up their sleeves are more than ever convinced of this by the very violence with which the Communist press is attacking the Cabinet 's efforts to nip all semi-military organizations . The current issue of the official Communist newspaper carries a headline proclaiming that this Government decision is " a boldfaced slap at the Partisans . " Special Guards Enrolled While the testimony of Italy 's right-wing press seldom is characterized by strict reliability , nevertheless it is worth reporting that one fairly moderate newspaper reports it has learned positively that at least two clothing makers in northern Italy already have received orders to begin making special partisan uniforms . In any event , there is no secret about the fact that Communists and Socialists are continuing formation of the so-called " Garibaldi Guards , " a youth organization whose members support the Leftist political program , go out and do voluntary labor work , and finally march about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Proof that the Government is making serious preparations to ward off any trouble from either Left or Right  --  despite the encouraging report on Feb. 4 that public-security conditions are better than for some time ? is the fact that it now is busy enrolling some 18,000 special guards for duty during the period up to and inbluding the national elections on . April 18.                     