@@711946

txt Fears that the Nortn Atlantic treaty may become a saber rattling provocation of war were voiced today by senate leaders , altho Sen.Vandenberg ( 14 ... Mich. ) termed the pact a " powerful insurance policy against World War III . " The military commitments of the United States ( lder the treaty . couplea with implied obligation to supply a vast array of arms to western Europe , cast a worried ? shadow over senators who will be asked next month to ratify the al-. fiance .. Calls For Full Study Even Vandenberg , leading Republican foreign policy spokesman in the senate and a major participant in state department secret consultations on the phrasing of the treaty , said that a full study of the military aid program must be made by the senate before it ratifies the treaty . Senate leaders foresaw pro ? longed debate on the ratification and doubted that a final vote woula come before the end of May . The- state department was expected to urge early action for its psychological effect upon the western European nations and the Russian bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the pact apparently would obligate this country to make considerable arms shipments to Europe . " They 've added a lot of arms to it , " Taft said . " It seems inseparable . I just have n't made up my mind on it . " He indicated that the arms shipments might provoke war with Russia . He referred to the pledge in the pact that members maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack . State Secretary Acheson yesterday emphasized that the treaty does not bind the United States to an arms program , but the state department has " macie it clear that it is planning a military lend-lease program to implement the treaty . Emphasis On Military Sen. George ( D. , Ga. ) also showed concern about arms shipments . he said in an interview that this country would be " playing with fire " if it tries to intimidate Russia by making a military alliance of the treaty or by shipping arms to Europe . He said he expected to support the treaty as a defensive measure thru a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned . " there is a great question involved as to whether we are trying to intimidate or provoke Russia . I am very much afraid that we are n't going to get very far in this whole program by complete emphasis on military force . The grave danger is that we are placing too much emphasis on the military side . " Sen. Donnell ( R. , Mo. ) , who. ripped into the pact in the senate recently , again assailed it as a " positive commitment to go to war in event of armed attack against a signatory . " " Exceedingly Unwise " , " I deem It exceedingly unwise that this nation should by treaty enter into any moral or other commitment to go to war , " he said . " The Constitution of the United States pro vides that congress should have the power to declare war . No commitment for entry into armed conflict should be made by our government in advance of circumstances . " Sen .. ISherry of Nebraska , the G.O.P. floor leader . told a re ? porter that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants the state department to " lay down for inspection any separate legislation that goes along with IL " " Automatic War " Sen. Bridges of New Hambshire .. ranking Republican on the appropriations committee , asserted that if the senate . ratifies ? it , " the North Atlantic pact does mean automatic war for the United States if a signatory power is attacked . " Vandenberg called the pact " major link in our own natural Security and a powerful inserance policy against World War IT.1. " " lt. is exclusively , .. efensive and scrupulously within the United Nations charter . " he said . " It will never be u.:24 unless an armed aggressor , invades this area . In such event , it foretigrdedly anticipates the facts:of-R ( 4.1 " It 's text keeps all the ' ' ises to preserve our own ' autorromY and our constitutional process . Nevertheless it warns any aggressor that he can not divide and conquer ; nor can he plan aggression with impunity . This ought to stop armed aggression before it starts . " State Dept . Booklet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the North Atlantic alliance , contending that American security would Le imperiled if Europe falls under the domination of a hostile power . Repeating the arguments Acheson made last night , with additional emphasis on a warning to Russia that the Atlantic alliance powers would unite against any attack , the state department paper said it wanted to " rem-. e the danger of miscalculation l ' ; ) , any potential aggressor that he could succeed in overcoming them one by one . " The paper said the western towers plan to establish a " common strategic plan " for co-ordinated defense in the event of a war . A joint defense planning group , now functioning unofficially with representatives of the United States , Britain . Canada , Rolland , Belgium , France and Luxemburg would be established formally by the Atlantic council provided under the treaty , it was indicated . The proposed treaty , despite its reiteration ? of faith in the United Nations , is a revival in a new form of Britain 's 19th century " balance of power " theory adopted by top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the UN 's ability to keep peace , politico-military affairs analysts said . Britain 's Old Role These experts , who did not wish to be quoted because of their official connections , said that under the treaty the United States takes over Britain 's old role of keeping a balance among the European powers . As a result , America 's front line of defense , under its treaty obligations , ' would become the Rhine river  --  and anywhere else the iron curtain ends and the west begins , they said . With Britain , weakened by the war and internal economic problems , no longer able to throw her military weight against a growing and threatening European continental nation , the United States would step in with the world 's largest navy , powerful air force , potentially strong land army and its stock of atomic bombs , it was explained . That is the role of the United States in the North Atlantic defense alliance . 