@@704869

txt What little doubt remained here that President Roosevelt would accept a thirdterm nomination from the Democratic National Convention next week , or that he would have any trouble whatever in getting it , was narrowed still further by two events here today . The United Automobile Workers of America , through its international executive board , adopted a resolution urging the President to stand for a third term , and the convention to " draft " him if nec-essary : The resolution , which was unanimous , asserted that it reflected " the stated position of the C. I. 0 . " It referred to the President as " the greatest friend of labor ever to hold the office " and declared that " neither the platform nor the candidate of the Republican party deserve the support of labor . " This action of the second largest of the affiliates of the Congress of Industrial Organizations was intended by its authors to spike any thirdiarty movement or other independent action contemplated by John L. Lewis , C. I. 0 . president , and others with labor backing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House seemingly convinced that the President would run again . The Mayor 's predictions and the circumstances were accepted by many here as almost an indication of the President 's intentions . Convention in President 's Hands Whatever these developments or political opinions may portend , the fact is clearer than ever that the convention 's decision is now strictly in the hands of Mr. Roosevelt . Mayor Kelly conferred yesterday with the President . The White House explanation of the visit was that Mr. Kelly was in Washington on municipal business , and dropped in to pay his respects to the Chief Executive . The story among the Mayor 's intimates here , however , is that he was called or went to Washington to go over plans for the final stages of the third-term " draft . " Stepping from a plane at the Municipal Airport early this afternoon , Mayor Kelly told newspaper men that he was more convinced than ever that Mr. Roosevelt would accept the nomination . He expressed certainty , also , that the President would not visit the convention , but would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international emergencies . " How could any great American refuse the nomination , particularly at this time ? " the Mayor asked . " If the President consulted only his own desires perhaps he might step out . But we are facing a national crisis . This is not the time for Americans to consult their personal likes or dislikes . Franklin RooseContinued velt will continue to serve the people . " The President 's mo:t definite hope at this time , Mr. Kelly said , was that Postmaster General James A. Farley would remain as chairman of the national committee and manage the coming campaign . Mr. Farley 's reply , when told of this , was a grin and a reiteration of his determination not to discuss his talk with the President at Hyde Park on Sunday . Meanwhile , the third-term movement began to assume bandwagon proportions with new arrivals og party leaders . There was some belief that John L. Lewis might fail to get support from members of his own C. I. 0 . following if he attempted to pursue his opposition to Mr. Roosevelt into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Lewis The action of the executive board of the United Automobile Workers was taken by some as an answer to Mr. Lewis . The eighteen union executives had been in session here since Monday , making plans for their annual convention in St. Louis , scheduled for July 29 , and laying the groundwork for an organization drive in various defense industries involving automotive manufacture , particularly among airplane builders . They also were watching the political situation . Several C. I. 0 . leaders are backing a third term in their capacities as delegates to the convention . Philip Murray , chairman of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee , has set up a pro-Roosevelt headquarters . Mr. Murray is a delegate to the convention from Pennsylvania and is pledged to a third term . R. J. Thomas , president of the United Automobile Workers , is a Roosevelt-instructed delegate from Michigan , as are Richard T. Frankensteen , member of the international executive board , and Percy Lewelly , head of the Ford local . Thomas J. Kennedy , secretary of Lewis 's United Mine Workers and former Lieutenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its member of the resolutions committee . He too is pledged to a third term for Mr. Roosevelt . John Owens , regional director of the C. I. 0 . for Ohio , is a. delegate and is understood to be favorable to the third-term idea . With such an imposing list of C. I. 0 . leaders supporting a. third term for Mr. Roosevelt , or at least opposed to a third party movement of any sort , whether to stop a third term or force an anti-war plank in the platform , early arrivals noted with interest an agitation among backers of Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana , Mr. Lewis 's favorite for the nomination . Mr. Wheeler was quoted in Chicago newspapers as having issued a statement in Washington taking . himself out of the race . The statement was interpreted by his headquarters here , however , as meaning that he would not allow his name to go before the convention if Mr. Roosevelt had announced his candidacy or definitely indicated his willingness to accept the nomination before Montana 's name was reached on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed , is to obtain a strong antiinvolvement plank in the platform . He has intimated that he would take his fight to the convention floor if dissatisfied with the for , eign affairs declaration and that , failing therein , he might even lead a bolt from the ticket on the issue of staying out of ' European wars . President 's Rivals Are Hopeful The Senator 's managers , as well as those of Vice President Garner , continued to profess a belief that Mr. Roosevelt would decline the nomination . Backers of Paul V. , Federal Security Administrator , came to town last night singing the thirdterm song . Frank , head of the Indiana group which tried to " sell " Mr. to the party leaders , said his State was ready to vote for Mr. Roosevelt 's renomination , adding that he was satisfied the President would accept . The belief persisted , despite Mayor Kelly 's remarks to the contrary upon returning from Washington , that Mr. Roosevelt might visit Chicago at some moment during the convention . The Secret Service was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit , and the Democratic National Committee had engaged the Presidential suites in a number of hotels early in its preparations . It is possible , however , that these details have been worked out on an " in case " basis , leaving the President to make his decision on a moment 's notice . Work on the platform will be started by members of the resolutions committee at ' an informal meeting Friday . Senator Wagner of New York , chairman-designate of the committee , arrived tonight . Although the general provisions of the document are believed to have been agreed upon by the President and the Senator , the committee probably will go through hearings and lengthy night meetings , just as a similar body did at the Philadelphia convention in 1936 . Text of Auto Resolution The resolution adopted by the U. A. W. executive board was as follows : " The international executive board of the United Automobile Workers of America , C. I. 0. , urges President Franklin D. Roosevelt to become a candidate for a third term . It urges that the national nominating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third term , if necessary . " The U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . makes its position known and goes on record for a third term for President Roosevelt on the occasion of his all-important message to Congress proposing further steps to build up an adequate national defense and pledging ' no war of aggression ' and no sending of ' our men to take part in European wars . ' This position squares completely with the stated position of the C. I. 0. , and answers the prayers of millions of citizens , young and old alike . " It is the statement of a man who responds to the pulse and heartbeat of the American people and their desire to preserve our democratic institutions . " President Roosevelt has been the greatest friend of labor ever to hold the office of President of the United States . The record of social legislation enacted during his eight years in office , including the Social Security Act , with its unemployment compensation and its old-age pensions , tower high as monumental achievements for all our people . " Neither the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support of labor . The platform , with its avowed opposition to the Wagner Act and its open promise to scuttle legislation protecting working women , does not even pay the usual cheap gestures of friendship to labor . " The Republican nominee , notwithstanding a synthetic build-up as an independent candidate . was the choice and is the favorite of specially privileged interests who would wreck every humane and progressive achievement of the New Deal . " Under these circumstances the international executive board of the U. A. W.-C . I. 0. , reflecting the overwhelming sentiments of almost 400,000 organized automobile workers , urges the nomination and election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt for a third term . "                     