@@708132

txt The Sofia Radio said yesterday that a Bulgarian delegation met. with Marshal . Josif Broz ( Tito ) Oct. 5 , and an agreement . for " military co-operation in the fight against the common enemy , the German invader , " had been reached . The radiocast , which was reported by the Federal Communications Commission , said the Bulgarian delegation was headed by Dobri Tarpeshev , Minister Without Portfolio and a member of the Communist Party , who signed the agreement for Bulgaria . Marshal Tito signed for Yugaslavia . " Marshal Tito received a delegation of the Bulgarian Government on Oct , 5 , " the radiocast said . " The Bulgarian delegates announced their readiness to make good all the injustices inflicted on the Yugoslav population by reactionary and fascist elements of the Bulgarian Army . " By a Staff Cnertspoaden1 The ** Science Mnttitor LONDON , Oct. 10 ? Bulgaria 's diplomatic and political relations with the Allies , which are still unregulated even though that . country for some weeks past hfs been militarily out . of the war , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today , It has been . some weeks since Bulgaria asked Britain and the United States for armistice terms and the Soviet Union caused surprise by suddenly declaring war on Bulgaria after being in diplomatic relations with it throughout the conflict . . Here in London it has been the general assumption for some time past that terms to Bulgaria had been agreed upon by the Big Three , yet these have not yet been published . Armistice Terms Deferred In the interval between the withdrawal froin Germany 's side and today Bulgaria has schemed so as to gain the most satisfactory conditions , particularly seeking acceptance . as a co-belligerent , despite its bad record since 1941 , and to retain gains in surrounding countries of Greece and Yugoslavia . Whatever may . have been the Soviet Union 's attitude on these issues , Prime Minister Churchill indicated in his last parliamentary statement that Britain considered Bulgaria had yet to " work its passage , " and wasn't. prepared to allow Bulgaria to benefit at the expense of the oppressed Allies . This latter issue has undoubted : ly postponed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some reports maintained , Bulgar and Greek Partisans intended to administer parts " ofThrace which the Bulgars had seized in 1941 . This was interpreted by some as meaning that Bulgaria hoped thereby to get recognition of its claims to an outlet to the Aegean Sea at Dede Agatch . Integrity of Greece Whatever the truth of this report , here in London it is now declared that Greek Communists . have telegraphed the Papandreou Government denying any plans for such a joint administration . This is all advantageous to Soviet-British relations in the Balkans since Britain has always stressed the importance of the integrity of Greece . In this connection , it is worth noting the correspondence - between Georgi Dimitrov , famous at the Reichstag trial in Berlin in 1933 andleading Communist Party official in Moscow for the Balkans on the one hand , and the Central Committee of Bulgarian Workers Party Communists on the other . It was published in Rabotnichesko Delo , party organ in Sofia , during the past few days , In his letters Dimitrov stresses to the party " that it is in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid those opposing co-operation and destroy while there is still time all provocative intrigues from whatever source aimed at the creation of misunderstanding among the Allies . . . Work of Enlightenment " The clearest causes of our national miseries in recent decades were Bulgarian chauvinism , greater Bulgaria ideology , and a policy of Bulgarian hegemony in the Balkans . The bearers of such disease must be rendered innocuous . " The colossal work of enlightenment among the people and intelligentsia is essential so as to destroy every trace of chauvinism . Here lies one of our greatest tasks . " The Workers Party 's reply to Dimitrov , published on Oct. 5 promises to carry out such policy and interestingly discloses how carefully the Bulgarian Communists have followed Dimitrov 's guidance . " On your instructions " appears a number of times in text of the Party 's reply .                     