@@710930

txt Spaded to Tax Nisw Irma T. Rise Is Continuing There are few things more certain in Washington today than that the Republican Congress ( with a substantial assist from large numbers of Democrats ) will refuse to grant this authority . On the other hand , there is compelling evidence that the upward trend of prices is continuing . One highly placed Government economist said privately the other day that if Congress does not enact price control and rationing legislation now , ' it will damn well have to three months from now . " The price situation would get so completely out of hand , he said , that there would be no alternative . In private and off-the-record estimates , some Government economists predict that between now and June , 1948 , the price level of " cost-of-living " items will rise anywhere from 10 to 20 per cent if they are not held in check by price and rationing controls . Here are the principal factors which , contributing to such an increase : Meat is certain to become scarcer late this winter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , probably leading many other food items after . it . Continued large-scale grain shipments to Europe , in spite of improved winter wheat prospects , are likely to become manifest in higher prices of dairy and poultry items in which grain is an important feed factor . A third round of wage demands appears definitely in the offing , probably maturing during February and March . These wage increases will be reflected in increased prices for manufactured goods . Demand Stays High The demand for all sorts of consumer goods continues active and there is no promise of abatement either because of the high prices or reduced income , except in the lowest economic brackets . ? Finally , the normal winter slump in employment ( much less this year than usual ) will end around April 1 , when the other inflationary pressures will be at their maximum . This additional income thrown into the market at that point will give an added impulse to the high-price trend . The opponents of a rigid control program have been less articulate in predicting what would happen to prices without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the free enterprise system if they were adopted . It can be said , in general , that they do not share the alarmed view of the Government economists of prices spiraling off into ' infinity and chaos . Prices , they argue , are still in the process of adjusting themselves to our enormously expanded economy , and the " natural forces " by which they normally would be checked simply have not yet been encountered . To restrain them artificially now would defeat their natural adjustment at their ultimate level . The view group that embarked on a new and permanent high level of prosperity , and that any marked deflation that is to come will be no more than a " shaking down " to this new order of existence . But there is acknowledgment among this group , also , that the current price boom is at least a potential threat to stability , if not an actual one at this point . A variety of correctives has been proposed , all of them falling considerably short of the more drastic controls advocated by President Truman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government in stimulating consumer savings through the sale of bonds . Also , he advocates an educational program to " spend less . " Some curbs , furthermore , should be put on consumer credit , he believes . The National Association of Manufacturers advanced this week its own twelve-point program Lif inflation control . This embraced in substantial form many of the proposals made by Senator Taft , but put the greatest emphasis on fiscal reforms by the Government and increased worker productivity . Plant at Capacity This last suggestion has occurred so often in public discussions of anti-inflation measures that it can be assumed to be one of the principal devices of those opposed to Government controls . The argument is that only through increased production can more goods be brought into the market , thus soaking up surplus purchasing power and bringing the whole price level down . Economists on the other side of the fence deride this as a meaningless platitude . Certainly as far as any immediate alleviation of the price situation is concerned the nation 's industrial plant is already operating at full capacity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being used . Productivity per worker is not so high as it was in pre-war , they admit , but the margin is not sufficient , should it be overcome , materially to affect the total output . Increased production , they say , can not come without increased capacity . The argument over whether we shall or shall not get price controls is , of course , academic . And the argument over what will happen in consequence is unfortunately inconclusive . All that seems to be certain is that the lowly consumer is going to get along , for the next few months at least , without the benefit  --  or impediment- - of price controls and find out the hard way what it does to the high cost of living . WASHINGTON , Dec. ** they contend , are going to happen to prices in the next six months ? To a great many people that is the nub of the controversy now raging in Congress over President Truman 's economic program . All the high-flown talk about inflationary pressures versus deflationary pressures , of police state methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of consumers  --  and voters  --  to the basic question of whether the cost of living is going any higher , and of what they will do if it does . There are no political sides to the question about the current high level of prices . Everybody agrees , and everybody deplores them . But the question of why they are high , and what to do about bringing them down , has split the hustings wide open . President Truman three weeks ago called upon Congress to enact a ten-point program of economic controls as a companion piece to legislation for interim financial assistance to Europe . All of these were aimed at the over-all problem of controlling the spiral of inflation . Two in particular were aimed directly at the high cost of living . He asked authority for the reinstitution of price control and of rationing for selected groups of consumer goods . is widely held in this the United States is                     