@@706458

txt , VAG-E P 1:1S-SC-YPresident Roosevelt has again emphasized his opposition to further wage increases as destructive of the national policy of holding down the cost of living . He said yesterday that the Government would do everything it could to prevent " unwarranted " pay increases by private plants , even when the employer was willing and able to grant them . This is sound policy . But policy is not made by declarations alone . It is made by the practices pursued . In the case of wages , the President has stated the policies , but it is the National War Labor Board that must practice them . Thus far the board in action has scarcely followed the President 's pronouncements . Even the statements of the board serve to confuse rather than clarify the question of our national wage policy . The chairman of the board . William H. Davis , has indicated that in future , pay disputes will be settled in accordance with the President 's message of April 27 . That was the message in which Mr. Roosevelt said that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living will have to come down . " But Mr. Davis has also indicated that in future the board will grant wage increases only to the extent of 50 per cent of the increased cost of living , and will provide that the increases be paid in war savings bonds . How do these two statements jibe ? How does the second fit in with the repeated statements of the President and Leon Henderson that continued wage increases are inconsistent with the national objective of preventing a rising spiral in the cost of living ? To limit wages to one-half the increase in living costs is , at best , a compromise . It must be remembered that thus far wages have been advancing much faster than living costs , so that today " real wages " of manufacturing workers are at record highs . The policy of the board is a faltering step in the direction of allowing living costs to catch up with the rise in wages , but it is calculated to delay that process and promote a larger total rise in living costs than would otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the President said in his speech of April 28 ? He said then : , ' Do you work for wages ? You will have to forego higher wages for your particular job for the duration of the war . " Is it possible that the board will claim that paying wage increases in the form of war bonds constitutes foregoing higher wages for the duration of the war ? Such a claim would be unjustified . In the first place , the acceptance of war bonds in lieu of cash must be purely voluntary on the part of the wage-earner . Second , the bonds are convertible into cash on short notice . The argument that wage increases paid in war bonds are not inflationary is fallacious . Such increases , like all other wage increases , must either increase the cost of the war effort or decrease the tax receipts of the ' Treasury , or both . Paying wage increases in war bonds clearly increases the amount of the Government debt . In other words , the net effect of the device is to increase war costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be financed by debt and a smaller part by taxes . That is certainly inflationary . Yet the use of this device will help to confuse the issues . It will encourage arguments that wage increases are really acts of patriotism which help to finance the war . Quite apart from the cases that come before the NWLB , this policy must tend to encourage wage increases in the 90 per cent of collective bargaining cases that never reach the board . If the employer points to the President 's statement , the employes can point to the board 's policy . In times like these , when all emphasis is on uninterrupted production and considerations of cost are submerged , there is a strong tendency for employers to raise wages even without demands from labor . After all , from 50 to 100 per cent of the cost of the increases can be passed on to Government either through decreased taxes or increased prices for war work done . The net of all this must be to undermine the President 's policy by reducing the idea of " stabilizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that we must " forego higher wages " as mere rhetoric . The board 's position only accentuates the questions of what our national policy on wage increases is and who is making it . If the President 's declarations are to be twisted or ignored , then it is time for Congress to state the policy . It can not be left to a Presidential board to enunciate a policy Which nullifies the President 's own pbsition and has no sanction in any other authority .                     