@@709712

txt Through unprecedented labor and management co-operation a laboriaw handicapping the textile indtistry of Massachusetts has been suspended this year and is expected to be permanently discarded , if the present test proves nondetrimental to the workers . This experiment was disclosed today by Raymond F. O'Connell . Counsel ' of the State Department of Labor and Industries . The law the elimination of which is now being tried out is an old one barring work by women and children after 10 p. m . This restriction , coupled with another law forbidding women to go to work before 6 a. m. and a third statute requiring . a .45-minute lunch period for women and children had made it impossible for a textile mill to operate two 40-hour shifts  --  eight hours a day ? in five days . A new law passed by the 1946 Legislature for the . year 's trial period enables textile mills to employ women and children over 18 until 11 o'clock at night . The extra hour makes two shifts possible . Instead of being called back Saturday morning for a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old 10 o'clock law , workers can now get through Friday afternoon . If brought back Saturday for more than 40 hours , they draw overtime pay . Largest State Industry Employing close to 100,000 workers , the textile industry is the largest industry in the state . Women comprise more than half of its work-force . The new legislation is designed to prevent the further moving of Massachusetts , textile mills to the South and to encourage expansion of the industry here . The 11-P . M. Law was enacted on recommendation of both the manufacturers and the organized labor ? C. I. 0 . and A. F. of Lin the textile industry . The move to get the industry and its labor together to see what could be done to improve conditions was initiated and carried through by . James T. Moriarty , State Commissioner of Labor and Industries , and a veteran trade unionist . " I know of no other instance in the Commonwealth where manufacturers and labor leaders have worked out a change of statutes for the benefit of our industry , " Mr. O'Connell Said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it evidences that the representatives of labor and industry can be brought together as reasonable men and if shown a method whereby the industries of the State can be assisted , it is possible to enact legislation to that end . This could never be done if arbitrarily proposed by one group without first consulting the other . " Aided by New Law Since the 11-P. 11/1 : Law was approved on Mareh 12 , the President of one of the large textile mills , who said at one of the , first meetings that he could not recommend any expansion to his Board df Directors unless the State tried to aid the industry , has begun the construction of a new mill in Massachusetts , Mr. O'Connell added . " Back in December Commissioner , Moriarty had learned of the textile industry being generally quite dissatisfied and handicapped by certain statutes which placed it in an inequitable competitive position with industries in other states , " Mr. O'Connell said . " The principal handicap was the 10 o'clock closing hour for women . There is in addition a law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children shall be permitted in the textile industry after 6 o'clock at night . Ever since 1933 a special Act has been passed at each session giving the Commissioner the right to extend the closing hour until 10 o'clock , and he has done SO . Special War Powers " Dining the war the Commissioner had special war powers , and the textile people like any other industry producing for war needs was granted the right to work three shifts . After the war the industry anticipated the termination of the war powers of the Commissioner and the necessity of going back to 10 o'clock closing , and also the possibility that the Act making possible the extension of 6 o'clock closing to 10 o'clock might sometime fail . " So the Commissioner called the textile manufacturers together and told them he had heard undercurrents of dissatisfaction , and wanted to know what their problems were and if it would be possible for him to assist them . There were 57 manufacturers present . One after another got up and said he could not see his way clear to expanding his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the existing Massachusetts statutes . All mentioned the 10 o'clock closing and the chance of 6 o'clock closing not being suspended some year . " The Commissioner told them to appoint a committee of ten members and to draft a statement of suggestions that would be helpful to them . Fine Co-operation Shown " He then called together officials of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations , principally the textile union representatives , and told them about the meeting of the textile manufacturers . He asked if they would be willing to sit down-malt-the Employers ' Committee and discuss the question of possible statutory changes . They said of course they would be willing , and a Committee of 10 labor representatives was appointed  --  five A. F. of L. and five C. I. 0 .  --  and a meeting was then scheduled between the two groups . " After a number of meetings it was finally agreed that the statutes pertaining to the textile industry should be amended for a trial period of one year to allow womeh and children over 18 years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This is just one more instance of the rare judgment and keen foresight of Commissioner Moriarty coming to the fore to benefit the Commonwealth . A movement such as this does not come within the statute enforced by his Department , but this did not deter the Commissioner when he found our largest industry threatened . "                     