@@707361

txt ALL DRAFT EVADERS WILL BE PUT IN 1-A ; 95,000 ON RECORDS WMC Selective Service Bureau Warns New Classification Will Begin Nov. 1 INDUCTION ORDER FOLLOWS Delinquents Will Forfeit Any Deferment Claims for Occupation or Dependency Special to Tam Now Yona TIMES . WASHINGTON , Oct. 14 ? Beginning Nov. 1 , all men between the ages of 18 and 37 years who are subject to draft and are delinquent for one reason or another will be classified into Class 1-A immediately and ordered to report for induction , the Selective Service Bureau of the War Manpower Commission stated today . Delinquent registrants between 38 and 45 also will be classified 1-A , but will not be ordered to report for induction unless the armed forces agree to accept them . Delinquents who do not respond to induction orders will be reported to United States attorneys for prosecution under the Selective Service Act , which provides a maximum fine of $10,000 or five years in prison , or both , for persons who violate provisions of the law or any rules and regulations supporting it . Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become so for failure to observe one or more of seven requirements of the draft law , the announcement said . It listed these as follows : Failure to return a completed Selective Service questionnaire within ten days ; giving false information in the questionnaire ; failure to register ; failure to keep the local draft board informed of an address where mail will always reach the registrant ; failure to report a change of status which would affect classification ; failure to report for physical examination , and failure to report for induction or for " work of national importance . " When classifying delinquent registrants in the first group as available for service , the bureau said , local boards will disregard the individual 's order number and his occupational or dependency status . The registrant so classified , however , may request a personal appearance before his local board , or a reopening of the case or appeal , but if the local board determines that he knowingly became a delinquent it will not reopen the case . If the appeal board determines that the registrant knowingly became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a class available for service without regard to any other claims . Willful Evasion and Neglect This tightening up of draft regulations was made necessary , the statement said , because of willful evasion of the regulations and carelessness and neglect of registrants . As of Aug. 31 , it added , there were about 95,000 cases of known delinquency throughout the country . Each month an estimated 11,000 men become delinquent , it was added . Any man who is knowingly delinquent or who believes that there is a possibility that he may be delinquent should consult his local board at once , the statement said , communicating with it in writing and giving his place of address if he is too far distant to appear in person . If he does not know the address of his local board , he should go to a board in the jurisdiction where he is living . Otherwise after Nov. // ALL DRAFT EVADERS WILL BE PUT DH-A // 1 he will be put into Class 1-A and ordered to report for induction , forfeiting any claim he or his employer may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may have , Selective Service emphasized . Instructions to Delinquents Once the delinquent is classified into Class 1-A and ordered to report for induction it will be incumbent upon him to report to some board wherever he may be , Selective Service declared , , saying : " Regardless of the time when or the circumstances under which a registrant fails or has failed to report for induction pursuant to an order to report for induction , It shall thereafter be his continuous duty from day to day to report for induction to his own local board and to each local board whose area he enters or in whose area he remains . "                     