@@707394

txt Edge Gets 94,000 Margin ; Constitution Plan Adopted New Jersey voters elected yesterday Walter E. Edge as Governor , a post he held during the first World War , and at the same time authorized the 1944 Legislature to revise the State 's ninetym nine-year-old Constitution . Unofficial returns from 2,752 of the State 's 3,647 election districts gave Mr. Edge 472,987 votes to 378,367 for Mayor Vincent J. Murphy of Newark , his Democratic opponent , a - plurality of 94,620 . Approval of the constitutional revision proposal represented a signal victory for the present Governor , Charles Edison , Democrat , who has campaigned actively during the past year for revision of what he termed the State 's " antiquated and outmoded " basic law . In particular , he deplored the Governor 's inability under the present Constitution to prosecute delinquent office holders throughout the State . Mr. Edge 's election also represented a stunning defeat to Mayor , Frank Hague of Jersey City , Dem- , ocratic boss of the State , with ' whom Mr. Edison has been at odds for most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a row that Mayor Hague failed to " deliver " for his candidate . Last year Albert W. Hawkes , Republican , decisively defeated William H. Smathers , Democratic incumbent , in the contest , for United States Senator . Mr. Murphy conceded defeat at 12:45 o'clock this morning and in a letter to the victor wished him a most successful administration . " 1Mr . Murphy 's letter follows : " The people of the State of New Jersey have exercised their precious right of franchise and have elected you as our Governor for the next three years . I congratu // // late you and wish you the most successful administration . " Legislature Is Republican Returns indicated that the new Legislature would be as heavily Republican as was its predecessor . New Jersey Legislatures have been Republican since 1938 . Although returns from Hudson County , Democratic stronghold of Mayor Hague , were incomplete , it was evident late last night that Hague had not made good his promise to Mayor . Murphy to give him " as good " a plurality as any had ever reecived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county gave Mr. Murphy 98,332 25,513 for his Republican opponent . On the constitutional revision question , which Mayor Hague opposed , the vote was 67,923 against and 17,333 for , with 310 districts missing . Throughout the State the day passed uneventfully , with few disputes and no arrests reported . In Hudson County , stronghold of the Hague organization , the election was described as " one of the quietest in the history of the county . " The fifteen State troopers assigned to police the county at the request of the Superintendent of Elections , William E. Sewell , remained inactive throughout the day . The election of the entire county Democratic ticket was assured early in the evening , with the exception of Kearny , where Eric Gilzean , Republican , defeated District Court Judge Leo S. Carney , Democrat . The county also returned its entire Democratic slate of ten members to the Assembly . Voting in Essex County , the State 's most populous , was fairly light throughout the forenoon , increasing slightly in the early afternoon until the rain , which began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of early balloting , election officials estimated that the total vote throughout the State would be 5 per cent below last year in the HawkesSmathers race . As in Hudson County , the election was quiet and marked by a complete absence of violence . County Elections Superintendent Anthony P. Miele augmented the regular staff of forty deputy sheriffs with 500 special election deputies and was prepared to call ten State troopers from the Morristown barracks in the event of trouble . Mayor and Mrs. Murphy and their daughter , Rita , voted about 11 A. M. at Engine House 26 , Sanford Avenue and Palm Street . Mr. Murphy appeared confident of victory . A total of 1,900 soldier ballots had been received by Essex election officials up to this morning , but officials estimated that 400 of these would be disqualified because the voters were not registered . Apathy Toward the Campaign The light vote reflected the apathy toward the campaign , which at no point aroused general emotion . Mr. Edge confined himself , for the most part , to outlining a program for the post-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attack of Mr. Edge 's record as Governor , United States Senator and Ambassador to France . The Democratic nominee 's charge that Mr. Edge 's isolationist views had " embarrassed " Wendell L. Willkie , the Republican Presidential nominee in 1940 , brought forth a vigorous denial from Mr. Willkie , which was amplified later in a speech in Paterson in which Mr. Willkie declared that Mr. Edge 's international views were completely in accord with his own . Mr. Edge , whose home is in Ventnor , will be 70 years old Nov. 23. 