@@711730

txt LAKE SUCCESS , Dec. 18 ? Four . of New York 's largest building contractors are joining forces in a new omnibus corporation to construct the first skyscraper unit for the United Nations on its permanent East River home site . This adaptation of the cooperative principle , followed heretofore on great engineering projects for the Government , is being secretly negotiated by the four construction contractors , named today by Secretary General Trygve Lie as successful bidders for the $25,000 , ; , ' 000 job of erecting the thirty-nine story Secretariat skyscraper and completing foundations for the whole project . The four companies  --  which , incidentally , submitted a combined bid and thereby guaranteed a sharing of honors in the coveted task of constructing the world peace capital  --  are the George A. Fuller Company , 597 Madison Avenue ; the Turner Construction Company , 420 Lexington Avenue ; the Walsh Construction Company , 1 East Forty-third Street , arid the Slattery Contracting company , 72-02 Fiftycfirst Road , Woodside , Queens . The companies were selected for the job out of a list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful bid was no , made public it was recalled that original estimates for the Secretariat building called for an outlay of about $20 , - 000,000 . It is believed that another 55,000,000 will be needed for the foundation work that must be done for the other main units that are to be put up later , The combined bid was a lump sum offer and will probably be bonded for about $30,000,000 , thus ' providing the United Nations with a guarantee that the final cost will not go beyond the figure quoted by the contractors . This feature is particularly welcome to officials here . who are forced to keep within strict bounds on costs for // the world capital and to see to it that the whole international headquarters does not involve more than $65,000,000 , which is the sum lent by the United States for the venture . There had been fears here that it might be necessary to accept the customary cost-plus contracts , which , it was felt , might have forced further changes and reductions in the world capital to offset the constantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement as proof of the building trade 's faith that it can for the first time in years make firm plans for the distant future . The new company now being established for the world capital job will probably be called the Fuller , Turner , Walsh Company , and its president will be Louis Crandall , who is president of the Fuller corporation . The new venture , it is understood , will be capitalized at about $3,000,000 , and will have full call upon the personnel and resources of the member companies . The Slattery company , it is said , will play a minor role in the new organization . The affairs of the joint corporation will be under the direction of an executive committee , consisting of Mr. Crandall , H. C. Turner Jr. , president of the Turner Company , and William Durkin , president of the Walsh concern . Among them the combining companies have been responsible for a long list of famous buildings erected in New York and throughout the country . The Fuller company , for example , built the United States Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Pennsylvania Station , the New York Post Office building and such hotels as the Commodore , Biltmore , Pierre and Savoy-Plaza . The Turner company built the Port Authority Inland Terminal and the home office of the Mutual Life Insurance Coinpany , and is lat present erecting the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company headquarters in Boston . One of the big jam done by the Walsh company is ' the Queens Midtown Tunnel . According to the builders ' estimates , the tall Secretariat building , which is to house all United Nations facilities now at Lake Success , will be ready for occupancy by the late summer or the fall of 1950 . Foundation work for the entire headquarters will begin in early January , when the first shipment of structural steel is scheduled to arrive on the East River tract. 