@@707484

txt The production peak has been passed in several important parts of the military supply program , the War Department reported today , although next year 's deliveries are expected to exceed those of 1943 in dollar volume . Next year 's heaviest emphasis will be on ships , planes , heavy construction machinery and signal materiel . Far-reaching shifts have occurred in the procurement of equipment , not only because of changing combat requirements , but even more because the Allies have passed from defensive to offensive warfare . Furthermore , the department said , the Army construction peak was reached last July , and no new construction will be undertaken in the United States when conversion of existing facilities can be made to meet the need . Some camps already are being closed as greater numbers of troops move overseas and " a slow , gradual and orderly reduction affecting other Army installations may be expected . " Latest Program Analyzed The department report and the answers to a list of specific questions submitted to Maj. Gen. Lucius D. Clay , director of materiel , Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Production of heavy trucks , in creasingly critical as supply lines lengthen in the combat zones , is expanding steadily . The Army aircraft program continues to grow , with 1944 production scheduled to exceed this year 's by 75 per cent in dollar volume . Signal Corps equipment increased 80 per cent from January to November this year , with demands from the expanding air forces and additional combat divisions expected to result in further increases . Demands for heavy construction equipment and steel landing mats will reach new highs in 1944 to meet requirements for new bases and bridgeheads as conquest of enemy territory moves forward . Over-all tank production has ' been cut back 36 per cent since early 1943 , because of greater need for ships and consequent diversion of steel , reductions in lend-lease requirements and the rise in effectiveness of anti-tank weapons affecting " the relative importance of the tank as a weapon in various types and places of battle . " Several small-arms ammunition plants have been closed recently , and this entire program is now tapering toward a decline of about 36 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Small Arms Production of small arms also is being cut back . Rifle and machinegun output rose 80 per cent from , January to November , but is now being reduced to a level 30 per cent below the November peak . Artillery production was off more than 18 per cent in November as compared with January , and continues to drop , principally because of a drastic cutback of about 50 per cent in anti-aircraft artillery since the threat of major air attack on the United States has all but disappeared and because of the increase in American air power . General Clay said that production of 90-millimeter anti-aircraft guns had been cut to one-twelfth of the maximum and production of 4.7-inch and 40-millimeter guns to one-half the maximum . The production of 90-millimeter guns has been discontinued at three Government arsenals and twelve private manufacturing companies and cut back at sixteen other companies . Production of 4.7-inch AA guns has been eliminated at two arsenals and cut back at four companies and production of 40-millimeter guns eliminated at thirteen companies and cut back at nine . " Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above have been shifted to the production of other war materials , " General Clay stated . Medical Needs Decline The medical department of the Army will reduce its procurement program considerably in 1944 , particularly in X-ray and surgical appliances , both of which will be produced at a rate of only 50 per cent of 1943 requirements . More than 500,000 additional units of blood plasma will be needed , however . In chemical warfare the output of incendiary bombs and smoke materials will be doubled , but strategic reserve requirements are being attained in other chemical items and production will decline . General Clay reported that production of high explosives had been reduced at a number of plants , with the excess capacity in most instances being shifted , to output of an additive , or blending agent , for production of high-performance aviation gasoline . The Lake Ontario ordnance plant , designed for TNT manufacture , has been declared surplus and turned over to the Army engineers , who are dismantling the equipment . The Gopher Ordnance Works , a smokeless powder plant , also has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its use . Further Shifts From TNT The Cactus ordnance plant has shifted from manufacture of high explosive to production of ammonia and the aviation gasoline additive . " In addition to the above , " General Clay declared , " twenty-two lines at various plants are not being operated , as the excess capacity of the remaining lines over the designed capacity permits the full use of acid facilities at these plants . " Moreover , eleven TNT lines have been transferred to making an additive for aviation gasoline . " In its summary of the production shifts the War Department said : " Many of the changes having a far-reaching effect on the war production structure are the direct result of all-out attack rather than defensive warfare . " Other revisions clearly indicate that the tremendous job of providing original equipment for the Army has been successfully concluded , with future procurement leveling to a replacement basis . "                     