@@706367

txt Sen. Wayland Brooks in acknowledging his landslide renomination by the Republicans of Illinois last night pledged himself to the solemn task of prosecuting the war to a finish . But , he declared , he is prepared to criticize governmental Inefficiencies , to prevent waste of effort , to suggest improvements in the conduct of the war and above all to fight to preserve the republic . In a sober and reflective mood tinged with satisfaction that the Republicans so wholeheartedly placed their stamp of approval upon the course he has steered in the senate , Brooks , speaking from his headquarters in the La Salle hotel and later over W-G-N , he said : " My devotion is to the sons and daughters of America who wear the uniforms of America  --  to give them every backing humanly possible as they are sent across the seas of the world to represent our free people . Allegiance to State . " My allegiance will be to the people of my state who made it possible for me to serve in these trying times . My duty is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to suggest improvements in the conduct . of the war and in the preservation of our form of government . " . The senator said that his position on the war has been crystal clear from . the time he was elected in 1940 to fill the last two years of the late Seri ; James term . Every one , he said , knew he was definitely opposed to the United States becoming " shooting participants " in foreign wars beyond the western hemisphere . At the same time every one also knew , he said , that he would and did use every effort to prepare America to defend itself should an attack come . Tells His Stand . " The attack finally came and I promptly voted to declare war on the aggressor nations Who had attacked us and who had declared war on us , " he said . " From that day to this I have supported every measure I believed would efficiently and effectively build our war effort . That course I shall continue to follow . " When our country declares war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our strength , our fighting spirit , our inventive , creative , and produc. tive genius come from free government , our free expression , and our free choice . " That has been developed and maintained under the two party system of government . It is that free government that our sons will be called upon to defend and to die for everywhere in the world and it is es : sential that we keep it alive here in America . " " Those who attempt to divide us or portray a division in the Republican party are the creators of , disunity . We are not divided in our determination to serve our country . " Sen. Brooks predicted that Illinois will contribute more and more as her share in the conduct of the war . All nacos and Creeds . " Our people also have a right to have their views expressed as they prepare and proudly make whatever sacrifice is necessary for victory , " he continued . " The sacrifice in suffering , bloodshed , and death will not be confined to one party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our people , but all America will stand united in it . " Gov . Green who arrived at headquarters long before midnight to congratulate Senator and Mrs. Brooks , also declared that today , more than ever , it is essential that the two party system of government be kept alive . Brooks said he would leave Chicago today for Washington .                     