@@706991

txt A RECORD HARVEST for Britain this year is expected by Minister of Agriculture Robert Hudson . If realized . it will necessitate the mobilization of 500,000 volunteers for gathering it in. now that troops will not be available as previously . Such a harvest would be especially welcome since the greatest amount of shipping must be released for offensive action in Europe and Britain must rely still more on homegrown foods . A record acreage has been ploughed up and sown with grain and potatoes and the crops must be gathered or Britain 's larders will go short next winter . Hudson wants 300,000 schbol children and 200,000 adults and is preparing 1.000 holiday camps for workers . If the volunteers are not forthcoming compulsion will be used but most townsmen will welcome a week in the country , working in the fields . ? ? ? CITIZENS SHOULD PREPARE for further cuts in the clothing ration . Hugh Dalton. president of the Board of Trade , warned . No decision has yet been taken , however , to make present coupons last through the next ration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clothing industry ; SW , - of the clothes already are utility models . A start has been made in the issuing of reconditioned battle dress , dyed green , to 100,000 farm orkers and when the saturation point has been reached there these soldiers ' reconditioned uniforms will be offered to factory workers , though there will be no compulsion to wear them . But Dalton is n't considering putting all civilians in battle dress , as has been suggested in some quarters . ? ? ? A QUICK GLANCE at debate on the Beveridge Report may appear to have disclosed a rift in the national unity and distracted attention away from prosecution of the war . On the other hand , this debate may have gone a long way toward clearing the air . The Government has received a jolt. and in the future will have to show Commons by its deeds that it intends to lay solid foundations for social reform and reconstruction , to be put into operation after the war . The whole issue of the Beveridge blueprint was prejudiced by an emotional appeal wan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Beveridge 's slogan of " Freedom From Want " captured the . imagination of the average citizen who is firmly convinced that by a stroke of the pen Beveridge is offering a land of milk and honey , without effort on anyone 's part . In this atmosphere , anyone cautioning against the Beveridge report is regarded as blaspheming against the Holy Writ or sabotaging the People 's Charter . In this emotional slough , the cool , intellectual analysis of the plan by Sir John Anderson , on behalf of the cabinet . fell like cold water . It was worsened by Sir Kingsley Wood s calm insistence on weighing the cost of the whole reconstruction obligation and his refusal at this stage to give the Beveridge plan priority . ENEMY AIR RAIDS being mainly confined now to the hit and run variety over coastal areas , the Trades Union Congz CPS has been pressing Minister of Home Securit . ) , Morrison to relax hre  --  atching and home guard duties . Such duties for both factory and farm workers , added to long hours of work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concessions , especially by ielaxing daylight firewatching , but he does not think the national security warrants its total abolition , although the Trades Union Congress is demanding it . ? ? ? LACK OF SERVANTS has caused a revolution at Eton , the most select of Britain 's oldschool-tie educational institutions . The boys there are now compelled to make their beds , wash up . wait on table , carry coal and clean their boots Work of this kind is nlzeady commonplace in most public schools and many aristocratic homes . ? ? ? THE FUEL MINISTER . Major G  --  ilynn Lloyd George . assured his listeners this week that they wo n't have to add fuel rationing books to their existing collection of identity and insurance cards , passes , food , clothing and candy coupons , etc. , which make the average citizens ' pockets bulge . He says that weather alone is not responsible . Domestic consumers ' voluntary savings almost reached the target of 400,000 tons of coal . Nevertheless , he urged them to continue the effort in order to build up stocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be so kind . Industrial consumers ' efforts have been somewhat patchy and much more must be done . George refused to admit that the great mass of miners are not doing their duty , despite some lapses ; he gave the heartening news that the extra output asked for last September would not only be achieved but exceeded . ? ? ? PREMIER CHURCHILL accepted the gift of an African lion to celebrate his North African visit on the condition that he does not have to house it at No. 10 Downing Street or at Chequers , his country home . It will live at the London Zoological Gardens where he hopes to commune with it occasionally and no doubt find fresh inspiration for twisting Hitler 's tail . ? ? ? SACRED PRECINCTS of the City of London are being subjected now to the removal of iron railings to add to the country 's collection of steel scrap . Previously this financial district 's contribution was confined to cleaning up Hitler 's ruin , Now many banks and other institutions in the City are voluntarily offering their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have an esthetic value , however , such as the railings around St. Paul 's Cathedral . are being spared .                     