@@705298

txt Secretary Hull was scheduled today as the first witness to appear in behalf of President Roosevelt 's LeaseLend Bill for aid to the Allies when the House Foreign Affairs Committee begins consideration of the measure tomorrow . Secretaries Morgenthau and Stimson have been invited by Chairman Bloom to follow Mr. Hull at the hearing , which will be open to the public and held in the large Ways and Means hearing room in the new House office building . The Secretaries of the Treasury and of War are expected to appear ' during tomorrow 's session , making way for Secretary Knox and William S. Knudsen , director of the Office of Production Management , who have been invited for Thurs . I day . Representative Bloom emphasized that the doors of the Foreign Affairs Committee would be open to opponents as well as supporters of the bill . While he had no specifio plans for inviting such personages as Messrs . Hoover , Willkie , Landon , Kennedy , Bullitt and Dewey . he said he was sure the committee would be glad to hear them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Wood Asks for Time " If any of these prominent people , or others who feel they can contribute something to the discussion and thought on this bill will wire or otherwise get in touch with me , I will arrange time for them to appear before the committee , " Mr. Bloom said . He said he had received a telegram from General Robert E. Wood of Chicago , chairman of the America First Committee , asking that time he reserved for representatives of his organization . Mr. Bloom said he would arrange the time . " However , we want Lnly testimony that might help enlighten the committee , " Mr. Bloom said . " We do n't want to have people come here just to talk and blast at something . We know there are people who are honestly opposed to the bill and the policy it sets up . " Representative Hamilton Fish , ranking minority member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , said today he had sent telegrams inviting the following to express their views on the bill : Colonel Robert R. McCormick , Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialist candidate for President ; General Wood , Hanford of Iowa , General Hugh S. Johnson , columnist ; William Cardinal O'Connell , Boston ; Dr. Henry Noble MacCracken , president of Vassar College ; Edward E. Spafford ; Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh ; Roy W. Howard , New York publisher ; District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey ; former President Hoover ; former Ambassadors Joseph P. Kennedy , William C. Bullitt and Hugh Wilson , and Wendell L. Willkie . Representative Fish emphasized that his action was not taken on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee , but said that Chairman Bloom had advised him to invite any one whom the minority felt should be heard . Senate Committee Held Up The Senate Foreign Relations Committee 's study of the bill was deferred meanwhile , because of the illness of Senator George of Georgia , chairman . Senator Harrison of Mississippi , ranking majority member , announced cancellation of the meeting scheduled for tomorow , after which the measure was to have been discussed and plans laid for considering it . Among other things to have been heard was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and possibly Mr. Bullitt be called for questioning . Asked today if he would insist upon these twe men testifying , Senator Clark said he wanted particularly to hear Mr. Kennedy , but did not care so much about Mr. Bullitt . He has often criticized Mr. Bullitt as an interventionist . In announcing deferment of the committee session Senator Harrison said that a delay of a few days was less important than that Senator George shall be on hand to follow the bill through from the start . Another obstacle to immediate consideration , he said , was the existence of vacancies on the Foreign Relations Committee which have to be filled by the Democratic Steering Committee . The Congressional leaders prepared to proceed with the bill under a repetition of assurances from the White House that they are to have free rein , at least for the time being . President Roosevelt declined to make any comment on the measure , or any parts of it , at his press conference , holding that it was up to Congress for consideration and action . Senator Capper , of Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short session . " I am opposed to the bill , unalterably opposed to it , " he said . " I am opposed to granting the unlimited dictatorial powers asked by President Roosevelt for himself and provided in this measure . " This bill , under the guise of ' all out ' aid for Britain and other nations to be selected by the President , in reality gives to the President ' all out ' control of our foreign relations . " I am opposed to United States intervention in Europe 's wars ? which are not our wars , even when such entrance is camouflaged in the name of national defense . " I do not favor the view that Britain is our own Maginot line on which we depend for our national defense . In the last analysis we must defend ourselves and look out for ourselves . " I am opposed to the grandiose idea that the destiny of the United States is to police the world . Before , we undertake to guarantee ' freedom of expression , freedom of religion , freedom from want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should first set the example by making secure these freedoms in the United States . " The people of the United States will pay a heavy price in blood and sweat and tears and taxes and postwar depression if they forget the ' silly old dollar sign ' in our foreign relations and in the affairs of our own Federal Government . " " England Must Not Fall " Senator Pepper of Florida said that the lease-lend program was essential to the survival of democracy in the United States . In con- I versations with correspondents Mr. , Pepper recalled the single-handed and unsuccessful fight he had made for British aid in the last Congress , and then exclaimed : " England must not fall ! " The Senator said he saw no reason why Congress should not impose a time limit on the President 's powers in the lend-lease program . He suggested that it might be set at two years , " or for the duration of the emergency . " Senator Clark of Missouri estimated that foes of the plan , of which he is definitely one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate . His group had no desire to filibuster , he said , " but we wo n't be gagged . " Senator Clark insisted that the bill had been misnumbered when the House clerk put 1776 on it  --  the number corresponding to the year in which the American colonies began their revolution for independence from Great Britain . " They should have given it a number corresponding to the French and Indian Wars , " Mr. Clark said , " because then we were subjects of Great Britain . "                     