@@708434

txt The Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace will not open until Wednesday but most of the delegates are here and many of the decisions that will be announced in the next few days are now being taken in a series of conferences in the capital . In this respect the forthcoming conference is not unlike a political convention at home . Preparation is at least two-thirds of the battle and what important decisions have not already been made are likely to be made within the next few days . The two main political questions before the conference , for example , are what policy the American nations are to take regarding the proposed Dumbarton Oaks international security organization and what they are to do about the Argentine Government whose undemocratic actions at home and defiance of the United States abroad have virtually isolated her from the American community of nations . There will be many different opinions expressed here about these two questions in the next fortnight and Ezequiel Padilla , Mexican Foreign Secretary , will undoubtedly seize the opportunity to champion greater rights for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the leading delegates of the more powerful nations do not seem to have much doubt about what action will be taken when the talking stops . A general resolution in favor of an international security organization along the lines of the Dumbarton Oaks formula will be adopted and hopes will be expressed that the Argentines will adopt internal and external policies that will enable the other American nations to abandon their nonrecognition policy of the Farrell regime . It is not that there is unanimity among the American nations on these two questions ? in fact there is nothing like unanimity  --  but the dominating fact here is that the United States must fit its LatinAmrican policy into its world policy and not vice versa , and it has the power , which it is prepared to use in the economic field to gain the support of the other nations of the hemisphere . In the ' preliminaries to the conference the United States has ! made this point clear . Our officials have emphasized that they can not isolate the hemisphere policy from the world policy ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not compatible with their policies outside the hemisphere . By the same token , however , some of the nations here who wish to collaborate with the United States politically argue that they , too , must attempt to reconcile their hemisphere and their world policies . Some of them , for example , stress that they do not wish to subscribe to post-war political policies that might be detrimental to their economic interest . Thus , our officials here are faced with the problem not only of reconciling their hemisphere policies with their world policies but also of bringing some of the LatinAmerican nations over to a political policy that the latter fear might , in the post-war world , be detrimental to their economic interest . It is not likely that the conference will pass without some conflict , but the overwhelming desire of all nations to accept some security organization after the war , and the fact that the Latin-American nations have no alternative to economic collaboration with the United States at the present time , will undoubtedly lead to some kind of general agreement . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk . The Argentine question is more complicated and less theoretical . Most of the delegations here seem to be going along with the American policy of non-recognition of the Farrell regime , but others do not like to see established the principle of one nation taking too much interest in the internal affairs of another in case that principle might one day be applied to themselves . Consequently , those who are responsible for " steering " the conference would like to keep the Argentine discussion on as broad a base as possible and if they have their way it is likely that all the cross-currents and discussion of this issue will end wgh a broad declaration favoring the return of democratic principles to Argentina and the appointment of a committee to watch developments there . How successful the United States political policy will be in producing general acceptance of resolutions that are in keeping with our war and peace policies elsewhere in the world would seen to depend mainly on the economic commitments we are willing to make to the Latin-American nations . Assistant Secretary of State Nelson A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American delegation this evening . Stettinius Flies to Parley RIO DE JANEIRO , Feb. 18 ( 11 ) ) ? Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius Jr . and Acting Brazilian Foreign Minister Pedro Leao Velloso Netto left together today by plane for Mexico City to attend the Inter-American Conference . Venice Street Battle Reported The ' Geneva newspaper La Suisse said in a dispatch reported yesterday to the Office of War Information that " serious trouble " had broken out in Venice , in Nazi-occupied Italy , and that Italian patriots and German soldiers were fighting in the streets . The Nazi Elite Guard has occupied all public buildings and the principal hotels in the city , where numerous acts of sabotage have taken place , the dispatch said .                     