@@705872

txt At 12:01 o'clock this morning the acid test of free maneuvers in the field was applied to the largest peacetime concentration in the history of the United States Army as nearly half a million men went into simulated action in the bayou country of Louisiana . At zero hour the Second Army under Lieut . Gen. Ben Lear was concentrated between Shreveport and Alexandria on the northeastern side of the Red River , while the Third Army under Lieut . Gen. Walter Kreuger faced them across the muddy channel . Together they held at their command 460,000 men divided unequally both in manpower and equipment to permit a field test of what different types of organizations and weapons can do under such conditions . Behind the plan is the concept which produced the mighty fighting machine Adolf Hitler has swung around Europe for the past two years  --  the concept of proving an army in the field , weeding out the unfit on the basis of their failures , discarding faulty ideas when they fail , advancing those officers who show superior ability with troops in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans which work . Who wins this mock war  --  the reds or the blues  --  is unimportant . How the men and officers , the tanks and guns , the planes and radio communications stand up under the strain is everything . The War Department deliberately chose the worst terrain in the entire United States for modern warfare . Nothing could try the spirits of men more than the swamps and dense jungle undergrowth of this country . Nowhere else is there worse terrain for tanks and modern motorized equipment . It will not be a fair test of armored divisions against men on foot or horseback . But for the two weeks these maneuvers last it will be a supreme test of what men and machinery can accomplish under conditions which exist nowhere on the continent of Europe itself and which could be duplicated only in the jungles of central Africa or India . If the morale of the men comes through the ordeal the Army can laugh at the stories of bad morale which have been so widely circulated lately . If the tanks can make any headway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year the United States has been able to produce panzer divisions from scratch capable of anything Hitler 's tank divisions have faced . This is the type of system the German armies have used for many years . Annually , they have brought large bodies of men together and given officers a chance to prove their merit in the field-Promotion or elimination was based on demonstrated ability or failure in the field , not on proficiency at a desk or social manners . While this has been going on in Germany , both under the Republic and under Hitler , the United States Army has existed in small , scattered , skeleton organizations . Its men never learned to act as units in a large army . Its officers got their only practice in handling large bodies of men when they moved toy soldiers over the floor maps at the War College . Congress never gave the Army the money or the organizations which would have made large-scale maneuvers possible . Naval and Marine AM In another small , but significant way these maneuvers are taking advantage of the lessons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy and Marine Corps have been incorporated into the air forces of the rival armies and will operate under the orders of the commanding officers of those armies . This is not the first time units from the different services have been merged into a single task force under unified command . The principle was applied in the Iceland expedition and Army and Naval forces there have been under the command of a Marine Corps officer . But that was the first serious employment of the task force principle  --  fundamental in German operation  --  to United States forces . Employment of Marine and Naval forces in these army maneuvers is just a further exercise in this practice of unified command and co-operation which modern warfare has made essential . Its employment marks another long break from the rivalries and jealousies between services of the past and a step towards effective unification in action . The division of forces for the two armies gives something approaching a test between the World War type of mass army and the modern type of small , faster , more heavily armed army . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taking the field . It also has most of the mechanized cavalry and more triangular divisions than its rival . The Third Army is much larger , but it has no armored divisions and only a small force of mechanized cavalry . The two are also unequal in the air . The Second Army has 375 planes , none of which are heavy bombers , while the Third has 439 planes including heavy bombers . The difference in-air strength may be calculated to overcome in part the difference in armored ground strength . Compensating Factors But all of these differences may mean little with a barrier like the Red River between the two forces and the swamps and bayous to hold back the armored divisions . Under such conditions the man who walks on his feet has an advantage , and General Kreuger has 330,000 in his Third Army while General Lear has only . 130,000 in the Second Army . Against such disproportion of numbers General Lear 's only chance is to employ the German tactics of swift movement . But swift movement is almost impossible in such country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cards are stacked against them . But if they are it is not for the purpose of discrediting them . It is to see what they can dc under the most difficult possible conditions . Up at the top they know that if the armored divisions are I stalled in the mud it is no disproof II of their value in modern warfare It will only prove that there are limitations on the use of armored forces and uses for the man who travels on foot  --  in Louisiana . The troops involved represent the largest concentration which is possible practically . The United States Army numbers approximately 1,500,000 officers and men today . About one-third of this is occupied today in garrisoning American outposts such as Greenland and Hawaii and the new bases in the Carribean and in maintaining fixed installations in the United States itself . Another third is in the First Army located in the New England Area and the Fourth Army on the Pacific Coast . The cost of moving either the First or Fourth Armies into this area would have been excessive beyond the advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases .                     