@@709176

txt ors Ras RIND , BUT IT LACKS FUNDS , O'DWYER DECLARES He Must Find Money for Many Urgent Items , He Says in Reply to Predecessor STRESSES SUBWAY NEEDS Lists Housing , Schools , Police , Fire Protection and Decent Pay Among His First Aims By PAUL CROWELL Mayor O'Dwyer declared yesterday that he had taken over the administration of a financially sound city , so far as bookkeeping was concerned , but that the books failed to show where he could find the many millions of dollars required in the near future to rehabilitate shaky subway lines , provide emergency housing , build sorely needed new schools , recruit the Police and Fire Departments to full strength , meet the payrolls for returning veterans and raise the salaries of city employes to a level of which the city , as an employer , need not be ashamed . The Mayor 's terse summary of the serious problems he must tackle in drawing up by April 1 a budget for 1946-47 , was delivered at his first press conference , an informal fifty-minute session in the spacious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. O'Dwyer 's own office has been established in the much smaller chamber , once occupied by James 3 . Walker and John P. O'Brien , in the northeast wing of City Hall . Replies to Predecessor Mayor O'Dwyer 's summary of the fiscal problem faced by his administration was his reply to parting statements by Mr. La Guardia and former Controller Joseph D. , in which they declared that they were turning over a " financially sound " city to the incoming administration . Declaring that Mr. had submitted to him a financial report indicating the soundness of the city 's finances , Mayor O'Dwyer said the figures meant nothing in view of the expenditures required in the next few years to make up for the city 's inability , because of wartime . conditions , to do many things in the last four years that were essential to keep its plant and services at proper levels of adequacy and efficiency . The problem of rehabilitating the subway lines and making them safe for their millions of patrons , Mayor O'Dwyer said , had first priority in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and permit the risk of serious accidents and loss of life to continue on the rapid transit lines , nor could he countenance existing crowded and unsanitary conditions . In fact , he declared , he was considering the advisability of installing air-conditioning devices and germ-killing lights on subway trains . Asked whether he favored the recent proposal by Park Commissioner Moses to double the present 1 per cent sales tax and earmark the extra yield for transit rehabilitation , Mr. O'Dwyer said he would consider that proposal , among others , and try to reach a decision based solely upon what was best for the public . Might Buy Subway Power Mayor O'Dwyer indicated that he would consider the advisability of having the subway lines purchase power from the Consolidated Edison System , for the time being , instead of expanding pending plans for complete reconstruction and remodeling of the outmoded plants upon which they rely for motive power . The installation of germkilling lamps on subway trains , he said , might be expensive , but it would do much to stop the breeding of germs of the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general level of public health . Mayor O'Dwyer , illustrating his contention that the books of the outgoing administration gave him little comfort , in view of future fiscal requirements , said the best advice he had to date indicated that about $200,000,000 would be needed for the subway rehabilitation job , rather than the $120,000 , - 000 indicated in estimates made by the outgoing administration . Unless such projects as the $200,000,000 Idlewild Airport in Queens and the $42,000,000 wholesale produce market in Manhattan could be financed without impairing the city 's borrowing power // within the constitutional debt limit , Mayor O'Dwyer said , they would not be permitted to interfere with more urgent items . He insisted that he was strongly in favor of a new airport at Idlewild and would back the new market project , but that he must first be assured that they could be financed without detriment to the other programs . " I want Idlewild developed , " he declared . " I want New York City to have the leading air facilities in the world . I do not want , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of essential services such as rapid transit , or the housing program , or the school program or the recruitment of an adequate number of policemen or the development of many other services that have suffered due to our concentration on the war effort . " The only question on Idlewild is the method of financing . Mayor La Guardia has suggested that he and I discuss his side . I certainly want to hear every side of the question . My final decision will be based solely on what is good for the city , as I see it . " Mayor O'Dwyer said he probably would discuss the Idlewild situation at a meeting with Mr. La Guardia some night this week , to continue a brief discussion held with the former Mayor on Tuesday . Mr. La Guardia is seeking to persuade his successor to have restored to the 1946 capital budget two items stricken out by the City Council , with Mr. O'Dwyer 's approval  --  the $45,000,000 allocation for hangars and an arcade building at Idlewild and the $10,000,000 allocation for the first stage of work on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the maintenance of the city 's supremacy as a great seaport . His journeyings about the nation during his three years of Army service , he said , had convinced him that serious competition would be forthcoming soon from Gulf and Pacific ports , where modern dock and loading facilities were installed during the war . Many of New York 's docks , he declared , were outmoded , involving much timewasting and expensive handling of goods . A proper modernization of New York 's port facilities , he declared , must look ahead for at least fifty years . Mayor O'Dwyer said a survey would be made of the wages paid to city employes . Many of them , he asserted , were grossly underpaid , and the city , as an employer , should be ashamed of such a policy . Such jobs , he said , either must be abolished or be placed on an adequate pay level . Pointing out that some of the city 's school buildings dated back to Civil War days , Mayor O'Dwyer said the city owed it to its children to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as it owed it to the general public to provide adequate police and fire protection and a modernized and safe rapid transit system . All of these problems , he declared , would be considered with the aid of expert advice , and decisions reached on the basis of what was best for the city . The press interview , the longest granted by a Mayor since the days of Mr. Walker , was conducted in a spirit of candor and affability , with Mr. O'Dwyer " thinking out loud " and assuring reporters that they would be free to question him in the future on all matters of ' public interest . He would be glad , he said , to make himself available for such questions as freely as his daily schedules would permit . Mayor O'Dwyer arrived ; at City Hall at 8:59 A. M. to begin his first working day in office . He did not use either of the two specially equipped cars in which Mr. La Guardia rode , but drove up to the building in a black sedan with Dectective James Furey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept him busy until 7 P. M. , when he left for his temporary home in Queens . He had luncheon at his desk while he discussed budget matters with Budget Director Thomas J. Patterson . After lunch Mayor O'Dwyer conferred with Health Commissioner Ernest L. Stebbins , Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander , Deputy Mayor George Spargo , Rear Adm . H. F. Leary , Commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier ; Maj. Gen. James M. Gavin of the Eighty-second Division , Grover A. Whalen , Hospitals Commissioner Edward M. Bernecker , Fire Commissioner Frank Quayle , District Attorney Samuel A. Foley of the Bronx and Mark Yeckes , a personal friend from California . Just after his arrival at City Hall he held a brief conference with former Councilman Louis Cohen , his assistant . At his press conference Mayor O'Dwyer said he had not yet reached a decision regarding the retention of WNYC , the municipal broadcasting station , but in wellinformed quarters it was indicated that the 1946-47 budget would make provision for a continuance of its activities . Adopting a policy favored by many public officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present he did not care to be quoted directly unless such a quotation was expressly authorized . Describing himself as one who had yet to find the right answers to many problems , he explained that he was adopting this policy in order to avoid the impression that he was making smart-aleck decisions in order to get newspaper headlines . As his press conference ended , Mayor O'Dwyer greeted 10-year ( Id Anthony Cox of 363 Bergen Street , Brooklyn , who said he was at City Hall on Tuesday and had returned in order to greet " the greatest guy in the world . " " I 'm not the greatest guy in the world , you are , " the Mayor said placing an arm around the youngster 's shoulders . The youngster , however , a 5-A student at St. Augustine School Brooklyn , left for his home still proclaiming his belief in the new Mayor 's greatness .                     