@@712540

txt Landing of a Sikorsky helicopter squarely in the middle of a crowd of several hundred persons " stole the show " yesterday at the cornerstone-laying cere monies for Boston 's new Museum of Science . Few of those gathered to cele- , brate the official launching of " Operation Museum " had ever seen a helicopter land , let alone witness the craft hovering closely over their heads like a giant bird seeking a soft landing . But no one scrambled for cover . The craft circled around at 2,000 feet for several minutes , then quietly and smoothly dropped on the shore of the Charles River Basin museum site on a piece of land no bigger than a tennis court . Modern ' Ceremonies It was all part of the impressive " modern " ceremonies attendant upon the cornerstone-laying of a " modern " museum . James Chudars. pilot of the craft , brought messages of congratulations from Gov . Chester Bowles of Connecticut to Bradford Washburn , director of the museum . The plane had landed earlier at the East Boston airport , where its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Washburn to " come on over to the museum site . " A white sheet was laid at the cornerstone location rison , Jr. , State Adjutant General , arrived to represent Governor Dever , the pilot was alerted , In three minutes he was circling the museum " site for a landing . " We brought him in , declared Mr. Washburn , " just as we guided our helicopter pilot in our exploration landings on Mt . , Alaska , last month . " Documents Assembled The helicopter landing was set against a background of state , dustrial , and civic officialdom gathered to welcome the start of a multimillion dollar " science park . " . The , steel skeleton of the first wing of the museum was silhouetted against the cold December skyline over the Charles . Piece by piece , Mr. Washburn called for numerous documents , plans , and articles from the assembled guests which he placed in . a copper box to be sealed into the cornerstone . Among them were the front pages of the day 's daily Boston newspapers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the platform were General Harrison ; June C. Richdale. president of the New England Council ; Ludlow Griscom , president of the board of trustees of the museum ; William T. Morrissey , chairman of the Metropolitan Museum ; Dennis C. Haley , ? Superintendent of Boston Public Schools , and J. Willard Hayden , president of the Charles Hayden Foundation . General Harrison handled the year history of the Boston Society of Natural History . When fully completed , the museum will combine for the first time in America , it was said , a natural history museum , A museum of science and industry , a museum of public health , and a planetarium . It will gather together industrial exhibits showing the workings of the latest machines and methods of industrial operations , Mr. Washburn explained .                     