@@708578

txt ? Opening session of the United Nations Conference today : Place : War Memorial Opera House , San Francisco . Time : 4:30 p. m .. Pacific war time ( 7:30 p. m. , Eastern war time ) . Speakers : Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius , President Truman ( by radio from Washington ) , Gov . . Earl Warren of California , Mayor Roger D. Lapham of San Francisco . With one chair for Poland dramatically empty , 46 victorious nations of World War II assemble in their first historic political conference today to try to blueprint machinery for preventing World War III . Except for the Polish issue , there is evidence of close big-power cooperation which members of the United States group interpret to mean that Russia is determined to help the Conference succeed and is already making concessions for that nurnose . Abustle With Activity This city is abustle with activity . The United States delegation scheduled a pre-Conference caucus with Mr. Stettinius . Russian members met with Foreign Commissar Vyacheslav Molotov , who arrived yesterday afternoon , and British delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last-minute review of plans was made at a conference today attended by Messrs . Stettinius , Eden , Molotov . and Chinese Foreign Minister T. V. Soong . High light of the scheduled half-hour program to be radiocast around the world is a speech by President Truman from Washington . Mr. Stettinius raps the session to order and delivers the initial address , introducing the Chief Executive . After Mr. Truman , the program calls for addresses by Gov . Earl Warren of California and Mayor Roger D. Lapham of San Francisco . Truman Talks With Hull The President began work on his address last night after talking for an hour with former Secretary of State Cordell Hull , whose hope to attend the opening ' here was vetoed by his physicians . Mr. Stettinius holds the temporary chairmanship of the meeting in San Francisco 's high-vaulted , red - and - gold Opera House auditorium . He is slated to be elected permanent chairman , the position which he held at 1 Dumbarton Oaks , when the United States , China , Russia , and Great Britain drafted the plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Prospects are that this plan may be considerably changed , although not in its main provisions for a court , an assembly of all nations , and an 11-member security council empowered to prevent aggression by force when the five big powers  --  Russia , the United States , China . Britain . and France  --  agree . The first real break on amendments came yesterday when Mr. Stettinius told a press conference a few hours after his arrival that Russia had joined the United States and Britain in accepting a Chinese proposal to write specific guarantees of justice and legally into the proposed world organization charter . Toward " Sure Peace " Last night , in a radiocast to the nation and the world . Mr. Stettinius said the " beginning we are going to make here at San Francisco " is toward " sure and just peace  --  peace that man can trust . " Senator Toni Connally ( D ) of Texas , a member of the United States delegation:summed up the thought expressed by many when he told an interviewer " If the nations want peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their eyes on the main objectives and not be blinded by personal considerations , the Conference will have a tremendous success . " The Americans have been deeply disturbed by failure to get the Polish Warsaw government reorganized along the line of the Yalta agreement made by President Roosevelt , Prime Minister Winston Churchill , and Premier Joseph Stalin . The issue hovers over the Conference . But the question mark it raised about Russia 's co-operation on other problems was modified by Mr. Stettinius ' announcement on the Chinese proposals about justice and legality . Dulles Hopeful John Foster Dulles , senior adviser to the delegation in the ab-* sence of Cordell Hull , interpreted Russia 's acceptance of these as the best indication yet that the Russians want the Conference to succeed . He and some others had been apprehensive that the Soviets might insist on keeping the Dum barton Oaks plan unchanged . He viewed the agreement on justice and legality as having great appeal both to the smaller nations and to religious and other groups in this country . Two sections of the Dumbarton Oaks plan remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the recent lawyers meeting in Washington on formation of an international court of justice , and the Big Five have to perfect a plan for trusteeships for former enemy territories of the two world wars and for any colonial territory that may be voluntarily added . Mr. Stettinius said yesterday the United States delegation had agreed on a trustee plan . This is a compromise reported satisfactory to the Army and Navy , as well as the State Department . It calls for international supervision of trusteed territories except that where one power establishes a military base , it would enjoy exclusive control of the base area .                     