@@709463

txt Washington : Opposition Seen on Draft Extension The House Military Committee approved a Senate-passed resolution extending the draft law until July 1 . Chairman May ( D ) of Kentucky told reporters the Committee 's action was not unanimous , indicating that the measure would face opposition on the House floor . Boston : G. I. Loans Held ' Good Business ' Bankers were advised to give considerate treatment to veterans on their loan problems by Curtis H. Nance , Deputy Administrator of the Veterans Administration , before a meeting of the Massachusetts.Bankers Association . Page 4 . Lawrence and Worcester , Mass. , were placed on a trunk air route for the first time when Northeast Airlines began passenger , express , and mail service over its recently authorized Portland , Maine , to Newark , N. J .. route . ( Page 4 . In Europe : Rome Cabinet to Act on King 's Act Abdication of Italy 's King Victor Emmanuel , on his way to exile in Egypt , will be acted upon at today 's Cabinet meeting in Rome . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's throne . Page 15 . Gen. Maxime Weygand , Commander of the French Army at the time of the fall of France in 1940 , has been freed on parole , a Paris dispatch said . He had been held for investigation on charges of collaboration . A cut of 10 per ceift in the total consumption of food for British forces on home service was announced in London . National : C. I. 0 . Issues Call to End Strike The United Electrical , Radio , and Machine Workers of America , C. I. 0. , called on key locals throughout the United States to meet not later than Sunday to ratify a contract ending the 115-day-old strike against the Westinghouse Electric Corporation . Herbert Hoover returned to the United States after his world tour by air surveying the hunger problem in Europe , the Middle East , and the Orient . Mr. Hoover , at San Francisco , indicated he would make few preliminary public remarks on the situation before conferring , shortly , with President Truman . Americas : Brazil to Support Truman Project Brazil will give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collaboration , Dr. Joao Neves da Fontoura , Foreign Minister , stated in Rio de Janeiro . Bermuda : Leatham Arrives to Take New Post Admiral Sir Ralph Leatham has arrived in Hamilton to assume hi ! post as Governor of Bermuda , 