@@704440

txt Spectalon , at the House reciprocal trade hearing today were treated to graphic illustrations of the two methods of tariff making what is generally termed the " scientific method " and the partisan , catchas-ca teh - can debate . A United States Tariff Commissioner , A. Manuel Fox , spoke for the method of expert and painstaking research . He gave the Ways and Means Committee a straightforward description of exactly how the reciprocal treaties were worked out . The picture , as he developed it , was one of exhaustive investigation , patient taking of businessmen 's testimony , and scrupulous weighing , measuring and checking by a number of Government agencies  --  all conducted in an open and above-board fashion and by competent specialists . The Ways and Means Committee Itself put on an exhibition of tariff by congressional debate . Republicans arrayed against Democrats , the Committee members alternately denounced American women who wear British gloves as " Anglomaniacs " and defended American womanhood from so devastating a charge . They went into a leng discussion of the effect of trade treaties on agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In hand . The witness at the moment , Undersecretary of Commerce Edward S. Noble , conceded that the discussion was outside his field , too . There was a great deal more of sniping between the two factions and of partial discussion about this factory and that , in one Con- gressman 's constituency or another 's , and the hearing did not settle into a clear course until Mr. Fox told how the experts went about their business . All new procedure had to be created for the reciprocal trade treaties , he said : In the case of the agreement with Belgium , the analytical data prepared was so extensive as to require 15 large volumes , enough ' to fill one section Of a standard office bookshelf . Some 185 commoditieS were studied . In the case of each one of these , an economist first assembles a report with all needed information , both as to the needs and Interests of the United States and the other country . He works together with an expert on commodities . The report then goes to the Chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then the Tariff Commission 's Planning and Review-L in ? Committee takes over , and finally , a committee of the commissioners themselves . Then a committee which specializes on Belgium alone goes over the report and makes any corrections or suggestions . This was only the beginning , and consumed one page of Mr. Fox 's testimonyswhich totaled 15 pages , all packed with still further details relating to the tariff-making proceSe. , He told how the other Government departments assist , how the American commercial attache is called home from the country with which the treaty is being negotiated , how the hearings are held and the testimony of Ibusinessmen analyzed . The Basio Requirement For the layman , the details were to ntunerous and complex to follow . There only emerged a net impression of what Mr. Fox referred to as " an excellent personnel , a good , constantly improving procedure and scientific technique . " The program , he said , " assumes a rational , common-sense attitude ; there are adequate checks and balances ; a keen desire to be guided by general public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watched to safeguard and protect the legitimate interests of American producers , agriculture and labor . " The question of the method of tariff making came to a head with the following colloquy between Mr. Noble and Representative Allen T. Treadway ( R ) of Massa-chusetts : Mr. Treadway questioned in detail about the manner in which tariff rates are arrived at in negotiating a reciprocal agreement and asked him if he thought it was proper that " Congress does not have any say about them . " In Defense of Experts " 1 do sir , definitely , " Mr. Noble responded promptly . " A few experts can do a better job than too many people . They should hot be subject to the approval of Congress . " " Do you think there are too many Congressmen ? " Mr. Treadway interrupted . " No , " said Mr. Noble , " but I think there have been too many of them giving attention to this matter . You 'll have to admit that a few experts can do a better job than several hundred Congressmen . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treadway . " Those experts are prejudiced . " " With that , " Mr. Noble said , " I heartily disagree . "                     