@@706792

txt Concern over manpower shortages in various fields of war effort took a unique turn today as evidence came out that the war agencies might have become overstaffed with civilian employes who might be serving effectively in industry and agriculture , if not in the armed ' forces . Plans went forward for a Con-1 gressional investigation into such questions , it was learned , as to why civilian employes of the War Department itself now total a re ported 1,100,000 . This is about 182,000 more than were employed by the entire governmental establishment at the peak of the World War I Federal payroll load . Official figures have not been given out since 912,370 was set as the total as of last July . Early next week the House Rules Committee will take up a resolution under which the Committee on Civil Service would conduct an inquiry into policies and practices relacing to civilian employment in government departments , agencies and corporations and measure them against their effect on the war effort as a whole . Particular attention would be given to the numbers of civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said . A study of whether the skills of the employes were being employed to best advantage also would be made . Representative Ramspeck , chairman of the Committee on Civil Service and majority whip , is sponsor of the inquiry resolution . It was not introduced , it was learned , until after Mr. Ramspeck , for years the sponsor of legislation in behalf of the government worker , conferred with Congressional leaders on both sides of the Capitol and found them sharing his concern . The investigation , it was indicated , would not duplicate one which a special Senate committee , headed by Senator Tydings , has been making for months into Federal employment and its use . In July the Tydings Committee , in an interim report , urged legislation to empower the Civil Service Commission to direct the transfer of government employes from one department or agency to another according to needs based upon relationship to the war effort and without regard to personal wishes of the workers involved . It found , too , that the civilian government establishments had not been placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bureau of the Budget for failure to take prompt and effective action to this end . The proposed House investigation , it was indicated , would go further and would determine whether shifts from government to non-government work might not strengthen the war effort . Suggestions along this line were emphasized today by the announcement of the emergency program just begun in Minnesota by Governor Stassen to meet labor supply problems in the dairy , livestock and mining areas of that State . Mr. Stassen estimated that perhaps 1,200 employes of the State ' government would be transferred to more essential work , retaining their civil service status during leaves of absence . His action was taken after conferences with Paul V. , chairman of the War Manpower Commission , and Major Gen. Hershey , Director of Selective Service . While discussions attending the proposed investigation by the House Civil Service group have emphasized that no recommendations would be made which would handicap the operations of departments and agencies involved in essential operations , they have centered largely upon what has been viewed in some quarters as abnormal growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washineton and in the field . War Department civilian employment , it has been noted , increased from the 328,219 total of July , 1941 , to 530,487 in January of this year , the first full month of our participation in the war , and then to 824,698 in June and to 912 , - 378 in July . Though official figures stopped there , reports have been received from authoritative sources by members of Congress that the total now tike risen . to 1,100,000 at the War Department alone . Military secrecy surrounding the number of men in the Army makes inadvisable the publication of the ratio of civilian to military personnel , which is quoted as an argument in favor of an investigation to determine whether the department is more than adequately staffed . Similar notations were made of the growth of civilian personnel in the Navy Department , where , from the January total of 327,905 civilian personnel , employment had risen to 475,683 in July . No attempt would be made , it was explained , to single out the war departments and agencies for examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire government establishment for corrections of situations where there may have been overstaffing while other fields have experienced such shortages of labor as to slow down essential productive efforts . The House Committee en Agriculture , which for months has been seeking a means of ' overcoming farm labor shortages , indicated today that it would file a report with recommendations next week . Proposals studied by the committee have embraced suggestions ranging from " work or fight " legislation to the payment of subsidies to enable the farmer to compete With industry in obtaining workers .                     