@@707094

txt Arrangements for newspaper cover , age of the United Nations Food Conference at Hot Springs , Va. , next month , constitute " an abridgment of the freedom of the press , " it was asserted today by the Standing Committee of Correspondents , representing the 560 American and foreign correspondents accredited by Congress to covering that body . At the same time , . Representative Hope , Republican , of Kansas , made known that he was drafting a. resolution for Congressional representation at the conference which he thought would have a better chance of passage than one Offered the House Yesterday by Representative Bradley , Republican , of Michigan , and introduced in the Senate today by Senator Vandenberg . The standing committee , consisting of five members representing press associations and large and small newspapers , sent its protest to President Roosevelt , Secretary Hull and Elmer Davis , director of the Office of War Information . The announcement of its action noted that the committee has had official status as the representative of accredited congressional reporters since 1887 . It added that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all but the opening and closing sessions of the Hot Springs meeting . Text of Committee 's Statement The statement read as follows : " The Standing Committee of correspondents regards arrangements excluding the press from all contact with the delegates and deliberations of the forthcoming food conference , except at two perfunctory formal sessions , as a denial of legitimate news to the American public and hence an abridgment of the freedom of the press . ' By these arrangements the American people will be denied news to which they are entitled and prevented . from exerting any influence in shaping the decisions which will affect our nation in the future . " The Standing Committee is particularly concerned lest arrangements for this conference become the pattern for other international ' conferences which inevitably must I follow . " The loyalty of the American press has not been questioned during this war . Its voluntary meas. ures. in withholding information of possible aid to the enemy have been - commended by the President of the United States . ' That ? oluntary and willingly given cooperation will continue . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will'deal with one of the most , vital ' elements of our national life  --  food . ' The Office of Censorship , has ex- ' presSed no concern regarding it ' ? The Standing Committee : . believes  --  the American : people are entitled to . know the.decisiOns made through premV.Onthe-ground reporting by their ' traditionally free - press . " Meinbeis , Of-the press committee , elected to serve during 1943 : and 1944 ; ' " are- Ned ' Brooks , Scripps. : **25;242;TOOLONG ; chair- man ; Cecil B. Dickson , The Chicago-Sun , secretary ; Jack Bell , The Associated Press ; Edward T. Folliard , The Washington Post , and Bulkley Griffin , The Hartford Times . Senator Vandenberg offered in the Senate a duplicate of the Bradley concurrent resolution on behalf of his colleague , Senator Ferguson , Republican of Michigan . It provides for appointment of a bipartisan committee of three Senators and five Representatives designated to attend all ? sessions of the food conference and to make a full report to both houses on its proceedings . The resolution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would express the sentiment ? of Congress that a reporter from each of the three major press associations be permitted to cover the conference . Representative Hope said he thought ' the resolution he was drafting would have a better chance ' of passage than the Bradley proposal because it would go for a , report to the House Rules Committee , which is dominated by anti - Administration forces . The Bradley resolution was referred to the House Foreign Affairs Committee , where the Administration undoubtedly could block a favorable report . It also requires Senate concurrence , where similar obstacles would be met . Mr. Hope proposes the appointmtnt of a group of three or five members of the House Agriculture Committee , of which he is ranking minority member , to attend all sessions of the conference and to report to the House . It is based , he said , on the theory that some - on which the Agriculture Committee would have to pass is likely to be introduced as a result of the conference actions . It was announced here today that seven more countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making a total of thirtyone which have accepted owita- I tions . The new acceptans.es came i lfrom Ethiopia , Mexico , Belgium . India , ? Haiti , Iraq and Iran .                     