@@704709

txt In a speech before a critical House of Commons today Prime Minister Chamberlain slightly lifted the veil on the events that have taken place in Norway since the Germans invaded that almost defenseless country and the Allies undertook the task of dislodging them . From Mr. Chamberlain 's thirtyminute speech two facts stood out above all others . One was that the bold Allied gesture of trying to capture Trondheim by squeezing the German forces there between landing parties to the north and to the south had failed and that the Allied troops who had landed at Aandalsnes on April 17 , 18 and 19 had safely withdrawn for operations elsewhere . The second fact was that the Allied battle fleet was being concentrated in the Eastern Mediterranean . At the same time Mr. Chamberlain emphasized that tho government was determined not to treat the Scandinavian campaign as a " sideshow , " but would continue to fight to drive the Nazi invaders from Norwegian soil . However , the Prime Minister declared , the Allies will not be drawn into any quixotic adventures that would weaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a more than even chance that war might break out soon . Shift to Mediterranean Speaking of the heavy German naval losses , Mr. Chamberlain declared that they had shifted the whole balance of naval power , and he noted significantly that it had been possible recently " to revert to a more normal distribution of ships in the Mediterranean , which for some time has been affected by our requirements in the North Sea . " He added : " A British and French battle fleet , with cruisers and ancillary craft , is already in the eastern basin of the Mediterranean on its way to Alexandria . " In these words Mr. Chamberlain ? who a moment later asserted that " we know " Germany is prepared and " would not scruple to attack Holland or Belgium or both " ? served notice on Premier Mussolini that the Allies were preparing for any untoward moves in the Mediterranean , should ho be tempted by the apparent success of Chancellor Hitler 's bold gamble in the North to take up arms on Germany 's side . While the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally he did not disclose what new tactics would be adopted . Nor did he give any estimate of the casualties suffered by the Allied expeditionary forces , but he said he thought the Germans had suffered the heavier losses . An Unanswered Question The biggest question that Mr. Chamberlain left unanswered was how the government could justify the dispersal of ships and men destined ! or the relief of Finland three months ago when in the next breath he asserted that it had been known that the Germans were preparing large overseas forces at Baltic ports for an assault on Scandinavia or the Low Countries or even the United Kingdom itself . This is a matter that is almost certain to be discussed next week , when the Prime Minister is to supplement today 's interim statement . In consideration of the willingness of Clement R. Attlee and Sir Archibald Sinclair , the chief Opposition leaders , to withhold criticism of the government until the whole story  --  or as much as might safely be told  --  had been related to life House next week , it was agreed today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Norwegian campaign . In that debate , it was indicated , Winston Churchill , First Lord of the Admiralty ; Oliver Stanley , War Secretary , and Sir Samuel Hoare , Air Secretary , will receive an opportunity to reply to criticism . It is clear that a full-grown political crisis is in the making over the government 's response to the emergency created by Germany 's invasion of Denmark and Norway after it was first learned on April 7 that a large German naval force was proceeding along the Norwegian coast . Events since then have brought the government to a place where , it is believed , another military or naval reverse would wreck it , but it can not be assumed that without another such blow the Cabinet will fall . It was regarded as significant in the Commons today that the debate on the Prime Minister 's statement is to come on a motion to adjourn next Tuesday rather than on a motion of censure . It was apparent to even the least attentive member in an attentive House this afternoon that in the first phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had come out on top and that while the Allies had been able to thwart German hopes of a " walkover " in Norway such as had been enjoyed in Denmark , the Allies were a long way from victory there . Realizing this , the members found cold comfort in Mr. Chamberlain 's balance sheet of British and German naval losses , for despite the preponderance of Allied sea power the Prime Minister had to acknowledge that the Germans had been . able to pour reinforcements into Norway faster than the Allies , with makeshift landing places , could manage along a surer but longer line of communication . After three weeks of war In the northwest , Mr. Chamberlain said , Germany 's supplies of Swedish iron ore from Narvik , which he indicated was virtually in Allied hands , have been " indefinitely " cut off and he said that the Germans had suffered heavy losses " on land , at sea and in the air . " In her effort to accomplish the conquest of Norway , Mr. Chamberlain declared , Germany definitely lost three and possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transports and supply ships , with the loss of " several thousands of lives , " while two of her capital ships have been damaged . Ten other German transports and supply ships have been hit by torpedoes and probably sunk , Mr. Chamberlain added . Meanwhile the British Navy 's losses for the same period , the Prime Minister said , have been four destroyers , three submarines , one sloop and five trawlers . Five other " warships " have been damaged by attacks from the air and one British supply ship has been sunk by a torpedo , he declared . The attempt to retake Trondheim from the Germans , the Prime Minister said , was the best means of helping the Norwegians to resist the German advance from the south and facilitate the rescue and protection of King Haakon and his government . The first British contingents were landed at Namsos , north of Trondheim , on April 14 and were followed by French forces a few days later , and at Aandalsnes , south of Trondheim , landings of British troops were effected April 17 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norwegian forces holding that place , while the expedition that went ashore at Aandalsnes pushed south to Dombaas , an important railway junction , while a small detachment advanced to Lillehammer to help the Norwegians block the main advance of the Germans . The Allied troops fought " gallantly " and inflicted heavy losses on the Germans , Mr. Chamberlain said , but lacking airports from which fighters could protect the advance , the small force of troops was subjected to low bombing attacks , and supplies were cut off . Anticipating the criticism that these troops were inadequately equipped with defensive weapons , Mr. Chamberlain said that they had been sent ashore " light " to prepare the way for the landing of artillery , tanks and similar paraphernalia later . However , he declared , it became evident a few days ago that in face of the " local " German air superiority it would be impossible to land such heavy implements of modern war . Last week , he said , it was decided to abandon the hope of taking Trondheim from the south , and since then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paget has suceeded in withdrawing the whole force from Aandalsnes " under the noses of German airplanes without , as far as I am aware , losing a single man in this operation . " The general feeling as the House adjourned was that Mr. Chamberlain had proved his political astuteness once more . By delivering his interim report before the week-end and sugar-coating the bad news as he did , he prepared the way for harder facts next week . Meanwhile party leaders have several days in which to strengthen fences among government supporters , while the service Ministers gain time to prepare statements answering their critics . Two nights ago a revolt was led by Leslie Hore-Belisha , former War Secretary ; Leopold S. Amery and Earl Winterton , but tonight it seemed to be petering out . Still it can not be denied that the government is in an even more dangerous position now than it was after Finland capitulated to Russia .                     