@@707381

txt By an encouraging vote of 20 to 2 the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations has accepted the resolution on post-war policy drafted by its subcommittee , and the Senate itself has agreed to begin debate on this resolution when it reconvenes on Monday . Approval of the resolution by a majority of substantially more than two-thirds of the 96 Senators would be an event of immense importance . By this action the Senate would give the President a clear mandate to proceed at once to the negotiation of new treaties or a new covenant which , subject to final ratification in their finished form , would put the moral and physical power of the United States behind the post-war treaties in the interest of a lasting peace . While there is every reason to hope for prompt and overwhelming approval of the committee 's resolution , it is unfortunate that it has been put in a form which precludes cooperative action by the House . Presumably this is because " prestige " is involved , and because the Senate feels that it alone shares the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty-making power some interesting and significant results were obtained by a recent Gallup survey . The vote showed that while 14 per cent of those asked had no opinion on the issue , 7 per cent favored a method calling for approval of treaties only by the President , 54 per cent favored approval by the President and a majority of both houses of Congress , and only 25 per cent favored approval by two-thirds of the Senate , as at present . Of the three constitutional methods of approval suggested , that favored by a majority of the voters sampled by the Gallup survey  --  approval by the President and a majority of both houses of Congress  --  is clearly the best . The present method of treaty ratification has the defect not only that it excludes the House of Representatives from participation in a decision which it will later be called upon in various ways to uphold , but that it makes it possible for a minority of the Senate to delay , mangle or kill a treaty desired by the President and by a Congressional majority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of treaties solely in the hands of the Senate appears to have been their belief that , as the original Senate was to consist of only twenty-six men , it would thereby be possible to have delicate matters like treaties discussed in executive session by a small group which would act , in effect , as advisers to the President . The two-thirds rule seemed designed mainly as a safeguard to offset the fears that a majority merely of one house might not reflect a majority in national sentiment . But the growth of the Senate , as well as the growth of unanticipated customs and practices , has made these original reasons no longer applicable . Clearly it would be better today , for every possible reason , to have treaty approval by a plain majority of both houses rather than by two-thirds of the Senate alone . Here is a constitutional amendment that ought to be submitted directly to the people ( through the method of State conventions ) for their approval . In order that this may be done , we depend upon the willingness of a minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veto . Such an amendment can have a real prospect of success only if it originates in the Senate itself , and probably only if it originates in the present minority party in the Senate . If it does so originate , it is certain to be promptly approved by the country by an overwhelming majority . The immediate question , when the Senate meets on Monday , is the adoption of the resolution on post-war policy which the Committee on Foreign Relations has approved . But . beyond that lies the question of a fundamental democratic change in the treaty-making power itself . Here there is an opportunity for the Republicans in the Senate to rise above partisan considerations and to display real statesmanship.                     