@@711615

txt The $6,950,000 Greater Boston Community Fund campaign , which opened today officially , sent solicitors into every nook and cranny of Greater Boston activity , even into the drivers ' cabs of the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad . Here Miss Louise Driscoll of Roslindale , a dining car hostess , conferred upon William E. Reed , engineer , a red feather in thanks for his gift to the find . Larry Doucette , right , a solicitor for the campaign , also is a worker at the Burroughs Newsboys Foundation , one of the welfare services benefiting from the drive . Story : Page 5 . Red Feather Month opened in Boston - today . More than 30,000 eager volunteer workers began a house-to-house coverage of Boston and 47 surrounding towns and cities , in the annual effort to collect the multimillion-dollar contribution toward the support pf local health and welfare agencies . Officials expected it to be no more a walkaway this year than it has ever been . But from the top echelons down to the newest solicitor , all agree it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This year the USO is back under the Red Feather roof , which partly accounts for the fact that the goal , $6,950,000 for Greater Boston , is $350,000 larger than that of last year . The solicitation will continue until the night before Thanksgiving , when the results will be as sessed at a victory dinner in the Hotel Statler . Luncheon Set for Nov. 19 However , greater stress currently is being placed on the final-report luncheon in the Boston City Club on Nov. 19 , when workers hope to have the entire goal accounted for . Powell M. Cabot , general chairman of the campaign , said today that the goal represents the smallest amount of money which conscientiously can be sought if Red Feather services are to operate on the same budgets as last year . Last year 's goal of $6,500,00 , he said , was $225,000 sjiort of the minimum requirements of the agericies . The 1949 goal is tailored to adjust this as well as to encompass $125,000 for the USO . " As with every family , " said Mr. Cabot today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foster home than it used to do ; it costs more to buy gasoline for our visiting nurses ' cars , to heat our hospitals , to hire competent workers . " Employee Drives Begin The city generally burst forth in Red Feather insignia today . The tall colonial figure of the " Observer " who watches over the excavation for the projected Jordan Marsh building was decorated today with a seven-foot red feather in his hat . Filene 's opened its business day with a rally for employees on the main floor before the doors were opened to the public . The Fire Department Band and the Old Timers ' Quartet furnished music to launch the store 's own Red Feather campaign . Many other industrial and commercial firms began employee drives today , although preparations for this kind of solicitation have been under way for-several weeks , and some special divisions are practically in the middle of their goals .                     