@@711965

txt There are not enough doctors to give adequate medical care to the 36,000,000 children of the nation , especially those living in rural areas , and many family doctors have not received enough training ' in the care of children . These are the findings of the ' most comprehensive study of the country 's health services for children ever conducted . They were made public last night by Dr. Warren R. Sisson , president of the American Academy of Pediatrics , at a dinner sponsored by the academy at the Hotel Roosevelt . At the same time Dr. Sisson appealed for strengthening pediatric education in medical schools and hospitals and called for the same quality of medical care for children in rural areas as those living in cities . In urging more funds tor education , he described the budgets of pediatric departments as inadequate . The study , which took three years to complete and cost $1,000 , - 000 , represents an attempt by doctors to make an inventory of the services they are offering children in private practice , hospitals , cammunit- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from doctors and dentists in the 3,000 counties of the country . The United States Public Health Serve ee and the Children 's Bureau of the Federal Security Agency cooperated on the project . The report shows . that 13,000,000 children , or one-third of the total number , live in isolated areas and are penalized because three-quarters of the 3,500 pediatricians practice in cities of 50,000 or more population . For instance , there is one pediatrician for 5,000 children in Massachusetts as contrasted with one for 35,000 children in Mississippi . Although the general practitioner today takes care of 75 per cent of all the children , nearly half of the practitioners interviewed reported that they had virtually no pediatric hospital training , the report brought out . Other findings include the fact that one-third of the children are cared for in hospitals that are inadequately staffed and . equipped , and that community health services are sparse in some states and are found chiefly in urban areas . The study also reveals that in the course of a year three babies die for every two soldiers killed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some counties where modern medical services are scarce , five times as many infants die as in other communities with better facilities . While the national average is the lowest in history , there N great variation from county to county in infant mortality and in one state it is higher than the national average twenty-five years ago . Parran Denounces Conditions " Some of the facts are ugly , " declared Dr. Thomas Parran , former United States SurgeonGeneral and now dean of the Graduate School of Public Health , University of Pittsburgh , who also addressed the meeting . " One must read between the lines the untold tales of the incompetent medical care , the community indifference , ignorance and complacency which daily result in human suffering and needless deaths , " he said . He described as " shocking " the differences in infant mortality rates existing between geographic areas and income levels . He also called " shocking , " the maldistribtition of medical skills , hospitals , child health clinics and nursing services . He called the study " the first essential step toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in scope , to , place all that the health sciences have to offer at the service of every American child . " Declaring that there was extensive evidence to indicate that the health of children is jeopardized by their parents ' inability to pay for essential medical care and health services , he said that the obvious methods of dealing with this problem were either prepayment of the Costa of medical care on a voluntary or universal basis or tax-supported services or a combination of the two . He asked the academy : " What will be your program for the relief of this situation , which is at the core of the matter ? Buttressed as you are by many more facts than are available to any other professional or governmental group , you are in a position to speak with authority  --  perhaps for the first time in medical history with more authority than anyone has been able to muster . " Sisson Gives Teaching Plan Dr. Sisson explained that the academy 's program at a national level proposes to use university medical centers as " hubs " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metropolitan medical services directly into isolated communities so that country doctors may learn of upto-date child-care methods . He said that decentralized training and service programs are already being operated by individual schools under the auspices of various foundations and organizations and reported that the academy is adapting the techniques in a demonstration program which it hopes will encourage pediatric department heads in the country 's seventy schools to disseminate their services to regions surrounding their medical centers . Winthrop Rockefeller , chairman of the board of trustees of New York University-Bellevue Medical Center , praised " the bigness of your program and the sincerity of your purpose . " He told the academy : " Do n't let the size of it scare you ! Yon have presented the nation with an- inspiring picture of what can be done to improve the quality of the medical care of its children . " He added that its success depended on enlightened community support . Dr. R. L. Sensenich , president of the American Medical Association , lauded the academy for its decision to carry out its own recommendations based on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   