@@712308

txt A great hurricane pounded the heart of Florida tonight after smashing the southeast " Gold Coast " with 150-mile-an-hour winds . The center of the tempest was near Canal Point on Lake Okeechobee and still hammered that lakeside town and West Palm Beach , forty miles to the east , with 150-mile-an-hour gusts and 125 miles sustained velocity . The ominous red and black hurricane warning flags remained displayed from Fort Lauderdale to St. Augustine and around Lake Okeechobee . Similar warnings were up from St. Augustine to Charleston , and along the Florida west coast from Fort Myers to Panama City . Most of northeastern Florida was warned to take precautions for the protection of life and property . Miami itself was lucky . The hotels and mansions here and at Miami Beach escaped major damage . Show for Visitors in Hotels At the height of the hurricane , summer visitors enjoyed the view from cocktail lounges or peeked from cozy beach homes . They had a show . A few palm trees toppled , add in the ocean huge , gray-black waves pounded seawalls and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move north-northwestward through the Florida peninsula , the Weather Bureau said . That would send the winds smashing over tens of thousands of acres of citrus now near the harvest stage . The rich farming area around Lake Okeechobee may not suffer heavy crop damage , since most fall and winter vegetables are not yet planted . The hurricane probably will lose force during the next twelve to twenty-four hours , but dangerous , winds will prevail over much of the Florida peninsula , especially the eastern half , according to an 11 P. M. advisory bulletin . Weather Bureau instruments at West . Palm Beach were ripped away . The wind unroofed houses , smashed plate glass , flattened trees and littered streets and highways . Yet , so well fortified was the southeast Florida coast that only one death was listed in early reports . The storm bore in from the East to strike the peninsula first in the Palm Beach region , site of luxurious homes of the rich . The havoc was immense  --  impossible to estimate  --  and the Weather Bureau warned " the worst * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent memory had hurricane winds been so fierce . In the path of the mighty wind was the fertile Lake Okeechobee vegetable-growing district , where 1,800 persons died in a 1928 catastrophe . Officials looked to a new Government-built dike to ward dff a repetition of death and destruction . Okeechobee Area Hit The hurricane struck Okeechobee at 104 miles an hour and stripped off the wind register at Belle Glade at this velocity , the Red Cross was informed . Luther Jones , publisher of The Belle Glade Herald and chairman of the Everglades Evacuation Committee , was quoted as exclaiming as he talked with the Red Cross : " There goes the WSWN radio tower . " Mr. Jones said more than 1,000 persons were in storm shelters there . Many homes and at least two schools were reported unroofed at West Palm Beach . About 100 re= fugees in Conniston and Westgate schools were removed to other shelters during the storm . A youth drowned at Miami when he attempted to save his sailboat . He was Andrew Jonkman , 20 years old , formerly of Paterson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and few telephones were working as the storm smashed the coast and headed west-northwest or northwest . The Miami Weather Bureau said in an 9 P. M. advisory that the " eye " of the doughnut-shaped storm passed inland at Delray Beach . Calm reached West Palm Beach Airport at 8:30 P. M. The Palm Beach county courthouse was damaged . Shattered glass , fallen trees and tangled wires littered streets in the Palm Beaches and in communities along the coast south to Fort Lauderdale . Pompano Beach reported one house blown down and ten others unroofed . Windows were smashed in downtown Palm Beach , Fort Lauderdale stores and many small boats tore loose from their moorings in the storm areas , smashing against bridges and docks . Power and telephone lines were down in Fort Lauderdale and up the coast to the Palm Beaches . Large pine trees that had withstood 1928 and 1947 storms were toppled this time . Coconuts bounced along the streets like loose footballs . " The worst of the storm is still to come after the eye passes , " the Weather Bureau said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast for several hours ? ' Estates of Col. Robert R. McCormick , Joseph E. Davies , the Barclay Warburtons , Philip Iglehart , the Harold S. . Vanderbilts and scores of others were in the path of the storm and suffered shrubbery damage if nothing else . 12fiami was on the fringe of the hurricane and winds here reached only fifty-four miles per hour . Rainfall totaled 1.53 inches in downtown Miami . By 10 P. M. the Red Cross began letting people out of shelters in the Miami area . Pan American Airways announced it was resuming flights into and out of the city . Wires Litter Streets The Palm Beaches took a terrific lashing . An Associated Press reporter ? said mail boxes bounced down the streets in West Palm Beach , where broken glass and fallen wires littered thoroughfares . Blinding blue flashes lit the city when power lines snapped and short-circuited .. Visibility in West Palm Beach was not more than a block . Streets there were tangled with fallen wires , broken glass , roofing and paper . Palm trees were reported down all along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some windows were blown out at Fort Lauderdale , where palm trees were uprooted and streets littered with debris . Many communities along the coast area were under hurricane winds of seventy-five miles an hour . The sustained velocity at Pompano was . ninety miles an hour , the Police Department there reported . The winds sent a wild ocean over long stretches of an ocean highway . Breakers put a bridge out of commission north of Miami Beach and flooded the highway there , at Fort Lauderdale and near Lake Worth . Electric power failed in several cities . Seas sweeping across the ocean Route Al-A at Fort Lauderdale marooned a group of sightseers who took refuge in the home of Mgr . Giles Allais , Catholic priest who lives in an oceanfront home . Reports of winds of seventy-five miles an hour or higher  --  full hurricane force  --  came from Hollywood , Hallandale and Dania , all near Fort Lauderdale . The Army sent thirteen trucks from Orlando to ? West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale with cots , blankets and emergency supplies for use in Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a decision was reached not to evacuate the rich farming area around Lake Okeechobee . " We believe there are sufficient buildings with sufficient strength to house the people in the Everglades region , " he said . A train stood by at Fort Pierce to evacuate Glades residents if called for . Hurricane-wise residen of Miami , Fort Lauderdale , thU Palm Beaches , exclusive Hobe Sound and Jupiter Island , and the state 's I fine Indian River citrus section took precautions and felt secure 4n the heavy storm . Their boats were in safe moorings up rivers and canals , and their homes and business places were barred and shuttered against lashing winds . The storm was beating upon an area best prepared to receive it , with the least possible loss of life or damage to property . Should the hurricane cross Florida into the Gulf of Mexico ? and Chief Forecaster W. R. Stevens at the New Orleans Weather Bureau said he believed it would ? it would offer a grave threat to a new , long coastline . Also , it would threaten hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in offshore oil drilling in the Gulf . Weather Bureau warnings , both in Florida and the Gulf , came far in advance , giving all an opportunity ? to seek safety . Navy hurricane hunter planes abandoned their Miami master Navy field and sped to Pensacola from where they could watch the storm and determine whether it went into the Gulf or turned northward in the Atlantic .                     