@@711814

txt The man who haS just been inaugurated President of the United States recently has done several typical things reveal .. ing his character as a person which , in part , determine his character as President . Shortly after the election Mr. Truman told the " Wednesday morning Democrats -- - those expedient way politicians who jumped to Mr. Truman too late to do him any good but early enough , they hoped , to do themselves some ? good  --  that he was not " mad ' atanybody , that there would be no reprisals . It is clear Mr. Truman is not a vindictive man and does hot intend to play vindictive politics . Lately Mr. Truman has on more than one occasion " dropped in " on small congressional luncheons on the Hill . It would be unfair to attribute these actions to political motive . He is just naturally a friendly person , and he refuses to let the austerity of-the presidency rob hiin of this trait . Last week Mr. Truman carved five precious hours out of his tight White House schedule.to fly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man he esteems so highly . General Marshall , whose operation forced him to retire as secretary of state . It was a neighborly visit . Mr. Truman is just naturally a good neighbor . These are genuine and uncultivated characteristics of Mr. Truman 's . They do not guarantee that he ? will be either a great President or a good President , but they do reveal worthy traits . They do reveal that he is a man of the most decent instincts . One of the President 's lifelong intimates in Kansas City , Mo. , a Republican , Harry Jobes , has said : " All I ask of a man is integrity , and Truman 's got it . " Eddie Jacobson , hisbuddy in Battery D of World War I and his partner in the famous haberdashery store , said of the President : " He treated us all ? Protestants , Catholics , and Jews  --  with utmost fairness and consideration . . . . That man has the gift of friendship . " Fran ! : Gervasi. a colorful but careful magazine reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and home-state neighbors an enlightening portrait of Mr. Truman in the current Collier 's . He found that the President 's closest old-time friends feel a notable parallel between Mr. Truman and Lincoln . Both came of old Ken- ? tucky stock and both served in the army . Each was a storekeeper and each went broke . Ultimately both found small government jobs . One went to the House of RepresentatiVes , the other to the Senate . Both were . offered the vice-presidency , though Lincoln succeeded in avoiding it . One of Mr. Truman 's friends put the " parallel " this way : " Lincoln saw his mission as that of saving the Union . Some folks wanted him to appease the South , maybe letting it go its own way . But he sent supplies and men to Fort Sumter instead , and the war began . Out of the war came peace among the states and unity . " The Truman Doctrine and Berryman , Washington Star the Marshall Plan might be a little like provisioning Fort Sumter . They might lead to war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to get out of Europe , knuckle down to Russia . But Truman 's mission is clear to him . His job is bigger than Lincoln 's ever was . Old Abe merely had to save the Union . Truman is called on to save the world . " 1- . The parallel can easily be pressed too far , and Mr. Gervasi does not press it . Lincoln and Truman were faced with fundamentally parallel problems , but a President necessarily will be judged by his achievement , not by the problem with which he is faced . Lincoln was an original and profound thinker. a deeply philosophical man . the prime architect of his own policies . Mr. Truman has become a knowledgeable man and he has a quick intelligence . But thus far his major foreign policies were sponsored , not created , by the President . The Truman Doctrine affecting Greece and Turkey stemmed largely from the initiative of Acting Secretary of ' State Dean Acheson . Mr. Acheson and General Marshall were the visible creators of the European Recovery Program . A President will deserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies he originates  --  but not as much credit . But apart from politics and apart from policy , the man who has now become President in his own right is a man of real personal integrity and of inestimable good will . He ' is a God-fearing man , deeply religious , who wants to be led by - the one Mind ; he is a good friend- and a good neighbor . These are qualities which will help the President and help the nation . .                     