@@711294

txt Secretary of State Marshall , it was learned today , has sent to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee a catalogue of cases in which the Soviet Union is charged with violating agreements with the United States . In a covering letter to the committee chairman , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , General Marshall is understood to have stated that , because of various unilateral interpretations of the agreements , it was difficult to assert in some instances that a direct violation had occurred . Nevertheless , his list contained thirty to forty instances in which the State Department felt that violations had taken place . Secretary Marshall did not initiate this correspondence , nor was the list sent to Senator Vandenberg in connection with the recent United States-Soviet controversy over the settling of differences between the two countries . The list was requested in a Senate resolution presented by Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican , of Indiana , who asked for details of President Truman 's March 17. statement that a just peace could have been arranged if " one nation " had not " persistently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Past Accords Concentrating mainly on the Yalta and Potsdam Agreements and on the " understandings " reached in the Allied Control Councils for Austria , Rumania , Bulgaria and Hungary , the State Department 's Iist divides the violations by countries and is understood to make the following points : ( 1 ) Germany . The main charge here is that the Soviet Union failed to live up to that part of the Potsdam Agreement that states : " During the period of occupation , Germany shall be treated as a single economic unit . " The Potsdam Agreement also ) bliged the Allies to do a number ) f other things  --  to establish " cer.ain essential German administra'dye departments " ; to give " primary emphasis " to the development of peaceful domestic industries ; to take prompt action to repair the transportation system of Germany ; to permit in Germany " freedom of speech , press and religion " ; and to prevent " the maintenance and production of all air ' , craft , and all arms , ammunition and implements of war . * * * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union in the conduct of its German policy , the State Department feels . Moreover , the State Department charges , the Soviet Union , in violation of- the Potsdam stipulations governing trade union and political activity , has hampered the political action of those in Eastern Germany who oppose the Communistdominated German Socialist Unity party , and interfered with nonCommunist trade union leaders . ( 2 ) Austria . Here , as in the cases of Hungary , Rumania and Bulgaria , the general charge made against the Soviet Union is that time and again its officials took unilateral action in economic and political matters without consulting the other members of the Allied Control Councils . Under the Allied Control Agreement for Austria , for example , the authority of the Austrian Government to pass and execute certain laws throughout all of the country is guaranteed ' unless the Allied Commission , with the approval of all members , specifically forbids such laws . It is understood that the State Department charge in this case is that the Soviet Government has refused to recognize the authority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians refused to recognize the validity of the nationalization law passed by the Austrian Parliament on June 26 , 1946 . Likewise , United States officials complain that although the Allied Council was supposed to have the final say on questions affecting all of Austria , the Soviet Union had seized certain oil refineries on its own , although the output of these refineries affected the entire country . ( 3 ) Hungary , Bulgaria and Rumania : In these countries , the main charge made against the Soviet Union is that it repeatedly has violated the heart of the Yalta Declaration . The United States , the U.S.S.R. and Great Britain , that declaration said , " jointly declare their mutual agreement to concert during the temporary period of instability in liberated , Europe the policies of their three governments in assisting the peoples liberated from the domination of Nazi Germany and the peoples of the former Axis satellite States of Europe to solve by peaceful means their pressing political and economic problems . " The State Department notes that in spite of this obligation to coordinate their policy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suspension of Parliamentary immunity so as to dismiss certain Hungarian officials , and similarly instructed the Hungarian Government , without consulting the ' United States or Britain , on the size of the Hungarian Army . Without consulting or informing United , States or British officials in Bucharest , Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister , demanded that King Michael dismiss the Radescu Government , and later ( March 1 , 1945 ) insister that a government be formed under an official partial to the Soviet cause . cause . The State Department cites this as a violation of that part of the Yalta Declaration that states : " When , in the opinion of the three Governments , conditions in any European liberated state or any former Axis satellite state in Europe make such action necessary , they will immediately consu:t together on the measures necessary to discharge the joint responsibilities set forth in this Declaration . " ( 4 ) Japan and Korea . The State Department 's contention is that the Soviet Union violated its agreement ( Article 9 of the Potsdam Declaration ) t. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Soviet Union blocked joint action with the United States , and interfered with the political and economic life of Korea in a manner contrary to numerous United States-Soviet understandings . For example , in 1947 , Foreign Minister Molotov wrote to Secretary Marshall proposing that the two nations should consult with the Korean political parties about the po7lical future of that  - -  Inntry . One part of that letter stated that if any groups or individuals we --  to be excluded from the talks , this decision would have to be taken by both the United States and the Soviet Union . Nevertheiess , in violation of this Molotov letter , the Soviet Union refused , unilaterally , to consult with fifteen Korean parties . These are only samples of the kind of evidence documented by the Department of State against the Soviet Union 's response to international agreements . The Marshall letter will be placed before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , probably this week , and undoubtedly will be the subject of some debate in the Senate next week , when Senator Vandenberg . presents his resolution for strengthening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  