@@706931

txt Ruling unanimously , the Supreme Court upheld today the conviction of the American Medical Association and the District of Columbia Medical Society , local affiliate , for violating the Sherman Anti-Trust Law by conspiring to block the activities of Group Health , Inc. , a government employe cooperative . Justice Roberts wrote the opinion approved by all the present eight members of the high court except Justices Murphy and Jackson , who did not participate since the case came under their purview when Attorneys General . The court left undecided the question whether a physician 's practice is " trade , " in the meaning of ' he Sherman law . Justice Roberta based his decision on the conclusion that the association and the society conspired to restrain Group Health , which he said was operating within " the sphere of business . " He refused to hold the medical societies immune from prosecution . They alleged that their dispute with Group Health was covered by the Clayton and Norris-La Guardia acts . Whereas lower court decisions were filled with details of alleged unfair practices by organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss these activities . It merely reiterated part of the testimony given in lower courts and discussed the legal procedure of those tribunals . Mr. Roberts closed his discussion with the words , " The judgments are affirmed . " Group Health Is Described Group Health , around which the four-year dispute revolved , was described by Justice Roberts as " a nonprofit corporation organized by government employes to provide medical care and hospitalization on a risk-sharing prepayment basis . " Physicians were employed on " a full-time salary basis " and hospital facilities were sought for treatment of members and their families . " This plan was contrary to the code of ethics of the petitioners , " said Justice Roberts , referring to the medical societies . " The indictment , " he went on , " charges that , to prevent Group Health from carrying out its objects , the defendants conspired to coerce practicing physicians , members of the petitioners , from accepting employment under Group Health , to restrain practicing physicians , members of the petitioners , from consulting with Group Health 's doctors who might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in and about the city of Washington from affording facilities for the care of patients of Group Health 's physicians . " The controversy arose in December , 1938 , when the medical associations and twenty-one physicians of Washington and Chicago were indicted as participants in an unlawful combination and conspiracy to restrain trade . Also indicted were the Washington Academy of Surgery and the Harris County ( Houston , Texas ) Medical Society . A Federal district court threw out the case on the ground that medical practice was not " trade " under the Sherman act . The local Circuit Court of Appeals reversed that decision and ordered trial of the suit . Early Defendants Are Cleared Some of the defendants were acquitted by order of the court and others were found not guilty . The association was fined 82,500 and the society 81,500 . The conviction was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals and has been approved by the Supreme Court . Through intervening procedure the number of defendants was stripped to the association and the society . " Much argument has been addressed to the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Section 3 of the Sherman Act , " Justice Roberts said . " In the light of what we shall say with respect to the charge laid in the indictment , we need not consider or decide this question . " In describing Group Health , he remarked : " The fact that it is cooperative and procures services and facilities on behalf of its members only does not remove its activities from the sphere of business . " Justice Roberts approved the action of the Circuit Court in holding " the calling or occupation of the individual physicians immaterial if the purpose and the effect of their conspiracy was such obstruction and restraint of the business of Group Health . " Indictment Is Summarized Justice Roberts alluded to the conspiracy charges , as outlined in the indictment : " Restraining Group Health from doing business ; restraining members of Group Health from obtaining adequate medical care according to Group Health 's plan ; restraining doctors serving Group Health in the pursuit of their calling ; restraining doctors not on Group Health 's staff from practicing in the District of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals in the business of operating their hospitals . " Whereas the medical societies argued that they were charged with five separate conspiracies and entitled to trial on each , Justice Roberts agreed with the Appellate Court that the indictment charged only a single conspiracy as follows : " The medical societies combined and conspired to prevent the successful operation of Group Health 's plan , and the steps by which this was to be effectuated were as follows : ( 1 ) to impose restraints on physicians affiliated with Group Health by threat of expulsion or actual expulsion from the societies ; ( 2 ) to deny them the essential professional contacts with other physicians , and ( 3 ) to use the coercive power of the societies to deprive them of hospital facilities for their patients . " Justice Roberts added : " We think the courts below correctly construed the indictment . We agree that the case was one for submission to a jury . " Plea of Exemption Is Denied As to the third point , the medical societies , said Justice Roberts , contended that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Clayton and Norris-La Guardia acts , which concern disputes not prosecutable under the Sherman Act . " They insist , " he stated , " that as the petitioners and Group Health , its members and doctors , other doctors and hospitals , were either directly or indirectly interested in a controversy which concerned the terms of employment of doctors by Group Health , the case falls within the exemption of the two statutes and they can not be held criminally liable for violation of the Sherman Act . " We think , however , that petitioners ' activities are not within the exemptions granted by the statutes . They doctors were interested in the terms and conditions of the employment ' only in the sense that they desired to prevent Group Health from functioning by having any employes . Obviously there was no dispute between Group Health and the doctors it employed or might employ in which petitioners were either directly or indirectly interested . " Thurman Arnold , the assistant attorney general who prosecuted the case , acclaimed the Supreme Court verdict . The result , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when defendants restrain free availability of services in the market it is immaterial whether they are professional men or whether they are a nonprofit , cooperative corporation . " Dr. A. Magruder , president of the District Medical Society , expressed disappointment , but said that the issue was dead . He promised that the society , Which he called " the representative medical organization " in Washington , would not lose sight of its 100-year-old tradition of service .                     