@@705483

txt Need for skilled labor in defense plants now being constructed in the Detroit area will be as much and possibly more of a factor than raw material shortages in forcing curtailment of automobile production late this year . That is the opinion of officials here conversant with conditions in the Detroit labor market and the demands for labor which will develop as such defense projects as the Chrysler tank arsenal , the Packard plant to produce Rolls-Royce aircraft engines and the Ford plant to manufacture Pratt &; Whitney engines come into operation . In addition the Detroit area will be a center for bomber parts manufacture wi to WO/ k scheduled to get under way in the late autumn or early winter . The number of men required will be equal , it is said , to all other automotive defense work in that area combined . The situation is being sized up here in these terms : The defense load as far as labor supply is concerned will begin to hit Michigan in July , will be heavy by October and will reach full proportions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is felt at present over the foreman and supervisor situation  --  the men with the " know how , " who are essential in getting any large industrial concern into operation and keeping it running . In this connection there is worry over reports that draft boards in that area , going on the philosophy " that we were all drafted in the World War , " are paying too little attention to defense industry 's need for such supervisors with the result that men are being drafted who should be exempt because of their value to industry . Some of the automobile companies with large defense contracts will have to more than double their present payrolls . The housing situation in the Detroit area is such that it will be extremely difficult to bring in the necessary labor , even if the skilled men could be found elsewhere , which is doubtful . The only alternative , in the opinion of officials here , is to shift men from production of automobiles to manufacture of armaments . The industry is expected to start its model changeover shutdowns in July , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp fall upturn thereafter probably will be pinched off to a considerable extent , since just at that time the labor demand in defense plants will be mounting . New Plant Constructions Packard is expected to be producing engines : n quantity by September or October . and Ford will get into initial aircraft engine production in late August or September . Hudson , holder of large defense sub-contracts , is also expected to be needing men at about this time . Around next January , Buick and Studebaker. both outside the immediate Detroit area but within the range which draws on Michigan labor , will swing into initial production on major defense work . Furthermore , such Detroit companies as Graham-Paige and Continental Motors hold large direct or sub-contracts , and there are many other smaller concerns in that area which will need skilled men . Defense officials here are quite confident about the automobile industry 's ability to find substitutes through redesign of parts requiring such scarce materials as aluminum , zinc and nickel . Steel is the one product which can not be dispensed with , but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no indications as yet that general priorities will be needed on that material . They may come on structin al steel but not on sheets , which constitute the automobile industry 's greatest demand . Aluminum is the most pressing problem , since some of the companies need it for pistons , and it would require major engineering changes to substitute other metals . However , aluminum producing capacity is being expanded very rapidly .                     