@@704411

txt The abrupt departure of Leslie HoreBelisha from the British War Office will need a good deal of explaining before its causes can be understood and its results even dimly foreseen . The British press and public are puzzled , hurt or angry in varying degrees . He was without doubt the most energetic War Minister within British memory . His drive and determination were enough to sweep the accumulated cobwebs of generations from the British military structure . No Labor Minister would , or could , have dared to democratize the British Army , to shake the caste system in which British officers had been recruited and developed and promoted , or to widen admissions to the crack military academies of Sandhurst and Woolwich , which had always been closed to the sons of workingmen . Mr. Hore-Belisha dared , and to some extent succeeded . He was a showman , but for every old-fashioned Englishman who disliked his publicity methods there were a hundred men-inthe-street who chuckled approvingly at them . He was bumptious , and his personality must have grated on those of his colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overwhelmingly Conservative Administration ; at times he even had trouble in cooperating with Sir John Simon , his own leader in the so-called Liberal National group in the House of Commons . Of course he made enemies , apart from those who suffered from his reforms . Yet even those who did not like him must concede that he has left a legacy of change unexcelled by that of Robert Cardwell , the military innovator of Victorian times . In planning and executing the safe transport of a quarter of a million fully equipped men to France , in launching a vast conscription scheme , in remodeling and vitalizing the Territorial Army , he has made a record that will stand comparison with that of Lord Haldane , whom Field Marshal Haig shyly described in 1919 as " the greatest Secretary of State for War England ever had . " From the personal point of view , then , the resignation of such a popular Minister must be a misfortune for the British Government , the troops in the trenches and the civilians at home . But personal disagreements could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war the Royal Air Force has chafed at being held to a subordinate role as little more than an adjunct of the army in the field ; this may well have led to dissension , on grounds of high policy , between Mr. Hore-Belisha and Sir Kingsley Wood , the Air Minister , whom Mr. Chamberlain trusts more than any one on his ministerial team . Moreover , Mr. HoreBelisha has not seen eye to eye with General Sir Edmund Ironside , his Chief of Staff , and with Field Marshal Gort , whom he promoted over the heads of ninety officers and placed in command of the army in France . We do not yet know what the trouble was , and we may not know when Mr. Hore-Belisha and Mr. Chamberlain make their public explanations in the House of Commons . We can only wonder . Can it be that Mr. Hore-Belisna was in favor of decisive action in Scandinavia or the Near East , and that the generals , always jealous of their reseurces and suspicious of any diversions away from the Western Front , overruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spell of Liddell Hart , who not only advocated the defensive war in the West which we have been seeing in recent months , but also called for bold flanking operations by small expeditionary forces , backed by the navy , on distant battlefields . If the generals opposed such an " adventure , " which is reported under discussion in London , it would not be hard for them to find support from such essentially cautious men as Mr. Chamberlain , Sir John Simon and Sir Samuel Hoare . Unless Mr. Stanley , who now comes to the War Office , surprises every one , the generals and the Conservative Ministers will find him a more amenable colleague .                     