@@710945

txt Moscow announced cancellation of the Soviet-French trade talks today and Russia and France expelled each other 's repatriation missions as the French General Confederation of Labor ordered France 's 2.000.000 strikers back to work to-morrow , A French foreign ministry spokesman said the 12 members of the ' Russian repatriation commission were being expelled for " subversive activities in France . " He reported the Russians were escorted to the railroad station and placed , aboard a Berlin bound train tonight . The spokesman declined to elaborate on the charge of " subversive activity , " but the French on Nov. 26 expelled 19 other Russian citizens on charges of interfering in the French strike situation . Charges French Hostility Russia 's abrupt cancellation of the trade talks came in a note handed the French charge d'affaices in Moscow . It accused the French of actions " hostile and contrary to the spirit of alliance and mutual assistance . " The note referred angrily to the expulsion from France of the soviet citizens Nov. 26 and to the French decision to seize a Russian repatriation camp atBeauregard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French public opinion " on conditions in France . France had hoped to get grain from the soviet union in exchange for manufactured goods . Diplomatic sources reported the Russians had offered , in the course of the trade talks , to send 11,250,000 bushels of wheat and other grains next year in return for French trucks , machines , electrical equipment and other goods . Bideult Abrupt The strong language used by the Russians in denouncing the French actions indicates the extent to which French-soviet relations have sagged . There are other indications : In recent sessions of the council of foreign ministers in London , French Foreign Minister Georges Bidault appears to have gone out of his way to be abrupt with Soviet Foreign Minister V. M. Molotov . The order to end the strike met a government ultimatum to the strikers to go back to their jobs . Canmunist leaders had indicated previously they would defy the government , which had set tomorrow as the deadline . The confederation accepted government terms granting a monthly cost of living allowance of 1,500 francs ( about Mg ) ) bcginningNov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic agreement in an effort to stabilize salaries and prices .                     