@@708833

txt The Potsdam reparations agreement had the effect of giving the Russians approximately 50 per cent of the movable German Indus trial property covered by that agree ment , officials having knowledge o preliminary negotiations on the subject said tonight . These officials said negotiators had with them at Potsdam estimates showing that approximately 45 per cent of total German assets of the industrial capital variety covered by the agreement plants and machinery were situated in the Russian eastern zone of Germany . Percentage A Surprise This high percentage surprised some persons familiar with the prewar German economy who w e r e under the impression that the bulk of German industrial installations were in the west , but it was said that during the war and in the immediate pre-war period the Nazis built up their industrial plant in the east where they located some of the nation 's largest and most efficient units . In addition to the ' 45 per cent of total movable German plants and equipment said to be situated in the Russian zone , the Potsdam agreement also gives the soviet government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' zones , the zones occupied by the British , Americans , and French . This 10 per cent of the remaining 55 per cent of total German capital equipment would give Russia a , total of roughly 50 per cent of the whole movable capital property , it was stated . The Potsdam agreement provides that Russia will actually get ajotal of 25 per cent of the industrial egittp  --  tient in the west , but will pay 15 per cent of it by exchanging coal and other commodities from the eastern zone . All the property covered in the agreement . is that which is judged to be " surplus " after Germany has been reduced to an agricultural economy from its customary industrial economy , an objective which the Potsdam conference decreed . Reparations Still to Be Met From what remains of the surplus movable . equipment in the western zone after the Russians get their 10 per cent , the reparations claims of all the allied nations in the war against Germany , except Russia and Poland , must be satisfied . " The reparations claims of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reparations , shall be met from the western , zones and from appropriate German external assets , " the Pots , dam agreement said . The " external assets " not al-I ready in the possession of allied nations are those In neutral countries . 