@@706967

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 6 ? Fourteen months after Pearl Harbor the attitude of official Washington toward the objectives of the country at war reveals no fundamental differences . When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill , after their Casablanca conference , named " unconditional surrender " of the Axis powers as a basic condition of peace there was no dissent here . Sharp differences regarding methods to be followed to achieve fundamental objectives have developed and are increasing in intensity , however , and in consequence Washington seethes with internal controversies disruptive of that harmony some consider essential to most effective use of the country 's war resources . A year ago these controversies had not developed and there was a disposition in Congress and among the war agencies to declaim against our enemies and to speak in generalities of what we were going to do while glossing over what we were doing or how it was being done . Congress Alert The noteworthy change in the Washington attitude , especially with regard to Congress , is a disposition now to inquire searchingly into how effectively the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about victory . Much deeper is the disposition to inquire into how broadly the war is being used to conceal programs of industrial and social reform of which many elements of Congress and other segments of the Washington population have long been suspicious . Most significant developments of this week in this connection was the approval by the House Rules Committee of a resolution proposing to establish a five-man committee to inquire into the activities of executive agencies . This was interpreted as a manifestation of the intent of some members of Congress to recapture many of the powers which it delegated to the Executive Department during the days when an overwhelming Democratic majority accepted complaisantly administrative requests for constantly broadening powers over domestic affairs . Attitude of Agencies Wartime agencies exist under the not too rigidly interpreted emergency powers of the President or under specific acts of Congress . It is not gainsaid that there has been a tendency on the part of some of these agencies to feel that once they were established they were freed of Congressional restraints . They looked to the White House , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by directive " thus came into being . Some Congress groups appear to desire to stop it , or at least to curb it into conformance to the will of Congress . The committee which would be set up under the resolution approved by the Rules Committee would have as its principal function the determining of the extent to which administrative agencies have exceeded the powers Congress intended to bestow upon the executive branch of the government and the recommendation of legislation which would make these agencies once more amenable to Congress . Wartime agencies are aware of this change in the attitude of Congress , stemming from the results of the November elections . Programs are no longer drawn up and laid in Congress 's lap with a request for appropriations to carry them out . Present planning among the agencies is how to prepare a program which Congress will approve and finance . Balance of Power The change in attitude has resulted from the realization that a Congress in which the balance of power between the parties is more nearly equal is no longer a pushover for bureaucrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heads of administrative agencies knew that they might have to appear before Congressional committees and explain their programs , but they seldom doubted that what they wanted to do they would be permitted to do . There was much reason for the agencies to fight among themselves , for each felt it would get about what it wanted and no one inquire too closely whether one agency was overlapping another . Log-rolling went on , but bitterness was seldom manifested . Inherent rivalries rarely became active . The rejuvenation of Congressional independence which followed the November elections , however , appears to have reversed the attitude of many agencies . The realization that Congress would inquire more searchingly into their purposes and procedure seemingly has stimulated a conviction that if they are to retain their prerogatives they must guard against encroachments of other agencies . In consequence the sharpest controversies in Washington are now between administrative offices . Most deep-rooted is that between civilian and military agencies for control of war production , cur1 rently manifested in the dispute , between William M. Jeffers , Rub , ber Director , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repI resented in this controversy . One , typified by Mr. Jeffers , is that the war can not be successfully prosecuted if there is a collapse of civilian economy . Military Viewpoint The other , represented by Robert P. Patterson , Under-Secretary of War , and James V. Forrestal , Under-Secretary of the Navy , reasons that the civilian structure of the country is strong enough to support the war despite heavy sacrifices which may be entailed and that , no matter what the demands of the military , the civilian economy must be geared to them . The clash between Mr. Jeffers and Mr. Patterson , supported by Mr. Forrestal , before a Congressional committee this week , provided Washington with its most striking demonstration of the fundamental differences of opinion as to methods , not objectives , which some feel are fraught with danger to the war effort . Mr. Jeffers , Charles E. Wilson of the War Production Board , some other officials of administrative agencies and a number of members of Congress have indicated apprehension that control of civilian economy by the military in wartime might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view there is evident a disposition to take all possible steps to prevent it . Policies Produce Disputes Manpower , rationing , price control and other policies have produced disputes , some acute , some latent . A conviction that the foodcontrol program may become the No. 1 economic problem of the country before the war is two years old is strongly held by some . Mr. Roosevelt returned from his North African conferences to find many of these controversies heading toward the White House . He lost no time in settling one dispute , over the nomination of Edward J. Flynn , former Chairman of the Democratic National Committee , to be Minister to Australia ; which had little actual bearing on the war but was delaying the calendar . Some Congress members in forcing the withdrawal of Mr. Flynn 's nomination tasted raw meat and liked it . The incident served further to give notice to the executive branch that Congress was disposed to exercise , not abrogate , its constitutional functions . It was significant of the new mood which prevails in Washington .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       