@@708188

txt Governor Dewey carried his campaign today from Massachusetts to Maryland , then back to Pennsylvania , seeking to bolster the Republican chances in those politically doubtful States as the contest draws to a close . After a mid-day speech In Baltinore , he made his fourth excursion into Pennsylvania , with speeches tonight at Wilkes-Barre and Scranton , where , in the heart of the hard coal mining industry , he renewed his attack on the $1,000 Club , charging that " it offers something it does n't dare put in writing . " Leaving Boston at 2:30 o'clock this morning , the Governor arrived ' in Baltimore just before noon . After a tour of the business district , he went to the Lyric Theatre where he told a crowd of about 3,500 persons that the only way for the " real membership of the Democratic party to win in this election was to join with Republicans , " because the New Dealers , the Political Action Committee and Communists had " kidnaped " the Democratic party . Sees Peril to Party System Appealing directly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two-party system stands in danger . The Democratic party , weakened by twelve years of one-man rule , is being taken away from the Democrats . It is being captured by a coalition of subversive forces . " The only way for the real membership of the Democratic party to win in this election , the only way for the Democrats to recapture their party , is to join the Republicans in defeating the New Deal , the Political Action Committee and the Communists . " Mr. Dewey made the special trip to Baltimore at the plea of the Republican organization there , which declared that the State was so close that a personal visit by the candidate could swing its eight electoral votes into the Republican column . There has been some dissatisfaction among some Maryland Democrats toward the New Deal , and former Mayor Howard W. Jackson of Baltimore was in the reception committee which met Mr. Dewey at the station . Mr. Jackson , a Democrat , was Mayor for sixteen years , until defeated last year by Theodore , a Republican . However , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has received in other cities . The crowds were large , possibly as high as the 200,000 the police estimated , but mingled with the cheers were boos and Roosevelt buttons were numerous . Much of the booing , according to those in the front cars of the parade , was directed at Mr. Jackson , with people stepping out from the curbs and shaking their fists at him as he passed by in a car behind that occuppied by Mr. Dewey . There were continual shouts of ' We want Roosevelt . " " Mr. Roosevelt admitted last Tuesday that it was he himself who thought up the idea of the notorious One Thousand Club . " I now have another letter , sent out by Mr. Roosevelt 's ' special privilege ' in Government society . It was written on the stationery of the Democratic National Committee to a select list in Kansa:5. - rid tells us a little more about this ? .000 Club . It ends up by sayin. ? embership in this group will b badge of distinction forever . ' There are other advantages which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary . ' " Mr. Roosevelt 's club offers in writing to give ' special privilege ' to a select group of men who can afford to give a thousand dollars for a campaign contribution . Then it offers something more .. Something it does n't dare put in writing . We can only guess what that is . " Has this special privilege to do with war contracts ? Or is it special concessions on income taxes ? Or is Mr. Roosevelt 's club peddling special influence with the War Labor Board or the National Labor Relations Board ? One thing I do know , however . We are not fighting a war for freedom in order to save a Government of special privilege by a select few contributors or for the Communists . " Mr. Dewey chose Wilkes-Barre to answer those who . have been criticizing his pledge that he would , if elected , cut income taxes . and free from the levy those earning $11 a week . Saying that those who argue that income taxes must be kept high " forget that tax rates alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor declared that the national income must be raised to $150,000,000,000 , " twice the peacetime high under the New Deal , " by means of full production and full employment , so that the tax rates could be kept low and the national debt still be paid . Renewing his Boston attack on the Communists , Mr. Dewey said that they are " guiding the whole course of the fourth term campaign . " Several thousand persons , many holding red flares , lined the streets from the Wilkes-Barre station to the armory where the meeting was conducted . There were about 9,000 persons in the hall . The crowd was demonstrative , interrupting . - the Icandidate frequently with applause and cheers . Immediately after his talk the Governor and his party went to Scranton by automobile . Crowds turned out in nearly all of the numerous communities through which the Dewey caravan passed . Many spectators in Scranton booed Mr. Dewey , and many called out " We want Roosevelt . " 1 His audience in the Scranton audi-1 torium however , was friendly . Re publicans estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the speech outside through loud speakers . On the way to Wilkes-Barre Mr. Dewey made back platform addresses at York , Harrisburg and Sunbury , where he was greeted by large crowds . Mr. Dewey 's final plans after his Scranton speech have not been of , ficially announced , except that the party would go back to Albany , arriving there at 9:30 A. M. to , morrow . Informally it was understood , however , that Mr. Dewey would spend tomorrow in Albany and would not leave for his wind-up rally at Madison Square Garden until Saturday noon . Mi . Dewey will probably leave New York City Sunday morning for Albany and stay there until Monday evening . It is not definite yet whether he will make his final appeal to the voters Monday evening from the Executive Mansion or from a radio studio in New York City .                     