@@710970

txt The Senate acted , the House Rules Senate passed a slightly revised Republican anti-inflation resolution today , seventy-seven to ten , and sent it . to the House , where leaders immediately undertook extraordinary measures to complete action before the Christmas I adjournment tomorrow night . Most Democrats joined the majority on Senate passage after WI ing in close party line tests to alter the measure substantially ; 1 Some minor concessions were gained by an organized Demo ! cratic campaign to bring the bill closer to what President Truman ! had sought in the ten-point pro ! gram which he presented to the opening of the special session May . 17 , Although still " inadequate " and " a feeble attempt , " it was thus sufficiently improved to justify voting for it , said Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , the minority leader . Less than two hours after the Committee , which had been standing by , approved the measure for House consideration tomorrow . This had been decreed by House leaders to prevent a repetition of circumstances which resulted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed at that time to muster a twothirds majority required to consider bills without clearance by the Rules Committee- at least one , day previously . House Democrats , who centered their attack Monday on what they labeled the " gag " nature of the procedure , were expected to renew opposition tomorrow , on the same grounds , since similar restrictions were approved tonight by the Rules Committee . But this time , with advance Rules Committee clearance , a ' simple majority vote in the House will // enable floor consideration under the proposed restrictions , The ? committee recommended , 7 to 2 , a one-hour limitation on debate and a prohibition against any amendments except those ' that might be offered by the Banking and Currency Commmittee . Representative A. S. Mike ' ' Monroney of Oklahoma , Democratic member of the Banking and Currency Committee , condemned this lin testifying before the Rules Committee , as " a super-gag rule . " Committee Vote Is Partisan In overriding his protests , the . seven Republicans present voted to ' approve ' the rule , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats were Representatives Howard W. Smith of Virginia and J. Bayard Clark of North Carolina . Chairman Leo E. Allen , Republican , of Illinois , said the proposed restrictions were necessary to assure completion of Congressional action on the bill before adjournment . Otherwise , he contended , there would probably be killing delays in floor consideration and in the necessity of submitting the measure to a Senate-House conference for adjustment of amendments . As passed by the Senate , the resolution would authorize voluntary agreements among representatives of business , industry and agriculture to channel scarce materials into essential uses . Limited immunity from prosecution under anti-trust laws would be provided . Besides permitting those voluntary measures instead of granting the allocation and priority powers requested by President Truman , the measure would unqualifiedly carry out three other proposals of the President 's ten-point program . Those are for one year extensions of export ' and transportation controls , which are due to expire next Feb , 29 , and for authority to institute , programs aimed at conserving food and feed in this country and increasing food production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President power to limit the use of grain by distillers of alcoholic beverages . Under it the Agriculture Department could force compliance with a proposed conservation program which the distilling industry rejected yesterday . Thirty-two Democrats for Measure Thirty-two Democrats and fortyfive Republicans voted for passage of the measure . Seven Democrats and three Republicans were recorded in opposition . Some of the latter opposed any controls and others thought the bill did not go far enough . The bipartisan tally on passage came at the end of a day which found party lines frequently taut , and tempers equally so . On the first of a series of amendments proposed by Senator Barkley in accordance with earlier decisions of the Democratic- Policy Committee , the Senate voted , 47 to 32 , against granting the President 's request for allocation and priority powers . Senators Harry F. Byrd and A. Willis Robertson of Virginia joined forty-five Republicans in opposition . Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon was the . only Republican voting in the affirmative . An amendment by Mr. Barkley to grant such powers , subject to a veto by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost by a vote of 48 to 35 . Senators Byrd and Robertson were joined by Senator W. Lee O'Daniel of Texas in casting the only Democratic votes against it . Senator William Langer , Republican of North Dakota , joined Mr. Morse in voting with the other Democrats . Democrats United in One Test The Democrats exhibited the ultimate in party discipline by voting unanimously on the closest test of the day to eliminate entirely the measure 's section dealing with voluntary allocations . That amendment , offered after failure of the minority 's efforts to " put some teeth " into that section , was rejected , 44 to 42 , with Senators Morse and Langer , again voting with . the Democrats . Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , floor manager and author of the bill , had previously . . sought to make the provision more palatable to the Democrats by eliminating his own anti-trust exemption clause and substituting language proposed by W. Averell Harriman , Secretary of Commerce , in a bill submitted to Congress earlier in the session . Democrats argued that without compulsory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unworkable and undesirable . " Also for that reason , they contended , any relaxation of the anti-trust laws would be unjustified . However , they did not fight Mr. Taft 's revision , and it was approved by voice vote . Also carried by voice votes were the only Democratic amendments to be adopted . That was after Mr. Taft ' announced he had no objection to them . They would carry out point No. 6 of the President 's program by authorizing measures to conserve food and feed domestically and stimulate production in nonEuopean foreign countries . Baldwin Amendment Voted The Senate likewise adopted an amendment by Senators Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut and Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont , Republicans , - designed to speed Congressional consideration of any specific priority and allocation orders which the President might de- ' sire to issue . The President would be authorized to draw up proposed measures and submit them to Congress with detailed justifications , whereupon the Joint Economic Committee would be required to open hearings within fifteen days . Congress should thus " begin to pave the way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Morse objected , however , that this would amount to passing the responsibility to the President for initiating necessary measures . President Truman , asked at his news conference what he thought of Mr. Morse 's observation , said he thought that the Senator had made the best answer to that himself . 