@@711345

txt Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York won the first test on the strength of the rival candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination today , when the National Committee by a vote of 48 to 44 decided to recommend the seating of the Dewey Georgia delegation with sixteen votes . Supporters of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio said they would carry the fight to seat the contesting delegation , favorable to their candidate , to the Committee on Credentials on Monday and ultimately to the floor of the convention . Herbert Brownell Jr. , the Dewey campaign manager , declared that he was sure that the credentials committee and the convention would uphold the decision of the National Committee . Campaign managers for Dewey , Taft and Ht'rold A. Stassen all announced that their candidates had gained in delegate support overnight . Representative Clarence J. Brown , Taft campaign ? manager , announced that Senator Taft would receive a larger number of votes after the first or second ballot than he had expected the Ohio Senator to have . Mr. Brown estimated the number of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from what other candidate he expected them to come . Mr. Brownell claimed an overnight gain of twenty-five votes for Mr. Dewey which , if added to the sixteen from Georgia , would give the New York Governor a gain of forty-one . Mr. Stassen , ? former Governor of Minnesota , claimed a gain of four votes at his morning press conference . Ted R. Gamble , his campaign manager , confirmed this later and declared that all the Stassen delegates were stand ' ing firmly . Mr. Brown 's announcement of the expected increase in the Taft strength was construed as at least partial confirmation of the report that a " deal " between the Taft forces and supporters of Mr. Stas- sen was in the making . By this reputed . " deal " Stassen delegates would switch to Senato  --  Taft , who , if nominated , would pick Mr. Stassen as the nominee for Vice Presi-dent This rumor has been current ever since it was learned that Mr. Stassen had dinner last Saturday with Robert R. McCormick , publiseer of The Chicago Tribune . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly on foreign policy , between Senator Taft and Mr. Stasseri . Members ' Votes Indicate Trend In the vote in the National Committee on the Georgia contest it was noted that , although supporters of Mr. Stassen on the committee divided , the committee , members from Minnesota and Wisconsin , which have the strong Stassen delegations , voted with the Taft supporters in the committee against seating the Deetey delegation . Indications of the probable lineup of majorities of the Illinois and PennsylvarEe delegations after they finish voting for-their respective " favorite son " candidates were seen in the votes of the National Committee members from those states on the Georgia contest . The Pennsylvania members of the committee voted to seat the Dewey delegation ; the Illinois members voted with the Taft group against the motion . Arthur H. Vandenberg Jr. , son of the Michigan Senator , has been asked many questions about whether his father is likely to be a contender for the Presidential nomination , but has given no information , except to say that he expects the Senator to clarify his position on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vandenberg 's position will be determined to a large degree on the action Congress takes in voting full funds for the European Recovery Program and other important foreign policy legislation , in which he is particularly interested . If he regards the action of Congress as unsatisfactory from his viewpoint , this might bring him into the field as a " fighting candidate " for the Presidential nomination . If he finds congressional action satisfactory and it appears that the party platform pledge on foreign affairs is to be in accordance with his views , Senator Vandenberg probably will continue to maintain an aloof attitude toward the Presidency . At present , it can be stated , he ' believes that his own chance for the Presidential nomination has been affected unfavorably by the fight he has made against the Republican leadership of the House of Representatives on the Euro ' pean Recovery Program and other foreign policy issues , but probably would not refuse the nomination if a. deadlock in the convention should , result and he would be offered the nomination . Campaign Managers Busy The campaign managers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get busy in buttonholing the arriving delegates . *There has been an overnight development that indicates that Taft will receive a heavy increase in votes that we did n't expect to get after the first ar second ballot , " Mr. Brown said when interviewed . Questioned about the number of votes he said Senator Taft had gained , Mr. Brown replied that the total ran between thirty and forty and might go as high as sixty . When asked from what other candidate the votes would come , he replied that he would accept delegates from any candidate but by that he did not , mean to say that the Taft forces were taking delegates away from Mr. Stassen . A reporter reminded Mr. Brown that he had said that Senator Taft would get 316 votes on the first ballot and asked if that meant that the Ohio Senator , with the added strength Mr. Brown had announced , would go to 372 on the third ballot . " I think he will have more than that on the third ballot , " Mr. , Brown replied . Mr. Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more firm than that of any other candidate . He was asked if he thought that Governor Dewey would not be able to hold his delegates . " I did n't exactly say ? that , " he replied . " But that is my strong hope and belief . " " We were well pleased by the vote of the national committee for seating the Georgia delegation , " . Mr. Brownell said . " We feel that an important principle was involved . The Democratic Legislature of Georgia passed a law em ) owering the Democratic Secretary of State to certify the proper national convention delegation of the minority party in that state . We . do not believe that this is a good law which permits a Democratic Secretary of State to pick the delegates to the Republican National Convention . " We believe that if the claim of the contesting delegation had been upheld other Southern States , Sgire there is virtually only one party , would have followed suit in enacting similar legislation . " Mr. Brownell was questioned about a published report that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania ' to support Senator Edward Martin for the Presidential nomination if the movement to nominate the New York Governor failed in return for support by the Grundy group of Mr. Dewey 's candidacy . " We have n't entered into any deal , " Mr. Brownell replied . " With the Dewey sentiment increasing so rapidly as it has in the past few days , we have not found it necessary to make any deals . " We have every reason to believe that Governor Dewey will . be nominated after consultation with leaders of two-thirds of the delegations . " in his press conference , Mr. Gamble , Stassen campaign manager ; declared that delegates supporting the former Minnesota Governor had told him that they would stick and were even resentful over claims that they had switched to any of Mr. Stassen 's rivals . Mr. Gamble declared that he knew the claims of Dewey support in Maine , Iowa , Maryland and Missouri by his campaign managers to be unwarranted . " They are just part of the blitz , " he said . Dewey , Taft Supporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contests was long drawn out and Dewey and Taft supporters clashed in debate when the ' Comniittee went into executive session to determine its decision . The Dewey delegation , headed by W. R. Tucker as chairman , also includes Wilson Williams , the present national committeeman , and Harry Sommers . The rival Taft delegation ' is headed by Roy G. Foster . Although both delegations include Negroes , John W. Dobbs of Atlanta , a member of the Dewey delegation , had charged that the Taft delegation was allied with the Talmadge " white supremacy " Democratic group , a charge denied by members of the Foster group . In the other contests the national commitee voted to seat the Mississippi delegation headed by Perry Howard , veteran Negro National Committeeman ; the South Carolina delegation headed by J. Bates Gerald and the Alaska delegation headed by Henry A. Benson . There was no controversy between the Dewey and Taft forces in recommending the seating of these delegations . The eight votes of the Mississippi delegation are counted as certain for Senator Taft , the six votes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first ballot and the three votes of the Alaska delegation are expected to go to . Governor Dewey .                     