@@706947

txt CAPITAL SEES PLAN Offensive With Common Strategy Is Viewed by Washington as Key FRENCH UNION A GAIN Bar Upon a ' Negotiated ' Peace ' Cited as Blow to Hopes of Axis By HAROLD CALLENDER Special to THE NEW Yoatc TimEs . WASHINGTON , Jan. 26 ? The meeting at Casablanca of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill was regarded in official circles here as a council of war designed to clear the way for Allied unity and a common strategy on all fronts , and to plan a continuing offensive whose object is , not the negotiated peace for which the Axis has at times angled and may angle again , but " unconditional surrender " of the enemy . It was the first time this phrase had been used in an official definition of the war aims of the , United Nations . As an expression of the common strategy that is being worked out , it was expected by many that a war council of the . " big four " ? Britain , Russia , China and the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordinated purposes of the United Nations would receive increasing emphasis in the form of more inclusive consultations on all major aspects of the war and on the distribution of the sinews of war in the future . This was the interpretation placed by observers here tonight upon those words of the official announcement concerning efforts to include Premier Joseph Stalin and Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek in the dramatic meeting on the coast of Morocco , which symbolized the growing offensive power of the Allies on the southern margin of the European war theatre and the alignment of the bulk of the French Empire on the side of the United Nations . Parley Essentially Military It was emphasized in official circles here that the gathering at Casablanca was essentially military , as indicated by the presence there of the highest American and British strategists of the navies , armies and air forces , including the commanders of the North African - operations , and that the major preoccupation was the winning of the war rather than political issues , save as they directly affected the grand strategy of the Allied coalition . Tonight 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has surrounded the proceedings since Jan. 9 , when the press was informed by the Office of Censorship that President Roosevelt was going on a trip and the attention of correspondents ** drawn to the code of voluntary censorship , which forbids publication of any hints or speculation about the President 's movements . In the seventeen-day interval of silence that followed , private guesses had placed the President at numerous widely separated spots all the way from Alaska to Moscow . One rumor was that he had gone to London ; others had him at intervening points ; but most guesses were warm in that they pointed to the coast of Africa as the probable place of his rendezvous with Mr. Churchill and the leaders of the Allied fighting services . Rumor About Stalin Some expected that Mr. Stalin and the Chinese Generalissimo would turn up at ' the appointed meeting place to personify , with the American and British leaders , the over-all unity lately discussed . It was generally assumed that , wherever the meeting , the question of union of the French forces on a military rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of // a joint Anglo-American policy toward the French Empire today and toward liberated France tomorrow would be discussed , as they apparently were . For both these issues , while political in themselves , have their military aspects for . a fighting coalition that has acquired the aid of large parts of the French Empire- and looks to the restoration of the independence of France . It was taken for granted in informed circles here that the organization of North Africa now being established would not be materially altered ; that the negotiations announced as now going on between General Henri Honor ? Giraud , High Commissioner there , and - General Charles de Gaulle , ' Fighting French leader , would be directed primarily at military collaboration , including the French warships now at Alexandria ; that no French provisional government would be set up but that France , when liberated , would- be supervised by a United Nations authority , including Frenchmen , until the French people could choose their own rulers through the ballot box . There will , it is understood , be no question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political position . On the other hand , it is suggested that the purposes ' of the Allies might be cleared of doubts by the prompt release of many Frenchmen still imprisoned in North Africa , and the publication of their names . This , as some put it , would " take the curse off " the appointment of Marcel Peyrouton , which caused misgivings in many quarters here as well as among de Gaullists . Incidentally , it was pointed out that M. Peyrouton arrived in North Africa at about the time the Casablanca conference was assembling . Eisenhower 's Attitude While Lieut . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower approved this appointment at the request of General Giraud ; it . js known-that he did so without enthusiasm and ? that the idea did not originate with him . It is generally expected here that these political and partly personal issues in North Africa will sink into the background as the unity of Anglo-American policy there and the dramatic demonstration at Casablanca of both the military might and the uncompromising aims of the Allies become known to France and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued this statement : " The proceedings and the decisions of the conference , which were most wise and timely , are of the most far-reaching importance . They will prove of the greatest interest to all of the nations with which we are associated in this . war . I shall hope soon to comment on some of the more vital phases . " Viscount Halifax , . the British Ambassador , tonight made this comment on the news : " Casablanca speaks for itself and the Axis will learn what it means through 1943. "                     