@@712455

txt Anti-monopoly injunctions restraining twenty-one corporations and 116 individuals from " stifling competition " among operators of coin-box washing machines in basements of local apartment houses were obtained yesterday by State Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein . The prosecutor declared that his action to eliminate interference with the free exercise of trade in the $10,000,000-a-year industry might save housewives " as much as *2,500,000 annually on their home laundry bills . " He added that it would give them an opportunity to demand price cuts to 15 cents a wash , 5 cents less than the average rate now being- charged . - The restraining orders , granted by Supreme Court Justice Joseph A. Gavagan , were consented to by the defendants as an alternative to going on trial for violation of Article 22 of the State General Business Law . Violation of the injunctions would confront the defendants with contempt of court proceedings as well as criminal and civil prosecution . As part of the same action yesterday , Mr. Goldstein submitted to Justice Gavagan a motion to dissolve the Coin Metered Washing Machine Operators Association , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx . He labeled the organization " a so-called trade association set up in 1941 to serve as the medium through which the defendants protected the estimated 6,000 laundry machines under their control . " This figure , the Attorney General said , represents about one-fifth of the 30,000 machines installed in the 15,000 apartment houses here . The dissolution motion , to which the defendants also consented , is being studied by the court . Meanwhile , Mr. Goldstein said , summonses and complaints charging participation in the same association were in the process of being served to five more corporations and fifty-seven other individuals . Yesterday 's actions , started as a result of a three-month investiga- , Ition by the , prosecutor 's Monopoly . Bureau , grew out of a similar court case last July , when Mr. , Goldstein obtained anti-monopoly writs to bar a group of 300 selfservice laundry machine stores from continuing a price-fixing policy that allegedly added $4,000 , - 000 a year to the laundry costs of New York housewives . Explains History of Case Explaining the history of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' charge of the Monopoly Bureau , said that the installation and operation of automatic laundry machines in apartment houses was " a concession business " that had developed rapidly since 1936 . He added that landlords permitted operators to install the machines upon payment of a flat fee or a percentage of the gross income . Eight years ago , the Coin Metered Washing Machine Operators Association was organized , Mr. Hirshowitz declared , " avowedly to maintain the industry on a stable basis . " The association adopted a set of by-laws and " a code of ethical conduct " which , according to the state 's investigation , bound members not to accept or to solicit business in apartment houses where associates were already op. erating . Mr. Hirshowitz asserted that before the war and during the existence of the Office of Price Administration the prevailing price in the industry was 10 cents a wash . When price ceilings were abolished in 1946 , he charged , a dominant group in the association held a series of meetings to determine whether a price increase should be made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that organization members could set a twenty-cent rate without difficulty . " The defendants agreed among themselves not to encroach on each other 's locations , " Mr. Goldstein said . " The resulting monopolies permitted them to set an average price of 20 cents per wash ? a price which the investigation has shown is an overcharge to house-1 wives of about 25 per cent . " The Attorney General pointed out that a 15-cent price should re turn a fail profit , " especially in view of the fact that operators of machines in state housing projects are limited by the state to a 10-cent charge per wash and continue a successful business . " Denies Monopoly Charge In reply to Mr. Goldstein 's charges , Irving Gottlieb , president of the association , issued the following statement last night : " The Coin Metered Washing Machine Operators Association represented approximately only 10 per cent of the washing machine , industry in Greater New , York and , therefore , did not exercise great control over the industry . It did try , however , in so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , eliminate much of the irresponsible and cutthroat competition that came into the field at the end of the war when machines became plentiful . " Twenty cents became the predominant price . Years of operating experience has proved that this charge was required to maintain a washing machine in an efficient manner , using genuine parts ad giving the landlord a fair and adequate rental for the use of his facilities . " We ' espectively wish to deny being in any way in agreement with other statements made by the Attorney General 's office in regard to price fixing , overcharging the public or monopolizing or controlling the washing machine industry . I advise the Attorney General 's office that the statements were untrue and uncalled for and were in no way connected with our part of the caseinvolving the signing of the decrees . " Meanwhile , a spokesman of the Public Service Equipment Council , which also represents about 20 per cent of the laundry machines in the industry , said that " the more responsible elements in the industry have decried any attempts at monopoly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           