@@708763

txt Advance units of American occupation forces have entered Berlin to set up communication facilities and arrange for the billeting for the veterans of World War II scheduled to march into the German capital tomorrow , it was disclosed tonight Supreme Allied headquarters revealed that a mobile radio transmitter had been sent ahead with an advance party of troops , and Press Wireless , Inc. , announced in New York that the station had been set up in Berlin . The mobile transmitter will handle the file of some 200 correspondents who are due to enter the city with the main American , British , Canadian and French forces tomorrow and Wednesday . 4nain occupation forces of the western Allies already were either trekking toward the capital or were awaiting the signal to leave their positions . Russians in Magdeburg By RAYMOND DANIELL By Wireless to THE New YORK Tram . MAGDEBURG , Germany , July 1 ( Delayed ) ? This German city , captured by the Americans and governed since May 3 by the British , was occupied by Russian troops today by prearrangements with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 127,000 remaining inhabitants . The advance of the Russian forces was general in Saxony and Thuringia . Very soon , if they are not already there , Russian forces will be in possession not only of the rich agricultural plain lying westward of the boundaries , as they were understood to have been fixed at Yalta , but also of such militarily important installations as the Zeiss factory at Jena , the huge underground bomb and rocket factories at Nordhausen and the big Leuna chemical works at Merseburg . However , the Russians may have difficulty in putting these plants into operation soon , for immediately after the Germans withdrew before the American troops ordnance experts began moving out light and delicate precision instruments ; leaving only heavy lathes and other fixtures . In those early days , too , many skilled technicians and craftsmen applied and obtained passes to go farther westward into the Amer --  // can zone . It is estimated that at least 16,000 such workmen left before the boundaries were frozen and sealed at 6 o'clock this morning . The westward movement of the Red Army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the middle of the Harz Mountains , was prearranged on a high level and was supposed to have been carried out in three phases in three days . But the first phase came so suddenly that it took the Germans by complete surprise and caused American and British troops to pack up and depart in such haste that it looked for all the world like a retreat . Indeed some Germans asked if the Russians had delivered an ultimatum to the Western Allies . Russians Arrive Early Early this morning on a superhighway from Brunswick to Magdeburg there was a steady stream of British vehicles speeding away from the Russian zone and at a point midway between Brunswick and Magdeburg there was a sign painted in red letters warning travelers that they were entering the Russian Army zone . The lane for traffic into Magdeburg was blocked and British Tommies halted civilians trying to get in or out . The British were towing scores of disabled cars and one truck had a trailer bearing a motor boat that some Tommy apparently was taking home as a souvenir . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a population of 450,000 . It was not just a Sabbath quiet . Not a soul was stirring in the streets except white-helmeted German policemen who had orders to keep everyone indoors except between the hours of 9 and 10 A. M. and 3 and 4 P. M. From every window people were peering out with tense drawn faces looking as if they expected to see Beelzebub himself drive down the street with a full retinue of imps . The local Communists had been busy since early morning sticking up placards welcoming their " Russian brothers " and urging " workers and peasants to unite with the Soviet soldiers to build a secure Germany . " We halted to read one and an old German woman leaning from a window motioned to us to pull it down . Our jeep was soon surrounded by a group that in defiance of orders poured into the street from a doorway demanding information . We told them what we knew and one man who spoke English asked , " But why ? Your troops took this place . Why do you now surrender it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government headquarters , which still had the Union Jack flying above it , most of the detachment had gone but Lieut . Col. Edward Wadham of Derbyshire , England , the military governor of the province of Magdeburg , was sitting in his office with his kit packed and his swagger stick on his desk awaiting the arrival of the Russians . His orders were to remain there until noon on Monday to turn over the records and papers and haul down the British flag . " " I do n't know whether they will continue the administration we have set up , " he said . " They may scrap it and start afresh . I hope not , though , because a lot of work has gone into it . " The colonel told us that the first he knew officially that the Russians were coming was when he was informed through " channels " late last night . This morning early he caused to be posted around the town notices informing the inhabitants that " in accordance with previous agreements " among the Allies Magdeburg would pass to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordering the residents of the city to remain indoors except for one hour in the morning and one hour in the afternoon and forbidding anyone to travel more than five kilometers from his home . The notice said that a cordon had been established around the area and that anyone trying to slip through risked punishment by the Soviet authorities . Few had seen the notices because the police began enforcing the stay-at-home edict before many had a chance to get out 01 doors . Advance elements of the Soviet forces trickled into the town early in the morning , attracting little attention because they were riding in closed civilian cars taken from the Germans . The main body of troops entered the city promptly at noon . First came a regiment of infantry . They were dressed in a halfdozen varieties of uniform and some wore civilian clothes topped by a Red Army cap . They carried their rifles on slings over their shoulders . Behind them came horse-drawn artillery . There were no pieces larger than our 37 mm. gun . Behind these troops came a train of horse-drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them uniformed women lay resting . Tied to one of the wagons were two cows and running beside one of the wagons was a young foal nuzzling its mother . In all there were nine field kitchens , but it was plain that the occupying force expected to live off the country . There was no motorized equiment at all save for half a dozen captured German civilian cars . One motorcycle and a rider were towed behind a horse-drawn cart . At the end of the motley procession was a horse-drawn open victoria with two officers and some distance behind that were six officers splendidly mounted and riding six abreast . Nearly all  --  soldiers and officers alike  --  wore medals . Americana Complain of Plan Near a camp for displaced persons an order was given to fall out and the men broke ranks and sought the shade on sidewalks and in the grassy margin between it and the street . In a few minutes most of them were asleep while local Communists raced up and down importantly on motorcycles showing officers around the town and helping to hunt up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to see what was happening elsewhere . All along the road in every town we passed nearly the whole population was either peering from windows or lining the sidewalks awaiting the arrival of the Russians . Red flags were flying in some places and in many places small detachments of the Red Army had arrived by truck springing up as though from nowhere . We saw officers of the Red Army on the banks of the Saale River staring at Bernburg Castle . At Halle , headquarters for the American troops for the occupation of the American sector of Berlin , the first Russians arrived at about 4 o'clock in the afternoon and American troops in the city were ordered to be inside their garrison in an old German barracks by 6 P. M. Everywhere they were packing hastily and large convoys of trucks loaded with gasoline , ammunition and other supplies were racing westward toward Weimar . It became known that after American occupying forces for Berlin had passed over international bridge the road behind them would be sealed and their only line of occupation would be from Bremen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and officers were doing considerable grousing about the politicians who agreed to such an arrangement .                     