@@707788

txt The New York City Department of Health has traced seventy-four cases of food poisoning in one charitable institution to evaporated milk released to hospitals , schools and other institutions by the Federal Government from its 45,000 , - 000-pound oversupply . The department promptly clamped an embargo on 1,200 cases of the product , it was learned yesterday . While the Department of Health was stopping the use of the aging evaporated milk , other institutions in this city were expecting substantial gifts of the product . Purchasing agents for one large group of voluntary hospitals and other charitable institutions had ordered trucks to pick up the supplies when a hurried call from the War Food Administration advised that the evaporated milk was not fit for human consumption . Excess Put at 800,000 Cases Distribution of the Government 's excess of evaporated milk , which is estimated at 800,000 cases of fifty-six pounds each , began about a month ago . The stock is in storage in up-State New York and throughout the Midwest . Some of it has been in storage for two years . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent crystallization . Representatives of the War Food Administration disclosed last week that this large quantity of evaporated milk originally was intended for the British , who subsequently received whole milk powder . Production of evaporated milk continued because contracts called for its manufacture . When the Government began to distribute its excess evaporated millr to institutional users , the Department of Health was notified that city hospitals would receive a gift of 13,000 cases through the Federal Surplus Commodity Credit Corporation . None was obtained through commercial channels . After the outbreak of food poisoning , described as a mild form of stomach upset , the Bureau of Preventable Diseases and the Bureau of Foods and Drugs began an investigation and traced the cause . Cooperating in the investigation , the WFA checked on the rest of the surplus evaporated milk earmarked for distribution among institutions in this area . In the absence of F. D. Cronin , WFA regional director , it was not learned what part of the huge stock of evaporated milk in this area is considered fit for human consumption or what plans are under way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of food surpluses held by WFA is rapidly getting under way to clear storage warehouses for the 1944 packs . WFA is shaping a program of distribution incorporating what are described as the best business practices . Its plans are being revealed to regional officers at their regular meeting with WFA officials in Washington this week . While municipal hospitals here report that they are able to obtain adequate supplies of evaporated milk from their regular commercial sources , they complain of their inability to obtain canned fruits . Purchasing agents for hospitals and other institutions explained that ration points on canned fruits are prohibitive . Albert Pleydell , Commissioner of Purchase for New York City , disclosed that his department was not buying canned fruits because of high points . Other buying agents think canned fruits will not be available for thirty or ninety days , when the new packs come on the market . Hospitals are using mostly fresh fruits , as the only canned kind available , they declare , is purple plums . Increases in all meats except variety meats were shown by WFA 's weekly report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 per cent over the previous week . Total meat receipts for the week ended April 29 were 30,013,109 pounds , compared with 29,509,271 the previous week . Last week 's receipts were 27 per cent larger than for the corresponding week last year . Showing an increase for the second successive week , total beef receipts were 14,401,067 pounds , compared with 8,608,953 a year ago . The Fishery Council , 204 Water Street , reported an unusually liberal supply of crabmeat and a heavy to liberal supply of salt water fish . Magistrate Frederick L. Strong , in Municipal Term Court , fined the Queens Quality Provision Company , Inc. , 165 East Fourth Street , 5150 for having three pounds of watered tongue in stock on Feb. 3 . The Health Department made the complaint and the company pleaded guilty and paid the fine .                     