@@706428

txt By a vote of 65 to 2 the Senate today rejected a resolution by Sheridan Downey ( D ) , of California , pledging the membership to waive " any special rights , privileges , or exemptions " under gasoline rationing . Only Senators to rote for the resolution were Mr. Downey and Claude Pepper ( D ) , of Florida . By thus voting the Senate chose one horn of the uncomfortable Downey dilemma , which most senators charged was like being forced to answer either " yes " or " no " to the ancient question , " Have you stopped beating your wife ? " Automatic Vote would imply that they were proposing to violate them . Senator Downey apparently introduced the resolution originally in innocence and good faith . He found today that he was one of the most unpopular men in what has been called the Most exclusive club in the world . Congress Seething Congress is already seething with irritation and unhappiness over the whole gasoline rationing situation as it affects them . A num // Today 's vote occurred automatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost two hours yesterday denouncing the resolution . Strength of the Senators ' resentment over the Downey resolution was indicated by yesterday 's comment of Senator John A. Danaher ( R ) , of Connecticut , charging that Mr. Downey " in a cheap , demagogic fashion is attempting to capitalize at the expense of other members of Congress . " The size of the anti-Downey vote was increased by the fact that only one-third of the 96 Senators are up for re-election this year , and only about a dozen of the latter live in coastal states affected by gasoline rationing . The Downey resolution pledged Senators not to abuse gas rationing cards . Irate Senators declared that if they. , approved the resolution it would indicate that they had intended to abuse gas rationing privileges and thought better of it , while if they voted it down it ber of members have exchanged X cards originally received for A or B cards . Some members declare that when special offices were opened to handle Congressional gasoline rationing applications only X cards were available , and they accepted them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A or B cards condemn the Downey resolution . Senator Bennett Clark ( D ) of Missouri , sarcastically declares that if it is necessary for Senators to pledge themselves not to abuse gas rationing cards members might with equal logic pledge themselves " not to hold up any trains or rob any banks . " An undercurrent of criticism of the press ran through Congressional comment , both on and oft - the - record . Congressmen warned that it is dangerous to bring the legislative branch of the Government into public ridicule , and that press criticism would further weaken already damaged legislative prestige . No Supporting Voice The one-sided hour-and-fortyminute Senate debate yesterday set the stage for today . Senator Downey found no ' single supporting voice , and a vote was ultimately blocked on his resolution ; Majority Leader Alben W. Barkley ( D ) , of KentUcky , wrathfully announced that it would be brought up for decision today . President Roosevelt today told his press conference he thought the names of holders of X cards should be a matter of public record . He did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored a plan that holders of gasoline rationing cards be required to designate the type of card held by a windshield sticker , Mr. Roosevelt said that was a new one on him and begged to be excused from answering . The White House is saving gasoline and rubber wherever it can , Mr. Roosevelt said . As an example be said that a White House car and a secret service car which previously have gone up to Hyde Park independently by road whenever he traveled there by train , would be stationed these permanently , to save traffic wear and fuel .                     