@@705778

txt Corporations may soon End it easier to secure tax deductions on account ; of new defense plants which they have built Secretaries Stimson and Knox have sent a Joint letter to Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn asking for liberalization of the sections The 1941 tax bill was adopted by the House yesterday after elimination of mandatory joint returns . Story on Page 3. it . the 1940 Revenue Act which permit the cost of new defense plants to be amortized over five years for tax purposes . Billions of dollars worth of new plants are in the process of construction by corporations which relied on these special tax deductions . However , the administrative procedure implied in the 1940 law was found unworkable in many instances . Hence , corporations frequently have been unable to have their special amortization deductions aaproved . Would Simplify Procedure alle two cabinet officers have recommended to Congress legislation which would simplify and liberalize the procedure through which corporations must go to obtain these special tax allowances . Among the changes which the heads of the two military departments suggested to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a company claims that it is not being reimbursed for its outlay on a defense plant . it will be entitled to special amortization deductions provided that the government contracting officer certifies that no reimbursement for plant overhead . other than normal wear and tear , is included in the price which the company charges the government for products made in the plant . The company must submit estimated costs of operations , if necessary , to the contracting officer . Present law has been construed to require proof that the company itself had no intention of being reimbursed for its new plant when it signed its government contracts . This attempt " to ascertain the state of mind of the contractor " has been impractical , the cabinet officers said . 2 . In determining whether a company is being especially reimbursed for its investment in a newt defense plant , the government need consider only those contracts between the company and the government which involve more than $15,000 and which involve the War or Navy Departments , the Maritime Commission or any other department designated by the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the company has hiked its price in order to recover its special plant investment in an abnormally short period . 3 . When a company 's defense plant , has been built under the terms of the government 's special " emergency plant facilities contract , " which provides for protection of the government 's investment in the plant , that company will need no further certification on contracts performed in that plant . The present law requires certification of each contract . 4 . When a company wishes to avoid the long process of proving that it is not being especially reimbursed for its defense plant outlay , it could short-cut this procedure by agreeing to terms which protect the government 's interest , if any , in the plant . No such short-cut is allowed in existing law . 5 . The War or Navy Departments would be empowered to issue any necessary certificates without review by the National Defense Advisory Commission as is now required . " Considerable uncertainty and delay is created by the necessity for joint action by two governmental agencies , " Secretaries Stimson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Management . successor to the NDAC , would be allowed by the proposed legislation to collaborate on certain regulations promulgated by the War and Navy Departments under the act . The cabinet officers said that they think this proviso " is unnecessary and inadvisable " but that they had consented to is " as a compromise in order to obtain approval of the proposed amendment . " 6 . The time for filing applications for certificates under the act would be extended from 60 days , as permitted under existing law , to six months after the signing of the contract or the beginning of the construction on the plant .                     