@@708000

txt It took the Allies eight weeks of hard and bitter fighting and more than 115,000 casualties to break through the German " Atlantic Wall " into France , to seize , organize and reinforce their bridgehead and to break out of the Norman peninsula . It took the Americans only four days after breaking into Brittany to overrun most of that far larger peninsula , to race 138 miles along the whole length of it , to the vitally important port of Brest , and to dash another 100 miles across the whole breadth of it to trap whatever German forces may be left in it . That , measured in time , space and distance , is the spectacular result of the Allied victory which smashed the left flank of the German front in Normandy and opened up the gates for Allied power to spread out . And that result is alone sufficient cause for gratification . For the capture of the Breton peninsula promises to give the Allies both the space and the necessary ports to make full use of their superior power without further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through which moved three-fifths of the American Expeditionary Forces in the last war . It will also give them St. Malo , St. Nazaire , Lorient , Nantes and numerous minor ports , in addition to Cherbourg . And though these ports are still to be captured , it appears unlikely that the Germans have enough forces left in them to offer long resistance . The sinking of a large German convoy off St. Nazaire suggests , in fact , that the Germans are already abandoning the peninsula and are trying to rescue the trapped forces by sea . One important consequence of this will be the elimination of the many German U-boat nests concealed along the Breton coast . It was from these nests that the Germans sent out their submarine " wolf packs " to cut the Allied communication lines , causing not only the loss of many Allied lives and much materiel , but necessitating also a considerable diversion of Allied sea and air power to combat them . The " wolf packs " have long since been beaten and the submarine menace has been met , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put an end to the " Battle of the Atlantic " on which Hitler once pinned his hopes for victory . But all these spectacular results are overshadowed by the vast possibilities that are opening up to the east of Brittany . The smashing of the German left flank has left the whole German front in northern France hanging in the air . And while the Germans continue to offer stubborn resistance to the British and Canadians east of Caen , and are even staging fierce counter-attacks in the center around Vire , they are unable to find any anchor for the other end of their battleline , with the result that their whole front is in danger of encirclement . For the American forces that broke through into Brittany are so large that they are able to spread out in all directions , and to the Germans the potentially most dangerous direction of their advance is not to the west but to the east . Wheeling eastward from Rennes along the road to Paris , they have already captured the important road junction points of Laval and Dilayenne and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are thus bending the German front back in the south and are threatening to get behind it . And unless the Germans can rally suf-ficient forces to stop them , which would mean withdrawing German troops from other parts of restless France , the German armies in the north face the alternative of either fighting until exterminated , or saving themselves by a sweeping withdrawal to the line of the Seine . In any case , the war in the west has now definitely entered into a new and possibly decisive phase . 4 has turned from a battle of position and the strug- gle for hedgerows into a war of movement and maneuver over distances too great for the Germans to maintain a consecutive front . And the main part of the Allied forces is still to be thrown into that war . Hitler may tell his party leaders that providence has saved him from death because he is the only man who can still lead the Germans to victory ; but the Nazi disclosure that not only a few generals , but parts of the army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of industry and conservative politicians , were involved in a " peace movement " against him , shows that the Germans are losing faith in him . As one Allied spokesman said , the next two or three weeks will prove the most critical of the whole war ' for Germany , and therewith the most hopeful for the Allied cause .                     