@@707282

txt The momentous conference at which President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill are planning the military strategy to end the war took a definitely political turn today with the arrival of Anthony Eden , Britain 's much-traveled ! Foreign Secretary . Joining the conferees any day now , perhaps tomorrow , will be Cordell Hun , Secretary of State , to round out the foursome who will decide such pressing problems as how to deal with Italy and Germany on their surrender , recognition of the French Committee of National Liberation , greater political and military collaboration with Soviet Russia , and the parts that the military forces of each United Nation , including the exiled governments , will have in the impending invasion of continental Europe . It was significant that no observers from of the . United Nations other an tIan the United States , Great Britain and Canada were in attendance here , according to an authorized spokesman . Meanwhile , as President Roosevelt proceeded speedily into conferences with Mr. Churchill and military advisers after his arrival // EDEN JOINS PARLEY ; NEW PHASE OPENS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary , announced that he would stop at Ottawa , the Canadian capital , as the guest of Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King before his return to Washington . Rapid Progress Indicated Mr. Early 's additional statement that the President would probably depart from here early next week indicated how rapidly the conference is progressing , which is , no doubt , the result of considerable preliminary planning in advance . Besides , Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill were together at Hyde Park , N. Y. , for several days last week . It was confidently expected here that Mr. Eden would visit Marshal Joseph Stalin in Moscow immediately following this conference , although no announcement to that effect has yet been made . Likewise , it was indicated , although not announced , that Mr. Churchill might not go to Ottawa with the President . Purely speculative were rumors that he also might go to Moscow . Arriving with Mr. Eden in a great British flying boat , direct from Britain were Brendan Bracken , British Minister of Information ; Sir Alexander Cadogan , Permanent Under-Secretary of State for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's participation in the conference accented the propaganda aspect of United Nations ' planning at this stage of the war . Already here were Mr. Early , who handles public relations for President Roosevelt ; Maj. Gen. Alexander D. Surles ,  - -  head of the War Department 's public relations division ; Capt . Leland P. Lovette , tie Navy 's director of public relations , and George Lyons , an assistant to Elmer Davis , Director of the Office of War Information . Answer to Russia Forecast There is every evidence that the conferees are greatly concerned over the question of collaboration with Russia , and out of the conference might come very quickly the answer to the Soviet demand for greater diversionary activity by . Allied forces , which was reiterated today in Red Star , newspaper of the Red Army . It is even conceivable that one reason for Soviet non-participation in the conference was to kindle German belief that Russia and the Anglo-American nations are drifting apart when , conceivably , they might have secret plans for military collaboration . But whatever trouble for the Axis may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in proceeding to mix the ingredients . Mr. Early said the President and Mr. Churchill were " together after midnight last night following the Governor General 's dinner party . " He left the impression that the two went off by themselves for a lengthy parley . Bright and early this morning they were at it again and Mr. Early said that some military leaders were in to see the President before he reached the Citadel , where the leaders are stopping , at 9:45 . A.1 ' M. Eden Talks With Chief Mr. Eden went directly from the King 's Wharf , where he docked at about 3 P. M. , to greet the President , Mr. Churchill , and Canadian officials at the Citadel . A spokesman said he went into conference with Mr. Churchill , a conference which , incidentally , kept a large crowd waiting for hours in front of the Chateau Frontenac , where tie will live . Mr. Eden got there in time to ' pose with Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill , together with their staff chiefs , for camera men . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had " a lovely trip , " but added that the big flying boat had been beached for a day en route at Foynes , Ireland , indicating that he had planned to be here a day earlier , which would have been before the President 's arrival . The flying boat of the British Overseas Airways , which circled this fortress city several times before landing on the St. Lawrence off Wolfe 's Cove , was piloted by Capt . Kelly Rogers . One detail disclosed , today was that many of the military and naval experts housed in the Chateau Frontenac went yesterday to the Empire Theatre here to see a special showing of Walt Disney 's version of " Victory Through Air Power , " one of the most persuasive arguments for emphasis on aerial warfare to come to the screen . President Roosevelt on his Ottawa visit may address a specially convoked session of the Canadian Parliament .                     