@@710173

txt Prime Minister Attlee declined with thanks today President Truman 's offer to divert loaded colliers now in European waters to the relief of Britain 's coal crisis . The following message , sent by the Prime Minister to the President , was . made public by the White House : My colleagues and I have  - -  /earned with warm appreciation of your offer to do all in your power to help in relieving our coal shortage and , in particular , to support measures for diverting to this country coal now en route to Europe . I need not say how grateful we are for your readiness to assist in the difficult times through which we are passing . But the need for coal in Europe is no less pressing and we could not ask that cargoes should be diverted from Europe to the United Kingdom . Dispatches from Britain indicated today that the immediate battle for coal and power was being won , although the situation was still regarded as critical . President Truman 's offer of help took the fprm of a press statement yesterday in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked for assistance . Today , White House officials represented the President 's statement as a spontaneous and humanitarian gesture . Moved by the distress reported from the British Isles , the President was said to have been impelled to instruct Capt . Granville Conway , Coordinator of Emergency Export Programs , to investigate the possibility of diverting coal to southern British ports . There had been reports that British colliers were unable to move out of northern British ports because of storms , and the President thought there might be a means to bring some quick relief by diverting American vessels . While Captain Conway 's office was checking the whereabouts of colliers that might be diverted , in the event of a British request , the State Department was consulted . No objection was forthcoming from that quarter , and the antnouncement was made without having consulted any United States representatives in London or , so far as could be learned , the British Embassy here . The President was said to have been considerably reassured by Mr. Attlee 's prompt and gracious acknowledgment of the good-will behind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of misunderstanding of the President 's motives on the part of either the British Government or the British public . There is full realization here of the possibility of a political crisis in Great Britain because of the fuel situation and other economic difficulties , but these considerations were not allowed to interfere with the humane impulses of the President and his advisers . There was no comment or conjecture concerning Mr. Attlee 's nonacceptance of the proffered aid . On the financial side , the British Government may have felt it could not afford to spend dollars for coal in the midst of its hard-fought export campaign to build up foreign exchange . On the political side , the Labor Government may have felt it inexpedient to accept foreign assistance , preferring to work its way ' out of the difficulty on its own . In either event , or in any other 1 that may have motivated the 1 Prime Minister , the White House merely considers that a neighborly gesture was made ; and that it was I accepted in neighborly ' fashion . 