@@705013

txt " London has now reached the stage where it has to choose between the fate of Warsaw and that . of Paris , " quarters representing authoritative German views asserted today . Unless the British surrendered their capital to German arms , as the French did , the spokesman said in effect , London would be subjected to a bombing offensive that would lay it waste as was a large part of the Polish capital after Warsaw refused to capitulate . A leading editorial in tomorrow 's issue of the publication Das Reich , furthermore , apparently assumed that the British would choose not to surrender their capital . Stubborn Carthage Recalled " For seventeen days , it is said , Carthage burned , " the editorial remarked . " Today is the ninth day London has been burning . " Efforts of the British now to evacuate London " precipitously " were declared to be " hopeless . " In the German view the evacuation of London should have started before the German air attacks began , Now it was too late . The millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to leave the danger zone with their movable possessions , the Germans said , actually were running into real danger of their lives , for the outskirts of London were not open land but confusedly constructed industrial sections . The Germans have asserted that these industrial sections , because of their economic importance in the conduct of war , are the main objective of the attacks of the Nazi air force . The inhabitants of London , " through the fault of the British Government , will face awful weeks in which they will be exposed to rain and hunger , " the spokesman said . The bad weather , which the British formerly claimed as their ally , would now work as an enemy of the British , it was asserted . " Reprisal " Factor Called Irrelevant To the opinion allegedly expressed abroad that , with the destructive attacks on London , German " reprisals " against the British could now be viewed as accomplished , the spokesman expressed a flat rejection . " The German armed forces do not regard this war as a football game in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quits , " the spokesman said . On the contrary , he added , it was much more likely that the destructive blows of the German air force would be continued with undiminished vigor until the decision had been reached . The attack was militarily important , he argued , because more than a third of Britain 's war potentials was concentrated at London . Also , 45 per cent of all their imports entered the British Isles through the port of London . For this reason , instead of lessening , the German offensive against the British capital might be expected to increase in intensity . Berlin Declared Secure BERLIN , Sept. 14 UP ) ? Coupled with the threat to London , the German spokesman predicted today that no more British planes would reach Germany in large formations . He claimed that Berlin 's defenses against big raids by the Royal Air Force were now secure . " If the British have not been over here the past two nights , it is not because they did not want to , but because they could n't , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sept. 14 ( UP ) ? In connection with the threatening ultimatum to London , the Germans estimated that 5,000 had been killed in the British Capital in the raids that started a week ago today . London 's system of protection of civilians against air raids was described as " inadequate " because many London houses did not have cellars . In contrast , it was asserted , " each house " in Berlin had a cellar where dwellers could seeksafety . " In consequence , the British Government built huge cellars that , if unable to withstand the heaviest German bombs , became death traps , " the spokesman went on . " It is admitted that at least one of these cellars was pierced by a German bomb . You can imagine what the effect probably was . " British planes , the spokesman hinted , attempted to reach Berlin during the past two nights , but were driven off . " Maybe they will come again and reach the capital , " he said , " but no longer in any numbers , The Generals Fog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor . " However , it was announced that police were making a city-wide check-up of Berlin blackout precautions and a 500-mark fine was ordered levied for infringements of regulations . Formerly the fine was ten or fifteen marks . Why Surrender ? Briton Asks LONDON , Sept. 14 ( UP ) ? Britons scoffed tonight at the surrender-ordie threats from Berlin . A well-informed source said : " Why ? There does n't seem to be any more real reason for Britain to surrender now than months ago . The government and the people are undismayed by the German bombings . Food is plentiful . The homeless are being taken care of . It is merely another instance of wishywashy propaganda . " Possibly it is a sign Germany is weakening in consequence of the ever-growing counter-blows by the Royal Air Force . "                     