@@711745

txt On Jan. 17 this newspaper published a dispatch from its correspondent in The Hague which began with these words : Whatever may happen in the future of Java , the Netherlands was pledged this afternoon to abstain from the use of force in the event of another emergency unless the United Nations grants permission to so do . A statement to this effect was made in the States General by Jan Jonkman , Minister of Overseas Territories , who said that if the Dutch were ever again obliged to resort to - the ultimate means for arriving at a solution it would be only with the full knowledge and approval of the Security Council 's Committee of Good Offices . It is evident that this promise hat been broken . The Dutch have resorted to force in Indonesia not only without ' the full knowledge and approval " of the Security Council 's Committee of Good Offices , but in the face of an urg- ' ent appeal by that very agency not to take such action , before the event , and on the record of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is done . Moreover , the Security Council itself is pointedly told by spokesmen of the Dutch Government that it is useless for it to attempt to interfere . The world has become accustomed to broken promises , and the cynic will say , What is another ? But the sad and dismaying point here is that this was not a promise broken by a government whose record shows that it is willing to make promises solely for the purpose of achieving some tactical advantage  --  as iii the Baltic States , as in Poland , as in the Balkans , as in Korea and as in China  --  a government that will then break these promises lightheartedly , once its purpose is accomplished . This was not merely another made-to-be-broken pledge made by the Soviet dialecticians who reason that the end justifies the means . It was a promise made in the name of a friendly people  --  the people of the Netherlands ? for whom the whole Western World has deep admiration and affection . The tragedy , and the shock , of this particular broken promise is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no more respected people anywhere than the people in whose name this promise was given . Justification , of course , is offered for the action taken . It is said by Dutch authorities that the Javanese Republicans were concentrating military strength ominously , and that the possibilities of negotiation under the U. N. Committee had been exhausted . But this testimony must stand against the evidence given from the scene of action by the U. N. Committee itself : that it is " not aware of any circumstance connected with the concentration of Republican forces or maneuvers of the Republican army which should have given rise to apprehensions and alarm leading to precipitate action on the part of the Netherlands , " and that " not only have the possibilities of negotiation under the auspices of the Committee not been exhausted , but they have not been adequately explored . " Furthermore , even if the assumption is made that the Committee is ill-informed and perhaps even partial to the Republicans , there remains the damaging fact of the promise not to resort to force without the sanction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the broken promise will unfortunately be large . It will deal a harder blow to the prestige of the United Nations than any of the frequent and consistent defiances of U. N. authority by Soviet Russia , for these could be discounted in advance , whereever Russia 's will to expand ran headlong into the U. Ws efforts for collective security . It will deal a hard blow , too , to Western prestige in the East ; for Eastern confidence in the good faith of Western promises and Eastern conviction , that the West fully understands the irresistible pressure of the East for independence are precious assets at this time . Finally , it will drive a wedge into the solidarity of the West and raise questions which may complicate and trouble the future both of . the Marshall Plan and of the Western Defense Alliance . What possible vantage-point in the Indies could offset these liabilities ?                     