@@708878

txt Predictions that automobile manufacturers might be able to turn out 500,000 new cars this year were ' made by industry leaders here today after they had received news that the government had removed all re . strictions on automobile production . Altho they warned that material shortages and the gigantic reconversion job woule hamper the work , they agreed that the removal of limitations meant they would soon be in full production . " They ca n't stop us now , " said a spokesman for General Motors corporation . " We 'll roll the cars and trucks off the line and if we ca n't get the materials ? we 'll still get the materials somewhere , some place . " " Can Really Go " " This gives us a chance to get into full production , " commented J. R. Davis , director of sales and advertising for the Ford Motor company . " Now we can really go ? provided we get the materials . " Spokesmen for the Packard Motor company and other automobile firms were just as optimistic . George Romney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that lifting the lid might mean an output this year of as ma.iy as half a pillion cars , twice the previous war production board quota . The same estimate was made by the automotive council for war production in Washington , D. C. , altho the members admitted that goal would , be " a minor production miracle . " Automotive men said miracles were customary for their industry . Romney said production in the first three months of 1946 could conceivably reach the million mark . The final goal in full production later is 6,000,000 cars a year . Ready to Use Substitutes Shortages of rubber , textile , and particularly tin are expected to cause some trouble , but manufacturers have indicated their willingness lie use substitutes where necessary to get production moving . Romney warned that the lifting of governn , ent controls will not automatically ' start cars rolling off assembly lines I in large numbers but that the industry " will again try to do the impossible . " " The industry , " he said , " is just now nearing the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limited basis authorized by the WPB after V-E day . Full scale production is ' another matter entirely , entailing enormous plant clearance and snake ready programs which the industry has been able to start only within the last few days . "                     