@@709286

txt Can- preclude possible complicity of Americans with foreign agents ada 's announcement of foreign active in the United States . espionage operations within its 4 . No parallel investigation is borders developed several new under way here , and no arrests twists today following Secretary are anticipated . The Secretary , ' however , steered dear of any direct denial that foreign agents might be active in the United States , saying it was ? he job of the tight-lipped Federal Bureau of Investigation to make any such disclosures . It is known , though , that this Government and the F. B. I. have been kept constantly advised of the Canadian Government 's movements in this matter , the latter in fact co-operating closely with Canada 's intelligence officers . Whereas high military secrets ' were the goal of the espionage activities of those foreign agents operating in Canada , it is now apparent that the supersecret knowledge of the know-how of atom bomb making never was possessed by the Canadians and therefore not uncoverable by any amount of spying there . There are plenty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for espionage intrigues in Canada . But the essence of the atom bomb secret , it appears , can be discovered only in the United States . According to Mr. Byrnes , Amprica 's monopoly on the know-how was agreed to by Canada and Britain when they co-operated in developing the bomb . At no time did the Secretary indicate what foreign power was involved in the Canadian spy charges , turning aside every question designed to corroborate reports from Canada that it was the Soviet Union . Byrnes Mum on Spy Rings Mr. Byrnes refused flatly to discuss counterintelligence activities in which this country might be engaged . It is recalled that he previously had commented that it could not be expected that , if agents were active in the United States , the authorities would be so foolish as to tip them off by a public ' announcement that their operations were being watched . Therefore no official comment on whether or not a spy ring is actively operating in the United States with the atom bomb secrets among those sought can be expected . But if no official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of many that such a spy network exists . Dr. Ralph of the National Education Association told the Senate Atomic Energy Committee yesterday that " it is inevitable that a network . of spits will infest our country from a nation that fears us . " Representative John E. Rankin ( D ) of Mississippi asked his House Committee on Un-American Activities to investigate spy operationS but was turned down . Whatever counterintelligence work is going on will continue to be done in secret by the F. B. I. and the Army . Arctic Defense Plans With atom bomb secrets apparently ruled out as the object of the spy ring 's activities in Canada , more attention is being paid today to other possible military secrets involved . One most frequently mentioned concerned Canadian-American hemispheric defense plans in ** the past and present Chiefs of the Army Air Force 's , Generals H. H. Arnold and Carl Spaatz , have pointed to the Arctic as the hemisphere 's most vulnerable front line . This espionage investigation in Canada was known to be under way as far back as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States were carefully taken earlier than that can be reliably stated . For the assurance of the American public , it can be added that authorities here are fully aware of the . perils and possibilities of espionage and are taking every step to meet and defeat such efforts .                     