@@711652

txt The right-wing executive board ' of Local 100 , Transport Workers Union , CIO , suspended yesterday its leftist president , Austin Hogan , and two other officers of the local . In the newest flareup of internal politics that has split the union into two constantly warring factions , Mr. Hogan and James Gahagan , first vice president , and Peter Maclachlan , recording secretary , were suspended not only from their positions but from membership in the union . Charging that Mr. Hogan had " abandoned every semblance of constitutional respect , " the board accepted by a vote of twenty-three to twelve a report by an investiI gating committee asserting that the suspended president was attempting to " destroy democratic control in this union , to pervert our union from its true purposes and to make of it a puppet organism of the Communist party . " Immediately after voting the suspension of the three men , the board set up a three-man trial committee to hear the charges against them . It was noted that the members of the trial committee were members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as head of the executive board at once , but made it clear that he considered the action " illegal and unconstitutional " and that he would appeal it to the union 's in- , ternational executive board , which follows a leftist trend . Douglas , international secretary-treasurer and aligned with Mr. Hogan and John Santo and Harry Sacher in the battle against Michael J. Quill , - international president , announced that the international board would be reconvened soon to deal with the matter . It had recessed last Friday after two days of deliberation during which it set machinery in motion to investigate a number of charges against Mr. Quill . Mr. Hogan called his suspension an attempt by the Quill forces to ilieep him from local and section meetings and from " presenting the facts to the membership . " He intimated that his appeal to the international executive board would be based on the legal ground that a union member can not be suspended without first having a trial . " No member of this union has ever been suspended without a trial beforehand , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as members . " The crazy quilt of TWU inner politics has become increasingly jumbled in recent weeks as both sides began to square away for the real battle for control of the union that will come at the Chicago convention beginning Dec. 5 . Yesterday 's action did little to clarify matters . The decision to suspend Mr. Hogan and his two fellow-officers resulted from atleast three charges drawn up against them by the investigating committee . Hearings on the charges were held on Tuesday but were boycotted by the three men on the ground that they were " star chamber " ' proceedings . In its report , the investigating committee declared that Mr. Hogan actually had expelled himself as a member of the union by bringing suit in Supreme Court charging that 3ustav Faber , secretary-treasurer of the local and a strong Quill man , had embezzled nearly $9,000 in union funds . The committee contended that Mr. Hogan had violated the union constitution cy going into court without first seeking recourse through the union . It also charged him with acting illegally when he continued his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board of the local . Recent Bus Walkout Cited Another charge leveled against Mr. Hogan was that he " willfully , and as a part of the general Communist scheme to bring discord and chaos into this union , sought to bring about a strike on the private bus lines in defiance of the decision of the local negotiation committee . " This was a reference to the TWU walkout against private bus lines on Oct. 26 and 27 . Mr. Gahagan and Mr. Maclachlan were suspended as " co-conspirators " of Mr. Hogan . Matthew Guinan , now second vice president , was made acting president of Local 100 . Robert Franklin , a board member , and John Hamilton , third vice president , were advanced to the positions of acting recording secretary and acting first vice president , respectively . " We call to your attention , " the report declared , " that suspension from office before trial is a drastic remedy and one that should not , in ordinary circumstances , be resorted to . But these are no ordinary circumstances . The very existence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced with the . threat that public transportation in this city may be disrupted or completely halted . " In another significant action , the board , to all intents and purposes , dissolved itself until after the international convention . In its place it set up a special committee of eight , empowered to act for all thirty-seven members . Those appointed to the new committee are all supporters of Mr. Quill . Today at the Lincoln Hotel , it will be the turn of the left-wingers in the TWU to hit back at the Quill forces . A special fact-finding committee , headed by Maurice Forge , international vice president , will inquire into a number of charges brought against Mr. Quill by officers of various locals . The committee will hear allegations that Mr. Quill " broke " the recent bus strike ; that he has intervened illegally in local union affairs , notably in New Orleans and Flint , Mich. , and that he was responsible for a near-riot at Transport Hall , 153 West Sixty-fourth Street , last Thursday . Mr. Quill has announced he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend an earlier hearing on charges that there had been fraud in a recent TWU referendum . The second hearing on the referendum question brought from John Lopez , chairman of the investigating committee and president of Local 101 in Brooklyn , the assertion yesterday that almost half the ballots cast by members of Local 100 were " counterfeited . " The referendum was on a proposal for direct election of union of fileers , a position favored by the left'wingers . The proposal was defeated . " If Federal authorities can be persuaded to subpeona those witnesses who refused to testify before the TWU inquiry board , we are Certain that they can obtain ' guilty information as to the ' guilty parties who committed the fraud , " Mr. Lopez declared .                     