@@711038

txt GAS HEAT RESTORED AS OFFICIALS URGE FUEL SAVING HERE Emergency Oil Supply in City Is Exhausted , but Wallander Says More Is Promised SNOW TONIGHT FORECAST Unemployment in the Midwest Rising as Industries Close for Lack of Fuel By MURRAY SCHULILICH The fuel shortage in the city was relieved somewhat yesterday , but officials warned that the situation was still serious and might lead to considerable hardship unless gas and oil users heeded pleas to conserve supplies . Renewed appeals for gas and oil conservation came after the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company had announced it was resuming the supply of heating gas to more than 1,300 Brooklyn families deprived of that source of heat on Sunday . To avert the discontinuance of heating gas to homes in the future two bills were introduced into the State Legislature last night . The bills would give the Public Service Commission power to ration and divert gas in emergencies . One bill would permit the commission to compel gas manufacturers to use their entire capacity and to channel gas to areas of shortage . The second measure would authorize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This bill would also empower the commission to prohibit new uses of gas by present customers . Meanwhile , the Weather Bureau forecast snow for this evening and tomorrow , with continued freezing temperatures . The bureau would not estimate the amount of snow expected . 11,000 on Snow Removal Racing against the possible snowstorm. 11,000 men  --  regular and extra employes of the Department of Sanitation  --  kept working yesterday on the snow from Saturday 's storm . In some sections of the city there was still snow from the record storm of Dec. 26 and 27 . The Midwest , faced with another cold wave , found its unemployment rolls rising as industrial plants were forced to close because of lack of gas for hecting . In Detroit alone , according to The United Press . 200,000 persons were idle . In Ohio . according to The Associated Press . a gas company serving half that state called upon gas-heated theatres , halls , recreation and drinking establishments , schools and churches to close until the emergency was eased . Even where the weather was warm there was trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty-seventh rainless day hopeful that the drought would be ended by a rainstorm headed their way from the North . Gas for Heating Turned On ? In this city , the most important immediate problem was solved when the heating gas supply was turned back for the - Marine Park and the Manhattan Beach veterans ' housing projects . In these developments were a large majority of the families affected by the gas shortage of the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company . The announcement of resumption of service came at 3 P. M. from the company 's president , Mary E. Dillon . She said that reserves had been built up during the night and that repairs to the company 's major gas tank had been completed . Nevertheless , during the day other companies pumped 3.000,000 cubic feet to the handicapped company . Miss Dillon said full service would be under way by this evening . About the same time Mayor O'Dwyer , after conferring with Sanitation Commissioner William J. Powell , and re-examining the fuel situation , issued a summary of snow removal and heating in the city . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would discharge him . The Mayor quoted his commissioner as saying that garbage removal would be back to normal Dy Friday , weather permitting . This was in reply to criticism by James A. Burke , Borough President of Queens . The fuel oil situation in the city , said the Mayor , was still tight and , he added , " February 1st will be the crucial date . " Simultaneously his Emergency Fuel Committee announced it had exhausted its fuel supplies and asked for 400,000 gallons of fuel oil and 250,000 gal ? Ions of kerosene . The committee 's request for fuel // came after a meeting at Police Headquarters with representatives of the leading fuel-oil producer tors in the area . Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander , chairman of the Emergency Committee , said he had been promised delivery of the fuel and called for conservation . In Rockland County , a shortage of natural gas in the Pittsburgh area , source of the county 's supply , forced the closing of 100 industrial plants . The Rockland Gas Company and the Rockland Light and Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each of the companies were used and were sufficient to care for the cooking and heating needs of the 14,000 homes in the county . 3,000 Homes Use Gas Heat The companies would not say how long the auxiliary plants could carry the county-wide load and asked customers to keep house temperatures down to 65 degrees during the day and 60 at night . Three thousand homes in the county are heated with gas . In the area around Pittsburgh a slow paralysis had begun . More than 5,000 persons were laid off and three gas companies ordered discontinuance of supplies to 400 industrial plants in western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio . Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation reported twelve of its finishing mills in the area had been closed and operations had been reduced on three other mills . Ice in the Monongahela River seriously affected shipping , particularly the transportation of coal for steel plants . Carnegie-Illinois river shipments were reduced 70 per cent . Other companies affected by ice in the river were Jones &; Laughlin , Weirton , Wheeling and Republic . The cold caused train delays in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania trains arriving here from the West were as much as four hours behind schedule . New York Central trains from upstate were an hour behind time , in some cases . The Socony-Vacuum Oil Company announced yesterday plans to add seven tankers to its fleet carrying crude oil to the East I Coast from South America and the Middle East . Each tanker , the company statement said , would have a capacity of 8,400,000 gallons . The first tanker would begin operations early in the summer of 1949.                     