@@705591

txt President Roosevelt acted today to mobilize the full resources of civilian co-operation behind the Government 's war effort . To do this he set up a new Office of Civilian Defense and appointed Fiorello H. La Guardia , New York 's dynamic Mayor , as its director . Mr. La Guardia has accepted and will take over his duties at once . He will continue as Mayor of New York . The President 's immediate objective , it was evident from his press conference this morning , is to bring home to the people the full impact of the emergency and the peril to the United States of the expanding war . Various phrases which Mr. Roosevelt used in his executive order establishing the new agency underlined his sense of the immediacy of the war and its concern to America . He called for prompt measures ' " to afford adequate protection of life and property in the event of emergency . " Food for Eire He instructed the Office of Civilian Defense to promote further measures " designed to sustain morale and provide for constructive civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action the President disclosed that : 1 . The Administration has authorized the sale or charter of two American merchant vessels to transport food to the civilian population of Eire . 2 . He has approved the expenditure of $500,000 for the purchase and immediate dispatch of the first consignments of these food supplies under the supervision of the American Red Cross . 3 . The United States is refusing to sell or lend-lease arms to the Irish Free State on the ground that those Nations which are waging war actively in behalf of Democracy have first priority on American arms and that all the products from the American arsenal are needed for this cause . Robert Brennan , Irish Minister to the United States said later today that his Government would be glad to accept the food which the President had offered . Particularly he explained , because there are many refugees in Ireland from both England and Northern Ireland . Mr. Brennan stated that he had not previously been advised of the Government 's decision to allow Eire to charter two merchantmen . However it is known the Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships for some little time. 4 . He does not intend to send any special message to Congress in the near future . Mr. Roosevelt explained this latter statement by saying that he discussed the possibility of such a message weekly with his legislative leaders and that there was no present thought of doing so soon . To give emphasis to the importance and the role of the Office of Civilian Detense , the President advanced his press conference several hours today . lie stressed that it would give every American man , woman and child an opportunity to do his " bit " for preparedness of the entire Nation . The agency will be an adjunct of the Office of Emergency Management and will be under the direct guidance of the President . Under the executive order , two chief divisions were set : l . A Board for Civilian Protection , with Mayor La Guardia as Chairman ex-Officio presiding over representative ; of the War , Navy , . Justice , and Federal Security Departments . representatives of the Council of State Governments , the American MI , nicipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . A volunteer participation committee , with Mr. La Guardia also Chairman ex-Officio , presiding ox er a membership of not more than 20 members . Eight Responsibilities In his executive order Mr. Roosevelt prescribed eight main responsibilities which he wanted the OCD to carry out . They were : Serve as the center for the coordination of Federal civilian defense activities which involve relationships between the Federal Government and State and local governments . Keep informed of problems which arise from the impact of the industrial and military defense effort upon local communities and take necessary steps to secure the co-operation of appropriate Federal department : and agencies in meeting the emeigency needs of such commund ies . Assist State and local Governments in the establishment of State and local defense councils to co-ordinate civilian defense activities . Special attention will be given to utilizing the many women 's organi7ations which have offered to help the defense program . Study and plan measures to afford adequate protection of life and property and disseminate information concerning such civil defense measures as may be necessary to meet emergency needs . Review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morale and widen civilian participation in the defense pro , gram : assist State and local de-tense councils and other volunteer I services in the development ol their activities . Maintain a clearing house of information on State and local defense activities in co-operation with appropriate Federal departments and agencies . Review existing or proposed measures relating to or affecting State and local defense activities , and recommend such additional measures as may be necessary or desirable to assure adequate civilian defense . Perform such other duties relating to participation in the defense program by State and local agencies as the President may from time to time prescribe . Mr. La Guardia , who will serve without compensation , will come to Washington Wednesday to take up his duties . Decentralization will be the operating basis of the new agency . The Federal OCD agency will recommend and guide , but actual administration will be centered in State councils of defense and in OCD regional offices . Mr. Roosevelt envisaged a regional system under which regional offices will be established in nine cities corresponding with the headquarters of the nine Corps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was asking Selective Service officials to prepare a list of persons who are likely to be called for the draft but who are willing to help on the civilian defense program . These men will serve as volunteers . The executive order did not itself break down into detailed categories the many functions which will accrue eventually to the OCD , but it is understood that in many respects the British plan for civilian protection will be followed . For example , volunteers will be taught how to Junction under air-raid conditions  --  how to gather people into shelters , to quell hysteria , administer first aid and to recognize the different types of bombs . Volunteer fire fighting squads will be organized . C9ards will be trained to pro-I lest bridges , waterworks and other essential services . Wherever Home ! Guards have been organized to reI place National Guardsmen , they ? will be given such tasks . In addition , they will be trained to handle crowds and evacuations and to guard against looting . Food for Civilian Use Still other groups will watch prices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office . I Special instruction will be given concerning the construction of various types of bomb shelters . In the event of a threatened iron or rubber shortage , special units could be assigned to collect and conserve these materials . With respect to the forthcoming shipments of food supplies to Eire . the President made it clear that these would be earmarked exclusively for civilian use and that their disposition would be care ! fully checked . ' Norman Davis . Chairman of the American lied Cross . has already authorised the allocation of 500. - 000 as a donation to provide the immediate consignment . Mr. Roosevelt thought that ultimately the two ships which the Government is ready to provide ' but which would sail under the Irish flag  --  would transport a great deal more food , but that further supplies would be purchased by the Irish Free State .                     