@@711351

txt In the light of what has just happened in Congress , and of the hard fight that took place there among Republicans themselves over the question of redeeming the American promises made under the Marshall Plan , the boldest and most challenging statement made in the original version of the Philadelphia platform as it came from the hands of its drafters was this sentence : We will implement with appropriations any commitment made by legislative enactment . This was a proposal to align the Republican party squarely and firmly behind the position taken in this controversy by the Senate wing of the party . It was a proposal to place the Republican party on record as notifying the European democracies that when the United States gives its word that word is good . It was a proposal to quiet the misgivings of those independent American voters who had again begun to doubt the ability of Republican leadership to shake off the strong influence of its surviving isolationists . And at once  --  even before the original version of the platform reached the floor of the convention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator C. Wayland Brooks of Illinois  --  this key sentence , this sentence freighted heavily with significance because of all that has just happened  --  and all that lies ahead  --  was scissored from the text . We emphasize this incident not only because of its own intrinsic importance but because it typifies some of the difficulties encountered in other fields , and made evident elsewhere in the Philadelphia platform , in reconciling the views of the two separate and hostile wings of the Republican party in matters of this kind . No one can doubt that the bipartisan policy which this country has followed since the beginning of the war has strong and effective champions in Congress . Senator Vandenberg 's great service is alone eloquent proof of that . But no one can doubt , either , after last week 's performance in Washington , that the isolationist faction of the party , represented principally by the House leadership , is vigorous and assertive . The attempt to conciliate the views of these two factions dulls the edge of the Philadelphia platform in crucial places . Thus , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade program , the platform says : " At all times safeguarding our own industry and agriculture , and under efficient administrative procedures for the legitimate consideration of domestic needs , we shall support the system of reciprocal trade and encourage international cooperation . " This statement is so completely vague and meaningless , without further definition , that while it would entitle a Republican Presidential candidate , so minded , to use it as the basis for an all-out appeal for a continuation of the Hull program it could also be read as giving hearty endorsement to the action which the House Republicans have just taken to cripple the Hull program with burdensome restrictions . The conclusion warranted from these and other ambiguities and compromises is that the Philadelphia platform will be largely what the candidates selected by the party choose to make it . In this matter of giving emphasis and interpretation to the party pledges the choice of both candidates  --  Presidential and Vice Presidential  --  will be , tanortant . For any attempt at Philadelpnia. to " balance " the ticket by offsetting the nomination of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice Presidential candidate is certain to be read by the country as an effort to play both sides of the street at once , and a further confession of the inabaity of the party to ? resolve its internal disagreements on foreign policy at a time when the future of all democratic nations is at stake . There are , in the Philadelphia platform , many good resolutions , many sound declarations of principle , more than a few bright promises of a better day to come . The party 's declarations of support for the United Nations , for the principle of collective security and for regional agreements for self-defense are to be welcomed , and deserve the warm approval which Mr. Vandenberg gave them yesterday . There are forward-looking sections which pledge the acceptance of a ' greater share of national responsibility and the larger use of national authority to raise existing standards of health and education , to provide new housing and to broaden the scope of social security . The party 's declarations on thhe subject of civil liberties and equality of rights are admirable . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is capable of bold and energetic leadership at a crucial moment in the world 's affairs .                     