@@710564

txt A new loophole was discovered yesterday in the Federal rent law and as a result some speculating landlords were again trying to coerce tenants into buying their apartments under so-called cooperative tenant ownership plans . - The new development came to light at Bronxville , in Westchester County , where several landlords were barred last year by the Office Of Price Administration from promoting apartment sales to their tenants . These landlords are now beginning to show their occupied apartments again to prospective purchasers , assuring them of occupancy by eviction of the present tenants under the new law . In Manhattan some tenants previously faced with pressure by their landlords to go along on tenant ownership ' schemes reported that the landlords were reviving them . Such landlord campaigns , which were denounced last year by the OPA as a " racket " to evade the law , were checked by the OPA requirements  --  no longer valid ? that 80 per cent of the tenants be signed up before a building could pass to cooperative ownership . No ORC Control Now At the office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent office of the Office of Rent Control , it was explained that the ORC no longer has control over eviction proceeedings in such cases . If a tenant has no lease and his landlord sells his apartment to a cooperative owner , the new owner may sue to evict the present tenant in order to occupy the apartment himself , it was said . Formerly , where fewer than 80 per cent of the tenants were willing to buy their apartments , OPA refused to evict a non-buying tenant to give occupancy to a purcrhaser , the ORC attorney explained . Now , however , the purchaser need not apply to ORC but can go directly to court . Whether the purchaser would get the apartment depends on local law , he added . Tenants faced with such a situation will have to depend on whatever protection the local courts may give them . There are no statutes specifically covering such cases . The sales of cooperative apartments , however , are subject to investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission , the State Attorney General , the Better Business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expressed that some landlords would revive tenantownership schemes as a means of putting pressure on their tenants to sign leases with a 15 per cent increase , as allowed by law . In real estate circles , however , it was I said that only owners who planned to shift entirely from private to cooperative ownership would consider tenant ownership . It is impractical , real estate men said , to operate an- apartment partly on cooperative and partly on a private rental basis . Some Protection Promised Tenants whose landlords are decreasing essential services , as in eliminating doormen or substituting self-service elevators for operated elevators , were promised a measure of protection by the Office of Rent Control . In such cases where the rent is not decreased , tenants should complain to ORC as in the past , a spokesman said . ' Each case will be considered individually . If the landlord can show that the economy is necessary to avoid losses , however , he may be permitted to make the change . Alfred K. Stern , chairman of the Emergency Committee on Rent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet this afternoon with Tighe Woods , Deputy Housing Expediter , in Washington . The committee will ask for Federal prosecution of landlords who use the 15 per cent voluntary increase clause to obtain increases unlawfully . It will also ask that tenants receive immediate notice of aprications for hardship increases , ret eive all pertinent information from the ORC , have the right to appear at the hearings on the applications and the right of review and appeal , and that tenant representatives be appointed to area rent control boards . To Urge ** Stay The committee also will ask for information about the steps that can be taken to reestablish the six months ' stay formerly granted by OPA on evictions and for an increase in the staffs of ORC offices . The Hotel Association of New York City will present its position on the local hotel rent freeze law now before Mayor O'Dwyer at the public hearing the Mayor will hold next Wednesday , James A. McCarthy , executive secretary , said yesterday . The Mayor is expected to sign the ordinance after the hearing . Political parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County Democratic Committee , of which Edward J. Flynn is chairman , announced that lawyers would be available in each of ; they fourteen local club houses in- the ; Bronx on Monday and Thursdayi evenings from 8 to 10 P. M. to:givel tenants free advice as to their. , rights under the new laws . The ' Liberal party sent seven sounds trucks to open air meetings ? rrvaw ; rious parts of the city at which ? lawyers outlined tenants ' rights and gave advice . The Brooklyn Council , Veterans of Foreign Wars , joined the cam- ; paign for exempting New Yorkl from Federal control to allow the : state to take over rent control . 