@@712330

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 14 ? John L. Lewis charged today that failure of Southern coal operators to continue payments into the Miners ' Welfare Fund " may precipitate a convulsion in the mining areas of this country . " In a second strike threat within twenty-four hours , the president of the United Mine Workers of America demanded that the Cleveland Trust Company compel James D. Francis to make these payments . The bank 's board chairman rejected the demand at once . Mr. Francis heads the Island Creek Coal Company and the Pond Creek Company of West Virginia . Mr. Lewis wrote Mr. Francis yesterday urging immediate remittance of welfare funds for July of 20 cents for each ton of coal mined . Mr. Francis replied at once that his contract , like those of the other members of the Southern Coal Producers Association , expired on June 30 and denied he was in default . Today Mr. Lewis , ignoring Mr. Francis , sought to go over his head to I. F. Freiberger , chairman of the board of the Cleveland Trust Company . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls and operates " the two Francis companies , said Mr. Lewis in his telegram to Mr. Freiberger . The telegram added : " In your trust capacity , you act as a director of both companies and vote a majority and controlling stock interest for the Holden estate . " Mr. James D. Francis of Huntington , W. Va. , who directs the mining operations of both com // MAKE MINES . OBEY , LEWIS URGES BANK // panies , is at all times subject to your influence and responsive to your wishes . Mr. Francis is now , in behalf of his companies , defaulting upon their corporate payments to the United Mine Workers Welfare and Retirement Fund on all coal mined since July 1 . He is also using his personal and business influence to induce other coal companies to follow the same course . The aggregate default is. substantial . " The non-payment of these moneys will create a tragic crisis in the affairs of thousands of dependent women and minor children and many more thousands ' of ill and injured men , whose maintenance and medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I telegraph to inquire whether you will not exercise your great influence and control of Mr. Francis and his coal companies to direct him to abandon his mad policy of making war upon ailing men and dependent women . Your bank with its many branches largely derives its revenues from the savings of men and women who work for a living in the industrial sections of Cleveland and its environs . " I am sure that neither you nor they . will condone the brutal , savage , policy of Mr. Francis , which may precipitate a social convulsion in the mining areas of this country . Will you not therefore advise me that you will direct Mr. Francis , to honor his obligations to the welfare fund and forestall the distress that impends ? " Lewis Claim Rejected Mr. Freiberger immediately rejected Mr. Lewis ' claim ' that the Cleveland Trust Company controlled the two coal companies headed by Mr. Francis . In a telegram to Mr. Lewis from Cleveland he insisted that the managers of the companies believed no obligation existed to pay royalties into the welfare fund @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Freiberger 's telegram follows : " Replying to your telegram , the 1Cleveland Trust Company , as a banking institution , does not own lany stock in either the Island Creek Coal Company or the Pond Creek Pocahontas Company . " The Cleveland Trust Company , as trustee of the Holden trust , holds a substantial but not controlling stock interest in the Island Creek Coal Company , and only a very nominal stock interest in the Pond Creek Pocahontas Company . As such trustee we do not control and we do not operate these coal companies . In the opinion of the management of these companies no contract has been in effect since July 1 and therefore no obligation exists to pay any money into the welfare fund without a written contract . " Observers in the coal industry believe that Mr. Lewis is moving toward a stoppage of coal mining in the Francis-managed properties by the end of the week . Whether he would extend this strike to the properties of other members of the Souther . Coal Producers Association was not indicated . Association members mine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be in default of welfare payments mine some 40,000,000 tons . Coal circles here speculated on Mr. Lewis ' next moves in his conferences with the Northern and Western coal operators . These are scheduled to resume in White Sulphur Springs , W. Va. , tomorrow . Except for a few small concerns it is reported that none of the Northern companies have ceased making payments into the welfare fund . The welfare payments were drastically cut shortly after June 30 when Mr. Lewis decreed a threeday work week east of the Mississippi . It is no secret that the fund is paying out more money than it is receiving , but the exact amount is not known .                     