@@709855

txt Antique dealers , riding the crest of a buying wave that began with the war . are asking . " Where do we go from here 7 " In recent few weeks there appeared to be a slight lull in demand for period furniture . treasured old prints , fine English silverware and other items that makeup this market . Some dealers noted that their favorite customers had suffered stock market losses while other clients had grown slightly more cautious as they watched the market break a few weeks ago . The dealers themselves grew a shade more cautious , in their purchases at auctions and private sales But when the sales pressure is on , as it - was this week in New York with two antique shows running simultaneously , the market seems as strong as ever . Record Crowd at Armory Show A record crowd of 83,000 people wandered in and out of the booths at the Antiques Fair at the 71st Regiment Armory ; that was 8,000 more than last spring . More important to the dealers were purchases that topped $1,000,000 for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glassware to thousand-dollar old English secretary desks . They viewed items offered by 160 dealers . A similarly successful showing was made by the other New York antique fair  --  a 50-booth exhibit at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel . Such demand has been in evidence elsewhere in the world of antiques " Sales and prices at this fall 's opening auctions have held up to the level of last season so far , " observes Hiram Parke , president of Parke-Bernet Galleries , big New York auctioneer of antiques . More Money , More Collectors Dealers point to two factors in explaining this demand . One is the much larger amounts of money in the hands of the people than before the war . The other Is the steady increase 1.11 the number of antique collectors . this latter point , the dealers are in good part - responsible. - The two antique fairs held in New York this week , for example . are only a third of the number that will have been held here before the year is over This 1946 total of six fairs compares with one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere . The first West Coast antiques show will be held October 2:1 in Los Angeles . Even Grand Rapids . Mich that stronghold of new furniture , will have an antiques show this month . Museum and school education , the movies , and in recent years the promotion of big city department stores that have added or expanded their antiques departments have all contributed to greater appreciation of articleswith-a-history . See Some Danger Signs But those who buy and sell old items for a living recognize some trouble signs . One is prices On the whole , they say , prices of their goods are up 20,1 ; . to 100 ' since before the war . One New York dealer traces the price rise this way : " A Park Avenue customer bought six late Sheraton chairs from me for 8650 in 1940 . I was glad to get the same chairs back from her the other clay for 8950 ; I 'm sure I can sell them for a profit . " In ninny an instance , however , the price , of the antique has soared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rug he picked ; up for 850 during the depression ; only the other day he had it insured and the insurance appraiser put a market valuation of 81,000 ; on it . Another concern of antique dealers is the steady increase in what they call " junk " merchandise showing up in antique stores Old established firms which carefully trace the pedigree of each item they buy resent the use of the word " antique " on signs over so many stores which really deal only in second-hand furniture Victorian Brie-a-Brae May Suffer The antique dealers argue that if a price break develops it will hit hardest those items which are least time-mellowed , especially excessively ornamental Victorian bric-a-brac . Much of this Victorian and Empire furniture has turned up in stores the past few years . Normally it 's scot ned by many people for its roceueo decorations Prices of perennially popular 18th century furniture and American Colonial have show " greater stability in times of stress . " One ciustomer told me he wished he had been deeper in fine antiques in 1929 than in real estate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Needham 's Antiques In New York City . Unlike European collectors , however , most Americans do n't buy antiques for investment : they simply have been bitten by the collector 's bug , dealers say . You do n't have to be rich to buy antiques . dealers declare . Billy Rose May plunk down $75,000 for a Rembrandt as he did recently , but the typical antique buyer is looking for an authentic but fairly inexpensive period ? item of less than 5100 as a decorative accessory for a living room . Sometimes , indeed , a woman 's passion for an American wing armchair has been known to lead her to skimp on groceries to make the purchase . " Antiques are now desired by a great mass M people instead of just by the few , " one dealer asserts . Nevertheless , he points out , the supply of antiques has remained relatively static . The shortage of new furniture has led many people into antique shops for the first time , dealers Say . These new buyers have discovered that not all antique chairs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American , and Georgian farrature is comfortable ha Well as graceful . People with larger incomes have bought antiques for their " snob Appeal . " dealers say . Dealers report also that black marketeers have bought antiques to conceal their profits from tax collectors . A quiet , unrecorded purchase of a tiny . exquisite music box for $2.500 is a typical example . New York Still the Capital New York still remains the center of the antique trade . Several hundred new dealers have opened their doors in the last five years . one observer reports . estimating a total of 700 dealers . The New York Telephone directory lists 506 stores . Most arc on Third A  --  enue. the street made famous by the movie The Lost Week-end . Many new antique shop ' ' rave turned up in ? other parts of the country too , dealers at the New York show reported . Daytona Beach . FIR . for example . had only one store before the war : now it has five Native Floridians as well as tourists are buying . Dealers say buyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tastes for antiques . New York sophisticates favor the graceful lath century French and English pciiods . The South has a persistent liking for Victorian things . Californians like items withsonic flashThe war helped to make Colonial and other Americana antiques more popular . dealers say . say . They explain that Americana have become more conscious of their national heritage . Male buyers . say the men who sell antiques . incline ' toward books and painting . Women prefer furnishings of all sorts . Items Hard to Get If there is any gloom at the New Tork shows or in Third Avenue shops , it 's because dealers find it hard to add to their stocks at what they consider fair prices . People with heirlooms in their attics are under little economic compulsion to part . with them . Also , gone arc the days when innocent housewives would gladly give up dusty bureaus. tables and other " junk " piled in the garret for a small sum . People are now educated about antiques , and before giving up faintly heirlooms , they 'll get price compar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one Third Avenue dealer . Antique shop owners comb other antique shop dealers for good buys . There is a saying in the business . " Every antique shop has a good buy . " Dealers , incidentally , grant each other discounts of 10 , ' , to 30 ? - , - . But pracs in the antiques world are a " catch-as-catch-can " affair . They 're based largely on an - anything you can get " philosophy . Many dealers expect their customers to haggle over juice and raise the initial offering price accordingly . There are no O.P.A. ceilings on antiques . 