@@707779

txt America 's war economy will be only partially demobilized at the close of hostilities . Measures of " disarmament " may be counterbalanced by new steps to increase the nation 's peacetime military striking power . Post-war planning which adds up to this is being pushed by officials all over town  --  but diseCinnectedly as yet . Although production of war goods will slow down , they want actual disarmament to be very limited  --  suggesting even that Liberty ships be kept in grease in Great Lakes storage . At the same time important projects for armament , such as fortifying new Pacific bases , are being proposed . Many men will be demobilized , but if advocates of compulsory training have their way , veterans will he kept in shape by annual " refreshing. - and each new crop of youngsters will be given military training . Pont-Victory Proposals In recent days both the Secretary and Undersecretary of the Navy have called for specific martial measures after victory , from compulsory military training to a world-wide quest for strategic materials . Meanwhile . Army officers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders not to discuss them until yesterday , when the new House Committee on Post-War Military Policy opsned hearings . Combination of the War and Navy Departments after the war and establishment of universal military service were recommended to the Committee yesterday by IWO Army generals , who also hinted that the National Guard system should be abolished Story below . This committee , headed by Representative Woodrum of Virginia . appears to be the first group attempting to systematize the projects of these and a dozen other agencies . Its tentative agenda even includes " probable post-war missions of the armed forces "  --  a most delicate topic. , The proposed preparedness program , as it shapes up now , would affect most citizens far more than the pre-war program of the ' 30 's . If projects under discussion are carried out , industry , for example , should look forward to : 1 . Continued Government demands for the services of many industrial laboratories . as well as of top scientists and technicians , for development of new secret weapons . 2 . " Educational " orders for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personnel will be . constantly prepared for military production . 3 . Government retention of many of the war plants it now owns . even a good number of those which could be converted . Others will be held as warehouses to store great stockpiles , which will " overhang " the market in a fashion frightening to some raw ' materials producers . Mental , Training Plans 4 . A manpower supply minus a whole year 's crop of ' teen-year-olds undergoing military training . And leave must be granted for annual military " refresher " courses for the older male workers . 5 . A considerable measure of Federal intervention in commercial and industrial operations , with the idea of maintaining military strength . Subsidization and other Federal aids are talked for world shipping , international airlines , shipbuilding , synthetic rubber , and other industries A Government-sponsored merger of America 's foreign communications systems is advocated . Imports and exports would be " managed . " perhaps by credit controls , in accordance with a policy determining which foreign countries shall be industrialized with our aid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , minerals and other strategic materials  --  domestic or foreign . 6 . Corporate finance affected by Government spending for military purposes at a higher than prewar level Not only gunnery , bomb practice and war games , but also the less direct military programs , would cost money Policy After Nike:arid %Vat . I The intensity of any program of military preparation after the war will depend upon the sense of national danger A permanent policy of compulsory military service and other measures were proposed in Congress during World War I but not adopted . On the contrary , the United States agreed in 1913 to sink about 30 ' , - of its fleet and even as recently as the years between 1930 and 1938 junked or otherwise disposed of 139 destroyers . But the present conflict has not been billed as a " war to end war . " Some officials publicly contend that preparedness may well avert future battles .. But many ' realists " in and out of uniform appear privately convinced that the next great war is merely a question of where and when . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program of continued cooperation with our wartime allies . but it grows with every minor rift among the United Nations Certainly the scheme for a separate " international police force " is now dead . Na ? ? Point of View Undersecretary of the Navy Forrestal puts at this way : " We do not need to abandon hope for a world association of nations that will insure peace , but the dream of that ideal must be tempered with the cold facts of reality . Our progress toward world order must march with the maintenance of military power by the United States , and the first component of that power will be the huge sea and air strength we are now creating in the U S Navy . " Some quarters point out , however , that certain portions of a preparedness plan must be devised and administered with great care if they are not to inspire friction in th world . A heavily subsidized merchant marine and overseas airline system will contribute to American sea and air power , for instance , but might well arouse resentment among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the post-war military program which.are under discussion . Personnel . There is talk of maintaining at least 2 million men in the services even after the period of occupation and policing , which will extend " for years " after Axis capitulation . The actual number will not be determined until the relative strength of post-war friends and prospective enemies is known . Of the total , about half would be in Army forces , half in Navy ( inc , luding Marines , . Year of Military Training The Navy would keep all large craft sail nag , but not necessarily destroyer-escorts or all smaller craft . Secretary of the Navy Knox proposes th .. t some of this manpower be supplied by a year of military training for each youth when he turns 17 or leaves high school . even for those who would be classified 4-F now . College R.O.T C. would be in addition to the year in the rankr Annual refresher courses would keep trainees " in the pink . " Paying 2 million mer the minimum of 550 monthly would cost $1.2 billion annually , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transpert , training equipment and munitions , plus officers ' salaries . Officials propose , further , that the Government subsidize civilian aviation training . at a lost which might run to 5300 per person . Bases . Because it is ticklish diplomatically , little is said about schemes for acquisition and fortification of far-flung air , naval or , land bases , but ambitions are active . Perhaps the bluntest statements came from some of the " five senators " who girdled the globe last autumn , seeing many of the lend-lease bases we have constricted on foreign soil . Representative Woodrum comments that " " ' We 're going to have bases , " bet the question is which ones  --  and that still puzzles naval and military authorities . Most of them are likely to be in the Pacific , on territory now legally belonging to British . Dutch or Japanese , but others might well be in such strategic areas RS the Mediterranean . Large Merchant Fleet Proposed Transport . Maintenance of a huge merchant fleet is deemed a corollary of the dictum that America should fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be needed , too , to bring Iron ore from Chile . Brazil , Cuba . as domestic sources are depleted , and for transport of other critical materials in future wartimes . By subsidies , officials of the Maritime Commission hope to keep between 15 million and 20 million ? deadweight tons of shipping busy under the U. S. flag after the war ; this is                     