@@709706

txt Congress well may have wrought better than it realized when it passed the Employment Act of 1946 . This legislation is designed to produce a stable national economy , to help provide jobs for all willing to work , to avert any severe depression . It sprang from President Roosevelt 's 1944 campaign objective of 60,000,000 jobs , and was introduced by Senators Murray of Montana and Wagner of New York . The law w h i c h finally emerged was changed substantially from the original version , which pledged the Government to produce full employment under all circumstances and virtually guaranteed individual jobs for everybody as a constitutional right . The law which finally was passed by a large bipartisan vote pledged the Government to " promote conditions " of maximum employment . It provided machinery to enable the Government to anticipate economic trends , and plainly rested on the premise that modern government can not tolerate large-scale unemployment . President Truman has made a series of outstandingly able appointments to the Council of Economic Advisers created by the Employment Act , and his budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of recommendation it will be the duty of the Economic Council to make . Mr. Truman has latinched the most vigorous expenditure-slashing economy move since the Hoover Administration . The steps he has just taken illustrate concretely the role the Economic Council will help the Ad ministration fulfill . It is clear that in the immediate and visible future the nation faces a continuance of more money than goods , more jobs than workers , demand greatly outrunning supply ? in other words . the dominant ingredients of a spiraling inflation . Unchecked and uncontrolled . these conditions head toward the kind of boom-and-bust prosperity  --  which is n't prosperity at all  --  which ended in the 1930 depression . .1 ? ? It is the duty of the Government to try to counterbalance the economic forces abetting the inflationary spiral . To do this , the President has taken one significant ' measure and proposed that Congress guarantee the other . Mr. Truman has cut $2,200. - 000,000 from what the Federal Government was due to spend from now until June of next year . He has asked his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has or dered a two-month delay be- The Capitol fore making further Federal construction commitments . To Congress  --  and indirectly to the people ? he has appealed that there be no reduction in income taxes next year ? in the interests of a balanced budget at the earliest possible date and to keep purchasing power from outrunning consumer goods output . * Such actions are always available to a President , but these offer a concrete example of how the Federal Government will have to concert its policies in order to carry out the Employment Act , The basic economic principle is that when the nation faces inflationary prospects , the Government should economize and keep taxes high ; when the nation faces deflationary prospects , the Government should spend to . sustain employment and reduce taxes to sustain purchasing power . It will be the role of the Council of Economic Advisers to gather data and appraise economic trends ? whether boom , bust , or stable conditions are in the making  --  and to recommend to the President and Congress measures which will help to meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisory ; its proposals are not binding either on the President or Congress . But Congress has set up a joint committee of seven Senators and seven Representatives to study the Council 's recommendations . On the basis of the commitments of both the Democratic and Republican Parties , there is reason to believe Congress intends to use , not neglect , the economic machinery it has forged .                     