@@708682

txt In the most remarkable press conference of his career , and displaying perfect aplomb and apparently complete self-assurance , Gen. Charles de Gaulle placed the entire blame for the Levantine trouble today upon what he termed the m2rhinnfinna of the British Government and its agents . He refused to admit that the present or past French Governments or he himself had been guilty , of any mistake whatever , and he " guaranteed " to Allied correspondents that the French people were united behind him in a determination to see that France 's " interests and dignity are respected and , if necessary , to make them respected . " General de Gaulle said today ? in contrast with the earlier French official version  --  that the cease-fire order to French troops had been given Wednesday , the day before Prime Minister Churchill 's ultimatum , as General de Gaulle called it , and hence that Mr. Churchill 's stern note did not mean a thing . As General de Gaulle put it , " Churchill 's message did not change and will not change the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that General de Gaulle did not now bow to the British ultimatum . " As he was speaking the State Department in Washington revealed that the Russian note calling for a five-power conference on the Levantine question , made public Friday , actually had been received before Mr. Churchill sent his note asking the French to cease firing and order their troops to withdraw to their barracks . General de Gaulle declared that France was ready to negotiate ? but that she would not negotiate about Syria and Lebanon , a question long since settled by an accord between France and Britain , " assuming that accords still have some value . " ? He declared she would negotiate regarding the whole Arab question , which , General de Gaulle said , was an international question involving the " four great powers and the Arab states . " He declined to specify further . But he seemed to be appealing from Mr. Churchill to Washington and Moscow  --  especially to Moscow , to judge by his statement last night and certain allusions today  --  for a conference of Britain , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle and Near East . Directs Fire at Churchill The French Provisional President said little about the United States , which had backed Mr. Churchill 's strong move . He concentrated his fire on Mr. Churchill and the British . But in response to a question he did say that no American lend-lease material was being used by the French troops in the Near East . He added that he was not sure that the British were not using some , and he asserted France 's right to use such material there if she desired since , he said , it belonged to France . He thus seemed to take exception to the view expressed by Acting Secretary of State Joseph C. Grew Thursday . A good many persons here and abroad have had the impression in the last few days that General de Gaulle was severely " in dutch " and that his prestige had received a bad blow . But it was obvious that nothing could appear more fantastic to General de Gaulle . He spoke as serenely and as glibly as ever and with his usual air of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the slightest challenge and nobody could be as right as he . Though he admitted that British armed might far exceeded French power in the Near East , as elsewhere , he seemed confident that he would win out in the end . He even rebuked Mr. Churchill for lhaving spoken of a possible clash between the French and British troops and said that this was the wrong spirit in which to approach international issues . To those who listened  --  and who had . spent many hours lately trying vainly to get and publish the French version of the Levantine affair  --  there seemed at least one weak spot in General de Gaulle 's impressive dialectic armor . This was the time of the French ceasefire order . Late Thursday night an authorized spokesmen for the French Government told newspaper men that no such order had been issued or would be issued during that night . On Friday morning the same spokesmen said that an order to act in harmony with the British troops had been issued Thursday night and that an order to cease fire had been issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night said that the cease-fire and " remain in position " order had been issued Thursday . Very late Friday night this was changed to say that the order had gone Wednesday , and this was General de Gaulle 's story today . Obviously this order had to be dated Wednesday so that General de Gaulle might say it had not been issued under the pressure of Mr. Churchill 's " ultimatum " of Thursday . General de Gaulle said the order of May 30 was issued at the urgent request of the British , but that " naturally the French Government did not order the French Army in Syria and Lebanon to put itself under the British commander and so renounce our rights and the accord we had signed with Britain . " But he said he did tell his troops to cease fire and that this order was carried out May 31 . Calls British Aims Commercial Sketching the Levantine situation historically , General de Gaulle said that the French had an eminent cultural role there and that the British had played a role for commercial reasons . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the " attitude of the British Government and crowds of British agents who were almost always hostile or at least critical . " " Did the British stir up trouble against the French ? " General de Gaulle was asked . He would say neither yes nor no but only that " history will decide . " " Did the British instigate the Levant states ' refusal of French terms ? " General de Gaulle was asked . He replied obliquely by saying that those states abhored isolation . General de Gaulle laid great stress on the Lyttelton-de Gaulle accord made with the British in 1941 , which , he said , preserved French rights in the Levant , gave the British strategic command of the whole Middle East and made maintenance of order in Syria an exclusively French task . " This was the basis of FrenchBritish relations in the Near East until May 31 at 4:30 in the afternoon " the hour that Mr. Churchill 's " ultimatum " reached General de Gaulle , said the French President , thus clearly implying that Mr. Churchill 's action had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of war needs elsewhere the French had withdrawn from  --  Syria all but 5,000 to 6,000 French troops , while the British had in the Middle East some 600,000 men and " lots of airplanes . " " Maybe this is because of the Japanese danger to the Middle East . I see no other , " concluded General de Gaulle . Questioned about the French bombardment of Damascus , General de Gaulle said that the French had to defend themselves . Referring to Mr. Churchill 's demand Thursday , General de Gaulle said that it was time to put an end to " dictation " and crises . Asked about possible negotiations in London , he said that when the French were invited to London it should be done in a different manner . A French correspondent asked General de Gaulle about the growing isolation of France , as a Swiss newspaper called it . General de Gaulle replied : " Can affairs of interest to France be solved without her ? If this is tried we must wait . We are not so alone , as you think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the great States of the world , of the welcome we gave Mr. Churchill and lately Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery in Paris . " General de Gaulle concluded by saying that neither among the French nor on his part was there any rancor toward the British people , despite the " interests opposing us. " 