@@708273

txt France and the Soviet Union today signed a pact of alliance and mutual assistance that was hailed as a new and powerful blow against a common enemy and a safeguard against future aggression in Europe . The treaty , capping Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's visit to the ' Soviet capital , was signed at 4:40 o'clock this morning , immediately after a gala banquet , in the Kremlin given by Premier Stalin . General de Gaulle and his party left Moscow five hours later by train . The detailed provisions of the pact will be made public later , but it was understood that , in general , it is similar to , though not identical I with , the Anglo-Soviet alliance of 1942 . It is understood that the pact will run for a like period of twenty years . The two Governments jointly announced , simultaneously with // General de Gaulle 's departure , that they had achieved a unity of viewpoint on a number of issues relating to the prosecution of the war and the organization of the peace , and had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sure that that country would not again plunge the world into war . The communiqu ? declared that the two countries had reaffirmed their decision to prosecute the war to a complete victory over Hitlerite Germany and " to undertake mutually all measures for protecting Europe against new aggression . " Textual Details Withheld Foreign Minister Georges Bidault signed the treaty for the French Provisional Government and Foreign Commissar Vyacheslaff Molotoff for the Soviet Government in the presence of Premier Stalin and General de Gaulle . It was understood that the text of the treaty would not be published for approximately two weeks and would be released coincident with its presentation by the de Gaulle Government to the French Consultative Assembly for ratification . The alliance , with the Soviet Union is the first major international commitment made by the de Gaulle Provisional Government since France was liberated and it again links the two countries that in post-war Europe will be the Continent 's strongest powers both militarily and economically . The agreement signed today replaces the 1933 Franco-Soviet military agreement , which never became effective in the present war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions were related to the League of Nations charter . Coincident with the new alliance , One of the Soviet Union 's most influential newspapers  --  Red Star , organ of the Red Army  --  commented lengthily upon the stability of the Anglo-Soviet-American coalition both for the prosecution of the war and the organization of peace . Red Star said that the few differences between the three partners in the coalition were " owing solely to temporary and passing considerations . " U. S. Kept Informed Although Britain and the United States were not parties to the Franco-Soviet treaty negotiations , representatives of the two Western Allies were kept informed of their progress . W. Averell Harriman , United States Ambassador , and the acting British Ambassador , John Balfour , were at the Kremlin dinner party last night . Franco-Soviet satisfaction over the outcome of General de Gaulle 's visit was clearly indicated In the warm and friendly farewell that General de Gaulle received at the railroad station when he left Moscow this morning . Bad flying weather prevented the trip by plane . Mr. Molotoff and other high Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Red Banner flew side by side . Mr. Molotoff affirmed his belief that the treaty would strengthen the friendship between the two countries and constitute a new and powerful blow against the common enemy . Because of the ban on publishing the treaty 's text , it is not possible to discuss its provisions in detailed form , but it is obvious from the communiqu ? that it is an alliance designed not only for cooperation in case of war but is also aimed equally at cooperative measures to prevent war in case a new aggression in Europe threatens . One result of the treaty , which firmly pledges Franco-Soviet opoperation in time of war , may be that the French may now proceed to enter into similar compacts with their nearer neighbors on the Continent , such as the Low Countries  --  the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg  --  and near-by Czechoslovakia , designed to prevent the emergence of Germany as an aggressor power after the war .                     