@@706822

txt The OPA announced today that it will start rationing coffee to civilians starting at midnight Nov. 28 , and will grant an allowance of one pouna every five weeks to every individual in the country 15 years old or over . As worked out unofficially by government men and those in the coffee trade here , the ration will provide slightly more than one cup a day to each individual . In giving warning of the impending rationing , the OPA departed from the policy of secrecy it has followed heretofore in dealing with any product capable of being hoarded . Leon Henderson , Federal Price Administrator , cautioned , however , that " there is no reason for any one to run to the corner grocer , put the ' squeeze ' on him and try to force him to help a hoarder . There is absolutely no excuse for hoarding coffee at this time . " Consumers will get their coffee ration by surrendering the last stamp of War Ration Book No. 1 , the book now used only for sugar rations . The stamps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 28 clown to and including 19 , but because of the make-up of the book the first stamp to be detached for the coffee allowance will be Stamp No. 27 , followed by No. 28 , No. 25 , No. 26 , etc . None for Those 14 Years Old No book on which the age of the holder is stated at 14 years or younger will be valid for the coffee ration . Use of the book for sugar will continue exactly as in the past . Those who did not obtain the sugar ration books , it was added , may do so now by applying to their War Price and Ration Boards . Estimates of the number of cups of coffee to be obtained from a pound varied from thirty-five to forty-five among OPA officials , but on the basis of forty cups the new ration will work out to slightly more than a cup a day for consumers . " We 're announcing the forth-coming rationing now because we 're going to have to talk to a lot of people in the coffee industry and elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henderson said . " Naturally stories and rumors will be creeping around about what we propose to do . Most of them will be entirely garbled and thus create more confusion and hysteria than even now exists on the subject of coffee . We are therefore stating what we plan to do so that the public can get the story straight and from an official source . " The coffee story is this : For ten years before 1941 we consumed about thirteen pounds of coffee per capita per year . Last year , due to abnormal demands , this figure jumped to about sixteen pounds . Thus far in 1942 we have consumed coffee at the rate of about 12.5 pounds annually . Therefore , a ration of one pound each five weeks a person over 15 certainly is not a drastic reduction . " Retailers ' Supplies Dwindled OPA was directed to undertake the rationing program by the War Production Board after it became apparent that the available coffee supply in retail stores-65 per cent of normal  --  was not sufficient to meet current demand . This , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was largely due to excessive buying by consumers . The 35 per cent curtailment of deliveries to retail stores resulted from a WPB limitation order requiring restriction of sales from roaster to wholesaler to retailer , which resulted in turn from lack of ships to bring coffee in normal quantities from Central and South America . All sales of coffee at retail will be frozen at midnight Nov. 21 , for the week before rationing starts , in order to permit retailers to stock their shelves for the beginning of rationed sales . Full details of this program will be announced during the next few days . Government officials said here today that there was little possibility that the average family could make up its coffee requirements by using substitutes . Green tea , they said , is virtually unobtainable ; black tea consumption has been cut 50 per cent and cocoa has been allocated by the WPB on the basis of 60 per cent of 1941 consumption .                     