@@704667

txt The machine tool industry 's operating rate rose to a new peak of 93.4 , . c of capacity in March . according to the National Machine Tool Builders ' Association . From 52 5 in January . 1939. the rate adyanced to 93.3 in December . and has since held about steady . Meanwhile to increase the capacity of domestic companies building airplane engines , the machine tool industry is now completing the manufacture of about 2,000 machine tools representing an expenditure of approximately $15,000,000 which were ordered since last December . To meet the needs of the forthcoming $1 , - 000,000.000 Allied plane program , the engine builders and machine tool companies have already made detailed plans . Machine tool builders have earmarked , s  --  if15 : : : inyt production to meet- theNprobable elk-Pin:4On of engine plants . The program now under consideration is expected to require about 4,000 machine tools costing roughly $35,000,000 . Machine tool producers have been reserving places in their production schedules for more than a month in order to be able to meet promptly the rush demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been done in the face of an unprecedented demand from both foreign and domestic sources . Reflecting this , order backlogs of many machine tool companies are of record size . Northern Ohio companies report that while domestic deliveries on single machines can be made in four to eight months , foreign business is not being accepted for delivery in less than nine or ten months . The first expansion program of the airplane engine makers was scheduled for completion this month . Originally , the second program was expected to be finished in October but due to delay in placement of Allied plane orders it now seems likely that it will not be completed before the end of this year . With 1940 production of machine tools expected to exceed $200,000.000. those required for the second expansion program of the airplane engine builders will probably not be more than about 10 or 15 ' of this year 's output The problem facing the industry does not flow from the number of machine tools required . Instead , the difficulty is primarily that production of airplane engines requires not only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types with a number of special attachments . Requirements More Rigid Requirements are much more rigid than for the tools used in making such standard products as automobiles . Only about 35 of the 150 machine tool makers in this country are building the highly specialized types of equipment needed by the airplane engine makers . The whole problem has been aggravated by the uncertainty as to when the orders will be placed and the rush nature of the business at a time when the industry is booked for months ahead . To meet the demands which have been placed upon it . the machine tool industry has stepped up production . Machine tool companies have added more hours , hired additional men and purchased new equipment . As a last resort , plant additions are being made .                     