@@710671

txt Installation of parking metc- 's in the Boston downtown business district below Dartmouth Street was " unalterably opposed " today by Col. Thomas F. Sullivan , COmmissioner of the Police Department . A strong advocate of a parking ban in entire downtown Boston , the Commissioner was apprehensive that installation of meters would freeze the parking question there and make it next to impossible to achieve a no-parking rule in the future . As for the erecting of meter poles elsewhere in the City , he believed that " at least the day parker would be checked . " Simple Enforcement Also on the asset side of the meter proposal , the Commissioner explained , is the simplicity of enforcement , assuming the courts will recognize the legality of arrests for meter violations . At present , " chalk marks by policemen may or may not be accepted by the courts , " whereas it is more difficult for the motor . ist to argue his wdy out of violation recorded by a mechanical checker , Mr. Sullivan pointed out . The Commissioner was not concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He thought it could be done satisfactorily without the addition of more policemen ? " in fact , it will have to be done that way , because we ca n't get them . " Referring to the downtown business area , Colonel Sullivan asked : " Who is there that would n't send his office boy outside to put a nickel in the meter every hour ? " Speaker . Skeptical The Commissioner also was skeptical over what he described as the tendency of Bostonians to seek loopholes in the law and take their grievances to the highest courts , if necessary . " No one raises such questions in other cities , " he commented . Fortunately , the Commissioner noted , the Police Department would not be concerned with the collection of money from the meters . This activity , he said , would be a problem for the Traffic Commission to solve . Fate of the parking meters , recommended last week by Temporary Mayor John B. Hynes , hinges on the settlement of the legal issues involved , The City Law Department is now answering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' sion. illeters in Cambridge Meanwhile , in Cambridge , John B. King , Chief of Police , disclosed that 181. meters soon would be added to the 400 already in use . Ultimately , the City will have 1,200 meters , purchased on a pay-as-you-go basis , He estimated that one policeman can effectively watch 200 meters and observed that three men are now assigned to that task and one more will be added when meters are installed in the streets ' bordering on Harvard Square and Cambridge Square . Cost of the meters was said ' to be $57.50 . The Cambridge Chief of Police said that the winter weather will be a test of the durability of the meter mechanisms .                     