@@711044

txt David E. Lilienthal , Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , today stated what he called " the principal and perhaps the only solid hope " for preventing the use of atomic energy " for destruction on a scale that has not vet been disclosed . " That hope , he said , was for " people everywhere to come to understand the atomic world . " " If the people have knowledge and understanding , " he said in an address prepared for the Radio Executives Club , they may or may not be happier as individuals . " But the country will be safer . The peace of the world will be more secure . " We will be less likely to be taken in by sweet talk , or scared by shadows  --  or stumble , or be puthed , without knowing what we are doing , into some desperate finality . " Defense Warning In Washington today , Senator Alexander Wiley ( R ) of Wisconsin said the United States should prepare for a sneak Soviet attack that could lay waste our cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put a " foreign military commissar " in charge over the ruins , the Associated Press reports . Preparations should include spreading defenses , Government , and industries throughout the country , and even consider having scattered legislators vote by television in event of attack . The United States , Mr. Lilienthal said , is " improving " the atom bomb on top of a mesa in the mountains of New Mexico . New designs for atomic weapons are being developed there . The important thing is for people to understand " the facts of lite " in a world which has atomic energy . They then will be warned of the dahgers , and also understand " the opportunities that lie before us to put this knowledge to uses beneficent and humane . " Veil ' Put on Tests By the Associated Press Washington The Atomic Energy Commission has decided that the atomic weapons tests at Eniwetok will be strictly an American family affair . No foreign observers will be invited . A spokesman for the Commissicin said today the statement in the Commission 's report to Congress Monday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific atoll test site means " only United States " official observers . And , he added , there will be no newsmen on hand . A discussion of international control of atomic energy will be found In today 's leading editorial : Editorial Page .                     