@@706855

txt French North Africa may be this country 's proving ground for a new and aggressive economic , warfare . Officials who watched and were in part responsible for the success of the program for hemispheric solidarity , now feel the urgency of a second front and offensive on the same  --  the economic  --  level French North Africa , these officials say . is a fertile field for extension of economic warfare . Buffetted and torn through 2I2 years of halfFrench , half-German rule , bled by the needs of the Nazi juggernaut and victim of the Allied blockade . Tunisia , Algeria and French Morocco are expected to respond favorably to sympathetic treatment . Besides , these quarters hastily add , these lands have plenty of material and manpower to throw into the Allied war machine . Would Aid Military Gains Simply stated , their policy would mean a squadron of civilian experts in mufti to follow and consolidate the military gains of the armed forces . Conquest alone is not enough , they reason . Some effort must be made to win over the native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantees of health and happiness , then by bribery , purchase and solid echnomic achievement . It will be this exchange of goods and services ? what the U. S. wants for what North Africa needs  --  that will forge a mighty economic weapon , officials believe , in these erstwhile French colonies . Besides suffering from general ills and industrial dislocation , these countries have certain " urgent " material and commodity requirements necessary to their regrowth in the anti-Axis ranks , they point out . Industrial raw materials , such as petroleum and tinplate. rank igh on the shortage list . Petroleum products are needed in quantity not only to quench the thirst of Allied armored forces , but to meet the needs of local mechanized farming and transportation as well . Tinplate Is Essential Tinplate Is essential to the continuation of a laggard canning industry there , capable of packing , for military as well as native consumption , Allied planners realize , quantities of agricultural produce and fish . Basic industrial equipment is another shortage which the United States may help fill . In addition to manufacturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in pitifully short supply . Close students of the region point out that native industry has received " little or no supplies " from normal sources since French industry began concentrating wholly on German war orders . If the transportation and communication systems are to be kept functioning , now for Allied convenience , certain minimum require merits in repairs and maintenance materials will have to be met . They imply that the United States is in a position to do the meeting . A few consumers ' goods also fall into the " urgently needed " class . Native religion and nomadic moors play an important part in determining these need . Sugar . for example . is highly prized by the sweet-toothed Arab , whose creed forbids the use of alcoholic beverages . Green tea , their staple beverage . is another  --  with commensurate bargaining power Religious practice also dictates the use of cotton cloth for burial shrouds . The U. S. surplus . it is pointed out , could be put to good use here . Kerosene , coal , medical supplies and soap are among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this whole region . Able to Pay In Critical Materials For this material aid from the United States , French North Africa is able to pay in both highly critical raw materials  --  cobalt , manganese and molybdenum  --  and foodstuffs . Wheat , poultry , fruits and vegetables , mutton ane oil seed products , to name a few , are among those foods native to North Africa and now being sent from the U. S. to England and the Middle East . If they can direct these foods from the French colonies to the same destinations . officialsbelieve the heavy drain on American resources and precious shipping space can be " very considerably curtailed . " This reduction in exports , they add , should come as a genuine relief to a United States faced with the problem of feeding its own people and helping to feed its allies . Economic warfare , however , wo n't end with swapping goods , authorities believe . They point out that the region 's whole economy has been geared to an export trade sending sizable quantities of both raw and processed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipments entered Marseilles from North Africa between January and August of this year : 250,000 tons of iron ore : over I million tons of phosphate rocks ; 25,000 tons of manganese : 12.000 tons of oil seeds and vegetable oils : 268,000 tons of wine ; 132.000 head of sheep : 25,500 tons of fish : 404,000 tons of fruit and vegetables : 1.600 tons of greasy wool : and 1.500 tons of hides , skins and leather . A market for these exports now must be found to avert industrial collapse and furthet. " economic distress . " some quarters feel . Whether or not certain of these industries are essential Allied economic and industrial experts must somehow keep them going until a program for conversion is set up . Three-fold Program Envisaged Another task is the development of local resources to help support both the military effort and the native population . A three-fold program is envisaged : 1 . Supplies of materials needed by the Expeditionary Forces , such as cement , lime , building stone and lumber , must be increased to meet the pressing needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be accomplished " speedily , " officials feel . 2 . Assembly lines and repair facilities for maintenance of mechanized forces must be developed . Reorganization iand expansion of existing small machine and metal-working shops are believed possible under the direction of highly skilled technicians . ? 3 . The- ' , area must be made more self-sufficient . This is possible , it is understood , through considerable expansion of the under-developed coal mining and glass industries ( to relieve the need for tinplate ' and a thorough overhauling of the canning and packing industry to step up preservation of foods and fish . Scattered breweries , sugar refineries. shoe and match manufacturing plants , and farm machinery shops , heretofore lying dormant or left to shift for themselves , offer a challenge to the economic forces following the armed services . Officials here are confident the challenge will be met and overcome .                     