@@706339

txt The Battle of the Atlantic , on which Great Britain 's life depends , has turned again in favor of the Axis , Prime Minister Winston Churchill confessed today in a speech delivered at the annual meeting of the Central Council of the NationalIJnion of Conservative and Unionist Associations in Caxton . Hall . In part it was the speech of a party leader to his political followers , but chiefly it was a statesmanlike and realistic appraisal of the situation confronting this country and the grave perils that face it now that the disaster of Pearl Harbor and the fall of Singapore and Hong Kong have shifted the balance of sea power . The Admiralty long since has given up the practice of announcing periodically details of tonnage lost in the unending struggle at sea , but there have been many straws in the wind recently to indicate that Britain 's lifeline to the New World is less secure than it was last Autumn . There has been a tightening-up of rationing regulations . Increasingly apparent shortages here are only partly accounted for by greater military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that submarine activities off the American coast were taking a heavy toll of shipping . " Only for Time Being " The fact is that the United States was playing a greater part in helping Britain win the Battle of the Atlantic before the Japanese attack Dec. 7 than was generally appreciated there or among the people here . Afterward , necessities of war forced the United States to return to Britain the greater share of responsibility for patrolling Atlantic shipping lanes than she was prepared to assume at once , pressed as she was to maintain communications with the Middle East and to defend her possessions in the Far East . However , it was noteworthy that , in conceding that the Atlantic situation had " worsened , " the Prime Minister emphasized his belief that it was " only for the time being . " He had nothing , however , but a // CHURCHILL ADMITS REVERSES AT SEA // recital of defeats and reversals and confident hopes for the future , now that the United States , Russia and China were bound to Britain in the common cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Churchill  --  who was accompanied by his wife and his daughter Mary  --  was cheered both going to and from the meeting hall as lustily as he was by his Conservative partisans inside . It was almost a year to the day since he had last appeared to address his party followers . It was a gloomy tale that Mr. Churchill had to tell , and it is a mark of his leadership and the trust he has for his people that he dared to tell it so frankly . Nor did he offer any glowing promises . Reverses Warning On the contrary , he said that he was unable to offer any guarantee that the country had ? reached the end of its misfortunes . However , reversing his warning of last yearl ? that successes could not be expected without reverses ? he said : " Now in 1942 we need not expect to have reverses unrelieved by successes . " He said that , whereas a year ago it was impossible to see how the war could be won , now it seemed " very likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it all that makes life worth living , except through our own fault , " or the fault of Britain 's Allies , or failure " to use our combined strength and overwhelming strength , when fully mobilized and organized , and to use the multiplying opportunities which , as the months pass by , will present themselves to us . " Taking cognizance of uneasiness evident among many groups of the population , Mr. Churchill said he would try to profit from criticism , but he drew the line at tolerating " propaganda " which disturbed the army or undermined the confidence of the country " in the qualities and character of our devoted corps of officers . " Mr. Churchill did not elaborate further his meaning , but only today Brendan Bracken , the Minister of Information , announced new regulations tightening up censorship and limiting the freedom of foreign correspondents here to discuss frankly existing conditions .                     