@@707515

txt The Moscow radio announced early today that Russia was prepared to guarantee a " strong and independent Poland , " provided that the Polish Government agreed to abandon its eastern frontier demands and to accept the Curzon Line as the boundary between Poland and Russia . The Russian statement also invited Poland to become a signatory to the Russian-Czech treaty of alliance , mutual assistance and postwar collaboration . But , denying the recent statement of the Polish Government that the " Polish frontier " had been crossed by the Red Army , the Russian Government described as unjust the Treaty of Riga of 1921 . This ended the Russian-Polish war and created the boundary that existed between Poland and Russia from that time until 1939 , when the Russians and Germans divided Poland . German Restitution Envisaged I " Now an opportunity for the restoration of Poland as a strong and independent State is opening , " the statement said . " But Poland must be reborn , not by the occupation of Ukrainian and White Russian territories , but by the return of territories seized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern borders of Poland can be fixed by agreement with the Soviet Union . " The Soviet Government does not consider the frontiers of the year 1939 to be unchangeable . The borders can be corrected in favor of Poland on such lines that districts in which the Polish population predominates be handed over to Poland . In such case , the Soviet-Polish border could approximately follow the so-called Curzon . Line , which was adopted in the year 1919 by the Supreme Council of Allied Powers and which provided for the incorporation of the western Ukraine and western White Russia into the Soviet Union . " Thus it appeared that Russia was standing firm , in principle , on the provisions of the GermanRussian partition of Poland in September , 1939 . It is this line to which the Russian statement referred in speaking of the 1939 boundary . The British Government has been in consultation with the Polish Government for days about the possibility of renewing RussianPolish diplomatic relations and settling the frontier issue . But , until this morning 's statement , Premier Stalin had not made clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment on the declaration . General Support Seen It seems likely that the Russian proposal will have general support . Viscount Curzon suggested that an armistice line should be drawn between Poland and Russia running roughly from Grodno almost due south to the Bug River at BrestLitovsk ; thence along that river almost to Sokal and finally southwest past Przemysl to the Carpathians . While the statement outlined a case that was very similar to the position taken by the Commission on Polish Affairs established by the Allies after the First World War , it took a very strong line in opposition to the Polish Government in London . In fact , the statement seemed to emphasize that the offer of a general settlement on the basis of the Curzon Line was being made to the " Polish people " and not to the Polish Government . In this regard it may be significant to note that , as soon as the Polish Government 's statement of Jan. 5 had been issued , the Polish Committee in Moscow began to be mentioned by the Moscow press and radio . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will put Britain in a difficult position , since Premier Stanislaw Mikolajczyk 's government is recognized by Britain as the legal government of Poland . The Russian statement , which was put out by Tass with the full authority of the Government , criticized the Polish Government 's declaration of Jan. 5 for an " erroneous affirmation " concerning the border . It said that the frontier had been determined with the assent of the population of the western Ukraine and of western White Russia " as expressed in a plebiscite carried out on broad democratic principles in the year 1939 . " The result , incorporating these territories into the Soviet Union , corrected " the injustice caused by the Riga Treaty in the year 1921 , which was forced on the Soviet Union with regard to the Ukrainian population of the western Ukraine and the White Russian population of western White Russia , " the statement added . Line Once Rejected by Both Both the Russians and the Poles rejected the Curzon Line at different times . When it was first suggested , the Poles were at the height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dreaming at that time of their historic frontiers of 1772 , the Poles turned it down . But after the defeat of their expedition against Kiev in July , 1920 , when it appeared that the Russians might overwhelm them , the Poles appealed to the Allies and Lord Curzon suggested that their armies Withdraw voluntarily to the Curzon Line pending a peace conference in London . The Russians rejected this proposal and pushed on to the gates of Warsaw before they were routed by the Poles with French help . The case of , the Russian Government now is that the Treaty of Riga was signed under duress and is , therefore , invalid . The Poles contend , however , that the Russians at that time offered them even more territory than they got . The Allies originally intended the Curzon Line to be far more than an armistice line , but they indicated that it was a " minimum " line and did not exclude the possibility that the Poles might justify their claims to territories beyond it . The Russians at that time also indicated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the Curzon Line , though nobody expected the Poles to take so much more territory that the size of their State was almost doubled east of the Curzon Line .                     