@@707455

txt INFLUENZA SPREADS IN EAST , MIDWEST 10% of Washington 's Population Mildly III  --  New York Not Seriously Affected While a mild form of influenza continued to spread yesterday , reaching epidemic proportions in many sections of the country , particularly in the East and Midwest , an anomalous and somewhat ' 1 baffling situation existed in the city , where health officials reported a slight but not significant increase in respiratory diseases . That was the official report but it was borne out only partly in a survey of concerns employing many thousands . The medical department of the New York Telephone Company , with exact figures not compiled , said it had experienced no undue amount of absence because of illness . On the other hand , the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company reported that " absences for this season of the year due to sickness are up about 10 to 15 per cent , " although there was no means of knowing what the reasons were . Store Employes Affected Two of the largest department stores in the city reported that they had been hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanying fever . The superintendent of nurses at Macy 's said that while the condition prevailed each year at this season , the average was unusually high . At Gimbels the medical department said it had been kept " extra busy " the last couple of days making out passes to allow those with colds and fever to go home . The respiratory diseases , it was said , were not of the virulent type but it was emphasized that " we are taking no chances of spreading them around . " By way of contrast , school authorities here , lacking figures that are compiled at the end of the month , have received no reports of a startling nature as to the number of absentees although they expect such reports will show an appreciable drop in attendance . Similarly , the State Labor Department , constantly in touch with war plants , has received no reports indicative of a sharp increase in absenteeism . The excuse of illness on the part of many workers has not been advanced even for requesting a temporary extension of working hours , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Midwest // Committee of the department said . The Woman in Industry Commit'tee , on the lookout for bottlenecks in war production , could find none due to widespread illness . Numerous other sections of the nation were not so fortunate , however . Pyramiding reports told of waves of " flu " and kindred respiratory ailments curtailing production in vital war industries , closing schools in wholesale fashion , with both teachers and pupils affected ; ' increasing the death toll and in ' one case of the conversion of a school into an auxiliary infirmary to care for influenza patients . 90,000 III in Washington Worst hit was the nation 's capital , where the ' health department estimated that 90,000 persons , or 10 per cent of Washington 's 900,000 resdents , had been attacked since the " flu " epidemic started soon after Thanksgiving . The work of Government departments was hampered and school attendance was cut sharply . It was said that neither the peak nor file termination of the outbreak could be forecast . In the District of Columbia the Board of Education reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday and that probably 28 per cent in the higher grades were affected . This would mean that about 25,000 of the District 's 87 , - 436 school enrollment were absent . Of the 3,200 teachers , 271 were unable to attend their classes . Britain is experiencing one of the worst influenza epidemics since World War I , The United Press reported from London , all strata of society from the royal family down being afflicted . The epidemic has caused a record in absenteeism and is cutting heavily into vital war production . In 1918 , when the epidemic also was prevalent on both sides of the ocean , almost 120,000 persons died in Britain alone . The call-up of doctors for military service has been deferred temporarily , while Army , Navy and Air Force doctors , in addition to treating service cases , are helping out in the worst affected civilian areas . The epidemic continues to spread and health officials would not hazard a guess as to where it would halt . The only saving grace is that the disease apparently is not so virulent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and many cases reported involve both virus A and virus B , the only influenza germs which science has been able to separate . Most of the illnesses reported last from four to five days . Starting in northern England , the epidemic has spread southward . Its victims have included King George VI , the Duchess of Kent , his sister-in-law , and Hubert Pierlot , Premier of the Belgian Government in Exile , and the Grand Duchess Charlotte of Luxembourg , both sufferers . London newspapers are printing lists of prominent personages affected , and there are many vacant seats caused by the illness in both Houses of Parliament . ' Shops and department stores , jammed with Christmas shoppers , are struggling along with depleted staffs . The courts in London have had to curtail trial calendars because of a shortage of judges . Drug stores reported business increased by 50 per cent , but many of their staffs are laid up . Cough drops have been unobtainable since last summer . Health Minister Henry U. Willink in a broadcast appealed to the nation to watch its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be careful about sneezing and coughing in public . He recently recovered from an attack of the " flu . " In Albany , Dr. James E. Perkins , director of the Division of Communicable Diseases of the State Health Department , announcing a survey of the extent of absenteeism in schools and industry and the effect of the epidemic upon local deaths , particularly from pneumonia , declared that " the outbreak is extremely widespread throughout the State . " Half a dozen up-State schools have been closed as a result of illness among pupils and teachers , and in many communities schools are being closed at the end of this week to allow students to help the stores with their Christmas shopping rush . The city of Rensselaer was operating with a skeleton staff at City Hall , victims of influenza , including the Mayor , City Treasurer , Tax Commissioner and Chief of Police . Heaviest inroads on the schools were at Newburgh , where 1,559 students of a total enrollment of 4,782 in ten public schools were reported ill . Most cases were designated as mild . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illnesses , ranging from snifles to pneumonia . Mounting absenteeism in schools and industry was noted at Utica , Binghamton , Syracuse , Glens Falls , Saranac Lake , Ithaca and Amsterdam . Schools were closed at Sodus , Lyons and Wolcott in Wayne County and at Caledonia in Livingston County . In Lyons almost every family in the village was affected . At Rochester , Bishop James E. Kearney announced the city 's Parochial grammar schools would be closed A'onday for one day in an effort to halt the spread of the disease . Blessing In Disguise Seen Dr. Morris Fishbein , editor of the Journal of the American Medical Association , said the outbreak of influenza in a mild form might prove a blessing in disguise , immunizing a large number of sufferers against the more serious manifestation of the disease . Severe " flu " epidemics , he declared , recur in cycles of twenty-five years , and a recurrence was due this winter after the devastating outbreak in 1918 . The mild respiratory infection prevalent now , he said , will tend to build up temporary immunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more serious forms . Health authorities barred visitors to city hospital wards , schools were affected , and war plants reported production hampered as influenza continued to spread in Philadelphia . The first death attributed directly to the disease was of a shipyard worker in Camden , N. J. , across the Delaware River . He had been ill a week and was found dead in bed by his wife . Seven Camden schools have been closed and Cooper Hospital and West Jersey Homeopathic Hospital have barred ward visitors . Dormitory sections at George School in Newtown , Bucks County , have been converted into an auxiliary infirmary to care for patients , who now total eighty of the institution 's 410 enrollment . In Englewood , Bergen County , N. J. , more than 10 per cent of the student population is suffering from what is called locally " cat fever , " an intense attack that lasts usually about four days . A check of Essex County war plants disclosed that in some absenteeism was as high as 25 per cent , while the overall average appeared to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools in Bloomfield were closed yesterday because of an epidemic of colds , grippe and mild influenza . Also , at the request of the Bloomfield Health Department , signs banning children under sixteen are being put up at movie houses .                     