@@712043

txt A jury of seven women and five men late yesterday returned verdicts of guilty against five prisoners accused of aiding Nick Lococo , 38 , convicted burglar , in an attempt to escape from the Cook county jail last Thanksgiving day . They deliberated 1 dour and 15 minutes . Judge George M. Fisher in Criminal court , before whom the men were tried , deferred sentencing pending a hearing May 13 on a motion for a new trial . Assistant State 's Attorneys Edmund Grant and John Schaffenegger said they would ask Judge Fisher to impose heavy sentences and to make them consecutive to other sentences pending against some of the men . Face Severe Penalties Under the conviction , the men are liable to any sentence of one year to life . Tie law provides that prisoners convicted of aiding another prisoner to escape are liable to any sentence possible under that prisoner 's original conviction . Lococo had been sentenced to serve 40 to 50 years for burglary , a charge which carries any sentence from one year to life . All of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law provides no penalty for an attempt to escape from jail . It does provide a penalty for aiding someone else and for this reason the defendants were charged with aiding Lococo in his break for freedom . While Lococo was not a defendant in this trial , he also has been named in indictments charging him with aiding the others to escape . ? The defendants were Robert Lagenour , 27 , of South Bend , Ind. , under a one to 10 year sentence for robbery ; Clarence Hawkins , 49 , under a 10 year sentence for robbery ; Leonard J. ( Butterball ) Vraniak , 25 , of Lake Village . Ind. , under a 10 year sentence for hijacking ; Alexander Micele , 27 , under a 10 to 20 year sentence for robbery , and Dominick Albano , 27 , awaiting trial for robbery . Sixth Aided State A sixth defendant , Edward J. Boyle , 47 , awaiting trial on a charge of assault to murder his wife , obtained a separate trial and testified for the state against the others . Lococo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape , but that he saw others going thru a hole in a cell wall and followed them . He and Harry Wagner , who also was sentenced to serve 40 to 50 years in. prison for the burglary activities of the so-called tunnel gang , are awaiting trial on a charge of the murder of Otto Freund , 84 , beaten to death by robbers in his Wilmette home Dec. 27. 1946 . In the attempted jail break , the men cut their way thru two cell walls and got into the county jail yard . One of their number ; Andrew Evans of New Orleans , was shot and killed by a guard and the others surrendered . 