@@710043

txt Production of commercial electric power through the peacetime Ise of atomic energy , at a cost : omparable with or even lower than that from the most modern high-pressure tidewater steam ventral stations , was foreseen in the near future today by a group of experts reporting to the New England Council . " It is probable that atomic power plants will soon supplement our present facilities for producing electric power , " and that eventually the cost of producing power from the atom may go well below present production costs , the five-man Atomic Energy Committee of the Council stated . The Committee is headed by William Webster , Vice-President of the New England Power Association , Boston , and includes Dr. Karl T. Compton , President of Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; Bradley Dewey , President of the American Chemical Society ; Frederick S. Blackall , Jr. , President of the Taft-Peirce Manufacturing Company , Woonsocket , R. I. , and Chester M. Alter , Dean of the Boston University Graduate School , who serves as the Committee 's Secretary . Federal Aid Urged Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee of the orig. inal Manhattan Project for President Roosevelt , and Dean Alter was a member of the Project . Organized with the immediate objective of gathering information regarding the potential utilization atomic energy as a source of power , the Committee strongly urged the appropriation of Federal funds for research in and development of peacetime industrial and humanitarian application of atomic energy , as well as for large-scale fundamental studies of nuclear phenomena . " In a region such as New England , where we have a relatively high concentration of industry dependent on power , any new source of power is naturally of great importance to those interested in the future economy of the region , " the Committee pointed out . Within Five Years . Many factors will affect the Speed with which the commercial utilization of the atom as a source of power will come about , the Committee added . However . " assuming proper and adequate financial support by the Government of research and development , assuming prompt and full release of technical information commensurate with security , and providing that industry be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems probable , " the Committee continued , " that within five years atoinic piles could be operating for the purpose of producing electric power , " It must be emphasized , " the Committee stated . " that any mention of this specific time schedule is not a prophecy , but is a judgment based on factual information plus the several foregoing assumptions , " To Cost ' a Lot of Money ' Although no atomic power plants have been built yet , the Committee reported , " there now seems to be no question , from the purely technical standpoint , about the possibility of generating large amounts of power from the heat liberated during the operation of atomic piles . The Committee added that research and development necessary to bring about practical utilization of atomic energy for industrial power to propel ships , to turn the wheels of factories , and to light homes and public buildings will cost money ? " a lot of money . " The Committee also went on record as strongly recommending that Federal funds , " proportionate to the over-all significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able . " This is one kind of Government financing that we can not afford to curtail whatever may be the national policy along general lines of retrenchment and economy , " it ' added . ? Foreseeing costs of producing power from the atom as going well below present production costs , the Committee pointed out that the cost of power to the consumer , whether industrial or household , includes much more than the cost of production . ? - For residential electric power , probably less than a quarter of the cost to the consumer is due ' to cost of production , it was stated ,                     