@@707221

txt Six years ago today there was a skirmish between Chinese and Japanese troops at a bridge outside Peiping . It was the beginning of a war that was to devastate a large part of China , the beginning , too , of a war that was to put America to the cruelest test in its history . For though not recognized by Americans then and not always perceptible since , from the Marco Polo Bridge the road was direct to Pearl Harbor . Peace is indivisible not only in Europe . When the insensate rulers of Japan set out on their mad adventure in North China they decreed war and ruin for all Eastern Asia  --  and , by all the portents now discernible , for Japan as well . For more than four years China bore alone the scourge of fascist-militarist barbarity in its peculiar and vicious Japanese form . Whatever may be Japan 's course in the future , it can not for generations expunge from men 's minds the memory of the most dishonorable war ever fought by a nation . That which Kurusu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetrated in China , where loot , mass slaughter , rape and the poisoning opium den have been the normal procedure and the mark of Japanese occupation . For more than four of the six years the world looiced. on as if it were no concern of its own , as if only two remote alien Asiatic peoples were involved . America cleaved so close to legal neutrality that it opened its arsenal of production to both sides , which meant in effect to Japan alone , for China had neither the money nor the means of transportation to benefit . We know now that , while legally it was correct , politically it was folly . We armed Japan against ourselves as well as against China . The world is in China 's debt . It owes China much for suffering alone and , as it turned out , to our benefit . It owes much because our admiration for China 's magnificence of unbending resistance was not only belated but begrudging . The Chinese would not fight , the knowledgeable said . The Chinese could not fight , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months and the Chinese , congenitally divided among themselves , would accept the inevitable . Six months passed , then twelve , then twenty-four . The Chinese did not accept . Periodically there were renewed rumors of Chinese defeatism , of internal breaking up , of imminent cessation of war on terms that meant surrender . And China held out : not only held out , but bled more and more of Japan 's troops and Japan 's resources . Then finally , just as the Chinese had warned us officially and unofficially from the beginning , that Japan , if not stopped by us in time , would turn on us too , Japan did . Though belatedly , the debt to Chins , will now be discharged . Japan will be called to the terrible accounting it has earned . China will be freed of the Japanese scourge . It will be restored to full independence . It will be brought into the comity of great Powers , in the dignity of full equality . The humiliations of the past will be undone . It will be helped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great in the ways of the modern world as it once was in the ancient world . Meanwhile America salutes China on the beginning of its seventh year of sacrifice . The Chinese people have our admiration , our respect and our pledge that they will be rewarded for what they have suffered , in our behalf as well as their own .                     