@@706748

txt Two measures to authorize and direct President Roosevelt to stabilize farm prices and industrial wages around present levels were approved late today by the Senate and House Committees on Banking and Currency . Bowing to *Yesterday 's protests by the President and Secretary Wickard against any revision of the farm parity formula , the committees refused to include the farm State members ' demand for a new and higher parity in their bills . Both measures , . while shot through with specific Congressional directives , had so many exceptions and compromises written into them as to give the Chief Executive virtually all , if not all , of the sweeping powers he asked in his Labor Day message , when he set the deadline fat legislation at Oct. 1 . Say They Will Fight on Floor Some members from the farm States contended that in each of the measures organized labor would fare better than agriculture and served notice that they had just begun to fight . The Senate committee by a vote of 12 to 7 threw out the rigid " Little Steel " principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living cost advances since Jan. 1 , 1941 . Philip Murray , president of the C. I. 0. , today pronounced the inclusion of this formula in legislation as " thoroughly unjust " and held that it would " destroy morale of American workers . " The committee wrote the " Little Steel " formula into the measure yesterday and it was viewed by members as having been tentatively adopted . The House bill retained the 15 per cent principle , with modifications to permit larger increases with Presidential or other authorized approval . Instead of an increase in farm parity , the Senate committee proposed that farm price ceilings could be raised or broken through on these conditions : Modifications shall be made in maximum prices established for any agricultural commodity and for commodities processed in whole or in substantial part from any agricultural commodity ( clothing , shoes , canned foods and the like ) under regulations to be prescribed by the President if in any instance it appears that such a course is necessary to increase production of a commodity for war purposes , or in which- it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other costs to the producer , the maximum prices would result in gross inequities . Decisions as to the necessity for piercing price ceilings would rest directly with the President , or , ' through him , presumably with Leon Henderson , Price Administrator . The sponsors of a change in the parity formula accepted this compromise with reservations . They indicated that the fight for a new and higher parity would break out anew when the measures reached Senate and House floors early next week . House Bill Permits Adjustments The House bill makes a similar compromise by permitting price adjustments to overcome gross inequities , and , like the Senate measure , offers an optional ceiling of the highest prices prevailing between Jan. 1 , 1942 , and Sept. 15 , although the Secretary of Agriculture could make modifications // COMMITTEES YIELD ON HIGHER PARITY // according to grades , locations and seasonal differences . Both bills provide that no maximum price may be established below a level that would reflect back to the producer a parity price for his goods that go into . processed commodities . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of mandatory government loans at 90 per cent of parity , in place of the present 85 per cent loan rate , and would extend such loans through not only six basic crops  --  cotton , corn , wheat , rice , tobacco and peanuts  --  but to those in which increased production is required to meet war demands . The Senate measure would authorize and direct the President to stabilize prices , wages and salaries so far as practicable on the basis of the levels which existed Sept. 15 and to do it by a general order issued " on or before Nov. 1 . " After that date the Chief Executive might provide for adjustments to the extent that he finds necessary to correct gross inequities . The House bill provides that the President shall stabilize at levels prevailing as of Aug. 15 , but contains no specific directive as to when he should act . " We gathered from the Oct. 1 deadline for the passage of authorizing legislation , " said Representative Steagall , Banking Committee chairman , " that the President was ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vastly differing measures , the Senate joint resolution , sponsored by Senator Brown of Michigan , and Senator Wagner , chairman of the Banking Committee , and the House bill introduced by Mr : Steagall , were resolved in a single day 's committee work into similar drafts , each granting overall authorities . While the Banking Committees , which held jurisdiction over the measures despite farm State opposition , were rewriting the legislation , the Agriculture Committees of both houses met and , so far as was possible , kept informed of what was going on . Meanwhile , the Senate Agriculture Committee appointed a subcommittee to study completed drafts and to make recommendations for floor action by way of amendments . The House Agriculture Committee made similar plans . Chairman Smith of the Senate Agriculture Committee said the fight for a new and higher parity and 100 per cent parity loans would go on . With ten days remaining , excluding Sundays , before the President 's deadline , the Senate was ready to receive Monday a measure with the following provisions : After issuing the general directive for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suspend the price control act in so far as it allows farm prices to rise to 110 per cent of parity before a ceiling can be established . With parity remaining under its present formula , the fair relationship of the prices which the farmer gets for what he sells with the prices of the things which he buys , no maximum prices are to be established below the higher of parity or the highest prices between January and September of this year , under grade , seasonal or geographic adjustments . This system would prevail throughout processed farm commodities . The President could adjust any maximum price to the extent he finds necessary to correct gross inequities . The point was raised , however , with opinions conflicting , that the President , under this phase of the authorization , might be enabled to carry out his recommendations for a limitation of income to a net of $25,000 a year . Few members of the committees appeared to believe the President would carry his interpretation of the " gross inequity " correction clause to this extent without more specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employer would be permitted to pay , and no employe to receive , wages or salaries in contravention of the regulations promulgated by the President , with a fine of $1,000 for violations . The Chief Executive would be authorized to direct governmental agencies , in determining costs or expenses of government contractors , as to the extent to which they should recognize wage or salary payments made in contravention of regulations . Similar provisions are in the House bill . Provision is made also in the Senate draft to protect wages and salaries which are supplemented by customary bonuses and benefits , and which , otherwise , might lead , under stabilization , to actual reductions in normal compensation . The resolution defines wages and salaries to include such benefits in a reasonable amount , to be determined by the President . While the House bill adopted , as a basic principle , the ' ' Little Steel " wage-stabilization formula , it provided for a breLling through of the ceiling it set ween approved by the agency to which administration was assigned by the President . Under this plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not received a wage or salary increase to the extent of 15 per cent , to cover the increase in living costs since Jan. 1 , 1941 , could make voluntary arrangements to bring compensation up to that point without seeking Presidential permission . It , however , the increases sought to be made were in excess of 15 per cent over the 1941 period , the President or the administering government agency would be required to give approval even in cases of such increases to individuals , Mr. Steagall said . Employers of fewer than eight persons would be exempt . All operations of the wage-hour law are protected from invasion . The Senate bill gives similar protection to the Wagner Act .                     