@@706480

txt Prime Minister Winston Churchill , beaming as he does when he has good news to impart , strode into the House of Commons this morning , unheralded and unexpected , to report on the course of the war . Taking up first the furious fighting in the Libyan desert , he declared German Field Marshal Erwin Rommel 's plans for his " initial offensive " had " gone completely awry and cost him dear in men and materiel . " His biggest news , however ? that the Royal Air Force for the second time in fortyeight hours had bombed Germany with more than a thousand planes ? he kept for his curtain line , and a telling one it was . The two great bombing raids ? the first against Cologne and the I second against Essen , home of the Krupp Works  --  the Prime Minister said , marked " the introduction of a new phase in the British air offensive against Germany . " This , he promised , would increase markedly in scale when the R. A. F. i was joined , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Forces . Mr. Churchill , who is not given to idle boasting , made this statement : " In fact , I may say that as the year advances German cities , harbors and centers of war production will be subjected to an- ordeal whose like has never been experienced by any country in contimiI ity , severity or magnitude . " He warned the Commons , however , that it must not expect every future raid against Germany to be on a four-figure scale . The methods of attack , he explained , would be varied continually according to circumstances . Even as he spoke British squadirons of fighters and light bombers were roaring across the English 1Channel to carry out comparatively small-scale attacks on shipping in the harbors of Nazi-occupied France . General 's Message Read Thanks to the method chosen by Mr. Churchill today , the Commons had its news of the Middle East fighting straight from the battle zone in the words of General Sir Claude J. E. Auchinleck in a dispatch just received by the Prime Minister . General Auchinleck 's chronological history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy was said to have lost at least 260 tanks and a large number of transport vehicles before its invading fleet was driven off north of Acroma , was couched in the forthright language of a soldier , without trimming . It was read by the Prime Minister with deliberation , so that the complicated story it told could be followed by any one with a rough picture map of the Western Desert in his mind 's eye . Mr. Churchill , practiced journalist that he is , was careful to credit the source of his information , interjecting at frequent intervals " says General Auchinleck . " Having told the Commons " That finishes the message , " he went on to give his own summation of the facts , declaring that his listeners had every reason to be satisfied and more than satisfied . The Prime Minister was obviously pleased with his news and with the members ' reception of it . He had entered the Commons as Captain Osbert Peake was informing the Chamber there had been sixty sentences to penal servitude for looting . The cheers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peake until he glanced over his shoulder and saw who it was . He sat down quickly . General Auchinleck 's dispatch , which after being read by Mr. Churchill was adopted as the official Middle East communiqu ? for today , gave the clearest picture yet presented of the plan for Marshal Rommel 's desert campaign and how it had fared . While the Commons was cautioned that much hard fighting lay ahead and the decision was still In abeyance , it was obvious that the empire forces had done better than merely hold their own against the first Axis onslaught . Mr. Churchill 's account of the Essen raids was as directly to the point as the commander 's resume of the Libyan battle . It enabled the Prime Minister to leave the Chamber with the cheers of the entire attendance ringing in his ears .                     