@@706626

txt The department of justice has made public the indictment returned at Washington , charging 28 persons with conspiracy to injure the morale of the armed forces . From its language it is difficult to determine whether the administration is embarking on a criminal prosecution or a Moscow propaganda trial . The hand in which the presentment is made may be that of Attorney General Biddle , but its language is the voice of , Dr. Kingdon , and their comrades in the smear brigade . " The defendants , " the indictment urges , " conspired to seize upon and use and misuse the right of freedom of speech and the press to spread their disloyal doctrines , intending and believing that any nation allowing its people the right of freedom of speech and of the press is powerless to defend itself against enemies masquerading as patriots and seeking to obstruct , impede , break down , and destroy the proper functioning of its republican form of government under the guise of honest criticism . " The indictment asserts that the defendants " engaged in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sabotage against any and all efforts of public officials to arouse the military and naval forces and the people . " Strip that language of its garbage rhetoric , place it in relation to the events to which it refers , and you have the contention that any deviation from one party government is seditious . The indictment seeks to make it a crime , in time of peace , to dispute the arguments of the political party in power . By the device of including patriotic critics of the administration policy in the same group with a wide assortment of crackpots , as well as some persons who have been convicted of seditious activities , it is sought to make it impossible to defend the patriots without indorsing the crackpots and defending sedition . The device is too transparent . It defeats itself . It would have been obviously ridiculous to have indicted the America First committee . That would have required calling Gen. back from Australia , where he is fighting under Gen. , and placing him in the prisoner 's dock , charged with seeking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would have required proving similar charges against Mr. Stuart and many other leaders of the committee , who are now wearing their country 's uniform , and against Gen. Wood , Gen. Hammond , and others . Therefore , the America First committee , and its leaders , arc not indicted . The committee is merely lumped in a group of organizations , some of them crazy , some disreputable , and some treasonable . It is charged that the defendants who were indicted " organized , or caused to be organized , supported , used , controled , or contributed financially to " these organizations . It is , in short , the familiar smear by association . None of the charges , of course , could be proved against the America First committee . Its leaders were , from the beginning of their activities , on guard against the lunatic fringe that is attracted to every public controversy . Far from being used by the crackpots , the committee repeatedly spurned them . Had the committee or its leaders been indicted , they would have vindicated themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be smeared with impunity , since they will not be represented by counsel to question any charges directed against them . Nor may those who have been libeled vindicate themselves by civil action , since statements in an indictment , however false , arc still privileged . There is also , technically , a criminal case . A minority of the defendants have already been convicted of seditious practices . Concerning the others , the public will , of course , withhold judgment until the evidence is presented , inasmuch as every American citizen is considered innocent until proved guilty . This remains true , even of those who by their own actions have managed to build up a good deal of prejudice against themselves . The department of justice did not enhance its reputation for good faith when it charged the defendants with conspiracy to commit certain crimes , instead of committing actual crimes . By the use of the conspiracy charge the defendants arc deprived of the constitutional right to be tried in the state where the crime was alleged to have been committed . Even tho it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the colonists for trial in England , which constituted one of the principal grievances against George III . The indictment is returned in Washington , where the majority of the population is on the federal pay roll and the whole population is dependent on the government for a living . A jury anywhere in the country would convict , without hesitation , for actual sedition . Washington is one of the few spots where 12 jurors might be found willing to substitute propaganda for justice .                     