@@710851

txt Freedom is on trial around the world . Economic and political liberty is challenged by authoritarian systems . The Christian Science Monitor has asked a number of outstanding Americans the following question : " How can we best protect , perfect , and promote the American system of democracy and free enterprise ? " Their replies form part of a series of 15 articles of which this is the second . By Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam President of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and Bishop of the New York Area of the Methodist Church . To preserve political freedom , we must think in terms of economic freedom . Back of political liberty lies a thousand years ' struggle of men to be free . The same democratic principles that underlie political liberty must eventually underlie the economic order . Freedom involves the right to participate in determining the conditions under which one works , just as it involves the right to determine the political conditions under which one lives . Too many think of democracy ill terms of casting a vote arKi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It involves our civil liberties . It involves the democratic process carried into the work life . The remedy for our present situation is not less of democracy but more of it . Brotherhood Stressed Within the framework of freedom , the American engineer , executive , economist , educator must discover the concrete means whereby the ethical ideals of religion may be translated into the realities of economic justice and of racial brotherhood . Democracy is preserved when those who believe in it find the means to make it work . The contradiction between the assumptions of autocracy in certain areas of our industrial life and the practice of democracy in large areas of our political life must be resolved . We must turn our attention to fundamental problems and solve them . For instance , how can we remove the contradiction that lies in our ability to produce and our inability to distribute in a moral and rationally adequate way ? Personally , I believe the first step toward the preservation of the democratic way of life is personal dedication to Jesus of Nazareth accompanied by the resolve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his truth , and to be worthy of his life . Religious leaders and men charged with political responsibility must face a fundamental fact . Ideas can not be destroyed by military force . It is possible to destroy the cities of an enemy , to bring his armed forces to surrender  --  in a word , to defeat him as far as the physical power to resist is concerned . But an ideology can not be Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam suffocated by poison gas nor demolished by atomic bombs . Ideas are conquered by better ideas whose truth has been revealed in practices that enrich personality . The most certain way to destroy dictatorship abroad is to establish democracy at home . Liberty , equality , and fraternity are contagious , and if present in sufficient vitality may become epidemic . Justice Bars Communism Let people who suffer dictatorship behold a nation in which man has preserved his liberty , estab lished equality , and practices fraternity , and it is as certain as day follows night that such vision will become a revolutionary force that will not rest until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Justice and brotherhood within the conditions of freedom are like bells . They sound the death knell of communism . Communism will never win a democratic and just America . Communism does not grow in the soil of freedom and justice . Communism makes no headway where plenty exists . Poverty is the open door through which it enters . Communism does not reach the heart of a man who knows he is treated justly , whether white , black , red , or brown . The Malayan who had felt the white man 's boot cared little whether the boots of the Japanese were heard in conquering parade at Singapore . Communism thrives in the jungle growth of racial discrimination . Communism has no message to a society that has abolished the exploitation of man by man . It is precisely that slogan , the abolition of the exploitation of man by man , that alerts the man who is exploited . The killing of =r1SbyRiZtej Negroes in a Detroit race riot , or the lynching of a Negro in the South , creates more communists in a day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many days . Preparedness Urged What I am seeking to say here is that a conflict in the realm of ideology is one that calls for preparedness , not alone in terms of the physical power to resist any who might seek by force to establish their ideology among us , but in terms of those weapons capable of winning victory . We must lay hold upon the right weapons . We must be trained in their use . They are essentially weapons of the spirit . Communism can not be eliminated by pretty tributes to political freedom , nor the burning of much incense before constitutional government . We are victorious in this conflict when , in freedom and under constitutional government , we build a society in which the sacredness of every personality is recognized , in which everyone finds opportunity for the fullest self-expression of which he is capable , and in which each one gladly and wholeheartedly gives himself for ends that are socially valuable . Let us not forget that it is less the materialism , dictatorship , and Marxian economics that have attracted masses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolition of the exploitation of man by man , and the setting up of a classless society . I do not believe these goals can be attained by the communist method of class war and the use of dictatorship . I do believe they can be won for man in the freedom of democracy . Resolution Needed I am one who rejects communism , believing its philosophy of materialism , its use of dictatorship , its theory of social development , and its economics will never bring freedom to man nor abolish the exploitation of one man by another . I am convinced that within the freedom of democracy , we can build a society at once just and brotherly , in which creative talent may be fully evoked and human beings may live in peace and security , enjoying fearless leisure and fruitful labor , and in which the impulse to creative action and service will be stronger than the acquisitive impulse . Let us recruit youth , acquaint them with the thousand-year struggle for political freedom , fire them with passion to preserve it , and , more , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellows . But they must do more than sing " Let Freedom Ring . " They must move out resolved to labor , to face the problems with cool and resolute mind , ready to live and to die that a society may emerge fit to be called the kingdom of God .                     