@@704619

txt Remarks on Nazi White Book Timing of Publication of the Alleged Reports Evokes Comment To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As to the alleged documents contained in the German White Book , Mr. Bullitt and the Polish Ambassador have already bluntly denied the existence of such reports ; Mr. Hull has stated that the Government does not give them the slightest credence , and Senator Pittman has declared that the alleged records were an " unmitigated falsehood , designed to create dissension in the United States . " But the strange perversion of political mentality of our days creates some doubt whether there are not some people who , nevertheless , are inclined to give more credit to the Nazi Propaganda Ministry than to the declarations of the American officials concerned . Such doubtful documents as these can not be used in the fair handling of internal politics . ? Hindenburg Incident Recalled Therefore it , perhaps , is not out of place to relate some history : The Reich President von Hindenburg died Aug. 2 , 1934 . The day before the Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President with that of the Reich Chancellor . The day after Hindenburg 's death Reuters published a telegram saying that a political testament of the late Reich President had not been ' found . Two days later Reuters published a statement that the existence of such a political testament was bluntly denied by all official circles of Nazi Germany . On Aug. 7 , von Papen issued a declaration without mentioning a political testament of the late Hindenburg . But on Aug. 15 the official DNB issued a statement that von Papen , not the son , Oskar von Hindenburg , had finally delivered to Hitler the political testament , which was published on the same day . Konrad Heiden gives the mysterious details about the document in the second volume of his " Hitler . " Suspicions Raised by Text The present case , too , arouses a suspicion that the Nazis discovered the alleged documents very late  --  after six months of occupation  --  but at the very moment when Mr. Welles returned from Europe . Even more suspicious is the text of the alleged documents . Everybody who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the handwriting of the Nazi Propaganda Ministry in two paragraphs of the strange reports : first , the alleged utterances of the American Ambassador , Bullitt , to Mr. Potocki about the influential Jews who surround the President for putting to work a " genial chess move . " This paragraph is well known to everybody who has studied the Voelkische Beobp chter every day for many years . " Childish Tale " as to Kenn Day Even more significant is the childish tale of Ambassador Kennedy saying to the Polish Ambassador in London : " You have no idea to what extent my oldest boy , who was in Poland a short time ago , has the President 's ear . I might say that the President believes him more than me . " A politician of the experience of Mr. Kennedy would not utter such a self-humiliating confession , even to his closest friends ; certainly it ip unthinkable that he woulfl say that to the Ambassador of a forci 'm pov ? er for transmission to the ferc : ; 21 government . It is perhaps advisable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but with three hundred grains of salt . MAX HIRSCHBERG . New York , March 30 , 1940 . Possible Nazi Boomerang To THE EDITOR OF THE ? NEW YORK TIMES : The excitement about this German White Book , which contains conversations purporting to have been uttered by American and Polish diplomats and is attended by threats of impeachment for some of the utterers , vociferated by inept , prejudiced or ignorant legislators , plays directly into the hands of the Nazi publishers simply because the latent motive for publication of the White Book is a bit elusive . There is no doubt that the sentiments expressed in the conversations , whether truthful transcriptions , inflated instructions , or merely " well-found , " represent those entertained by about 80 per cent of the citizens of the United States whose neutrality is merely academic . Their inspiration is beyond all cavil ? detestation of that strange creature who has measurably ruptured civilization , sympathy for nations and individuals who are his victims . Denial of the authenticity of the conversations by the alleged utterers was to be expected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exigency of diplomatic usage . The history of diplomacy is full of similar nullities . Embarrassment Called Aim I have frequently received from diplomats and statesmen an aide memoire , the publication of which would have been , to put it mildly , most embarrassing to the sender , who could not be blamed for repudiating it . It is perfectly clear that the publishers of " Polish Documents Bearing on Events That Led Up to the War " desired to produce similar embarrassment  --  a demarche also not unknown in diplomatic history . But was this all , even when it is remembered that the publication coincided with the return of Mr. Welles , and consequently might be embarrassing to the President of the United States ? Evidently not . The quintessence of the conversations has long been accepted as a fact here , just as it has in Germany . In Germany , however , the publication was designed to offer proof of that fact . Hence , although embarrassment at Washington may have been sufficient motive for Hitler to order the publication , the convincing urge of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accepting the documents at their face value , as the Germans would , they convey a distinct warning of impending catastrophe for them and their Fuehrer , unless he reverses his policy . WALTER LITTLEFIELD . New York , March 30 , 1940 . World Peace Seen in Union Our Part Is Held to Be Demonstrating Advantages of System To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Colonel Smith 's letter , printed in Tnn TIMES of March 27 , expresses extreme dissatisfaction with the role we are playing in international affairs . We have what he calls " the balance of power in international affairs , " and , as I read his letter , he bids us use it to insure an Allied victory ? in Europe and a Japanese defeat in China . I assume he means  --  although " balance of power " has a rather different meaning  --  that we are strong enough to take sides as we may elect and to insure victory anywhere in the world for ourselves and our partners . Balance of Power in Europe I doubt if we are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is it entirely clear that , in the long run , either we or the world would gain by our pursuing that course ? There can be no doubt that we desire to be part of a world both prosperous and at peace . Looking at the latter ? first , it is commonly thought that peace among neighboring States may be achieved in one of two ways : ( a ) by a balance of power , i. e. , by such an equilibrium ( produced by alliance ) of neighboring States that no one of them can safely attack any other , or ( b ) by a union of States . England has been primarily responsible for the application of the balanceof-power formula in Europe . It has suocessfully protected England from invasion , but under it Europe has known only a deadly alternation between war and arming for war . A handful of hardy and enlightened colonials was responsible for the application of the union-of-States formula to the American colonies . That formula. , sadly enough , did not prevent the Civil War , our major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war and arming never dreamed of in Europe . Some Questions Other Than War Europe has two other problems at least as fundamental as the problem of war  --  the problem of economic survival in a world bent on mechanization and specialization and the problem of restoring civil liberties in a world bent on their destruction . Has Europe any chance of economic survival , except as a single , free trade area ? Have civil liberties any chance of restoration in Europe in the absence of a sound economy ? Is it not time that the union-ofStates formula was attempted as the possible solution of all three of Europe 's problems ? And is it not unfortunately true that perhaps the best chance of achieving a United States of Europe will arise if the present war ends in stalemate ? If that is so , is not our greatest possible contribution to the promotion of peace , prosperity and liberty in the world at large to demonstrate their feasibility everywhere by restoring prosperity and by maintaining civil liberties in our union of States , even as we have here maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 , 1940 . Thorough Investigation Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Senate moves in the right direction in setting up a committee to investigate war propaganda that seeks to alter our neutral position . But disservice will be done if the investigation fails to smoke out the Red and Pink propagandists now so active avowedly to keep us out of war . These were the vehement supporters of Ethiopia , Loyalist Spain , CzechoSlovakia and  --  until a sudden , dramatio " awakening " ? Poland , but the equally vehement foes of democratic Finland . These were the noisy champions of collective security , denouncing Britain and France so violently for not going to war against Hitlerism . Now they beat their breasts and inquire , " What are they fighting for ? " And now any sympathizers for the Allies , from President Roosevelt down , are " war mongers , " and any suggestion that the shifts in . Soviet foreign policy cause their shifts in viewpoint is met by the cry of " Red-baiter ! " One might understate the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be trusted . Neither name-calling nor the fallacious belief that our only threat comes from an appeal to intervene should stay the Senate committee from including in their investigation those lovers of totalitarianism whose " peace " propaganda is one phase of their aim  --  the defeat and disintegration of Great Britain and France . Their larger aim is the overthrow of the democratic rights along with the capitalist economic order in the United States as well as in Britain and France . DAVID B. ROSENBERG . Far Rockaway , N. Y. , March 30 , 1940 . Expropriation in Mexico To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have read with interest . the article by Arnaldo Cortesi regarding Mexico in THE Naw YORK TIMES of March 27 . The substance of this article is correct except that the name of the State is wrong . The properties are in the State of Campeche and not in Chiapas . Also , the acreage owned by the Laguna Corporation is 680,000 acres and not 380,000 acres . This is another high-handed method used by President Cardenas in getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHARLES B. FRITZ . Philadelphia , March 27 , 1940 . A Plea for Night Workers TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In their zealousness to enforce the noise abatement edict of silence between 10 P. M. and 7 A. M. city officials have almost completely ? overlooked the right to ' sound sleep of those who work at night . About 15 per cent , or over a million ' persons in New York , work at night , yet little or no provision is made for their sound sleep , despite the fact that , ' working irregular hours , their need for restful slumber , exceeds that of the ' normal daytime worker . ARNoLD M. GALLUB . New York . March 30 , 1940.                     