@@709553

txt In an unprecedented attack on a colleague of the United States Supreme Court , Justice Robert H. Jackson asserted tonight that Justice Hugo Black participated in decisions affecting a former law partner , and that the practice , if continued , would bring America 's highest court into " disrepute . " Mr. Jackson , on leave from the court to serve as chief American prosecutor at the war crimes trial here , said in a statement issued at a news conference that a " feud " of long standing existed between Mr. Black and him . The feud , he said in the statement , which was cabled to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees , " has been so long publicized that Congress has a right to know the facts and issues involved . " Saying that Mr. Black threatened him with " war " unless he " covered up facts " in a case in which Mr. Black 's law partner was involved , Mr , Jackson said : " If war is declared on me , I propose to wage it with weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassin . Warns of Peril to Court " There may be those who think it quite harmless to encourage employment of justices ' ex-law partners to argue close cases by smothering objections which the bar makes to this practice . " But in my view such an attitude soon would bring the court into disrepute . However innocent a coincidence these two victories at successive terms by Justice Black 's former law partner , I wanted that practice stopped . " If it is ever repeated while I am on the bench I will make my Jewell Ridge opinion look like a letter of recommendation by comparison . " Mr. Jackson refused to elaborate on his statement except to tell reporters that the feuding existed among justices appointed by President Roosevelt . " And they called us rubber stamps , " he added . His cable to the two committees , 1Mr . Jackson stated , was in answer to what he termed unjustified attacks in the press and intimated Mr. Black was behind these attacks . He referred to a Washington Star column by Doris Fleeson on May 16 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as complaining against a decision by Mr. Jackson in the Jewell Ridge coal case as an " open and gratuitous insult " and a the " inside story " of the case as laid before President Truman . In Washington , Justice Black refused to comment on Justice Jackson 's charges , The United Press reported . " I have n't made a statement of any kind to the press since coming up fiere , " Justice Black said . " I do n't expect to make any now . " The Supreme Court decision M. the Jewell Ridge coal case held that soft coal miners were entitled to portal-to-portal pay . In the 5-to-4 decision handed down on May 7 , 1945 , Justice Murphy wrote the majority opinion and Mr. Jackson a dissenting opinion . Jackson Praises Vinson " I want it understood , " Mr. Jackson said , " that nothing in this statement is to be construed as the slightest reflection upon Fred Vinson , " who has been nominated by Mr. Truman to be the Chief Justice of the United States . Mr. Vinson 's appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is desirabYe to get the controversy all back of us now so that he ( Mr. Vinson ) can take up his task without the cloud hanging over the court . " Describing Mr. Vinson as " an upright , fearless and well-qualified man " for the Chief Justice post , Mr. Jackson said that " further suppression of facts " of the internal dispute " will not help Mr. Vinson and will afford a continuing basis for irresponsible rumor and innuendo . " " Many have assumed , and the impression has been cultivated , that he ( Mr. Vinson ) faces a mere personal vendetta among justices which can be soothed by a tactful presiding officer , " Jackson said , adding : " This is utterly false . The controversy goes to the reputation of the court for non-partisan and unbiased decision . " Referring to the Jewell Ridge coal case , Mr. Jackson asserted : " Mr. Justice Black controlled the assignment of the case because the Chief Justice ( Stone ) was in dissent . Mr. Justice Black chose Mr. Justice Murphy to write a majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike of mine workers and negotiations with operators were proceeding . " It was proposed to hand down the decision in favor of the miners without waiting for opinion and dissent . The only " . pparent reason behind this proposal was to announce the decision in time to influence contract negotiations during the coal strike . " Mr. Jackson said that the late Chief Justice Stone protested against the " irregular treatment " and that course was abandoned . However , he said , he was " un- easy " about the situation because Mr. Black 's former partner , Crampton Harris of Alabama , was concerned in the case and also was a figure in previous litigation involving the Tennessee Coal Company and a mine union dispute . In that case , Justice Jackson stated , Mr. Black 's vote was decisive in ' favor of Mr. Harris ' client , while Mr. Jackson and two other justices dissented . After these two decisions , Mr. Jackson said , the Jewell Ridge Company appealed for a rehearing asking that Mr. Black be excluded from consideration of the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disqualifying a member . Therefore , Mr. Jackson said , they decided to deny the rehearing . Mr. Jackson said that " Justice Black insisted on a mere denial , " but " neither I nor any of the other justices wanted to lend our names to blind and unqualified approval . " Stone Watered Down Opinion Mr. Jackson wrote the opinion and Mr. Stone watered it down in a compromise , he stated , adding : " I did not say it was wrong of Mr. Justice Black to sit , but I did say the question was for him to decide . I pointed out that to imply approval of his sitting would put the court in a most inconsistent position . " Mr. Justice Black became very angry and said that any opinion which discussed the subject at all would mean ' a declaration of war . ' I told Justice Black in language that was sharp , but no different than I would use again , that I would not stand for any more of his bullying . " Mr. Stone asserted that he did not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Justice Jackson said . He then filed his opinion with the concurrent opinion of Justice Frankfurter , Mr. Jackson said , and added : " Mr. Justice Black put his associates in the position where they must speak or by silence approve , with no knowledge of all the facts , his course in the case . His position came to this : I must join in covering up facts or have war . Such pressure made me doubly cautious about approval , and I refused to buy my peace at that price . " Mr. Jackson said that he was not reflecting on Mr. Black 's " honor " but on the whole judicial policy involved .                     