@@704618

txt Allowing for Contingencies Time Is Not Ripe , ? It Is Held , to Chart a Keep-Out-of-War Course To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I received recently a request for a contribution to an organization ostensibly devoted to keeping America out of war . The literature accompanying it showed that it is sponsored by worthy citizens . I would appreciate an opportunity to state why I refused to assist this group , although I have a high regard for many of its sponsors . It is my belief that if the totalitarian States are victorious or in danger of becoming victorious , it may be important for this country to enter the war . I have been impelled to this conclusion despite the fact that I served in the last war and that I oppose war per se . It is my fear that such an organization will be playing into the ' hands of totalitarian dictators . It is undoubtedly the hope of Germany and Russia that America will keep out of the war until they defeat the other democracies and turn their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the aforementimed letter a pamphlet issued by the Communist party , entitled " Roosevelt Heads for War . " There might have been a similar pamphlet from a Nazi source had it been deemed probable that it would have my sympathy . If it is right to have an organization to keep America out of war , it is equally right to haveb a " Get America Into War Congress . " Both groups could state the same objective , that is , ultimately to preserve democracy . I would no more favor one than the other . It is wrong in a statement of purpose to substitute the means for preserving democracy for the end to be achieved . A similarity may be found in Lincoln 's attitude toward preserving the Union . He did not institute a keep-Americaout-of-war group , but became the leader of a preserve-the-Union movement , even at the risk of facing war . One more thing should be borne in mind . From what has happened in Europe , we have sufficient evidence to know that when ' a totalitarian State is successful today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic life of the people , but it enforces on the conquered people a new ideology which we should call slavery . Thus the time may come when the danger of losing our democracy and civil liberties will be greater if we allow the totalitarian States to gain ultimate victory than if we temporarily and voluntarily sacrifice these rights to a degree by entering into a war to defeat the totalitarian ideology . FRANK E. KARELSEN Jr . New York , March 30 , 1940 . Solving the Subway Problem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a solution of the fare problem on the subways I suggest , ten cents for express trains and five cents for locals . As the haul is generally longer on the express trains and the speed greater , the ride is certainly worth more , and even at ten cents the fare would probably average less than two cents a mile . Moreover , those who are unable or unwilling to pay ten cents could still ride in the local trains for five cents , so this arrangement should satisfy every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; cents , which I understand is about what it costs . To make the plan practicable there would need to be some adjustment of the stations , but I doubt if that would require ' much ingenuity or cost , for little more would be needed thanilongitudinal fences on the express platforms , with turnstiles where the extra nickel would be deposited by those entering on the express side of the fence . By this plan , without injury to any one , the subways would be made at least self-supporting and real estate relieved of a burdensome and unjust tax . ERNEST FLAGG . New York , March 27 , 1940 . Suggested to Hospitals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Every citizen can not be expected to memorize the exact location ' of each hospital emergency entrance , but were such entrances marked rather than hidden from public view , as seems the case , access to the nearest hospital in case of emergency would be easy . The emergency entrance to the accident ward should be painted in a distinctive color . By night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this entrance . Streets leading to emergency entrances should be plainly marked by distinctive indicators . Seconds in emergencies are very valuable , and many lives might be saved by bringing the sick or wounded in closer contact with medical aid . GEORGE 0 . BAER . New York , March 27 , 7.940 . Russet Apples Grown in Louisiana To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have . been interested in the inquiry in . THE TIMES as to where the russet apples have vanished , I planted a russet apple about twenty-five years ago here near the Mississippi River , with beautiful Lake Providence to the north . The . tree grew to a good size , every Spring it was a thing of beauty , its shower of pink and white blossoms the admiration of all who viewed it , but never an apple . About five years ago this tree fruited most generously . I gathered several bushels of the loveliest pale yellow apples with brown specks liberally scattered over . This must have been the swan song of the tree , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Providence , La. , March 25 , 1940 . Warning to Pedestrians TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In one of your recent issues you published a letter calling attention to the danger present when two automobiles are . joined by a bar , connecting their bumpers . Such cases are bad enough , though a person desiring to pass so close behind , and in front of an oncoming vehicle , would be most foolhardy . Where real danger lies is when a vehicle is towed by another by means of a long rope or chain . I suggest that in such a case the first car carry an accepted sign , or . flag , warning the public to look out for the second car . G. S. PICARD . New York , March 25 , 1940 . Immigration Curb Opposed Recent Suggestion of a Correspondent Meets With Protest TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I do not know whether you published , the letter from the chairman of the immigration . committee of the American Defense Society because you share the views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to follow declarations of this kind . These protests must derive from three ' sources . First , apart from practical considerations , the suggestions contradict CKristian morals . Morals , in our days , seem to be considered as secondary matter . Nevertheless , this country boasts rightfully of its Christian and democratic ' principles as in contrast with the acts of other nations . Help for the needy . and persecuted has always been one of the foremost Christian commands . As to the slightly demagogic remark about " bringing strangers into our family . " I do not recollect any word of Christ wherein he recommends restricting help to our compatriots . Further , this country is proud , of its tradition . This tradition has been to keep its borders open for all those who were seeking a haven of freedom and humanity after having been persecuted in their homelands by greed and prejudice . Without this tradition , I am afraid , the American Defense Society members would not have been in the , position of writing their letter , unless they all were of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most pitiable fellow-men of an advantage by which their ancestors , perhaps much less in need , have profited to their own outspoken benefit . And , relaying a task to others will not relieve us of our responsibility . Finally , the letter 's conclusions are unfounded from a practical point of view . The figures of actual immigration are insignificant as compared with the population or even with the number of unemployed . Besides , it is by no means likely , 144. alone proved , that immigration aggravat io unemployment . Depression is a cor-rlequence of faults of our economic system and certainly not of the density of population . New groups of inhabitants are likely to create new industries and new ' jobs . Immigrants will hardly . be preferred to Americanborn workers in obtaining vacant posts . Severe restrictions prevent them from beccining public charges . If private organizations offer them temporary help thin can be of no harm to public welfare , as the way out of depression can be found only by increasing the number of consumers , regardless of their nationality . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is promoting definitely un-American idaolagies in sat , w porting narrow-minded nationalism by unjustified economic apprehensions . WALTER VON FELDAU . New York , March 29 , 1940 . How Young Is Youth ? TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : H. Miller wants something done co clear up the situation in regard to Om use of the word " youth " The difficulty did not ' start just now . In the late Nineties there was a new political party growing in Belgium called the " Young Democrats . " George Helleputte , Professor of Civil Engineering in the University of Louvain and a brilliant orator , was a promoter of the party . He enjoyed saying that it was so named because its founders were all over sixty years of age . Maybe youth has no age and is only a state of mind . E. PIRON . Forest Hills , N. Y. , Mar &; 27 , 1940 . A Break for the City To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The ' letter from Ernst Bacon in THE TIMES , expressing sorrow that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rushmore Memorial , must meet a hearty echo in the hearts of many of your readers . Most people prefer mountains the way God made them . Rather lucky , is n't it , that the rock formation of the Palisades does not lend itself to sculpture ? Otherwise we might have a string of Mayors along its entire face to view from the Henry Hudson Parkway . EDITH HAZEN KINGSLEY . New Rochelle , N. Y. , March 24 , 1940. .                     