@@705978

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. ** President really wants Congress to repeal most of the so-called Neutrality Act , but thus far he has not summoned the resolution explicitly to say so . The uttermost point he reached was when , after specifically asking for the repeal of the ban on arming merchantmen , he requested that Congress give " early and earnest consideration " to the correction of a section of the law that keeps " our ships out of the ports of our own friends . " Now , on the Congressional ear a request for " early and earnest consideration " of something is an entry for the record , a piece of verbal strategy , while a straightout demand for the repeal of something means immediate business and the introduction of a bill . The Congressional ear proved true again in this instance , for the repealer was promptly offered by Administration spokesmen . and it was confined to-a proposed operation on Section 6 , the armed ship ban . It was clearly understood , and published at the time , that if the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate spokesmen of the President would set out at once to build a front for the subsequent elimination of Sections 2 and 3 , which " keep our ships away from the ports of our own friends . " If they could align the executive with that legislative front they would make the repeals coeval . That was the strategy decided on at the White House conference when the House leaders advised against a Presidential recommendation for general repeal . They were n't sure of their votes , and all agreed to use Section 6 as a pathfinder . A Change of Places At this juncture Wendell L. Willkie broke ranks . He had been marching so long and obediently in the President 's foreign policy column , and had been so useful in rounding up stragglers , that those at the head no longer kept an eye on him . They just knew he was following his leader . The leader had been advised Mr. Willkie did a good deal of protesting in bivouac , on one occasion urging that the Navy convoy British supply ships right to their destinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impatient with the frequent halts ordered for the foreign policy column as it proceeded toward the logical goal of lease-lend , Atlantic patrol and " shoot-on-sight . " But on the march he was keeping formation . What , therefore , was the surprise and embarrassment of the Generalissimo and his staff when the follower dashed in front of the leader with a following of his own , disputed the order to make camp on Section 6 and exhorted the column to keep right on beyond Sections 2 and 3l If his exhortation was followed , he would get the credit for it . If it was rejected , the march would be much harder to resume . The order he was giving was the order the Generalissimo had wanted to give in the first place . But the Generalissimo had n't . The only thing to do was to send a faithful detachment to the advanced position Mr .. Willkie was occupying and dispute his right to- control that position . By the time the Generalissimo caught up , the order of command would be restored to its rightful owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the first over the barricade . The plan was duly carried out . The flag of general repeal is in the possession of the Administration 's Senatorial staff , though their commander has n't officially taken it from them yet . The Vulnerable Heel of Policy But Mr. Willkie carried the flag to a point where the staff had to run forward and snatch it from him . His fingerprints are all over the standard . They wo n't wash out . They are as indelible . as the damned spot that survived the applications of every erasing- ' tool in Lady Macbeth 's manicure set . That is what is embarrassing the Administration . Mr. Wilkie struck at the President 's foreign policy in its weakest spot . He exposed how vulnerable is the " step-by-step " strategy . By his own /old and unexpected move he forced that imitation which is the sincerest flattery . This morning at the White House the President 's secretary , Mr. Early , was busily explaining how a careful reading of Mr. Roosevelt 's message on arming ships left no doubt the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the bill introduced at Mr. Willkie 's instance does not require careful reading or any other intense examination to disclose that he wants all the limiting sections of the so-called Neutrality Act swept away at once . The same- clear objective can be seen at a glance in his manifesto by Republicans and his footnote thereto . That is the difference . Mr. Landon in his Kansas City , Kan. , speech last week criticized certain Republicans , among them presumably Mr. Wilkie , for " running interference " for the President on foreign policy . Mr. Willkie was n't running interference this week . He grabbed the ball from a player on his own side and ran with it .                     