@@709790

txt The Department of Agriculture has declared that livestock , grains and milk were among the products in short supply on Sept. 1 . This declaration was made despite the fact that production in each case is substantially above the pre-war level . However , the department has not indicated what standards it is using to determine when supplies are short . Under the new Price Control Act considerable emphasis is given to the existence of " short supply " as a prerequisite for price decontrol . Thus the Price Decontrol Board must use " short supply " as one of its criteria for decontrol . Similarly , the Secretary of Agriculture must certify to the Price Administrator monthly each agricultural commodity which he determines to be in " short supply . " In addition , in any case where a product is in short supply , the Secretary of Agriculture may recommend adjustments in maximum prices he considers to be necessary to attain the required volume of output . However , at no place in the act is any satisfactory definition given of " short supply . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable discretion has been placed in the hands of the Price Decontrol Board and the Secretary of Agriculture as to-when a product is in " short supply . " And they may adopt different definitions if they choose . In its recent decision concerning decontrol of meat the Price Decontrol Board has indicated that it has established no meaningful standard as to what constitutes short supply . Thus it stated that " the supply of meat has been and will continue to be short in relation to demand at reasonable prices . " Now the fact is that meat supplies are substantially greater than they were before the war . Per capita consumption is estimated at 148.0 pounds as compared with 141.4 pounds in 1941 and 132.8 pounds in 1939 . Certainly there is not a short supply of meats in the sense in which that term may be used in connection with items such as automobiles and carpets . A similar situatiorg prevails in connection with many other products . Under the definition used by the Board , we can continue to have the appearance of short supply indefinitely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined in relationship to price . If the price which is considered to be " reasonable " is relatively low , then there will appear to be a shortage . Conversely , if a relatively high price were used as a measuring stick , the apparent shortage would quickly become converted to an apparent surplus . Except in those areas of the economy where the combined impact of reconversion and strikes has continued to hold supplies and inventories abnormally low , total supplies are either equal to or above the pre-war totals . Despite these larger supplies , the appearance of shortage continues to prevail because of the large demand which has developed as a result of the pouring out by the Government of borrowed money , In other words , many of these " shortages " reflect the production of too much money rather than a decline in the production of goods . It is important that more objective standards of " short supply " than those which now prevail should be adopted . It must be recognized that such supplies may fall short of the fdemand at the prevailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required to bring about a new balance . In this connection the rise in meat prices to become effective Tuesday must be considered as salutary . So long as such price increases are moderate , the net effect would be to facilitate the return to a free price system and in many cases to increase supplies . Under conditions of substantial supply such as would be available under this test , the danger of runaway prices would be minimal . Without such standards industry will have no objective criteria to determine when it is eligible for decontrol , the Department of Agriculture will find it virtually impossible to determine that a product is or is not in short supply , and the Price Decontrol Board will find itself overwhelmed with requests for decontrol , the merits of which will have to be decided separately in each case .                     