@@710438

txt In a monumental decision affecting freedom of the press . the Supreme court today ruled that newspaper men may criticize a judge 's conduct of a pendfez trial without being sentenced to jail for contempt . Accordingij , in a 6 to 3 decision , ft ref erred the contempt convictions ecainst three Corpus Christi 1Tex .. 1 newspaper men who were sentenced to three days in jail by a county The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals had upheld the convictions . The majority opinion was written by Justice Douglas anti was joined in by J slices Murphy . Burton , r.1 , k , Reed , and Rutledge . Murphy Conw  --  y C. Craig firfli , Bob Mo . raci.en teenier , and Tom Mulvaney. delivered a separr4e concurring opinion . Justice Frankfurter wrote a dissent , in which Chief Justice Vinson concurred , and Justice Jackson filed an individual dissent . Three in Jail Six Hours The case involved Conway C. Craig , publisher ; - Bob McCracken , managing editor , and Tom Mulvany , reporter , of the Corpus Christi Caller-Times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county for articles and an editorial hick he deemed critical of his conduct of an eviction trial in 1945 . They served six hours in jail before obtaining release under temporary writs of habeas corpus . The eviction trial concerned Army , Pt ' t . Joe L. Mayes , who attempted 1o , retain a lease on a cafe in Corpus ' Christi . Browning directed the jury to bring in a verdict against Mayes , but the jury refused twice and was locked up overnight . It finally yIelded to the judge 's direction , under protest . Browning denied ' Mayes a new trial and found the newspaper men in contempt for criticizing his actio.s . Called " Travesty on Justice " Among the newspaper 's editorial comments on the case was the follev. - Ing : " Browning 's behavior and tliude have brought down the wrath of public opinion upon his henl , and properly so . . . . Amer1 , mr1 people simply do n't like the Id , a of such goings on . especially v hen a man In the service of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? . It Is no wonder that the jury balked and public opinion is outraged .. . . " An editorial also e.serted that the judge 's action was a travesty on justice " and a " high handed procedure , " Judge Browning asserted that the purpose of the articles was " calcu. lated to reflect upon the integrity of the court . " The majority opinion , delivered /1 : , Reed , because Douglas is III , said the case dealt with an important question on the power of a court promptly and without a jury trial to punish for comment on cases pending before it and awaiting disposition . " Imminent Threat " Cited " The history of the power to punish for contempt , " it said , " and the unequivocal command of the first amendment serve as constant reminders that freedom of speech and of press should not be impaired thru the exercise of that power , unless there Is no doubt that the utterances in question are a serious and imminent threat to the adminisstration of justice . " It concluded that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of justice and said elected judges espedaily must expect criticism . They must have fortitude to withstand such pressures , it said . " The law of contempt is not made for the protection of judges who may be sensitive to the winds of public opinion , " said Douglas . " Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude , able to thrive in a hardy climate .. .. judges who stand for reelection run on their records . That may be a rugged environment . Criticism is expected . Discus ' sion of their conduct is appropriate , if not necessary . " Vehemence " Ruled Out " The vehemence of the language used is not alone the measure of the power to punish for contempt . The fires which it kindles must constitute an imminent , not merely a likely , threat to the administration of justice . The danger must ' not be remote or even probable ; it must immediately imperil . " The decision granted that the newspaper articles were partial reports of what happened at the trial but commented that " inaccuracies in reporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be laid by the heels for contempt " because he missed the essential point or failed to summarize the Issues as the judge saw them . " A free , press lies at the heart of our democracy and its preservation is essential to the survival of liberty , " Murphy said in his concurring opinion . " Any inroad made upon the constitutional protection of a free press tends to undermine the freedom of all men to print and to read the truth . " Duty " Best Answer " In my view , the Constitution forbids a judge from summarily punishing a newspaper editor for printing an unjust attack upon him or his method of dispensing justice . The only possible exception is in the rare instance where the attack might reasonably cause a real impediment to the administration of justice . " Silence and a steady devotion to duty are the best answers to-irresponsible criticism , and those judges who feel the need for giving a more vikible demonstration of their feelings may take advantage of various laws passed-for that purpose which do not impinge upon a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , are too.highly prized to be subjected to the hazards of summary contempt procedure . " Jackson said he did not believe the court would be so indifferent to press criticism " if a news monopoly in our entire jurisdiction should perpetrate this kind of an attack on us . " Calling attention to the entry of the American Newspaper Publishers ' association into the case as a friend of the court , Jackson said " this might be a good occasion to demonstrate the fortitude of the judiciary . " Warns of Interpretation " For this court to imply that this kind of attack during a pending case is all right seems to me to compound the wrong , " said Jackson . " The press of the country may rightfully take the decision of this court to mean indifference toward , if not approval of , such attacks upon courts during pending cases . " I do not know whether it is the view of the court that a judge must be thick skinned or just thickheaded , but nothing in my experience - or observation confirms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Vinson attacked the majority for citing the late Justice Holmes as authority that judges can not claim immunity from criticism . They described liolmes as " an Olympian who was so remote from the common currents of life that he did not read newspapers . " " Judges are not merely the habitations of bloodless categories of the law which pursue their predestined ends , " said Frankfurter , contending that today 's decision holds unconstitutional and overturns previous protection by the court of powers of the states to safeguard the independence of their courts . Paper Halls Decision In Corpus ChristI . the CallerTimes called the decision " a significant episode in the continuing struggle for a free press . " Robert M. Jackson , editor , outlined the newspaper 's position in a statement which said : " Since Browning first cited three Caller-Times newsmen for contempt of court , we have contended that his action was an attempt to edit a newspaper from a judge 's bench . " We believe the people are entitled to know what transpires in their courts . We believe that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law which permits a layman to occupy a judicial office . Texas law does not require that a county judge be a lawyer . Fight Termed Worthwhile " Because we believe an unshackled press is vital to the preservation of our free institutions , we elected to fight this case to the highest court . " Browning , who left the bench Jan. 1 , not having sought reelection , said there " never was any attempt on my part to stifle the freedom of the press . " Browning is in the hardware business now . " I was trying to help the press . if anything , for I believe the pres : should have freedom , " he added a statement . " But when a newspa per attempts to act as the judge in a court case , I feel that it is misusing its freedom . " 