@@705812

txt The gasoline situation in the Eastern States is , to put it mildly , confused . The extent of the confusion is deeply underscored by several events of the past few days . On Wednesday Acting Petroleum Coordinator Ralph K. Davies announced that gasoline reserves on the East Coast were equal to only ten days ' supply and the situation was getting worse . On the following day the Automobile Club of Rochester threw overboard its sticker campaign to conserve gasoline , announcing that there was no shortage in that area . The American Automobile Association advised its members that the situation was not such as to warrant their curtailing vacation and other automobile travel . Executives of leading oil companies let it be known that they saw no need for drastic restrictions on gasoline use . Three New England Senators voiced the suspicion that the whole shortage was being exaggerated and demanded a Congressional investigation . All these doubts and suspicions , thrown against a background of bewilderment and confusion among gasoline suppliers and retailers , indicate that the campaign to conserve oil in the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ineffectual administration . Two principal reasons for this - ) reakdown are not hard to find . 1 . In spite of his great gifts of selfoxpression , Petroleum Coordinator Ickes has not yet placed before the public in satisfactory detail the precise facts of the situation . It is known that the problem is not one of oil production ; that is at a record and is still being curtailed . The scarcity ; threatened or existing , springs from the diversion to Britain of tankers formerly used in the run from the Gulf ports upon which the East is dependent for almost all its supplies . But there are widely conflicting estimates of the number of tankers normally required , uncertainty about how many have already been diverted and still more uncertainty about how many more are to be taken . 2 . In tackling the problem Mr. Ickes and his associates have conveyed the impression of not being very sure what they were doing and of having still less assurance about how to do it . They have been lavish in alarming forecasts and exhortations ; but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as dealers and motorists hastened to fill up their tanks . By the device of a curfew and a 10 per cent reduction of deliveries the Government has sought to shift the responsibility for rationing consumption onto the shoulders of small business men . This unhappy experience is a reminder that rationing , price control and other forms of wartime regulation can not be ordered as simply in a democracy as in totalitarian nations . Government can not look for docile acceptance of its demands for sacrifice unless it is prepared to enlist the genuine cooperation of the public by adequate and painstaking explanation of the reasons for the sacrifice and convincing demonstration that it is necessary . Mr. Ickes ought to lose no time in giving a detailed accounting of the situation and in instituting a fair system of apportioning whatever sacrifice is needed , based upon Government responsibility .                     