@@705197

txt As a wartime measure , and for the purpose of economizing between $5,000,000 and $6,000,000 a month of foreign exchange which will be devoted to the purchase of war material in the United States , legislation providing for the prohibition of import of thirty main categories of manufactured goods from outside the sterling group was introduced in the Canadian Parliament today by Finance Minister J. L. Ilsley . A second list of imported articles will be admitted in limited quantities by special permit . At the same time , to reduce consumption of Canadian manufactured luxury goods and to prevent the expansion of their manufacture to take the place of prohibited imports , an excise tax of 20 to 25 per cent of the manufacturers ' price will be imposed on most of these prohibited articles manufactured in Canada . List of Prohibited Articles The list of articles of which the importation , almost entirely from the United States , will be prohibited is summarized as follows : Prepared cereal foods , florist stock and cut flowers , processed and canned fruits and vegetables ( but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ juice ) , preserved fish , oysters and crab , manufactured tobacco , spirits and wines , certain classes of fiction magazines and comics , consumers ' paper items , perfumes , china and glass , silverware , electrical household appliances , stoves , bathroom fittings , automobiles , sporting goods and fishing tackle , cameras , furniture of wood or metal , radios , phonographs , musical instruments , luggage , all finished clothing or wearing apparel , silk fabrics , ornaments , jewelry and precious stones , toys and dolls , and various miscellaneous articles . Contrary to expectation , fresh fruit and vegetables were omitted from the list of prohibited articles after , Mr. Ilsley said , long debate as to the advantages or otherwise from the different viewpoints of foreign exchange saving and those of the American producer and the Canadian consumers . Weighed Reaction in United States " We had to weigh , " he said , " the inevitable public reaction which there would be in many of the agricultural districts of the United States and the embarrassment this reaction would cause to a friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surpluses . The United States Government felt compelled to point out that prohibition of fresh fruit and vegetables would gravely prejudice the position of the Canada-United States Trade Agreement and under it the tariff concessions assured to certain Canadian agricultural exports . " The second list of articles for which import permits will be issued , but only in restricted amounts , comprises five major categories . These include , first , unmanufactured tobacco ; second , automobiles and motor vehicles other than passenger automobiles ; third , hardwoods and veneers , and plywood ; fourth , raw silk and various partially manufactured forms of natural silk , but not artificial silk or similar synthetic fibers ; fifth , all petroleum products . In introducing these sweeping economy measures Finance Minister Ilsley said that the paramount consideration had been the effective prosecution of the war and the fair apportioning of the war burden . Canada , he said , derived foreign exchange from the sale of gold from her exports to the United States and from the tourist trade which had been damaged by false reports regarding war conditions here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued increase in Canadian wartime imports from the United States outweighed all these efforts and left a substantial excess of imports over exports . " While we are temporarily compelled to restrict certain imports from our friendly neighbor to the south , " Mr. Ilsley said , " this does not mean that our total trade with , or our total purchases from , that country will be reduced . On the contrary , our imports from the United States will certainly show a large increase this year over last year and will be larger than ever before in our history . All that will happen will be a shift in the character of our imports  --  a reduction in nonessential imports for non-war purposes in order to make possible a substantial increase in our purchases of vitally needed war equipment and supplies . " We regret the disruption which will necessarily occur in certain established trades across the border , but we are confident that any loss of a direct Canadian market which certain United States producers will suffer will be more than made up by an expansion in domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies in the United States market . " With regard to the increased taxation on Canadian products Mr. Ilsley said : " The prohibition or restriction of imports will , in many cases , result in a greater demand for domestic products . We desire , however , to prevent this greater demand resulting either in an expansion of the domestic industry concerned or in enhanced prices and profits for domestic manufacturers . Curbs Effective at Once OTTAWA , Dec. 2 ( Canadian Press ) ? Import restrictions announced today by Finance Minister J. L. Ilsley are effective at once , but will not apply to " any goods which on or before Dec. 2 , 1940 , were in transit to Canada . " Excise taxes apply to all goods imported or taken out of warehouse for consumption on or after Dec. 2 , 1940 , and to goods previously imported for which no entry for consumption was made before that date . Trade Mission at Nassau Special Cable to THE NEW YORE Tniza . NASSAU , Bahamas , Dec. 2-3 . A. , Canadian Trade Minister , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three days . In an interview Mr. stated that his West Indies and South American tour was of an " exploratory good-will " character . He is flying back to Miami en route to Jamaica on Friday . He plans to make the entire tour by plane and expects to be back in Canada in January .                     