@@707327

txt CEYLON PREPARING DRIVE ON JAPANESE Vital Island Off India Shows Growing Signs Mountbatten Is Piling Up Power By TILLMAN DURDIN By Wireless to THE NEW YORE TIMES . COLOMBO , Ceylon , Sept. 18 ? Fitting in with the announcement that Acting Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten 's offensive in southeast Asia would be based on India and Ceylon , preparations are being accelerated here for the day of counter-attack against the Japanese . Evidence is plentiful that the purely defensive phase of the war in this part of the world is over , and that , in time , blows will be launched from here against enemy-controlled territory . East African native troops are here in considerable force  --  tall , deep-chested fellows bred to the tropics and now being especially trained for jungle operations // against Japanese . Supplies from Great Britain ; Australia and the United Stales are being accumulated . Bases ? are being developed , among them new airdromes hacked from the jungle , and old airdromes are being enlarged . New planes have arrived and more are coming . The Wrens are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Fannies , " The latter group are from East Africa and are members of the Female Ambulance and Nursing Yeomanry . New faces and new uniforms  --  some with lots of rank showing ? appear almost daily . Everybody , from subaltern to air commodore and civilian speculate , s on how Ceylon will figure in the Mountbatten offensive . Nobody will know , of course , except the highest commanders here and leaders in Washington and London until the " zero hour " comes . Geography , Assigns Vital Role Elementary geography , however , assigns to this rich tropical island , as it has for centuries , an important role in any military operation in Southeast Asia or the Indian Ocean . Hanging like a pendant from the tip of the Indian Peninsula , Ceylon is a natural base from which to exercise naval and air control over the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean . The Andaman Islands and the southwest corner of Burma are a little more than 700 miles away , while the northwest tip of Sumatra lies just 1,000 miles from here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa and Madagascar , contributing to the importance of Ceylon as a base for the air patrolling of the Indian Ocean . Trincomalee , in the northeast corner of the island , has one of the best anchorages in the Far East , while Colombo , in the southwest corner , is a big commercial port , with facilities to handle a large amount of shipping and supplies . Eighteen months ago , when Singapore had fallen and Burma was , being overrun by the Japanese , Ceylon was the outpost of defense against a farther enemy advance to the west . In April of 1942 a Japanese carrier task force sailed ' into the Bay of Bengal and staged two mass air attacks here . One was concentrated against the Port of Colombo and the other against Trincomalee . The aim , obviously , was to knock out the British Far ' Eastern Fleet and to wreck the shipping and naval and military installations , as at Pearl Harbor . The main fleet had anticipated the attack and had left Ceylon . The Japanese sank a few ships but lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Japanese have not attacked Ceylon since . Preparations Made in Year Thus , the Commander in Chief here , Admiral Sir Geoffrey Layton , former commander of Britain 's naval forces based on Singapore and the China coast , has had more than a year in which to consolidate his defenses . In cooperation with the civil government , he has had the chance to build up the island 's economic and military potential . Free of the political troubles that plague India , tropical Ceylon , with its 6,000,000 native inhabitants and 10,000 . Britons , has made some impressive contributions to the cause of the United Nations . Many thousands of extra tons of rubber will be produced this year to double the pre-war figure . This will be accomplished by " slaughter tapping " of trees , with ruthless disregard for the post-war effect on the plantations . Fifty thousand or more Ceylonese have joined the army dr navY or labor corps . Wartime hardships have struck ' all the population in the form of food and commodity shortages . Before the war the island imported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The serious shortage of rice has been partly made up by imports of wheat and barley from Australia , which the Ceylonese do not like but at last have come around to eating . Prices for many other commodities besides food have gone up 100 per cent and in some cases 200 per cent . Government control operates for many commodities , but black markets thrive here as they do all over the world . Actually , in one part of the island pilfered gasoline is so plentiful that the black market price is one-half the official price . Colombo 's famous gems  --  sapphires , aquamarines , moonstones and rubies  --  have increased in price like everything else , but jewelry shops do not lack customers . Indeed , the bigger shops have long lists of persons waiting for better grades of stones , and importune New York , Buenos Aires , Capetown and London for consignments of gems . Hollywood stars who will want to shop for jewels in Colombo on their round the world tours will not lack for stones , however , for most shops are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when there will again be a big demand for the very best from travelers'with large bank accounts . Thousands of European refugees from Malaya and the Netherlands Indies descended on Ceylon as the Japanese overran these territories . Refugee women as well as Ceylonese and European women were evacuated to South Africa . A significant straw in the wind is the fact that women who can do war work are being allowed to return . At the same time , British civilian men from Malaya have received leaves for the first time since Malaya fell , apparently against the day , soon to come , when they will return behind the armies reoccupying Malaya and get down to the arduous job of reestablishing themselves and the British system there .                     