@@711100

txt What reply , beyond note writing , the United States Government should make to the Soviet Union 's conquest of Czechoslovakia today is occupying official Washington very nearly 24 hours a day . When Hitler seized control of Czechoslovakia in the spring of 1939 , this action forced a political realignment of Europe on the eve of World War II . Now that Stalin has seized power in Czechoslovakia in a pattern which spells 1939 all over again , this action is forcing the United States to reconsider its security arrangements with Britain and western Europe . The frank purpose of this reconsideration is to erect a defensive barrier to World War III . The United Nations itself is helples. , to act because of the Security Council veto . Under the veto no step can be taken by the Security Council to enforce the peace without unanimity . Thus the Soviet Union is immune from any repressive measure on which the United Nations otherwise might agree . It is for this reason that American policy makers are turning to Article 51 of the Charter . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; for mutual defense . It reads : " Nothing in the present Charter precludes the existence of regional arrangements or agencies for dealing with such matters as relating to the maintenance of international peace and security as are appropriate ' for regional action , provided that such arrangements or agencies and their activities are consistent with the purpose and principles of the United Nations . " - ? It is under this provision that the United States is considering putting its support unequivocally behind the western European defense alliance recently proposed by Foreign Secretary Ernest ' Bevin . The adherents , to begin with , would include America , Britain , France , Belgium , and the Netherlands . Washington appears increasingly convinced that European disunity is a sure invitation to the extension of Soviet domination to the Atlantic Ocean , and that a united western Europe in a'firm alliance , backed by the United States and its economies strengthened by the Marshall Plan , is the only way to prevent Moscow from picking off the European democracies one by one . American officials see such a regional security arrangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle of the Lend-Lease Act . Enacted before the United States was in the war , this legislation laid down the premise that America would aid any country maintain its independence whose defense the United States Government " deemed vital " to its own security . As a logical extension of the Greek-Turkish aid program , which undertook to help secure the political and territorial integrity of these two countries against outside aggression . As a logical counterpart to the 40-year treaty proposal ' which Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg and , later , Secretary of State James F. Byrnes inade to Moscow for preventing or dealing with any future German aggression . In this proposed four-power defensive treaty ( America , Britain , France , U. S. S. R. ) the United States stood ready to take inDuffy , Baltimore Sun Next ? stant joint action by force to repress any German act toward rearmament or aggression . A western European alliance would mean that America , Britain , France , Belgium , and the Netherlands would make the same commitment to each other in the event of any Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such a regional alliance is seen as the logical concomitant of the European Recovery Program , as providing the maximum political security during the achievement of indispensable economic recovery . The advocates of a regional security pact advance these arguments : Steps to keep western Europe secure against aggression must proceed simultaneously with steps to promote western European recovery . They go hand in hand . The Marshall Plan countries will not be able to gear their economies effectively to peacetime production unless they have firm assurance that they will be supported , not abandoned , in face of spreading Soviet aggression . Only the United States can give that assurance . Moscow 's seizure of Czechslovakia will dismay , America 's allies and strengthen all Europe 's Communists unless the United States responds decisively . France can not safely contemplate and co-operate to bring about the revival of German industry , essential as it is to the Marshall Plan , unless it is reassured against German militarism by American power . What is important at this stage is not what the United States might do against the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what remains of the free world . The purpose is to avert Soviet aggression upon western Europe by making it boldly and conclusively clear to Moscow that aggression will bring united and forceful resistance . Moscow will not " pause or step back before words alone .                     