@@705891

txt Plans are now under way for the building of a high-tension electric power line from Millwood , N. Y. , to the Sherman Creek plant of the Consolidated Edison Company at the foot of Dyckman Street , it became known yesterday . The project is intended to make available surplus power from steam-generating plants in this city for defense industries up-State , where a power shortage is threatened . The Consolidated Edison Company , the Niagara Hudson Power Company and the New York Central Railroad have been negotiating about the possibility of building the new line on the right-ofway of the Putnam Division of the New York Central , which for about twenty miles roughly parallels the Saw Mill River Parkway in Westchester and then cuts through Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx . Officials of the three corporations , doubtless recalling the outcry that arose from real estate owners in Westchester in 1931 over the building of a high-tension line from Millwood to Dunwoodie , N. Y. , flatly refused to discuss the proposal yesterday , but Milo B. Maitbie , chairman of the Public Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned . Mr. Maltbie explained that the increased demands of defense industries up-State and the effects of the drought in lowering stream levels in that area had combined to bring about a serious power shortage , while New York City i still has available a. safe margin above its existing needs . He said that no application for the new line had been filed with the commission yet but one is expected shortly . Federal power and defense officials said in Washington yesterday that there was urgent need , in the interest of national defense , for speedy action in making available more power to up-State New York . ' The shortage there has been intensified , they said , by the decision to build a government-owned aluminum-reduction plant at Massena , N. Y. , to provide 150,000,000 pounds of aluminum a year . Ralph V. Davies , New York manager of the Aluminum Com- pany of America , which is to operate the new plant for the government , said the existing plant of the Aluminum Company at Massena was already using every kilowatt of power available and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional power required for the new plant . In Washington officials familiar with the project said that a definite decision on the new power connection had not yet been made , but could be expected within two weeks . While the route through Westchester appears the most feasible , they said , two alternatives are also under study . One is to bring the power line down the west bank of the Hudson and the other is to supply mid-State areas from out of the State . The west shore plan , they said , would involve a very costly connection across the Hudson here , and also brought objections from certain New York State officials because it would be an interstate matter . As for providing the additional power from out of the State , it was said by those who have stuaied the matter that it appears doubtful whether enough power is available from these sources . The proposal now favored would call for the construction of a 132 , - 000-volt line on eighty-foot steel towers , from the southern terminus of the Niagara Hudson 's heavy transmission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Y. , and then along the railroad rightof-way into New York City . It would border or traverse park or park-vay areas for almost the entire distance . At present there is a high-tension transmission line running overhead from Millwood , N. Y. , to Dunwoodie along the route of the Croton Aqueduct , and then going underground to the Hell Gate plant of the Consolidated Edison Company . Before it was built in 1932 Westchester residents protested angrily and county officials made an unsuccessful legal battle to have it put underground . Similar Reaction Expected Anticipating a similar outburst against the current proposal , defense officials said yesterday that it had been estimated that the planned overhead line would cost about $18,000 a mile , while to put it underground would cost about $150,000 a mile , or nearly nine times as much . These estimates , it was said , did not take into consideration recent increases in the prices of materials . Although a priority rating would be essential for the erection of the line , Washington officials said there would be no nifficulty in arranging this in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were also inclined to favor it from a long-range point of view as tending to make available ultimately cheap power from the St. Lawrence for New York City consumers . The ten-year-old line , which , like the proposed one , has a capacity of 132,000 volts , is inadequate to meet the demands of the emergency , defense officials said . It was originally built to carry cheap power from up-State to the city , but since the development of the defense emergency the flow of current has been reversed . New York City-generated power is not transmitted all the way to Massena , it was explained , but is utilized in mid-State areas where it releases power for the northern section of the State . See Cheaper City Power Washington officials were inclined to view the proposed line as a means of making power available to New York City when and if the St. Lawrence power project , which has been a favorite of President Roosevelt 's , is completed . In Westchester county officials yesterday said they had not been informed of the project but would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Haight , superintendent of the Westchester Park Commission , said he would investigate to make sure that park property was not harmed by the proposed development . Representatives of the corporations involved in the proposal were extremely reticent . A spokesman for the New York Central Railroad said he could not discuss it because the proposel was " very much in the preliminary stage , " while officials of the Consolidated Edison Company simply reiterated : " The company has nothing to say . " Niagara Hudson officials said that any statement would have to come from Consolidated Edison , since the line would be built entirely in the latter corporation 's operating territory .                     