@@711635

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 ? President Truman 's unprecedented victory at the polls last Tuesday placed him in a commanding position to initiate action for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Labor Management Relations Act . ' Scarcely had his triumphant return trip to Washington ended yesterday when plans already under preliminary discussion last week were again subjected to further scrutiny . Organized labor is now ready for a new labor law that will be less harsh on employers than the old Wagner . Act . But it will insist that the new statute must protect labor against any discrimination as fully ! as the Wagner Act did , and must ' also omit what it considered the harsh penalties of the Taft-Hartley1 Law . Both President Truman and or-i ganized labor are for scrapping the seventy-page act which went into ! effect in June , 1947 . They feel that ! it can not be amended because of its complexity . That the old Wagner Act can- i not be again enacted word , for ! word is also a foregone concltision ! to observers . So labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in the hope that an agree-1 ment may be reached . What Labor May Approve What kind of an industrial code will organized labor be willing to approve ? Labor spokesmen have offered no blueprint and will no doubt be hesitant to show their cards at once , but those conversant with the views of influential union figures believe that they would be willing to give the nod to a law which would encompass the following provisions : ( 1 ) The right of labor to organize and bargain collectively , free from discrimination by employers . ( 2 ) Creation of a labor board to hold elections and decide complaints . ( 3 ) The obligation of labor to bargain collectively on request by management . ( 1 ) Use of the injunction to postpone strii- ? -s affecting public health pending intervention of mediation machinery . ( 5 ) Protection of the right of free . speech by employers and employes so long as it is free from coercion and intimidation . ( 6 ) Further efforts to create a strong , well-manned Conciliation Service , restoring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chances for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act ? Those who are presaging for repeal have in mind the old-line Southern Democrats in the Senate who may interpose objection to the idea . Labor-Management Formula Without a substitute deemed satisfactory tee them these legislators may prove stubborn . However , President Truman 's plan is to bring labor and management together to work out a possible formula so that an agreed-upon program may remove doubts from Congressional minds . Whether this will work is anybody 's guess . It will depend to a considerable extent upon the resourcefulness and mental agility of Secretary of Labor Maurice J. Tobin . In the coming conferences Mr. Tobin may be the catalyst to precipitate the successful fusion of ideas on the labor-industry front , While the Vice President-elect , Senator Alben W. Barkley , will be depended upon to work out the problem in the Senate . Of course there will be many suggestions to amend the TaftHartley Act instead of repealing it . Labor will oppose those efforts and argue that the elections gave Congress a " mandate " to wipe out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results served as a " mandate " to enact the statute . One encouraging sign is that labor leaders , in some cases , are no longer inclined to deny that the Wagner Act , if amended within a reasonable time after enactment in 1935 , would have staved off demand for more radical readjustment . Basic Rights In effect , this is a confession that the former labor law was something less than perfect . The conclusion , of course , is that something different from the Wagner Act would be acceptable provided the basic rights of labor to organize without discrimination and select representatives of its own choice were retained . Whether the Laborites will be successful in pushing through a repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act or not , the effect of the political upset on Tuesday is likely to lead to a more considered application of the law than heretofore , in labor opinion . It has been no secret that some who helped write , the statute ( including those in and out of Con-1 congress ) have figuratively sat on the ' coattails of the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harsh interpretation is ' a matter of argument . In any event , the informal conferences between the law 's administrators and 1 its progenitors will probably terminate . Finally , the possibility of a repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act must be considered in the light of other aspects of the Truman and Democratic platform campaign pledges , notably the civil-rights program . No doubt some of the President 's advisers will suggest that " two bites of a cherry " would be better than attempting to put through the most controversial planks in his program quickly . The Truman victory had wide labor repercussions , even beyond lifting labor 's hopes for scrapping the Taft-Hartley Act . First , the various political labor leagues , moat of them scarcely a year old ( the CICaPolitical Action Committee is an exception ) , are now assured of permanency . The AFL and its nev Labor 's League for Political Education , as well as the political arms of the machinists ' union , the railroad unions and others , are certainly here to stay . Second , the minority movement for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of last Tuesday proved to labor that it could support candidates of any of the political parties and make more headway than if it formed its own political party , for the present at least . But the Truman victory also was not lost on many rank-and-filers who felt that ultimately a genuine third party on the model a the British Labor party may be necessary . The moment for such a development , however , is not deemed ripe . Political " Realignment " In effect , labor has given the present political set-up two years of grace . If Congress fails to measure up by 1950 to the major planks in the labor program ; the problem of a political " realign ; ment " will be in the forefront of labor 's discussions . Third , the possibility of a top Federation of Labor Leagues , formed for **25;1153;TOOLONG objectives , was stimulated by the election results . Conceivably the rank-and-file precinct and local union " Jimmy Higginsee , " who rang doorbells and got out the vote without organizational rivalry , may give the cue to topside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one high labor official this week viewed the election resuit in the light of is hint , at least , that labor get together on the political front throughout the country . Fourth , labor unity ' on the plane of rank-and-file discussion was stimulated by the election of Mr .. Truman , but organic unity is still a long way off . That the AFL and CIO may renew talks on the subject by the end of the year is also more on the likely than on the unlikely side . Fifth , passage of the chairmanships of the Senate and House Labor Committees from Republican to Democratic hands will leave the initiative to those inclined to lend labor a sympathetic ear .                     