@@707382

txt Marshal Pietro Badoglio in a newspaper interview today discussed the present situation in his country , events which had brought it to pass , and his hopes for Italy 's immediate future . He disclosed a sequence 01 hitherto little known events by which Benito Mussolini alone committed Italy to war in 1940 without the consent or even knowledge of his military chiefs who knew the nation 's total unreadiness for grand-scale war . The veteran soldier prepared answers to a series of questions submitted to him for a considered reply , also some spontaneous remarks in amplification of his formal answers . His statements included : 1 . Liberation of Italy is the prime need . Representatives from each political party will be included in the government , but their leading figures are now so scattered and in hiding that a sound selection of them he regards as impossible until Rome is regained and they can enter public life again . 2 . When such constitutional government is created , the Marshal says his duty will be complete and he will immediately surrender office . 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this constitutional authority . 4 . Punishment of individual Fascists not yet determined . 5 . Mussolini himself had originally opposed entry into the war and changed his mind only when he thought German victory assured . 6 . It was Mussolini himself who hastened Italy 's ruin by sending the bulk of his divisions to Russia and the Balkans as a sacrifice to Hitler , instead of keeping them at home for a needed part in the Mediterranean theater . The questions and answers fol-low : Internal Problems Question : How does the Marshal envisage for the immediate future the internal problem the country from the Germans , acting in close collaboration with the British and Americans . Free Elections Question : What preliminary general plan for Internal reform does the Marshal 's government hope to put through in the immediate future , as soon as liberation of national territory will allow and as far as necessities of war will per-mit ? Answer : The answer to this question will be given in due course by my successor , seeing that as soon as hostilities have ceased I will resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministry for the purpose of holding elections throughout the country . Among reforms carried out by me , the principal ones are all the measures taken to suppress Fascist institutions . They are : Dissolution of the Fascist party and of the Chamber of Fasces and Corporations , , abolition of the Grand Council of Fascism , suppression of the special Fascist tribunal , abolition of the GIL , retirement of 45 Fascist prefects and their replacement by career prefects . ' changes in boards of big banking and insurance organizations , incorporation of militia in the army , law on ill-gotten riches acquired through political means , suppression of all the federal secretaries who controlled work of prefects and of all the political secretaries . Fascist Groups Question : What measures does the Marshal 's government propose to take against Fascists ? Answer : It Is necessary here to r make distinction between fascists and fascists . Some of them had governmental or semi-governmental posts and they were called hierarchs . Another group was made up of true " trigger men " of the party . A third group consisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to earn their living . All Government officials were forced on pain of dismissal to become members of the party . The same applies to liberal professions whose activities were otherwise obstructed . In effect , every person who did not have iadepentient means had to join . Therefore . the measures to be taken exclusively concern the first two categories . Measures to be taken will be agreed upon and put into effect in full accord with British and American authorities . ? Duce and Fiihrer Question : What effort was made and by what groups to prevent Italy from plunging into this disastrous war ? What were the internal and external circumstances that prevented clear-sighted men like the Marshal from imposing their view on Mussolini or else overthrowing his regime to keep Italy out of war ? Answer : In August of 1939 , Mussolini tried to persuade Hitler not to go to war . Hitler replied that the question concerned Germany alone and that she was in a position to settle the problem by herself and therefore Italy should not intervene . Mussolini replied that in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian nonbelligerency . Then came days in May . 1940 , with swift German victories in Belgium and France . Military leaders clearly demonstrated to Mussolini the absolute unreadiness of our armed forces , the lack throughout the country of reserves of material indispensable to war . In spite of this , convinced that the war was about to end , Mussolini , without asking any of his collaborators , wrote to Hitler at the end of May that by June 10 he would have declared war . Military leaders were advised of this not less than four days later . To their remonstrances , based on lack of preparation , Mussolini replied " in September , 1940 , everything will be over and I will need some thousands of dead to be able I to sit at the peace table as a belligerent . " Even Foreign Minister Ciano was against our entry into the war . Responsibility for the declaration of war rests exclusively on Mussolini . Cost of War Question : What has war cost Italy in men and material destruction so far ? Answer : We lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not in any way provide all the supplies necessary for resistance in such a faraway land . We sent a large part of our most modern equipment to Libya and that too was lost . In Libya and Tunisia our losses in men were particularly severe . Mussolini , who had not understood the Italian strategic problem , insisted on sending large forces to Russia and the Balkans . In Russia our ill-armed and worse equipped divisions were almost completely destroyed . There were a good 10 divisions . In the Balkans guerrilla warfare continued , causing a cruel drain on manpower . The fleet suffered serious losses in heavy and light cruisers and small ' craft . The air force was almost completely sacrificed . Told by Acts Question : What is the attitude of Marshal Badoglio 's government toward Italy 's belligerent neighbors , France , Yugoslavia anti Greece ? Answer : My own attitude toward France , . Yugoslavia and Greece has been shown by acts , not mere verbal statements . By my orders Italians fought against Germans to expel them from Corsica in collaboration with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek partisans against the common enemy . I am convinced that the Italian policy toward France , Yugoslavia and Greece after the war will be a . policy of cordial and open friendship , and that there will no longer be in Italy anyone who would want to revive any territorial claims against them . These claims were a purely Fascist conception . Marshal ? Badoglio was asked what had been the attitude of Italian people toward the attack on Greece. , He replied that the army was opposed to the venture and that the people saw no necessity for the attack of a country with which they had no quarrel . Could Not Rebel Question : When was the decision taken to overthrow the Fascist regime and what made that overthrow feasible and acceptable to the population at the time it was made ? Answer : The Italian people had for some time felt intense hatred for Fascism , which they considered rightly to be the cause of all their misfortunes . But no one could rebel , considering that all power was in the hands of the government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . On their demand Mussolini summoned the Grand Council of Fascism on July 24 . There an order of the day was proposed which expressed lack of confidence in activities of the head of government . The debate , which was very animated and violent , dragged on into the night and ended with a vote of 19 against the head of the government and five in favor . The following day His Majesty accepted the resignation offered by Mussolini . Throughout the country there was an indescribable explosion of joy . However , acts of violence against Fascists were very few . Asked what part he played in the coup d'etat , Marshal Badoglio said , " I was outside . " He added that he was called by the King on July 25 at 5 p. m. and His Majesty ordered him to take charge of the government .                     