@@710866

txt Sen. Brooks returned from Europe today with a solemn warning against further handouts to the socialist governments of that continent under the Marshall plan or any other foreign rehabilitation scheme . Brooks favors American emergency relief for France , Italy , and Austria this winter , consisting of food , fuel , medicine , and fertilizer , which may cost a billion dollars or more . By such means these countries will be relieved of want and enabled to raise an adequate crop next year . Plan Called Unworkable But as*to the Marshall plan for the distribution of 16 to 20 billion dollars to 16 western European countries in the next four years , the Illinois senator cautioned against any , expenditures except those that will put men to work and increase production . To lend or give to European governments billions of dollhrs that will he used for socialistic activities that not only do not increase but actually decrease production will never restore Europe or check communism , Brooks believes . The senator is a member of the senate appropriations committee which spent 35 days surveying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria , and Greece in preparation for action on the interim relief proposals at the forthcoming special session of congress and on the long range Marshall plan to rehabilitate Europe at American expense , which will be considered at the regular ' session beginning in January , Financed British " Mess " . " We have financed the Socialist government of Great Britain which has nationalized industry and made a mess of production , " said Brooks . " The British voters have just recorded their disapproval of the government we have been financing . We have financed the Socialist government of France with similar results . " The Communists have suffered a severe setback in ! " rance and Italy following the material assistance we gave both . those governments . They may be able to keep the Communists down so long as we go on giving them money . But when we have exhausted our resources , when we are completely down and ex ? hausted there will be no further check upon the spread of commu ? nism in those regions . " The only permanently effective assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Increases production . It is not going to , do any good to hand out billions to foreign countries to do with as they please . It would only mean that these governments are going to continue nationalization of Industry with attendant decrease of productiOn . Increase pensions and other benefits , continue their inflation of the currency  --  all at the expense of American taxpayers  --  while the socialist governments claim credit for getting ' food from America and bettering the condition of their peoples . Calls for Stabilization " I , went to Europe with an open mind on the Marshall plan . I have come home conVInced that I should oppose , the Marshall plan unless our government provides machinery which will bring about stabilization of the currency in Europe , put men to work , and increase production . Possibly we should use the ExportImport bank and the world bank for loans that can be paid back by European industries . But this lending of billions by the United States is not going to accomplish anything . The government receiving the loan merely is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its people . " Brooks said that the revival of German industry Is essential to the recovery of Europe and the stObIll ? zation . of the German currency is essential to the recovery of production . Before the war there were 6 billion reichsmarks outstanding ; now there are 60 billion plus 10 billion more printed by the Russians from tile plates supplied by Treasury Secret nr , ' Morgenthau . Under the rationing of commodities , reichsmarks have lost value and there is little incentive to work . Barter is the vogue for trade and labor . . No Incentive to Work Under British rationing , Brooks said , a miner can buy only the barest necessities of life . This he can do with a few days pay each week . As he can not buy anything else he sees no need of working a full week . One incentive plan proposed is that America provide washing machines , sewing machines , vacuum cleaners , and other luxuries to be sold In the mining districts on coupons denoting a full week 's work . " Because their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British government has brought in 30,000 displaced persons from the continent to dig coal , and 14,000 more to work on the farms and now Is asking for 16,000 more farm laborers , all in an over populated country by 47 million people . The government has taken over , 2,500 farms , comprising 300,000 acres , as a part of its nationalization program which we have subsidized thru the 2% billion dollar gift loan . " A Tory industrialist was quoted ' , by The senator as urging that no ' more money be given the British government , for it would only be wasted . " Let us ' alone , " said the Brit . ishlr . " We 've got to dig , the coal in our own way and you ca n't help us . " Free Food Comes ' High A Frenchman asked Brooks why the United States charged so much for the food It furnished . The son ? ator was compelled lo explain that that the United States had given the food free to the French government which fixed the price at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the most pressing problem for the United States is the economic integration of Germany . " The harm caused by the Morgenthatt plan to pastoralize Germany and by the Potsdam terms under which German industry has been shackled is incalculable , " he said . " The recovery of Europe has been delayed thereby and Germany has been made a poorhouse sup , ported by the American taxpayers . 1The longer the Germans are held down the longer we must foot the bill . "                     