@@704755

txt An attack on three enemies of democracy  --  fear , prejudice , and hate ? was proposed to the great army of women of the General Federation of Women 's Clubs as delegates from the thousands of clubs making up the organization opened their annual council meeting today . A call for such a moral drive , as well as for participation by the United States in some form of world organization of the future , was made in the form of a resolution placed before the Council by four department chairmen following its approval some months ago by the National Board of the Federation . " It is the responsibility of the women of this country , " the resolution holds , " to help in overcoming the enemies of democracy  --  fear , prejudice , and hate  --  and to create an intelligent and courageous public opinion which will strengthen the forces of democracy so that no opportunity may be lost by our Government to assist in securing a just settlement of the present conflict . " Share in Responsibility Going farther , the resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibility for establishing and maintaining some form of world organization , wherein the moral values will be accepted as the framework of civilization . " In the same declaration appears the Federation 's current emphasis on the need for recognizing the importance of religion in world affairs . " Only spiritual force , " it asserts , " can generate the power to make tangible the hope of mankind for peace with justice and liberty . " This resolution is the outgrowth of programs of study in individual clubs in which this subject has been given serious consideration for a number of years , explained Mrs. Gustav Ketterer , of Philadelphia , Pa. , one of the four department chairman who presented it . Mrs. Ketterer heads the Legislative Department . Turning Point Reached " We realize , " she said in an interview , " that the greatest force in strengthening any democracy is the spiritual force , and only through making this become more effective can we ever hope for peace . The spiritual force can break down that barrier of fear , and in its place build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the place of hate . " I feel that we have reached a turning point in our country . If our democracy is to be strengthened , it is time for every intelli- gent citizen to become active , and for everyone to be looking toward and preparing for some form of world organization of which the spiritual and moral force may be the foundation . " Another club leader who believes the three enemies of democracy listed in the resolution can be overcome through religion is Mrs. F. H. Clausen , chairman of the Department of American Citizenship , another indorser of the resolution . " These enemies can not flourish in a country where we make Christianity a way of life as well as a way of worship , " said Mrs. Clausen . " Insofar as club women have influence , it is their responsibility to strengthen the feeling of confidence , tolerance , benevolence , and patriotism among American citizens so that our democracy will be invulnerable . " Members of the Federation 's Board , Mrs. Clausen pointed out , led the need of reaffirming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the basic moral values inherent in democracy as a form of government . No member of the Federation gives more support to this statement than its President , Al 's Saidie Orr Dunbar , of Portland , Ore . Mrs Dunbar , serving the last year of a three-year term , chose as the theme of this council session a verse from the Bible ( Rev. III 8 ) " Behold 1 have set before thee an open door , and no man can shut it " She is presenting as the chief speaket of her ov , n special " President 's night " Dr. Albert W Palmer , President of the Chicago Theological Seminary . During the last year . she noted , the Department of the American Home has made a siudy of the part of the family in strengthening demon any and i ecently publisht d a new plan of study based on the theme " Spultual Home : the Sustaining Fin ( c , of Democracy . " Other resolutions to come before this council meeting touch on a variety of subiecis . One calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association . which is planning a national patriotic revival . Another records opposition to the transfer of the United States Forest Service from the Department of Agriculture . Others urge legislation to provide Federal aid to the States for the assistance of needy transients ; propose continued study of the " Equal Rights Amendment " ; favor Federal non-support legislation which would stop up the loopholes through which irresponsible persons desert their families and avoid their responsibilities by moving to other States ; and call for local club action to make effective the recommendations of the White House Conference on Children in a Democracy . The political side of the club organization is to receive attention at this council meeting when candidates for national offices ate presented May 21 . These candidates will not be voted on , however . until the next triennial meeting of the Federation in 1941 . Great interest , however , attaches to the presentation of candidates for the three-year terms . Club women are also deeply interested in the politics of their nation and are calling in to address them leading political philosophers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University piofessor and Representative from Illinois ; the other is Glenn Frank , former univei say president and chairman of the program committee of the Republican National Committee . Many other eminent speakers are on the week 's program . 