@@707348

txt The resignation of Thomas A. Aurelio as a city magistrate prevents the Association of the Bar of the City of New York from starting proceedings before the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court for his removal from that office , Allen Wardwell , president of the association , announced yesterday . Asked if disbarment proceedings againsi Mr. Aurelio were contemplated , he said they were " at least under consideration . " William Dean Embree , president of the New York County Lawyers Association , announced , however , that the association had filed with the Appellate Division early Thursday morning  --  the day before Mr. Aurelio sent his resignation to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia  --  a petition for investigation of the charges against Mr. Aurelio in connection with his nomination for Justice of the Supreme Court by the Democratic and Republican judicial conventions . The county lawyers ' petition listed five meetings between Mr. Aurelio and Frank Costello , described as " a person of evil fame and reputation , an ex-convict , " at which plans for - getting Mr. Aurelio the Democratic nomination for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among those said to have attended these meetings were Michael J. Kennedy , leader of the New York County Democratic organization ; Clarence H. Neal Jr. , leader of the Twentieth Assembly District ; Abraham Rosenthal , leader of the Eighth District , and Mrs. Aurelio , co-leader ; Bert Stand , secretary of the Democratic county organization , and Dr. Paul F. Sarubbi , leader of the First District , west . Presiding Justice Francis Martin of the Appellate Division said last night that he would take up the matter of the investigation of Mr. Aurelio asked for by the county lawyers with the other Appellate Division justices tomorrow . He added that it was his offhand opinion that any proceedings looking to the removal of Mr. Aurelio as a magistrate ended with his resignation . Mr. Wardwell , in a statement and interview at his office at 15 Broad Street , disclosed that Timothy M. Pfeiffer had been selected to act as counsel for the Bar Association and had intended to file a petition with the Appellate Division tomorrow . He declared that Mr. Aurelio , in presenting his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevented the electorate of the First Judicial District from having the benefit of a judicial determination of his fitness to act as a magistrate or to hold any judicial office in view of his relations to Costello , to whom Mr. Aurelio pledged " undying loyalty " for helping him get the Democratic nomination . In political circles it is held that the resignation of Mr. Aurelio , who by decision of the Court of Appeals retains the Democratic and Republican nominations for Supreme Court Justice , has removed possibility of his disqualification ? under a recent law  --  from holding a judgeship by reason of removal from the office of magistrate . No Further Action Planned Mr. Wardwell , who issued his statement after conferences with Clifton P. Williamson , chairman of the association 's executive committee : Assistant District Attorney Stanley H. Fuld , chairman of its criminal courts committee , and Mr. Pfeiffer , said that the executive committee , which voted to start removal proceedings , planned no further action . " At the moment , I do not see that any other steps will be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , " Mr. Wardwell said . The Bar Association president added that the judiciary committee would report on the fitness of judicial candidates , probably at the meeting of the association on Oct. 19 . Asked if disbarment proceedings were contemplated , he replied : " They , are at least under consideration . What action the judiciary committees may take I could n't say . " Mr. Wardwell said he had a telephone conversation with Mayor La Guardia about the Aurelio resignation and that the Mayor explained that under the law the resignation , worded " to take effect immediately , " became effective upon receipt by him . Mr. Wardwell 's statement follows : " On Tuesday , Sept. 28 , the Executive Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York directed the filing of a petition asking for the removal of Magistrate Aurelio upon the charge that he is unfit to hold judicial office . " This action followed a report of the Committee on Criminal Courts , Law and Procedure , which had made a painstaking investigation of the facts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a man of criminal record and widely publicized as a racketeer , and his acknowledged obligation to Costello for the nomination for Justice of the Supreme Court , made him unfit to continue to hold the office of magistrate or any judicial office . Bid Declined by Aurelio " Mr. Aurelio was invited to appear before the Criminal Courts Committee and before the executive committee , but in each instance he declined to do so . The executive committee heard additional , testimony not previously submitted to the Criminal Courts Committee . Upon this report and evidence the executive committee directed proceedings to be taken at once for the removal of Mr. Aurelio and authorized the president and chairman of the executive committee to select counsel to prepare a petition to the Appellate Division and to prosecute the charges . This action of the executive committee was reported in all the newspapers . " Mr. Timothy N. Pfeiffer was selected and agreed to act for the association and was prepared to file ' the petition on Monday next , Oct. 4 . " In the face of the action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor La Guardia . In his letter of resignation Mr. Aurelio purports to leave to the electorate the question or his fitness . His action , however , in presenting his resignation at this time prevents the electorate from having the benefit of a judicial determination by the Appellate Division of his fitness to act as a magistrate or to hold any judicial office , in view of his relation with and obligation to Costello . " Lawyers ' Vote Unanimous Mr. Embree said that filing of a petition by the County Lawyers followed a unanimous vote by its board of directors on receipt of a report from George Sylvester , chairman of its criminal courts committee . Five directors , Mr. Embree said , thought the petition should ask directly for the removal of Mr. Aurelio as a magistrate instead of the appointment of a referee to ascertain whether he was fit to continue as a magistrate . The petition said that Mr. Aurelio had been aided by Costello in obtaining the Democratic nomination and that in connection with such efforts had met with Costello and district leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of approximately six months . " The purpose of these meetings , or one or more of them , was to bring about the nomination of the respondent ( Aurelio ) to the office of Justice of the Supreme Court , " the petition read . The first of the meetings , according to the petition , took place on or about March 16 , 1943 , when Mr. Aurelio and his wife visited Mr. and Mrs. Costello at the latter 's home , 115 Central Park West . A second meeting took place , the petition said , at the Copablanca Club , 10 East Sixtieth Street , " in the company of Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Neal and Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Rosenthal . " On Aug. 19 , the petition continued , Mr. Aurelio and Costello met for dinner at the Martinique restaurant , 57 West Fifty-seventh Street , " in the company of the said Neal and Bert Stand , secretary of the New York County Democratic party . " Mrs. Aurelio and Mr. Rosenthal joined them later , the petition said . Other Meetings Charged Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the petition . One , on or about March 21 , took place at the Biltmore Hotel , when Mr. Aurelio and Costello met at the wedding of Mr. Rosenthal 's daughter . Early in March , the petition added , Mr. Aurelio met Costello at a conference with Mr. Kennedy , Mr. Neal and Dr. Sarubbi . In addition to describing Costello as " a person of evil fame and reputation , " the petition said that he " is a person known by many to be interested in the so-called slot machine racket and is also known to have an interest in night clubs . " The petition added that between 1925 and 1941 " newspapers have published reports and stories dealing with the said Costello 's illegal activities . " The petition also declared that when Mr. Aurelio accepted the aid of Costello in obtaining the nomination " he well knew that the acceptance of this aid would place him under obligation to Costello " and that this aid was well known to Mr. Aurelio and was rendered The petition added that Mr. Aurelio twice declined to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hearing until after election day . Mr. Aurelio said last night he had no comment to make on the statements of the presidents of the two bar associations . He added that he would open headquarters and begin a campaign for election this week .                     