@@709320

txt Kidnaping and other violence has entered the communist campaign to capture the Berlin city government by what the Reds call " democratic measures . " The Germans say they are reminded of Gestapo terrorism . Numerous men who had been active in public life have vanished without trace in I he last several months . All were relatively oh . scare , and it was not until four men of importance disappeared re ? cently from the American sector that officials became aroused . Four German city officials , two judges , a third court official and an assessor , are missing from their homes in the British and American sectors . A plan for investigating these and other mysterious disappearances is being evolved by the four occupation authorities . The inquiry nifty be extended to other sectors of Germany . Charge Frequent Disappearances The assessor , a communist named Brass , whose home was at Kleinhachnow , on the outskirts of Berlin , was employed in the American sector and was reputedly about to be prosecuted for malfeasance in office on charges which the British authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappearances among their membership have been frequent since last August , and that ! they were invariably men who have resisted a . merger with communist igroups in the Russian zone . Pro ' tests have been made to the authorities , the socialists assert , but to date none of the men listed as missing his ref fumed . Soviet military authorities deny that soldiers are involved , but they do not speak for Moscow trained ' communists , There is evidence that an Internationale is being revived . Events Hushed Up The controversy is before the highest allied authorities . A hush Ipolicy is being enforced for the announced reason that security and international policy are involved , However , there is a growing send . ment in the American and British camps that their folks back home , particularly politicians , should be given the complete picture of Berlin occupation by the military governments of the four nations , Karl J. German , Berlin central committeeman of the Social . Democratic party , in an interview today said the committee had a file of missing party workers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said the majority of his party 's Berlin leaders had been converted by Russian threats and promises to favorling a merger with the communists , in trade unions as well as in political pat-ties . He added , however , that he believed 80 per cent of She rank ! and file of social democrats will vote against the merger in secret ballot . " Familiar Terrorism " " The OGPU is making arrests , " said German , " but just as effective is the summoning of social democratic leaders to the Russian headquarters here , sometimes to be treated as guests and sometimes to he interrogated as suspects for their political positions . " Several have been swayed by the argument that Russia will be in Berlin for years after the western powers leave , and that it therefore behooves the Germans to get along with the communists . " After 12 years with liberty suppressed by the nazis , . the Germans had hoped for personal and political freedom , but we are getting a familiar brand of terrorism . " Contributing to the terror are crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are not considered part of the communist . scheme to intimidate Berliners . Crimes include murder and robbery , usually by drunks , Most of the victims are German civilians , altho a few American soldiers have been held up or wounded .                     