@@707177

txt Ste ? Writer on Latin-American . A ff airs for The Christian Science ! if niter e " . riecognition of Argentina 's Provisional Government under President Ramirez by Brazil , Chile , bassies . Several American RepubBolivia , Paraguay , and - Spain , today ended the first phase of the Argentine revolt against the " prudent neutrality " policy of former President Castillo . Uruguay indicated that recognition of Pi-esident Ramirez will be extended soon , according to the Associated Press . The State Department in Washington remained silent , as did London . While recognition of Argentina moved forward , Uruguay became the first country in the Americas to recognize the French Committee of National Liberation in Algiers . Colombia also is preparing to establish relations with the Giraud-de Gaulle committee , according to an announcement from the President 's office in Bogota . Morinigo Visits U. S. Carrying forward the steady march of solidarity within the Western Hemisphere , President Morinigo of Paraguay has arrived at the White House for an official visit with President Roosevelt . In a similar step , Mexico last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rio de Janeiro , saying that " the Government of Argentina is legal according to the recognition of the Supreme Court of that country . " Dr. Aranha , who presided over the Rio de Janeiro conference in January of 1942 , where all of the American Republics except Argentina and Chile broke relations with the Axis , added that he sees no reason for " doubts or reserve " about Argentina 's new policy . Nation 's Own Right He emphasized that Brazil respects the rights of individual countries to determine their own internal affairs . Also , Argentina 's international policy must result from careful consideration of its own interests . This Brazilian attitude corresponds to the tolerance displayed toward both Chile and Argentina as they have worked out their positions regarding the war . Chile , a year after the Rio conference , oroke relations with the Axis . Action by both Brazil and Chile in recognizing General Ramirez indicates that the movement will become general . Many of the smaller American countries no doubt are waiting to see what the United States will do . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Janeiro that Dr. Aranha is not likely to have moved without the expectation that Washington will recognize General Ramirez . The timing of Washington 's . move , or even its occurrence , undoubtedly depends on the advances General Ramirez is willing to make toward the United Nations . The minimum program set up a year and a half ago at Rio de Janeiro and strongly advocated in perspn by Undersecretary of State Sumner Welles , was an immediate break of diplomatic relations with Berlin Rome and Tnkvn Results Since Rio since then , all of the American ' Republics except Argentina have taken strong stands . Mexico , Brazil , and 13oliiva have gone to war against the Axis . They joined the nine Latin-American countries which were at war before the Rio conferees met . Argentina never entered the war of 1914-1918 , and presumably would not enter this one except by some unforseen chain of events . In the last war , diplomatic relations with Germany were strained , but never broken . Recognition of the new Argentine military regime by Fascist Spain may be read as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Axis influence in Latin America . Berlin and Rome have sought to salvage theirlast foothold in the Western Hemisphere by playing up to the Argentine revolutionists . Elements Behind Ramirez It is unquestionable that the Ramirez regime represents elements in Argentina inclined to go along with the Axis ? if such a course were still expedient . The Argentine Army and conservative classes have held out to the last before making any move that could be construed as even mildly opposed to prospects of an Axis triumph . The situation . bluntly stated , is that the Argentine conservatives have been blasted out of their " prudent neutrality " by the certainty of an Allied victory . Argentina , already unable to buy alms in the United States or to obtain economic assistance of the kind that is pouring into Brazil and other American countries , had to shift into line . The shift , in characteristic Argentine fashion , is beir.g made with as much conservative face-saving as can be squeezed from an embarrassing situation . Neighbors ' Demands That Argentina will eventually be compelled to break diplomatic relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations , is a foregone conclusion . The other American Republics will not be satisfied with less than the expulsion of German spies and saboteurs now engaged in sinking United Nations ships by their activities on Argentine soil . The internal political aspects of ' Argentina 's revolt bulk beside the international aspects with almost equal significance . La Prensa , the great Rueno Aires daily that has steadily insisted on a break with the Axis , has maintained cautious reserve toward the Ramirez regime . Now it has come forward with an editorial conviction that the support of the Argentine people will be won by the Government , through " adjusting its deeds to its promises. - Government 's Promise The Provisional Government has promised officially to draw nearer to its American neighbors in foreign policy . The Radical Party , or Liberals , commanding more popular votes than any other single group , reportedly has accepted the Ramirez regime . The Socialists , forming with the Radicals a slender majority in the disbanded Chamber of Deputies . are holding aloof , meanwhile insisting that democratic elernenn be consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single Radical or Socialist is included in the Cabinet , which lines up one lone civilian of rightist stamp among the " nonpolitical " generals and admirals.                     