@@705414

txt A nation-wide membership ' drive , America First chapters in every State , special trains touring the country with prominent speakers making ' rear platform appearances , massmeetings , . radio speeches , lectures , press ? ame:lig:IS ? 1411 these plans were ? announced by nal lonni officials of Aim America First committee yesterday . lit. their resolute campaign to keep the . United States out of war . The fight to keep the nation . Jot , peace has just begun , they said , . despite passage by congress of President Roosevelt 's war dictatorship bill . Antiwar campaigns greater than . ever before are planned by the committee which grew in six months from a small group that met in one room in the Board of Trade building to 650 chapters thruout the United States with a total enrollment of more than 500,000 active members , plus hundreds of thousands more who signed petitions or indorsed the principles of the organization . Trains to Tour Country . National headquarters announced ' the following program : Three special trains staffed wtth ? noninterventionist speakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rallying public opinion against ' the sending of American naval ' eonvoys to Europe and other moves . which would plunge the United States . ..... into war . All chapters will launch . new Id * membership drives immediate/Y . Field organizers will leave Patten- , Oa al headquarters to form units in. every state . A Leaders In the senate . battle ? against the war measure will speak at massmeetings in all parts of the country under the auspices of local America First committees . 5Other speakers will deliver radio ? addresses , and transcriptions of their speeches will be furnished small radio stations thruout the nation without charge . IN Washington . yesterday Senator Robert A. Taft sounded the call of noninterventionists for a renewed fight against involvement in foreign War . Story on rage 03 Illinois Goal ; Mahlon Members ; Meanwhile the America First committee of Illinois set a goal of 1,000 , - 000 members to carry on In this state the fight against dictatorship and war , and made plans for the establishment of America First chapters in every city and town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . After making plans for the future , national headquarters pointed to its recent activities . Since last September it has printed and distributed 1,500,000 folders and pamphlets , 500,000 automobile stickers , 750,000 America First buttons , and 15,000 large posters for public buildings . Answers 100,000 Questions . IL has answered 100,000 separate requests for information and posted more than 750,000 pieces of mail . More than 700,000 signatures demanding defeat of the dictator bill were gathered by the Chicago chapter alone . This unit also tabulated 328 , - , 000 protest telephone calls . The America First legislative office in Washington provided a running analysis of tile dictator bill and its amendments for senators , representatives , and chapter officials . A weekly news letter was mailed to 1,250 speakers . More than 2,600 transcriptions of radio addresses by noted speakers were sent to radio stations . Thousands of massmeetings thruout the nation were held . A movie , " America First , " was shown by hundreds of chapters . Battle Just Beginning But that , " said R. Douglas Stuart Jr. , national director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . we made on the war bill was an important battle , but it was not all . We will think the country can stay out of foreign conflict because the people do not want war . " We propose to continue to give that sentiment of the people an effective means of expression . " The drive to expand the member . ship of the Illinois America First committee will begin today , said Mrs. Janet Ayer Fairbank , vice chairman . The 700,000 persons who signed petitions calling for defeat of the dictator bill will be asked to become active members , she said . State-wide membership is now 66,000.                     