@@711956

txt Concerted efforts to pin a " sales tax " label on Governor Dever 's tax-hike program rapidly are developing at the Massachusetts State House . If successful , the governor 's $23,000,000 tax recommendations are headed toward rough treat .. ment by the Legislature . The sales tax charge springs alike from partisan sources in the Legislature and from Massachusetts business leaders . It is regarded as politically potent because Governor Dever and most Democrats have in the past been outspoken critics of sales taxes . Democrats on Spot Therefore , they must now either unleash a campaign to remove the sales tax tinge or not give the governor 's tax program the wholehearted support it needs for passage . The attack on the governor 's program dates back to a joint statement by two key minority leaders , Senator Harris S. Richardson ( Ft ) of Winchester and Representative Charles Gibbons ( R ) of Stoneham , minority floor leader . According to their reasoning , the proposed levies would boost monthly utility bills of consumers , raise transportation fares , and result in bankruptcy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted by business leaders speaking at this week 's State House hearings on the suggested taxation set up . Long Debate They argued long and forcefully that most businesses could not absorb the new taxes without asking the consumer higher prices for products and services . They also pointed out that there was a limit to how much of the increased tax burden could be passed along to the consumer . According to the business spokesmen , too high prices would have disastrous results in highly competitive fields . In addition , some of the businesses on the governor 's tax lists are utilities . These groups sometimes have to wait months for a ' Department of Public Utilities decision on rate boosts . The most recent individuals to assail the governor 's tax suggestions were Bay State automobile dealers , who are faced with the possibility of a 1 per cent excise levy , Sales Tax ' Seen William A. Plunkett , executive vice-president of the Massachusetts State Automobile Dealers ' Association , said " this should not be called an excise tax . This should be called a sales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Governor Dever 's proposals regarding taxation in the field of veterans ' housing have been set back by the Massachusetts Supreme Court . The court said that the commonwealth can not grant a five- year exemption to new residential construction from local real estate taxes . In his inaugural message , Gov. governor Dever had indicated that he was not certain the Constitution would allow such action . Therefore . the Legislature asked the court. ? Hearings Scheduled Further hearings on Governor Dever 's tax program are scheduled for March 30 before the Legislative Committee on Taxation . Testimony will be heard at that time on the recommendation for an excise tax on unincorporated business measured by net income at the same rate applied to business corporations . Also due for study are suggested taxes on malt beverages , alcohol , alcoholic beverages , and on the amounts wagered at horse and dog races .                     