@@711720

txt Interest in the revival of Boston 's coastwise shipping business ? once a big factor in New England commerce  --  has been spurred here by two developments . In New York City this week , Joseph K. Carson , Jr. , member of the Maritime Commission , urged a radical departure from American maritime policy , with direct government aid for coastwise shipping . He recommended federal aid for both the construction and operation of coastwise ships as " vital to the national defense and economy . " Another cause of renewed interest in coastal ships is the recent move by truckers in the Northeast states to obtain a 25 per cent increase in rates . It was the truckers who , before and during the war , captured so much of the coastwise steamship traffic that revival of the trade has been so uncertain as to attract no invest-. ors . Higher Costs Claimed Pleading increased costs of operation caused by higher wage rates and equipment prices , , the New England carriers have told the Interstate Comrperce Commission that they must charge more for hauling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well may be an indication that steamship operators would be in a better position now than they have been for many years to meet the strong trucking competition . Although the Maritime Commission has estimated that at least 100 ships should be employed in the normal intercoastal trades alone , only about half this number , many of them owned by corporations not directly engaged in the shipping business , again will be employed in the coast-to-coast trade when the effects of the recent maritime strike finally are over , Worse Plight The coastwise trade along the Atlantic Coast and the Gulf is in much worse plight and , as far as Boston is concerned , is as extinct as the dodo . In 1939 , more than 250 ships operated in freight and passenger service along the coast , a good percentage of them calling at Boston , Fall River , and New Bedford , Mass . Today there are none . The port of Boston , which was the stronghold of coastwise passenger ships and freighters just prior to World War II , has seen the big business slip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down its flag and called it " quits . " An all-time low was reached last year when the old and famous Merchants and Miners Transportation Company decided there was no future in coastal ships and locked its doors for the last time . With the departure of the seaboard steamers , much of oston 's port business also went the way of the mists , drifting off to trucks and trains . foundation of New ' England industry since shipping first started along these shores in the 17th century . More than 2,000,000 tons of general cargo moved in and out of Boston in coastwise traffic alone before the war , not to mention the intercoastal trade , which showed 198 vessel clearances in the typical prewar year of 1939 . This coastal business is all gone , and with it the jobs that provided work for hundreds of longshoremen . Since the war two lines have tried to resume coastal operations here , only to drop their services with a complaint of high operating costs and lack of freight . Of Greater Concern Of greater concern to many New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the war , they provided short sea trips that ranged from overnight service between Boston and New York to longer jaunts from here to Jacksonville , Fla. , and Miami . Sole hope for the return of these ships , most shippers say , is in the proposal by Mr. Carson to obtain government help in the construction of new vessels , which private operators can not afford to undertake themselves . A similar proposal was made here recently by David J. Coddaire , member of the Maritime Commission from Haverhill , Mass . Federal financial aid for coastal shipping is sure to meet opposition from railroads and truckers , so a more likely means for reviving the domestic services might be along other lines . Mr. Carson suggested one possibility when he urged shippers , labor , and management to unite in a common cause , with labor willing to allow the use of more efficient , modern methods of cargo handling . Containers Suggested One such method is in the use of shipping containers now used by ocean steamship companies and river barge lines . Time-saving and cost-reducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with five or six tons of varied small merchandise that once comprised the bulk of coastal shipments , hauled to the pier , and loaded aboard the chip with a minimum of costly dockside handling . Ships specially designed for seaboard commerce , it is suggested , could be provided with new kinds of loading machinery for speeding up cargo handling and cutting the high costs that have helped to stifle the coastwise steamship business . A conference of New England labor , port leaders and management to discuss problems of the trade and means of rejuvenating it might go far toward bringing back this important segment of our maritime industry . Eight Ship Lines In 1939 eight steamship lines were running from Hub docks to New York , Baltimore , Philadelphia , Charleston , S. C. , Savannah , Ga. , Miami , Mobile , Ala. , New Orleans , and Texas ports , providing the inexpensive water transportation which had been the very                     