@@708674

txt Letters to The Times ELISABETH KOFFKA.AMATEUR FARMER . " J.M. RADIN.LOUIS FUBMAN SAS . Letters to The Times Non-Fraternization Opposed Policy Hampers German Re-education And Disregards Anti-Nazis To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : During the past weeks a number of articles in THE TIMES have stressed the need for a rigidly enforced nonfraternization policy in occupied Germany . In the issue of May 17 several statements of Mr. Murphy and General Clay were quoted , which show clearly that the policy will rather be stiffened than modified in the future . Judging from the report , the non-fraternization rule will even be extended to antiNazi Germans freed from concentration camps  --  that means to those who have risked their lives for the democratic cause . From the current articles it is difficult to get a clear idea of the reasons for the insistence on continued nonfraternization with the Germans , regardless of what groups they belong to . If the policy has been introduced for the sake of Army discipline , the layman hardly has a right to criticize it . But if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German people , many of us feel that it is likely to retard rather than accelerate the process . Grave Dangers Involved The grave dangers involved in the policy have been clearly pointed out in the London New Statesman and Nation of April 21 . Two main charges are brought against it . " It helps the Nazis Who still plot for the future , " because it daily drives home the lesson that the people 's former enemies continue to be their enemies . And , most serious perhaps , it deprives the Germans of a direct living acquaintance with " the democratic ways of life in the countries from which they ( the occupying forces ) come . If what they see is a positive policy of non-fraternization they will draw a disastrous conclusion . " The disastrous conclusion will probably be that all democratic ways of feeling and acting , on which the Western countries pride themselves , are nothing but a farce . The Germans will think : " The others are no better than we are , and so we may as well remain what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make us . " In short , democracy runs the risk of being interpreted as " a shield for the strong and a mockery for the weak . " Revision of Formula Imperative In the interest of German re-education , then , and of international security , a revision of the non-fraternization formula seems imperative . Naturally one must discriminate against the Nazis , but the party lists being in our hands , this ought not to prove too difficult . Those , however , who have a clean record and demonstrate their good-will ought to be struck from the list of the untouchables . When General Clay maintains that so far no decent Germans have turned up , he seems to forget that our present aloofness hardly gives us a chance to make their acquaintance . Some will argue that sooner or later the ban will be lifted and so we need not worry . But my point is that in the meantime irreparable damage may be done . Now , when millions of Allied soldiers are still on German soil and when the enemy 's disillusion and helplessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converts . Later , the majority will only know us from hearsay or books . Books , however , are hardly a substitute for living human intercourse , and besides , the average German may well refuse to believe what he reads because what he saw was very different . The present set-up in Europe offers a unique opportunity for supplementing our military by a moral conquest . If we let it slip by , we may easily reduce considerably our chances of winning the peace . ELISABETH KOFFKA . Northampton , Mass. , May 19 , 1945 . OPA and the Farmers Produce Clearing Rouse Suggested to Increase Food Supply To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Being a farmer myself , and living in a farming community , I become daily more convinced that the responsibility for our food shortage lies largely in the red tape regulations of the OPA . From time immemorial , for instance , the farmer 's wife has sold her homemade butter and lard wherever and whenever she wanted , and at the best prices obtainable . If she has anything to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " original producer " ; second , ascertain the ceiling price ; third , collect the correct amount of points ? and Heaven help her if she has not kept up with their frequent changes ? and fourth , mail to the Rationing Board before the 15th of each month a full report of all her sales and the points collected . The average small farmer 's wife works about fourteen hours a day in summer , and even ordinary bookkeeping is not much in her line ( or her husband 's ) . So what does she do ? She sells without points and becomes a black market , or she does not sell at all , and restricts her production to what s needed for herself and family . Milk Ls fed to the chickens and hogs , or even poured away . As for lard  --  many a pound is kept until it is slightly off , and then turned in as waste fat for 2 cents and four points a pound so as not to De a total loss to the producer . As for slaughtered meat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer that there is no space available . It seems to me that if additional food s needed , the Government should make t easier and not harder for the proWeer . If every OPA agency were made into a clearing house to whicl the farmers could bring their butter lard , hams , bacon , etc. , and get pal ( a fair price on the spot , we would soot see a steady flow of all kinds of foods " AMATEUR FARMER . " Onancock , Va. , May 25 , 1945 . New Divorce Laws Asked Congressional Action Is Urged foi Uniform National Legislation TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The United States Supreme Court on May 21 , 1945 , for ' a second time , by a divided court , decided the case of Williams and Hendrix vs . State of North Carolina . It is indeed novel and unique for the same case involving the same principals and the same issues to twice reach the United States Supreme Court and to be decided each time by a divided court which rendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions . Nothing new or different was decided by the second appeal to the United States Supreme Court that had not been decided on the first appeal . In each instance the court held that an ex parte sister State divorce obtained without legal domicile of the complainant in a divorcing State is not entitled to recognition in any of the States of the Union . Or , to put it affirmatively , an ex parte sister State divorce predicated upon the legal domicile of the complainant in the divorcing State is entitled to extraterritorial effect in every State of the Union . Legal Domicile Legal domicile has been constituted by the two United States Supreme Court decisions in the WilliamsHendrix case as the pivotal element that is determinative of the compulsory recognition of a sister State decree of divorce . Legal domicile is residence coupled with the intent to stay permanently or at least for a period of indefinite duration . In the decision of the cases before the United States Supreme Court , justice may have been meted out to an absconding husband who left behind him in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid down by the court by these decisions and upon which untold thousands of future adjudications will be predicated fails to square with the concept of equity and justice to all parties concerned with a decree of divorce . Unfair to Noncontestant The doctrine of the Williams-Hendrix case is unfair to the wife who ays at home and does not contest the divorce action in the sister State . It is unfair to the issue of the marriage . Why should the absconding husband be allowed to choose the jurisdiction where to institute the suit for the dissolution of the marriage ? Why should he be allowed to choose the State with the least strict divorce policy ? Why should a divorce decree be rendered against the wife who is not served with process personally and does not appear to contest the suit ? Why should the issue of a marriage be rendered the children of divorce on the petition of one spouse in a remote jurisdiction and in the absence of the other ? These considerations mark the fallacy behind the doctrine of legal domicile as constituting the key factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States Supreme Court has probably committed itself irrevocably , by virtue of these two decisions , in favor of the legal domicile doctrine . With the establishment of this principle in domestic relations the floodgates of interstate ex party migratory divorce have been thrown open . There is pending before Congress now , as there has been at almost every session since 1884 , a bill to amend the Constitution to confer authority on Congress to enact legislation to govern and control the entire field of marriage and divorce in the United States . The urgency of granting to Congress the power to legislate in the field of marriage and divorce was never more apparent and should be enacted before too many lives are wrecked in slavish adherence to a judicial formula . J. M. RAM . New York , May 26 , 1945 . Arrest of Dr. Gil Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The reported arrest of Dr. Enrique Gil by the police department of Gen. Edelmiro Farrell is sad news for all of us . Dr. Gil is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year he was ousted from his post as Professor of Political Economy at the University of La Plata for his proUnited Nations activities . Dr. Gil Is a distinguished lawyer , a distinguished scholar , one of the , founders of the Argentine-North American Cultural Foundation in Argentina . But even if he were none of these things his arrest should again serve as a warning to all of us that the present regime in Argentina has implemented its declaration of war on the Axis powers most curiously by arbitrarily placing those friendly to our cause in the Villa Devoto Prison . This action should be protested most strongly by all freedom-loving Americans . LOUIS FURMAN SAS . New York , May 22 , 1945.                     