@@710757

txt Charging " red-baiting " against James B. Carey . Secretary-Treasurer of the National CIO , the United Electrical , Radio , and Machine Workers CIO today turned down his appeal for unqualified Support of the CIO objectives of maintaining democracy and opposing totalitarianism as the American form of government . Mr. Carey maneuvered the UE , third largest CIO union , into this position by offering his resolution as a substitute for a " red-baiting " denunciation reported by the majority of the Resolutions Committee . The fight between Mr. Carey 's group , which alleges the principal officers of the UE are influenced by communism , and the majority of the union now has become so acute that the convention would have rejected virtually anything he proposed . Carey Proposal Mr. Carey 's motion , which came as a minority report from the Resolutions Committee , originally was submitted by eight local UE unions . It pointed out that last year 's national CIO convention had expressedly stated its " resentment and rejection " of efforts of the Communist Party to interfere in the affairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO objectives of maintaining and expanding American democracy , " his resolution concluded , " and of opposing any foreign totalitarian scheme as our form of government . " This resolution represents the , desires of the great membership of the CIO , Mr. Carey told the delegates . " It says we reject the efforts of the Communist Party and its adherents , " he continued . " That is the issue before this convention and every union in this country . Will our union be used to aid the foreign policy of the Soviet Union ? " ' Red baiting ' is a label placed by Communists on those who disagree with them . There is nothing in this minority report that can be called ' red baiting ' . " The majority report credited Mr. Carey 's group , the " UE Members for Democratic Action . " with the purpose of taking the union away from the membership ? and handing control over to outsiders and bosses . It also reaffirmed the US policy of . guaranteeing to every member the right to hold any position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other unions in denying office to Communists . The debate climbed to the verge of bitterness . Opposing Mr. Carey 's resolution , Albert J. Fitzgerald , General President of the UE , told the delegates that if they passed it , they must admit they were dominated by Communists . " We are not dominated by the Communist Party , " he declared . " We are opposed to domination by the Communist Party , by the Socialist Party , by the Republican Party . the Democratic Party , or any other party . Communist Domination ? " As a fair Roman Catholic , I am opposed to the Associated Catholic Trade Unionists dominating this union . " We proposed that all of these groups be included because , since this union was founded , we have been opposed to domination by anything but by our rank and file . We are opposed to singling out any one group whatever . " James J. Conroy , a delegate from New York City , who said he had been a member of the Communist Party but had resigned , asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had mapped out what it would do three weeks before , and that it would do nothing which did not have the approval of the Communist Party . He said , however , that Julius Emspak. general Secretary-Treasurer , and James J. Mettles , Director of Organization , who often have been credited with being the leading left wingers in the union , were not Communists . Albert J. Fitzpatrick , General President , replied that the union officers were not " stooges for anybody " and that the Communists had not formulated the policies of the convention . The three leading officers of the UE were re-elected yesterday afternoon by large majorities . Though the group led by James B. Carey , Secretary-Treasurer of the National CIO , nominated candidates against them , it was recognized from the start that they had no chance .                     