@@711395

txt COUNCIL IS PRAISED Winning Over of Arabs Is Acclaimed Here as Greatest Triumph FIRST HINT AT USING FORCE Implied Threat of Sanctions Has Happy Outcome  --  Some Trouble Ahead Is Seen By GEORGE BARRETT Special to THE NEW YOR1C TIMES . LAKE SUCCESS ; N. Y. , July 18 ? The Arab agreement to join Israel in heeding the Security Council 's order for an indefinite truce in the Holy Land , coming after a similar agreement by Israel , was acclaimed here today as the United Nations ' most impressive victory thus far . The order to cease fire was the latest in a series of seven appeals that have been issued by the United Nations urging peace in Palestine . But it was the first in the history of the international organization to carry the stern warning of possible sanctions if either side rejected the demand to stop fighting , and officials here were doubly inclined , consequently , to be jubilant over the prompt acceptance . It was Count Folke Bernadotte , the United Nations Mediator for Palestine , who first expressed what was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off briefly at Rome today on his return to his headquarters in Rhodes , where he will take up again the task of negotiating a peaceful settlement for ' the Holy Land dispute , the Mediator was quoted as having said : " This ' strengthens the prestige of the Security Council . " The success , at least initially , of the Council 's first pledge to take up consideration of Chapter VII 's punitive provisions in the event of thumbs-down replies from either side was the happy outcome of the first major test of the Council 's real powers , even though these powers . were merely mentioned in the resolution as a possible subject for future discussion . The feeling in the United States delegation , which led the fight to invoke possible sanctions , was expressed by a spokesman for the acting chief delegate , Philip C. Jessup , who said the delegation was very happy over the Arab acceptance . There was " genuine gratification " in the United States delegation over the success of United Nations ' efforts , and particular satisfaction over the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for diplomatic and economic sanctions and , ultimately , military measures against countries defying the international organization , had worked out so well even in the extremely " early stages " of its application . A spokesman for the United Kingdom delegation said it was a // great relief to know there would be an end to the fighting in Palestine , and he paid high tribute to Count Bernadotte for " carrying the heavy end of the stick . " Adding a note of caution , however , the British official pointed out that the truce was only a " precondition , " a clearing of the field for discussions on the long-term settlement of the whole Palestine problem . It would be wrong to assume , he said , that settlement is just around the corner . He declared that there certainly was no dipposition on Britain 's side to believe that a settlement would come easily and swiftly . In almost every instance , however , the greatest satisfaction was expressed over the inevitable enhancement of United Nations ' prestige . There have been important peace achievements made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing the Indonesian war to an end , but the gloomy fact remained that for most persons the United Nations had been synonymous with failure . Now , it is felt , and perhaps for the first time by a great majority of persons here as well as outside the peace headquarters , that United Nations has demonstrated its ability to end large-scale fighting between embittered foes and , it is hoped , to pave the way for a settlement of a dispute that threatened the peace of the world . The announcement of the truce orde ; ' s acceptance , however , was not entirely without its sour reception here . Faris el-Khouri , delegate for Syria on the Council and one of the most vigorous defenders of the Arab cause before the United Nations , said grimly that the truce was important mainly from a point of view of injustice to the Arabs . Mr. el-Khourt suggested that the Arabs were acting in " good faith and good hope " in the ' United Nations but were so far away from Lake Success and cities like New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " power politics " was playing in the Palestine dispute . The delegate for Syria said that it would be possible to have a solution of the Holy Land problem only if the Israelis showed any signs of modifying their stand . There was no official reaction from the Israeli delegation , but the Tel Aviv Government has made no secret of its reluctant willingness to accept the terms of the May 29 Council resolution that are contained in the latest order . The Israeli delegation contends that Count Bernadotte 's interpretation of the truce terms to date have hurt their country 's position by keeping men of fighting age , for example , from entering it except in very small numbers .                     