@@708524

txt BYRNES WILL QUIT MOBILIZATION POST ; VINSON APPOINTED Resignation , Based on View V-E ' Is Not Far Distant , ' Is Accepted by President DROPS RECONVERSION TASK Top Home - Front War Aide Says Time Is Opportune for Shift of Burden Texts of the Roosevelt-Byrnes letters are printed on Page 14 . By LANSING WARREN Special to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , April 2 ? President Roosevelt has accepted the resignation of James F. Byrnes as director of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion and named to succeed him Fred M. Vinson , who recently left the office of director of the Office of Economic Stabilization to become Federal Loan Administrator . Mr. Byrnes submitted his resignation in a letter to the President March 24 and asked that it be effective today . In a letter dated Saturday President Roosevelt accepted the resignation but asked Mr. Byrnes to retain his duties until confirmation of his successor . Mr. Byrnes declared in offering his resignation that victory in Europe " is not far distant , " giving to the view a weight close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice long ago of his intention not to remain in the post for supervising reconversion and he stated in his letter of resignation : " I am convinced that the person who is to direct the reconversion program should take charge of this office now . He would then have the opportunity to familiarize himself with the plans and can modify them in such manner as he deems wise . " Issued Quarterly Report On Saturday Mr. Byrnes published a quarterly report carrying recommendations for removal of the curfew and most other emergency conservation controls and steps for reconversion after VEday , but stressing the needs still ahead for the war against Japan . He indicated today that he had no special plans except fort retirement and rest at his home in Spartanburg , S. C. President Roosevelt , in his letter accepting the resignation , expressed extreme regret at the severance of a relationship " as delightful to me personally as it has been of advantage to the national interest " and expressed the hope that " any time in the future I can avail myself of your wisdom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the White House today Mr. Byrnes commented on this : " Though I could not see my way clear to accept the detailed task of reconversion for the period I know it will take , it does not lessen in any way my intense interest in the prosecution of the war and the making of an enduring peace . I hope I can make some contribution as a private citizen . " Mr. Byrnes has been working in recent months under accelerated pressure . He kept office hours seven days a week , remaining at his desk at least until 7 P. M. and often later . Some of the problems of his post were involved in heated controversy . Important among these problems were those of food shipments abroad and of manpower control . Decreed Emergency Curbs To tighten the war effort on the home front , Mr. Byrnes declared a series of emergency measures . These included restrictions on travel and on national conventions , a ban on horse racing and , most recently , a midnight curfew on // most night life , a measure which stirred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the effective time of the curfew in New York 1 A. M. Mr. Byrnes is believed to have made up his mind some time ago on two things : First , that when Germany collapses someone must be ready on his job with reconversion and transition plans : and , second , that Germany would collapse anywhere from thirty days to six weeks after the Allies crossed the Rhine in force . The nomination of Mr. Vinson went to the Senate this afternoon and is expected to meet quick approval . His elevation to succeed Mr. Byrnes marks a parallel in the public careers of the two men . Both are Southerners and lawyers . They became members of Congress and filled important judgeships before their national administrative services began . Mr. Byrnes left the Senate to become a justice of the Supreme Court . He resigned from the court to become Director of the Office of Economic Stabilization in 1942 . Mr. Vinson , who had left a seat in the House to go to the Federal Appeals bench , took over the stabilization post when Mr. Byrnes left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Office of War Mobolization , which has now become the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion . Mr. Vinson was named Federal Loan Administrator after the Senate , to keep former Vice President Wallace from taking over the Government 's lending agencies , had separated them from the post of Secretary of Commerce . Jesse H. Jones , predecessor of Mr. Wallace as Commerce Secretary , had also been Loan Administrator . The appointment of Mr. Vinson as Loan Administrator was . con'firmed by the Senate the day after it was received and Mr. Vinson took over the post March 6 . President Roosevelt now has the difficult selection of another man to be Loan Administrator . The bill separating the agencies stipulates that the Secretary of Commerce can not also be Loan Ad'ministrator.                     