@@704414

txt The most bat . fling task a foreign correspondent faces here is to estimate the attitude of German public opinion toward the National Socialist regime and toward the war . The time must come sooner or later when the war will begin . When that happens and the German people begin to read the casualty lists how will they feel and how will they act ? If one could apply the same standards for measuring civilian morale here as in England or France , the answer would be simple . One knows that the English morale will withstand a terrible strain because it was the initiative of the English people which forced the London Government into war . The writer was in England at the outbreak and in a position then to knoW the extent to which public opinion was ahead of the Government . Since Britain 's entry Into war was based on the deep and almost universal public conviction of the necessity of that step it is to be assumed that the people will support the war to the limit of their Knew What Was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into at the initiative of the Government without the knowledge of the public as to what was happening . The same is true in France . In neither country Would public opinion be relia- ble in- a war ? undertaken contrary to their basic convictions . In Germany the attitude of public opinion and the manner in which Germany entered the war fulfills all the conditions which in Britain or France would . mean a bad and probably disastrous public morale  --  for in Germany war is almost universally unpopular , except among small group fanatical party leaders . German people generally did not know war was coming . They had been assured that the Government 's policy would bring them a quick and safe victory over Poland , with no serious trouble in the west . Its outbreak was obviously , to most , an unexpected and unhappy shcok . Yet what is impossible in Britain or France is true here . The bulk of the people have accepted a war into which they were led by their Government without their foreknowledge of its llkelibood and without any deep conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are proceeding to support the war 4ffort in the ways expected of them by military leadership . No Signs-of Revolt A writer reporting three months ago his first impression of German morale stated , " For the time being any idea that internal disaffection might overthrow , the regime would be discarded as nonsense . " This impression is confirmed by a three-month effort to sample every element in the German economic and social scale . While the enthuciasm fo war is absent there is an equal absence of any basis for political initiative which would seek to overthrow the regime as a moans of ending war . By no means the only reason for this is the fact that the regime consists of an energetic element imbued with almost religious fervor which fully accepts the doctrine that any means to their ends are justifiable  --  a regime which is determined to maintain its control and prosecute the war vigorously . The weapons they have forged to protect their regime are powerful , including the state police , the SS , that is Herr Hitler 's elite guard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire nation down to a point at which each apartment house is under the constant surveillance of a resident party representative . . Another significant weapon is the dissolution of all organizations not controlled by the party , with the result that nothing exists which could provide a framework for the organization of a political opposition . But these facts alone are insufficient to explain the state of public opinion . Other and perhaps even more important reasons lie in German political history . They are inherent in the very character of the German people themselves . The fact can not be ignored that there is something in the Nazi program which has appealed strongly to a very large element in the population . Soil Unsuited for Rebellion History teaches that the German people are not inclined to the type of mass political initiative which breeds revolution . On the contrary their revolutions have been not violent revolutions against an existing regime , but rather a new group at the top stepping in to fill the void left by an abdicating controlling group . The Republican regime came in in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The National Socialist revolution has been substantialiv the same process with a new group stepping in at the top . By and large the German people accept with less interest than possibly any other western nation whatever government happens to be above them . Inherent in the German people also is a sense of discipline and submission to authority bred into them for generations , which makes them almost constitutionally incapable of taking a revolutionary political initiative . Add to this the tact that almost everyone finds something he likes in Nazi policies . One is constantly hearing Germans saying apologetically , " Of course I ca n't approve this or that policy  --  but ? . " That " but " is an important word . Even the German Jews seems incapable of mustering strength and animosity toward a regime which any self-respecting Liberty Leaguer or Union Cluber can produce against President Roosevelt in the drop of an alphabet .                     