@@705630

txt Obviously testy and resentful over being forced to discuss the war , Prime Minister Winston Churchill struck back at his critics not only in Parliament but also throughout the country today in a speech through which ran two continuous threads , an explanation of the disaster in Crete and a general reply to critics as a whole There was no question that Mr. Churchill was on the defensive in this speech , for he had been through the roughest time he had had during his premiership . Even the leader of the Opposition that does not Pxist asked several questions and Mr. Churchill had an extremely sharp brush with Leslie Hore-Belisha . There was no organized attack on Mr. Churchill and there is no reason to believe that he was shaken in any way . But there is beginning to be a certain amount of questioning , as the debate showed . Mr. Churchill caused a roar of laughter when he said : " The only answer to defeat is victory . If the government in time of war gives the impression that it can not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation ? It ought to go ; that is , if you are sure you can find another that will do it better . " Explains Stand on Crete Regarding the defeat in Crete , Mr. Churchill said : " The choice was whether Crete should be defended without effective air support or whether the Germans should be permitted to occupy it without opposition . " It has been- said that you should never fight without superior or at least ample air support . It is not a question between what is good and what is bad . The choice is between two very terrible alternatives . Must you yield an important key position one after another ? * * * If this principle of giving up without a fight any place you can not be sure of holding were adopted , would not the enemy be able to make an unlimited number of valuable conquests without any fighting at all ? For the first time Mr. Churchill gave the British losses in Crete and estimates of the German losses . It was sad news and will not have much effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German , invasion . The Empire losses in killed , wounded , missing and captured were about 15,000 men About 17,000 were evacuated . The Germans were estimated to have lost 5,000 men drowned while trying a sea-borne invasion and at least 12,000 killed or captured on the ground . Objects to Debate on Crete It was Crete on which Mr. Churchill was mainly attacked and it was therefore Crete on which he made his strongest defense . He asked the House of Commons to look on Crete not so much as a single defeat  --  he frankly admitted it was a defeat  --  but as a defeat on one salient of " the most important , complicated campaign which is being fought in the Middle East . " That was one reason , he explained , why it was bad to hold such a debate as this , because it was a lopsided way of looking at the whole affair . The Prime Minister said that he was convinced that a proper chance had been taken in the decision to hold Crete . Any other course would have raised cries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of all war proved that " fierce , stubborn resistance , even against heavy odds and under exceptional conditions of local disadvantage , is an essential element in victory . " It was thus that Mr. Churchill justified the defense of brae , asking the House whether if the Germans-had not been delayed at Crete the British would not now have mopped up in-Iraq and been able to advance into Syria with virtually no German opposition . At the same time Mr. Churchill also , explained the real reason for the failure in Crete . He indignantly repudiated the suggestion that the British High Command had not realized the extent of the air-borne attack . They knew exactly what was coming , but decided on taking the chance of defeating it . . The idea was that the army should defeat the air-borne invasion and the fleet should defeat the seaborne invasion . But the trouble was that there could be no shore-based air support of the navy and finally the navy 's losses reached a point where it was impracticable for it to continue operating . The army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the snake " before the time arrived , Mr. Churchill ' said , and therefore Crete was lost . To critics who wanted to know why sufficient air fields had not been prepared in . Crete so that the British could continue to Operate their fighters from Crete to protect both . army and navy , Mr. Churchill replied that the British did hot have enough anti-aircraft guns to defend such air fields . . An improperly defended ' air field was worse than no air field , Mr. Churchill indicated , because it was a potential landing field for the enemy . The Prime Minister said that although aircraft gun production was being increased rapidly Britain still was far behind Germany , who had not  --  only her tremendous pre-war and post-war production but all the guns taken in conquered countries . He asked whether A. A. guns should be taken away from Britain and other spots in the'Near East to defend Crete . . " There  --  are- some ; I. see , who say we Should never fight without ample or superior air support and ask when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " But suppose you have n't got it . " Mr. Churchill entirely repudiated Mr. Hore-Belisha 's suggestion that no British army should ever again be put in the situation of fighting against superior air power . In this connection Mr. Churchill gave some comfort to those who see in Crete the lesson that the army must have it. ? own air arm with some say as to the choice of types and complete command of then in action . This movement has already advanced with the creation of army cooperation with the command of the air force and its value is being proved in Syria and Cyrenacia and in manoeuvres in England . But Mr. Churchill said : " It is the intention to go forward on that path , immediately to provide , the army with a considerably larger number of airplanes suited entirely to the work thefhave to do and , above all , to the development of that connection between the ground forces and air military which the Germans have carried to such an extraordinary point of perfection . " Stresses Transport Troubles On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East Mr Churchill drew a sharp " distinction between the situation as to anti-aircraft guns and aircraft . He said the British were superior to the Germans aircraft , but that the trouble was delay in transport . The Germans could fly aircraft from one side of Europe to the other by using chains of air fields , while the British had to ship aircraft to Cape Town , South Africa . Mr. Churchill paid his respects to those who accuse thetBritieh  --  of not doing their share of the fighting , even quoting the German gibe that " the British will fight to- the last Anzac . " The numbers have been almost equal and the British losses have been slightly heavier in proportion than that of dominion troops , he said . - In Crete the number was - almost exactly even and the British losses were slightly heavier excluding Indian troops . Out of 90,000 lives known to have been lost in this war , he said , 85 , - 000 had been from the mother country . The Prime Minister retracted his charge that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle dress , saying : " I gave this report to the House , as it reached me from the Commander in Chief for the Middle East , but he now informs me that a mistake arose from the fact that parachute troops after landing at one point drove a ' number of New Zealand walking wounded with them and before them in their attack , and therefore the cry arose that they were in New Zealand uniform . " He gave some optimistic figures about the Battle of the Atlantic . He said May had been the best month on the Atlantic for , some time . The British , . he said , had sunk or seen scuttled 257,000 tons of enemy shipping , three-quarters of the loss the British suffered . This was apart from the British losses in the Mediterranean , which Mr. Churchill said were serious .                     