@@708161

txt In the bright , sunshine on the bridge of an invasion ship , I am watching tens of thousands of American Doughboys carry the American flag back into the Philippines . It is one of the most incredible invasions of this war . All the accumulated power of a mighty land , sea , and air force was concentrating on two tiny strips of sandy beachhead at Leyte in the central Philippines . Yet up to the time the landing craft ground up on the beaches , the Japanese had made not a single attempt to interfere or strike back . It was as though a giant protecting hand were spread over the hundreds of ships which took part in this history-making invasion . Under Enemy 's Nose For days , huge convoys of in , vasion ships converged from bases scattered alit over the Central and ; Southwest Pacific . Rendezvousing last night just off the central Philippines , they filed in through the narrow entrance to Leyte Gulf this morning in broad daylight  --  right under the nose of big enemy shore garrisons . Shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaved through a terrific ack-ack bar , rage , dropped a single bomb into the water , and then plunged into the sea . It was the only visible sign of counterattack . Not a Single Ship Lost And as far as is known now , not a single American ship has been lost in this first phase of the Pacific war 's long awaited D-Day . Of course , enemy aircraft may sweep in over the mountains here at any minute , Tonight after dark they are almost sure to make some sort of attack on the hundreds of ships milling around us here in the gulf . But the fact , remains that up to now , the enemy has not made a single concerted effort , either with submarines , planes , or motor torpedo boats , to interfere with this history-making invasion . Right at his minute in front of me , invasion craft continue to disgorge their men and mechanized equipment  --  rolling bulldozers , jeeps , tanks , and all the implements of American mechanized warfare . Already the spearheads of our attack columns are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north and toward the cluster of enemy airfields at the lower end of Leyte Island . Preliminary reports state that our casualties have been unbelievably low . There may be tough days ahead before Gen. Douglas leads his troops down the streets of Manila . But up to now , the combined skill of the American Army and Navy in the Pacific has caught the enemy completely off balance . The American Flag flies once again on Philippine soil . 340 Miles From Manila Tacloban , scene of a major landing , is 3.40 miles from Manila , 275 miles from Davao , 1,875 miles from Tokyo . It is doubtful whether the Japanese will be able immediately to muster sufficient strength to stem the mass of American weight which . will be thrown against them . The biggest factor which might weigh against the invasion troops is the weather , The heaviest rains occur during the months of November , December , and January , averaging as high as 20 inches a month . Month of Gbod Weather HoWeyer , once the troops establish beachheads , they will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by then , General 's Sixth Army should be well and firmly planted along the road back to Manila . Instead of a thick rain forest such as that encountered along the New Guinea coast , Leyte is in most sections highly cultivated . And instead of narrow jungle trails which had to be widened to permit pas-sake of troops and vehicular equipment , Leyte offers highways many of which are paved . This difference in terrain will place the balance heavily on the side of the American invasion forces . Natives Friendly to U. S. Another factor which will play an extremely powerful part in greasing the advance of the invasion forces is the native population of Leyte , which is strongly against the Japanese . Before the war , Leyte had a population of more than 900,000 ? mostly Christians with a relatively high degree of civilization . The largest concentration was around the city of Tacloban , where about 30,110 Visayan Filipinos lived and worked in modern buildings and ran the second most important hemp-shipping port in the Philippines . It was here that Magellan made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very early date . Cultivated fields and open grasslands in Leyte Valley have been crisscrossed by an elaborate network of some nine enemy air strips , and these could be quickly converted to the use of American bombers and fighters .                     