@@711759

txt The " permanent solution " to problems the Illinois state training ' school for boys near St. Charles is establishment of a state re  --  formatory , a commission studying the school reported after meeting here today . The commission , headed by ' Sen. Walker Butler ( R. Chicago ) , adopted a report to be presented to Gov . Stevenson shortly after his inauguration . It termed the reformatory a permanent solution and recommended immediate spe ? . cifiC administrative changes ! which can be made without legis-I Mon , members said . Threatens To Quit There were fiery exchanges at the meeting as conflicting philosophies on the treatment of youthful criminals were voiced . At one point , Charles W. Leonard , superintendent of the training school and a professional . social worker , threatened to resign if the commission considered recommendations , including military training , advanced by Charles M. Burgess , Geneva , a member of the commission . Leonard is not a member of the commission , which ' was established by the legislalure to advise on the conduct of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Leonard ; flared . " I 'll resign if you force military training at the school . Military schools are nothing . but high class reformatories for some kids . Military . training has no place in a training school . The , kids are mentally sick . " Sen. Peter Miller ( R. Chicago ) , who eventually made the motion to adopt the reformatory report , sided with Leonard , saying he had attended a military school as a youth . Miss Martha L. Connole , of East St. Louis , another member of the commission , took exception to Leonard 's outbreak , reprimanding him for assuming to direct the work of the commission . Full Report Later The Burgess recommendations ' were put aside for future action . , .. The report then was adopted substantially as originally written , And termed an interim report for ' the guidance of Stevenson . A full report containing specific legislative changes will be made later . Stevenson and his director of " welfare will be asked to place the Sheridan " strong box " branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of a diagnostic center in present buildings at the . school near St. Charles is asked , This would be designed to provide a screening place to determine which offenders sentenced to the training school should be sent directly to Sheridan . ? Additions to the staff at Sheridan were , urged . As Stopgap Only As long as both delinquents and felons are sent together to the training . school , the commission said , the school must be maintained as a place of confinement , " alai ? it is painfully clear that serious injury is probable to the lives of the younger boys who have been committed for the original purpose of furnishing to delinquents an opportunity for training and rehabilitation . " The Immediate recommendations were made , the commission pointed out , simply as a stopgap correction of the mixing of two types of youthful offenders . " The principal purpose of this report , " it said , " is to point out action that could be taken at once . . . ; The permanent solution lies in legislation which will create ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer ? be confronted with the problem of sentencing a youthful defendant , eithefto the penitentiary , where he will be forced to associate with older and usually more hardened criminals , or of sentencing that defendant to the training school at St. Charles                     