@@707999

txt A group of 984 refugees from 19 Nazi . ' occupied European countries , who disembarked here from a United States army transport , tonight en-I trained for Fort Ontario at Oswego , N. Y. , where they will remain until after the war in an emergency she-1 ter . The men , women , and children , ranging from an infant 3 weeks old to a Polish grandmother of 80 , were selected from some 36,000 homeless and countryless persons now jamming allied camps behind the fight . ing lines In Italy . They are the first such refugees to arrive in this country . Those chosen represent a cross section of every type of refugee now pouring into Italy . There were Jews , Roman Catholics , Protestants , and those professing the Greek Orthodox faith . Family Heads Come Too . Among the group were family heads from 14 countries , of these , 154 had their origins in Austria , 146 in Jugoslavia , 84 in Poland , 61 in Germany , 21 in Czechoslovakia , 14 in Russia , 4 each in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgaria and Hungary , two each in Greece and Spain and one in France . The army transport urrivet , r ' n North river pier last , night after it three week voyage . Also aboard were American war wounded being brought home . Thruout today the refugees were subjected to health checks and other routine procedures . Altho a dozen or so were in ill health and many were aged and infirm , all were permitted to make the train trip to the Oswego refugee shelter , which is the first of its kind set up in this country . Kin Greet Refugees . There were poignant scenes as the refugees were landed at the pier in Hoboken and prepared for the . train trip . A crowd of several hun-1 dred persons , kin of the refugees , was held back behind drawn ropes by a cordon of police . They had to con Len t themselves with brief glimpses of their relatives ns the new arrivals walked the short distance from the ship to the two special trains waiting to take them to their destination , Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sick and aged , in many cases , were carried in army ambulances the 100 yards between the ship and the I rains . But happiness was written on the fares of young and old . Forty military pollee were stationed at the scene , along with almost ns many WAC MPs . The . WACs assisted tile women , the aged , and the very young to the trains . Under the June 9 order of President Roosevelt , the war relocation authority of the department of the interior will assume charge of the refugees when they arrive at the Fort Ontario shelter . Until then the army was in command .                     