@@706648

txt The dispute over India has passed the point where logic or consistency can have much weight . It does not matter whether a completely unbiased court would say that the Congress party under Gandhi and Nehru , the Moslems under Dr. Jinnah , or the British Government as represented by Stafford Cripps comes nearest to being right . There is some rightness in each of them . Each has some things to apologize for , both to the whole people of India and to the nations who are now under the Axis yoke or who are fighting at terrible cost in blood and treasure to bring the Axis down . The closest we can come to an impartial jury to try this case is to call upon the Government and people of the United States . In no formal sense can we render a verdict . Yet the very fact that we are being appealed to by all factions overrides the limitations of our distance and of our lack of information . Because we are detached , and because our detachment will not save us from paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an obligation to speak . And what can American officials or American commentators say that will be of the least help ? Simply this , that the pride of leaders , whether white or brown ; the consistency of governments or parties , the love of power , have no standing before the tribunal of American opinion ; that any decision , any compromise , which helps win this war , and in winning it helps win freedom for all of us , India included , is good ; that any decision , any compromise , which weakens the strength of the anti-Axis Powers is bad and evil . We do not believe that Gandhi , Nehru , Jinnah or any other responsible Indian leader desires the victory of Japan and Germany . We do not believe that Cripps , Churchill of any other responsible British leader desires to withhold freedom from India for a single unnecessary day , nor that any of them would question the solemn statement of The Times of London , more than five months ago , that " British dominion in the Far East can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Gandhi-Nehru movement proves that the British have failed to awaken the people of India to a knowledge of what this war means for them . We believe that Gandhi and Nehru have failed to weigh the reasons which forbid the British to take the chance of abandoning India to a civil war between the Hindus and the Moslems . We believe that-the Moslems , however fearful of becoming an oppressed minority in a " free " India , have failed to take into account the imminent danger that they will become an oppressed minority in a slave world . We believe that the British must refuse to withdraw their administrative agencies and their laws if this withdrawal is likely to produce anarchy . We believe , nevertheless , that they should explore to the last breath and syllable every prospect of adjustments that will increase Indian self-respect and lead the Indian people , of all races and religions , in the road of self-government . The time is short . The full committee of the Congress party votes today on its " non-violent non-cooperation " resolution . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic opportunity for men of good-will , in India - and in London , to throw non-essentials to the winds . Let us not deceive ourselves . The length of this war , perhaps its outcome , and with it our own future , is involved in this Indian-British crisis .                     