@@705957

txt A student uprising at the University of Georgia gathered momentum today as youthful demonstrators , who last night hanged and burned three effigies of Gov . Eugene Talmadge on the campus , planned to converge on the state capitol tomorrow to protest the executive 's educational policies . The outburst followed action of the Southern University conference yesterday in dropping the university from its membership because of the recent ouster of Dean Walter D. Cocking , against whom Talmadge had made charges . The conference termed the matter " a clear case of political interference , " Soon after hearing of the conference action last night , about 1,500 students massed on the campus in a wild demonstration . A riot squad of police and members of the fire department were called out but no arrests were made . Parade Thru Fraternities . The students paraded thru dormitories and fraternity houses and made speeches on the theme of " down with Talmadge " and " to hell with Talmadge . " The paraders , young men and girls , marched first to the agricultural campus . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red gallused effigy of the governor to a tree limb and then set it aflame . Other effigies were hanged and burned at Lucy Cobb dormitory and at the entrance arch of the university . Talk of Mass Walkout . Students continued today to gather in groups and talk excitedly of the situation . There was talk of a mass walkout of classes but tile threat faded when students learned that the conference ? action did not bar their university front the list of accredited institutions . Most of tile faculty members and university officials were tight lipped about the situation , but William Tate , dean of men , commented : " I think the students have a perfect right to express their feelings . " The unanimous action of the conference , composed of 41 leading colleges from Maryland to Texas , approved an executive committee report stating that Cocking , dean of the college of education , was " dismissed from his position without due and reasonable notice and upon charges which are not substantiated . " The dean was dismissed this summer on Gov . Talmadge 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original board of regents at the university refused to oust Cocking , the governor revamped the board . Rnises Racial Issue . Gov . Talmadge , who left Atlanta today for Ills farm home in , Ga. , commented Abet " the majority of those voting to discredit the University of Georgia are In favor of co-education of the blacks and the whites . " Several weeks ago he said that If the University of Georgia lost its accredited rating he would cut sal arks of the school 's professors in half , asserting that " they would not be worth as much . " Altho the Southern University conference has power only to drop the university from its list , which does not alter its accredited rating , the Cocking ouster is being investigated by a committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary I schools , which does have that power .                     