@@706362

txt The main mission in London of General George C. Marshall , United States Chief of Staff , and Harry L. Hopkins , special representative of President Roosevelt , is to ascertain whether the British Government is justified in the stand it has taken against invading Europe this Summer , it is learned in diplomatic quarters here . The arguments that ' the British Government has advanced against such an enterprise are exclusively military . The question is whether they are completely valid and 1whether they have been colored by political thinking . Inferences drawn by some newspapers and . their readers in this country and in Britain  --  to the effect that the United States itself has ' in mind the sending of an expeditionary force for this purpose in the near future  --  are said to be unjustified . Those who know the shipping situation say that it puts any venture of this kind out of the question . Argument Used by British So true is this that the chief argument advanced by the British Government against a British attempt to open up a Western Front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships for the transport and maintenance of an ex-peditionary force across the English Channel or the North Sea . This argument is based on the calculation that it needs eight tons of shipping per man to transport a British soldier , his food and equipment ; that a great deal of this shipping would be sunk in the effort and that neither Britain nor the whole United Nations shipping pool has the tonnage to spare . A British expeditionary force in France , it is estimated , would have to contend with at least thirty completely equipped German divisions  --  about 600,000 troops , if all ancillaries are counted . Britain would have to be prepared to provide reinforcements for an army larger than that and replacements for its equipment . Although ships would be able to shuttle back and forth across the Channel they would be under continual attack from land-based planes in passage and in port and would suffer raids from the small but powerful Germany Navy . To combat such raids the British battle fleet itself would have to be stationed in dangerous proximity to German air bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty divisions , working on interior land lines , the British contend , their expeditionary force should be from one and a half times to twice as large . Using the ratio of their losses in evacuating 250,000 troops from Dunkerque , minus all their equipment , they argue that an invasion of Europe , even if it should succeed , might prove a Pyrrhic victory , since it could entail shipping losses that would bring Britain near to starvation . The arguments against an invasion of Norway instead of France are different in degree but not in kind . The force required would be smaller , but in the end perhaps not much smaller , it is argued , since if a bridgehead were established the Germans would promptly force Sweden to allow the passage of German troops by land over her borders . The water passage would be far longer and the ability of British fighter planes to protect the army far less . Because of these considerations the British Government and military leaders argue that it would be better to wait until Britain had accumulated all the equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and facing the prospect of eventually having to maintain a cross-Channel army with lease-lend material from the United States . Role of Canadians This is the official attitude . That Britain has had no intention of invading Europe this Summer was supported in another way last week ? by the announcement that the Canadian Corps in Britain was to be raised to an army . The Canadian Corps was trained as a counter-invasion force and , according to a recent statement in Washington by its leader , Lieut . Gen. A. G. L. , it is intended as the spearhead of any invasion force that may be sent to the Continent . To build the Canadian Corps into a Canadian Army will take time , more divisions and the assurance of many more reinforcements . But until Canada has established conscription for overseas service there can be no such assurance and not until the end of this month will the Canadian people be asked in a plebiscite to give the Canadian Government power to decree conscription if it sees fit . On the other hand , there are large sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition leaders and even , it is said , some non-Conservative members of the present British Government who do not agree with the official attitude . They are saying not only that defense will not win the war but that it will lose the war . Defense as a " Disease " Defense , they say , is a disease . They claim that the government , which has " lost Europe , " part of the empire and a large part of the navy and merchant marine by staying on the defense against enemies who are never afraid to attack , is now afraid to attack for fear that another Dunkerque would bring it down . Prime Minister Winston Churchill himself , they say , is , because of Gallipoli and Greece , peculiarly sensitive on this point . The proponents of invasion claim that there is nothing to indicate that the shipping position of the United Nations , and still more that of Britain , will be any better next year than this year . The figures of sinkings and replacements indicate rather that the best to be hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted  --  and this is known to be troubling Viscount Halifax , the British Ambassador here ? that British prestige in the United States has reached a new low . Unless Britain opens up a new front lin Europe this year , it is said by those who favor invasion now , she may lose Russia or see the Ger ' mans and the Japanese effect a junction in India . ' The prevalence of such views in certain British quarters , it is understood , has been intimated to Washington and has had more than a little to do with the sending of General Marshall and Mr. Hopkins to Londona Division of Duties There is , of course , also an American side to the question . The British point out that , although the United States Navy makes itself responsible for the convoying of United States troops to Europe and supplies some light craft for general convoy purposes , the British Navy now has to police the seas , with some help from Canada , from Iceland around the world to the western edge of Australia . The British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and part of the Japanese Fleet and still keep enough ships in reserve to neutralize the French Fleet should Vichy hand it over . It is too much to expect , the British say , that the British Navy can also protect a European invasion force . If the British Government were to agree to an invasion of Europe , therefore , it is to be predicted that it would ask for certain guarantees from the United States Government and probably for guarantees of more United States naval aid . When Mr. Churchill left Washington a few months ago he believed he had persuaded President Roosevelt that the main enemy was Germany and the main battleground Europe . The British say that so far the chief United States effort , however , has been in the Far East against Japan .                     