@@705210

txt The full story of the R. A. F. in Greece may never be written until some future date when , after the tumult and shouting die , the archives of the Air Ministry are made available . The historian will then inherit the task that is denied the journalist because " the essence of successful warfare is secrecy . " And yet despite the taboo on many figures and details , no propel understanding of the Greek campaign is possible without some idea of what the British Royal Air Force pilots are accomplishing as day after day their bomber squadrons slash away at Italian airdromes fuel and munition clumps , and docks and harbor installations in Southern Italy and Albania . In the first stage of activity , extending roughly from the end of the first to the end of the third week in November , the R. A. F. directed its attacks mainly against the ports of embarkation and debarkation in Italy and Albania . in order to disorganize Italian communications and hamper sending of supplies and reinforcements while giving the Greeks time fully to mobilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bremen , Hamburg , Cuxhaven and the Channe , ports , have felt the force ' of British bombs . Prime Minister Winston Churchill . in the House of Commons today disclosed that British offensive operations in Egypt no apparently in force , had been delayed to permit the use of R. A. F. planes in Greece . The Second Stage The second stage in the R A F. activity coincided with the period when the Greek land forces , after completing mobilization , were counter-attacking and forcing the Italians back all along the line The R. A. F . while continuing its raids on ports , concentrated its attacks on Italian air bases in Albania , destroying hangars and aircraft in order to disrupt action of the Fascist Air Force against the Greek Army . In many other ways the R A F. closely co-ordinated its operations with those of ' the Greek Air Force and Greek Army ? attacking Italian military centers , troop concentrations , and reinforcement columns near the front . In carrying out these assignments , the R. A. F. fliers fully maintained the traditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing the Italians on the Koritsa front , it was learned that strong reinforcements were coming down the roads Com Pogracletz . Three R. A. F planes were sent to bomb a bridge in the path of these reinforcements I They dove through clouds on then target down to 350 feet before releasing their bombs . The Italians were taken by stir , prise . Direct hits were scored on the bridge just as a motorized column was crossing . The bridge itself was completely destroyed but only one of the three planes returned to its base . Italian Air Efforts As the battle for Koritsa neared its climax , the Italians attempted to reach out and support their own hard pressed troops with masses of planes , strafing and bombing from low altitudes . British fighters were promptly sent to aid Greece . One tighter squadron left its home base one morning and , after a brief pause for refuelling en route , reached the Koritsa sector by 2:30 o'clock in the afternoon . The Italians , who had had the air practically to themselves till then , lost I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air activity in the district diminished greatly and three days later times since then the arrival of R. A. F. squadrons has decided the outcome of battles . The Italian Air Force has little stomach for opposition and during our days at the front we observed how a few fighter planes sufficed to clear the skies of Italian planes and keep them clear . Turning the Tables One Greek town in the war zone where we stayed had suffered from almost daily Italian raids . Travel , over the surrounding roads in daylight was extremely dangerous as enemy fighters and bombers were almost constantly overhead . Usually they went for bridges and moving columns , but sometimes they were even attracted by lone motorcars or solitary figures . That was the situation when the R. A. ' F. squadrons appeared on the scene . The first day they shot down eight Italians . Thereafter we were little bothered . The fame of the British fliers among the Greek civilians is such that the news that an R. A. F. squadron is stationed in a district is sufficient to restore confidence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fled in terror from the Italian bombing raids . Heroes to the People The gratitude of the people to the British fliers is touching . When the crew of one plane made a forced landing in a remote countryside they were first mistaken for ' Italians , but the population 's hostility turned into wild rejoicing when they were identified . From then on they progressed in royal style , feted and dined in every village they passed through . But the life of the British airmen in the Greek war is far from all velvet . Faced with the simultaneous task of conducting war on two African fronts and defending the SU 2Z Canal , the British Middle East Command can spare only a limited number of planes and pilots for Greece . Faced with a foe far superior in numbers , the British must make up by courage and bearing and sheer hardwork for what they lack in quantity . Men and machines are taxed almost beyond credible powers of endurance . Often returning from one hazardous operation , they land only long enough to refuel and - reload before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must fly over to reach their objectives in Albania is about the worst in Europe from the standpoint of aviation . Their targets are often located in narrow valleys where treacherous wind currents throw unwary pilots against crags and pinnacles concealed by clouds . The advent of winter cold has enormously aggravated the risks and difficulties of flying , especially since the planes sent up from Egypt are not adapted to winter flying . ft . A. F. Losses Small Yet in spite of everything the R. A. F. losses are small and out of all comparison to those inflicted on the Fascists . This is due entirely to the superior skill and training of the British pilots . I have met and talked to these men of the R. A. F. at the front and at their bases . Despite their extreme youth , many are already old , seasoned pilots with hundreds of flying hours over Germany , France , and the African desert to their credit . For to airmen , time is measured exclusively in minutes and hours . They include squadron leaders whose names and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will tell you casually of their flights which are actually exploits , over the Ruhr Valley , Hamburg , Berlin , or Capuzzo and Benghazi . They will discuss with authority the relative merits and drawbacks of Eiats , Messerschmitts , Savoias , and Heinkels or compare the qualities of the " Eyeties " and " Jellies " as fliers . They will tell you how to shake a fighter from your tail in a dogfight and what it feels like to " bail out " after you have been " shot tip . " Without the R. A. F. , 11/C courage and fighting spirit of the Greek land army would have been largely wasted . This time Britain has given its ally an effective aid . Through months of darkness and adversity . British grit has forged a fighting weapon in point of quality as fine as any ever produced . The routs of the Italians in Albania is not only a tribute to the Greeks . It is the measure of the road Britain has traveled since those raw Territorials landed and re-embarked in the fjords of Norway @ 