@@705645

txt A TEN-YEAR TREATY Ankara Agrees Not to Fight Nazis  --  Troop Passage Not Given HOLDS TO BRITISH PACT Undertakes to Increase Trade With Germany and to Control Press , Radio in Friendship By C. BROOKS PETERS By Telephone to TUE Nsw YORX TIMES . BERLIN , June 18 ? Following weeks during which a sphynx-like silence had been maintained in authoritative German quarters in regard to the next developments to be expected in this ever-expanding war , the German Government tonight emerged from the smoke screen behind which political negotiations had been in progress and announced the conclusion of an amity and consultation pact with Turkey . The immediate bearing of this newest German diplomatic bombshell on the situation in the Near East is , for the present , as unclear as the repercussions that it may have in London , Moscow and Washington . The pact , signed in Ankara at 9 o'clock tonight , specifically provides that previous commitments entered into by the Turkish and German Governments are not thereby affected . There can be no doubt , however , that the newest agreement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents , regardless of the phraseology in which it is couched , a serious blow to British prestige , at least in the Near East , in the German point of view . Russia Still a Question What , if any , effect it will have on German-Russian relations , about which the most diametrically opposite rumors have been abroad in Berlin for weeks , has not yet been disclosed . Interestingly , moreover , unlike the treaty that Turkey concluded with Britain , the pact signed today makes no mention whatever of the Soviet Union . Authoritative quarters declared , coincident with the announcement here of the signing of the pact , that it was not known whether the Russian Government had previously been informed that a Turkish-German agreement was in the offing or had been concluded . It is reported , although not officially confirmed , that the Russian Ambassador called at the Foreign Office in the Wilhelmstrasse in the early hours of the evening . The general mystery was further intensified when authoritative quarters asserted that communications with foreign countries that had been cut off at 7 P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock tomorrow morning  --  but apparently no later . The German-Turkish pact is specifically designated a friendship pact . It was signed by Franz von Papen , the German Ambassador in Ankara , for Adolf Hitler , and by Shukru Saracoglu , Turkish Foreign Minister , for President Ismet Inonu . It contained three articles . The first provides for respect on the part of both countries of the integrity and inviolability of each other 's territory . Under Article I , moreover , both nations agree to take no measures aimed directly or indirectly against the other contracting party . Article II provides that in the future Turkey and Germany will amicably consult with each other on all questions affecting their mutual interests " in order to arrive at an agreement regarding the treatment of such questions . " Article III concerns itself merely with protocol . It asserts that the ratification of the treaty , which became effective immediately upon signing , will take place in Berlin in the immediate future . Although concluded for ten years , both parties , it is said , will agree at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Extend Trade At the same time , the German and Turkish governments exchanged notes in which mutual desire was expressed to increase econonlio relations between both countries . Both governments affirmed the wish to increase trade with each other to the fullest extent possible Ion the basis of the experiences that they have had with each other in war . Both countries pledge themselves to begin trade negotiations in // TURKS AND NAZIS SIGN AMITY PACT // the immediate future designed to accomplish this objective . Authoritative quarters indicated that these negotiations are already in progress . Following the signing of the pact both nations issued a common declaration in which they pledged the press and radio of their respective countries to follow a policy that " will correspond to the friendship and mutual trust that characterizes German-Turkish relations . " Commenting upon the conclusion of today 's agreement in Ankara , the Germans declared that antiGerman tendencies in the political developments of the past ten years in the Near East had failed to undermine the old traditional GermanTurkish relations . The maintenance of those relations , it was . asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new Turkey . After his death the tradition was carried on by President Inonu and the mutual desire to give them more stable form has now resulted in the conclusion of a pact that brings both countries into intimate collaboration , it was said . The desire of Turkey to restore German-Turkish relations tthrough the basis upon which they rested during and after the World War must be counted as a victory of Turkish diplomacy over those foreign elements which , in recent years , have stubbornly sought to divert her from these policies , which she was convinced were in Turkey 's political and economic interests , the Germans continue . That such a desire met with sympathetic reciprocal response in Germany was indicated by Herr Hitler 's speech of May 5 , it was said . That it also represents the desire of Italy as an Axis partner of Germany , the Germans added , was emphasized by Premier Mussolini only a week ago . It is also- significant , in the German view , that both parties to the pact initiated in Ankara tonight believe it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both countries bring themselves into harmony with the spirit and contents of the new pact . The conclusion of the pact must also be counted a signal victory for Herr von Papen . An astute and persevering diplomat , he had received one of the most difficult assignments confronting a German diplomat . That he was confident of the success of his mission was apparent to old acquaintances , who discovered him in Berlin a few weeks ago radiating optimism , although maintaining the secretiveness for which he has become famous .                     