@@707364

txt Bar Asks Court to Disbar Aurelio For ' Loyalty ' Pledge to Costello Upon application of the Bar Association of the City of New York , signed by Allen Wardwell , president , and Harold R. Medina , its attorney , Presiding Justice Francis Martin of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court signed yesterday an order requiring former Magistrate Thomas A. Aurelio to show cause why " he should not be removed from office as an attorney and counselor-at-law for ' conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice ' and why this court should not take such other and further action as justice may require . " The order , which was served upon Mr. Aurelio just before 7 o'clock last evening , is returnable before the court Wednesday afternoon at 2 o'clock and Mr. Aurelio has until 4 o'clock Tuesday to file his answer . In an affidavit accompanying the Bar Association 's petition , Mr. Medina asked for speedy action by the court and declared that , unless such quick action was taken , he was informed and believed that there was a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice , despite the facts in the petition which , he said , disqualified him for judicial position . Mr. Medina also asserted that the public interest required that the trial of the issues - against Mr. Aurelio be before five justices in open court . He said that he intended to ask for that on the hearing on Justice Martin 's order next Wednesday . Leading members of the Bar Association made no secret of their desire to get final action from the Appellate Division before election . Should Mr. Aurelio be elected to the Supreme Court bench , there was said to be doubt that the Appellate Division could then disbar him . Disbarment of a superior court judge can only come after impeachment and removal . The Bar Association 's petition asking for the disbarment of Mr. Aurelio is based largely upon the connection between Aurelio and Frank Costello , reputed racketeer , to whom Aurelio pledged " undying loyalty " for his part in getting for him the Democratic nomination for Supreme Court Justice . The petition declares that Mr. Aurelio on several occasions received opportunity to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the association to defend himself but failed to do so . The petition deals at some length with the record of Costello , whom it characterizes as an associate of notorious gangsters , and who , it alleges , has engaged in illegal activities and was indicted by the Federal Government on a charge of evading income taxes of approximately $500,000 . Conference With Costello The bar association charges that Mr. Aurelio knew or believed that Costello had a power and influence in the Democratic party and sought his aid in obtaining the Supreme Court nomination , attended various conferences with him and even sought his approval of the person he intended to appoint his court attendant in the event of his election to the Supreme Court . The petition declares that when District Attorney Frank S. Hogan disclosed the telephone conversation between Mr. Aurelio and Costello , in which the former magistrate pledged " undying loyalty , " there was still time for Mr. Aurelio to decline the Democratic and Republican nominations . It adds that it was the duty of Mr. Aurelio , even if he had had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined at that time and that his failure to do so , when he knew he owed his reputation to " a notorious member of the underworld , was a grave offense to the dignity and honor of the court . " Filed with the petitions were the statement of District Attorney Hogan disclosing the telephone conversation and two statements by Mr. Aurelio , one ' to the press and the other in a letter to Mayor La Guardia resigning as magistrate . Ethics of Move Questioned Mr. Aurelio was not reached for comment . Robe H. Elder , his counsel in other litigation , said it was contrary to the practice of the Bar Association to make public a petition in disbarment proceedings before the lawyer involved had been found guilty . It was learned that Michael J. Kennedy , leader of the New York County Democratic organization , who refused to waive immunity when called before the grand jury investigating the circumstances of Mr. Aurelio 's nomination , had testifield before the grand jury later without signing a waiver . It also was learned that Mr. Kennedy had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought before the jury again . Supreme Court Justice Bernard L. Shientag ruled yesterday that the name of Matthew J. Levy , candidate for Supreme Court Justice , must be restricted to two lines on the voting machines instead of three , one line for the American Labor party nomination and one line for the nominations of the independent Justice and Integrity parties . The Greater New York Industrial Council announced that it would endorse neither Mr. Levy nor George Frankenthaler , candidate for Supreme Court Justice on the Republican-sponsored independent judiciary ticket , leaving selection to the individual voter , but would conduct a vigorous campaign for the defeat of Mr. Aurelio.                     