@@710307

txt missing column Congress of reports that the first lien on Greek financial resources is held by British loans , which began in the early Eighteen-eighties. on the wording of the amendment encountered trouble in the Senate committee , it was indicated . Some committee members saw an insistence by the State Department that the President have final say as to whether the Greek-Turkish problem would be withdrawn . It was reported that this caused much debate within the committee at its afternoon-long session . At dusk , it was asserted , the committee appeared to be almost unanimous for permitting the United Nations to have the final determination , and responsibility , for a halting of the United States program , if that came to pass . No Votes Are Taken It was argued that , under the present tentative draft , the United Nations would be required to make a solemn determination , on a 51 per cent recommendation of its General Assembly , that continued unilateral United States action was not necessary because of United Nations or other assistance in Greece and Turkey . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States anti-totalitarian aid to those countries would not be stopped unless the gap were filled from other quarters . Further , it was contended , such an amendment would put the United Nation into the program unmistakably and with a major role . It was emphasized that the Senate committee had taken no votes on the new proposals . In some quarters it was cautioned that a new start might be made when it reassembled tomorro . However , it was insisted that the situation tonight was that the committee seemed ready to recommend to the Senate a program along this line . Mr. Vandenberg declined to confirm or deny the reports made by other committeemen . The Senate committee unanimously adopted the preamble proposed jointly by Mr. Vandenberg and Senator Tom Connally of Texas , former chairman and now ranking Democrat of that body . It would give assurances of Congressional intent that the United States action be carried out within the spirit of the United Nations Charter . The committee also adopted , as recommendations to the Senate , amendments calling for these reservations or restrictions : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 be used by recipient countries to pay either interest or principal on debts to other foreign countries . ( 2 ) That the heads of the economic missions to Greece and Turkey , when appointed by the President , be subject to confirmation by the Senate , and function strictly under rules prescribed by the Chief Executive . The proposed ban loan payments , it was asserted by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Republican , of Massachusetts , its sponsor , was not directed at any one country . It was to prevent , he said , a possible " siphoning-off " of United States dollars or credit to meet obligations incurred elsewhere in the past .                     