@@704940

txt Two women , both amateurs in politics , have been leading an amazingly successful legislative camnaien here the last two weeks . They are Mrs. Susan N. Pulsifer and Mrs. Hetty N. Richard ( pronounced the French way Rich-ar ' ) , co-chairmen of the American Women 's Committee for Mercy Ships for Children . A month ago there was n't any such organization . The United States Committee for the Care of European Children , headed by Marshall Field , was making arrangements to rescue children from ' the war zone , but it soon found itself stymied by the fact that children could not enter the United States except under limited immigration quotas , and that British ships were not available to rescue the children . After overtures from Mrs. Roosevelt , the Government announced on July 14 that it would admit children on visitors ' visas . " We women , " as Mrs Pulsifer explains it , " then got busy on legislation to untie President Roosevelt 's hands and permit him to authorize American rescue ships to go through the war zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the enabling amendment to the Neutrality Law has passed the House and is expected to go through the Senate without delay . Have Long Worked Together Mrs. Pulsifer and Mrs. Richard are old friends . They were together in New York many years on child adoption work , where they learned that " the United States is a child-loving nation , with the homes wanting children far exceeding the number available . " Mrs. Pulsifer , whose husband was once editor and owner of the Outlook Magazine , has two adopted children , and has already taken in four " guest children " from Great Britain , with two more on the way over . The youngsters are staying on her farm , near Cundy 's Harbor , on the Maine Coast . One of them , young Anthony Harwood , she reports , is a " little under par nervously , " but the others are making themselves right at home . Anthony , she says , wo n't go to sleep at night for fear " no one will wake him up when it 's time to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England sea captains , Mrs. Pulsifer grew up on Long Island , later lived in France many years , and during the last war served with the French Red Cross . After the war , she did child feeding work in Northern France , which led her to predict precarious years ahead for European children . Her two adopted sons , Jonathan and David , are British . Mrs. Richard has four children of her own and is taking three refugees into her home at Hewlett , L. I. , one of them a baby of three months from a British orphanage . Public Opinion Was Ready The newly founded committee found it did n't have to spend much time arousing nubile opinion . Thousands of families who had agreed to take child guests were aggrieved at the possibility of not getting them . By the time Representative Thomas C. Hennings ( D ) of Missouri , a bachelor member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , had introduced a bill to make the necessary amendment to the Neutrality Act , the letters were flooding congressmen 's offices asking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised whether the sinking of an American boatload of British children might arouse public opinion in this country to the extent of leading the Nation to war . But letters continued to pour in and after two days the Committee reported the bill out favorably . The Rules Committee gave it right of way and the House passed it last Wednesday with scarcely a dissenting vote , though more than one member admitted privately that he was glad there was no record made of the vote . Mrs. Pulsifer and Mrs. Richard are in Washington , along with Mrs. Richard 's sister , Mrs. Mary Hemenway Callan , of Boston , and Mrs. John Sise , of Long Island , to urge Senators to support the bill , while Mrs. Marian Sanders , the Committee 's legislative chairman and Mrs. Raymond Gram Swing , who lobbied for suffrage , have gone back to New York to mail out petition forms to every State in the Union . They will also distribute hundreds of posters , showing a child with a life preserver standing under a clock marking the zero hour . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and underneath is the plea , " Uncle Sam , Let 's Go . " Mrs. Pulsifer objects to being called a " lobbyist . " Says she : " We 're just petitioning as individuals and we 've asked other individuals to petition with us . Every citizen has the right of petition , does n't he ? We 're not rousing public opinion but merely focusing it . " Frankly , some of the old-time , highly paid lobbyists around the Capitol wish they could take some lessons from these amateurs . Mary liornaday                     