@@712290

txt A red-haired chemical engineer and his battered 1939 car have just proved that it takes only a two-week vacation to touch every state in the union and the District of Columbia . When Edward F , T. Rice rolled into his driveway recently he had completed a 9,243.7-mile jaunt in about eight hours less than the 14 days he had allowed himself . ' His wife and three children were still receiving postcards from him mailed from every state during that time . Confronted by skeptics after his other long distance drives  --  like the 54-hour week-end push from Albany to Jacksonville , Fla. .. nd back three years ago  --  Mr , Rice documented his latest venture as carefully as one of his laboratory experiments . Beside mailing the postcards , he photogrpahed his car in each state next to a United States route sign bearing the name of the state . He chronicled each gasoline stop ? 55 of them  --  by entries in a log book , credit card slips , and photographs of the car at the pump . He got a signature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slept  --  sometimes for only four or five hours . Here are some of the statistics Mr. Rice reports : He made the circle from Albany to New England then south and west to California and back to Albany in 2431/2 hours , an average of 37.96 mlies per hour . He averaged 680 miles per day for the first 13 days , leaving 404 miles for the last leg July 31 . With a 1949 motor , Mr. Rice 's car made 16.9 miles to a gallon of gas . He crossed 67 state lines . Ordinarily he ate only one heavy meal a day , a breakfast of a raw egg and milk , a stack of pancakes , meat , and fruit juice . In one state an array like that cost 63 .. Still Mr , Rice figures he spent " several hundred dollars " less than the $1,000 he had figured for the trip . All over the country , Mr. Rice says , he found people helpful and friendly . One mechanic " could have told me to wait overnight since it was quitting time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work after supper even though he had his farm work yet to do and was spending his spare time painting his house . " During one day of hard driving in the Allegheny Mountains Mr. Rice consumed 10 pounds of food . Only two mishaps slowed him up ? burned-out points in Iowa and a blowout in Utah . , Arriving hiime on a Sunday , Mr. Rice was ready to go to work the next day , He has another week of vacation coming later , however , and he plans a little trip with his family up into Canada . Eventually he hopes to retrace a large part of his cross-TJuritry tour with hit : wise and children " and spend a longer time enjoying and sharin. / the beautErs f our great country . "                     