@@706555

txt War production factories in the United States produced m May nearly 4,000 airplanes , more than 1,500 tanks , nearly 2,000 artillery and anti-tank guns , and " well over " 100,000 machine guns and sub-machine guns , President Roosevelt said today . His statement , the first specific official revelation of United States war production figures since Pearl Harbor , indicated that the " arsenal of democracy " was ready to furnish the tools to carry out the " offensive strategy of the war , " which the President is mapping with Prime Minister Winston Churchill and other leaders of the United Nations , including Dr. T. V. Soong , Chinese Foreign Minister , and Maxim Litvinoff , Russian Ambassador . The President released the figures in a formal statement because he felt that knowledge of them would " hurt " rather than " help " the enemy . Publication of war production output has been forbidden in the past on the grounds that the information would assist the Axis powers in their war against this country . The President apparently believed that war production was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it would damage German morale and shake the confidence of the Nazis and Japanese in their leaders ' promises of victory . But he warned the American people that , though the figures were satisfactory , they could not " rest on our oars " for " we need more and more " and face " plenty of serious production problems ahead . " THE PRESIDENT 'S STATEMENT The formal statement by the President was at follows : " We ordinarily do not release production figures because they might give aid and comfort to the enemy . I am going to give today just a few which are definitely going to give the Axis just the opposite of ' aid and comfort . ' " We are well on our way toward achieving the rate of production which will bring us to our goals . " In May , we produced9nearly 4,000 planes and over 1,500 tanks . We also produced nearly 2,000 artillery and anti-tank guns . This is exclusive of anti-aircraft guns and guns to be mounted in tanks . " And here is a figure which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one month alone we produced over 50,000 machine guns of all types  --  including infantry , aircraft and anti-aircraft . That does not include sub-machine guns . If we add those in , the total is well over 100,000 . All these figures are only for one single month . " While these figures give you some idea of our production accomplishments , this ip no time for the American people to get over-confident . We ca n't rest on our oars . We need more and more , and we will make more and more . And we must also remember that there are plenty of serious production problems ahead  --  particularly some serious shortages in raw materials , which are receiving the closest consideration of the government and industry . " Vast Rise in Airplane Output The airplane production figures given by Mr. Roosevelt were particularly impressive since they disclosed that the output of planes had increased about 300 per cent in the last year , 733 per cent in the last two years , and 1,739 per cent in the last three years . Production in May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May , 1940 , totaled 480 planes , and 212 were turned out in May , 1939 . No breakdown was available on the percentage of combat planes and trainer planes in the 4,000 total for May , but it was stated authoritatively that considerably more than half were fighter planes . Jouett Hails Accomplishment The . President 's statement was particularly gratifying to Colonel John H. Jouett , president of the Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce of America , who recalled that " when the President , in his address to Congress on May 16 , 1940 , called for production of 50 , - 000 planes the aircraft industry was producing at an annual rate of 4,500 . " Commenting on the announcement that 4,000 planes were produced in the month of May alone , Colonel Jouett said : " These figures should bring little comfort to the Axis , the oldest member of which  --  Germany ? collapsed internally in 1918 when its people realized the hopelessness of continuing the fight against mounting American production . " No comparisons were available on the percentage increase in tanks and guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Medium M-3 and M-4 tanks , principal offensive weapon of American ground forces , did not go into production on a commercial scale until April 19 , 1941 . The President 's statement gave no figures on shipbuilding , but the Maritime Commission announced recently that fifty-eight vessels were delivered in May and that seventy-five ships were launched . The Present Armament Goals The current armament goals of the United States in 1942 are : 60,000 airplanes , including 45,000 combat craft . 45,000 tanks . 20,000 anti-aircraft guns . 8,000,000 deadweight tons of merchant shipping . Expenditures for arms production now are running at the rate of about $3,800,000,000 a month , about two and one-half times the rate of spending immediately before Pearl Harbor . Donald H. Nelson , War Production Board chairman , said that the over-all production of the United States and the other United Nations now exceeded that of the Axis , but that our enemies had huge reserves which must be overcome .                     