@@709844

txt Letters to The Times MICHAEL LINDSAY.RUDOLF MODLEY.JULIEN CORNELL , JAMES BRUCE . Letters to The Times New Order in China Hove Toward Democratic Government Is Seen in Communist Areas TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In her letter published in your issue of Sept. 20 , Freda Utley accuses J. Spencer Kennard of inaccuracies , but she herself needs correcting . She asks , " How does Mr. Kennard explain that between V-J Day and December , 1945 , the Chinese Communists had acquired possession of huge territories ? Who was attacking whom ? " The answer is quite simple . Over the major part of the " Japanese occupied areas " in north and . central China the Japanese held the towns and communication lines , while the Communist armies operated in the countryside large parts of which were under regular Communist administration . Outside Manchuria all the places the Communists hold are in areas where their armies had been operating since 1940 or earlier . For example , in north Kiangsu rescued American airmen found most of the countryside under Communist control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were operating over considerable areas by the end of the war , and after Oct. 10 , 1945 , the Communists actually evacuated areas south of the Yangtze that they had held for several years . Thus , except in parts of Manchuria , the Communist expansion after V-J Day was only taking over former Japanese positions within Communist areas . Nationalist Strategy After V-J Day the Japanese in north China went on fighting , apparently with the approval of Ho Ying-chin , who was in charge of the Japanese surrender in China . Also most of the leaders of the large Chinese armies serving under the Japanese declared for the Kuomintang and were given appointments by the Chungking government . A large proportion of these puppet armies were former Kuomintang troops who had deserted to the Japanese . There is considerable evidence showing that these desertions were approved by Ho Ying-chin to keep a Kuomintang army in north China to oppose the Communists . Not one of the generals who deserted after 1940 was court-martialed and Chungking headquarters actually gave Americans letters of introduction to generals serving under the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their areas was mainly opposed by Japanese and Japanese puppets . My wife , who comes from a landlord family in Shansi , and I lived for over two years in villages in a Communist base in West Hopei . There was no doubt that the people , including even many landlords , felt that they were getting better and more honest government than they had ever known . It was also clear that village government was very effectively democratic . In a largely illiterate country training in democracy can only come in the village where illiteracy does hot prevent an understanding of the issues involved . The literate inhabitants of Kuomintang areas can read criticism of Government policies , which are often bad , or of official corruption , which is general , so long as there are editors with sufficient courage to risk assassination . The inhabitants of Communist areas have been able to make their governments change policies which they dislike and can secure the dismissal and punishment of corrupt officials . Which type of society is it preferable to live I in ? MICHAEL LINDSAY . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airport Service Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A serious deterrent to the use of airline travel in New York is the poor service to and from La Guardia Field . Airline " limousines , " which are nothing but glorified buses , now charge $1.15 for the seven-mile ride from Forty-second Street to the field . Discounting the tax , this amounts to about 12 cents per passenger-mile for buses which seat from eleven to twenty-four persons . The average bus fare in the United States is about 1.7 cents per passenger-mile and the average plane fare about 4.8 cents . It costs two and one-half times as much per mile to go by bus as by plane ! The buses render very poor service and waiting periods of 20 to 30 minutes after arriving are common at La Guardia Field . The airlines and the city should take immediate steps to assure that quick and courteous express bus service from La Guardia Field to points in Manhattan is provided at reasonable cost . It is high time that airport service caught up with the philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe . RUDOLF MODLEY . New York , Sept. 30 , 1946 . Conscientious Objectors The Life They Led Was Forced Upon Them , It Is Stated To THE EDITOR OP THE NEW YORK TIMES : In supporting the plea of Dorothy Canfield Fisher and other writers through your editorial of Sept. 27 urging amnesty for imprisoned conscientious objectors you take a position of fairness and tolerance which deserves commendation . At the same time , however , you appear to have difficulty in forgiving conscientious objectors for the fast that their scruples enabled many of them to avoid the sacrifices of war . You give the impression that conscientious objectors willingly accepted immunity from danger . This is not so . Nine out of ten conscientious objectors served in the Medical Corps , where , unarmed , they ran greater risks than most members of the armed forces . The remainder , unwilling to support war even to that extent , were mostly confined in concentration camps at manual labor , although some were allowed to engage in welfare projects in hospitals and elsewhere . Time and again the conscientious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects requested permission to send them abroad in ambulance teams , or at home on missions of mercy which involved risks comparable to those endured in the armed forces . Such requests were nearly all denied by Selective Service officials , not because the men involved were unwilling , but because the Government wished to punish them and make their lot unattractive by keeping them away from positions of service and sacrifice . Conscientious objectors are not cowards or slackers . It took bravery to stand on principle against the weight of public criticism , and it took patience to sit out the war in the backwoods when others were dying on the battlefronts . The conscientious objectors did not choose such a life ; it was forced upon them . To a man they would have preferred an errand of mercy and of danger . JULIEN C ' , ORNELL , Counsel , National Committee on Conscientious Objectors of the American Civil Liberties Union . New York , Sept. 27 , 1946 . Governor Lehman 's Stand TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a constant reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberty of expressing my disappointment at what seems to me the unfair attitude of your editorial page toward Governor Lehman. 