@@707457

txt The strike of between 15,000 and 17,000 workers in the five New Jersey plants of the Wright Aeronautical Corporation , engaged in the production of engines for Army planes , including the new B-29 super-bombers , was terminated this afternoon by an agreement between labor and management that the issue that had touched off the walkout would be submitted to arbitration . Announcement that the workers would return to their jobs immediately was made by Allen Wisenfeld , representing the New Jersey Board of Arbitration . Mr. Wisenfeld made his announcement at 3:30 P. M. today , twenty-four hours after the walkout began in Plant 2 here . It later spread to the other plants . According to Albert Capone , president of Local 669 of the United Automobile Workers , CIO , the strike was traceable to the refusal by the company to discharge Albert Knowles , assistant supervisor in the foundry , who is unsatisfactory to the union . The company 's estimate of the number of workers " away from their jobs " was considerably lower than the union 's figure of " between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company spokesman set the figure at 6,500 in four plants . Knudsen Attends Meeting After a conference last night had failed to clarify the situation and get the workers back on the job , Mr. Wisenfeld met here with Army , management and labor representatives at 10 o'clock this morning . Except for a brief lunch period the discussions continued until announcement of the agreement was made , with the assurance from union officials that they would get as many workers as possible back for the 3:45 P. M. shift . It was expected most of the workers would be on the job tomorrow . , Taking part in the conference were Lieut . Gen. William S. Knudsen , director of production for the War Department on an inspection tour when notified of the strike ; Brig . Gen. Benjamin Myers of the Army Air Forces , Lieut . Col. Carl Borkland , Army Air Forces ' resident representative ; Guy W. Vaughan , president of the Wright Corporation and also president of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation , parent company ; Stephen Remsen , international representative of the UAW ; Mr. Capone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National War Labor Board . At the conference , according to Mr. Wisenfeld , it was agreed to submit the question raised by the union for the removal of Mr. Knowles to arbitration with the arbitrator to be appointed by the WLB . " Both management and labor representatives pledged to the Army people that they will exert every effort to bring the plant into full production immediately , " Mr. Wisenfeld said . , No Disorder During Strike There was no picketing or disorder during the strike , according to the police . Two of the company 's plants are located in Paterson , one in East Paterson , another in Fair Lawn and a fifth in WoodRidge . While declaring that the strike was " unauthorized , " Mr. Remsen said " the match that lit the fire and actually started the walkout " was the company 's reaction to a union protest against Mr. Knowles , the assistant foundry supervisor in Paterson Plant 2 . Mr. Capone asserted that the union had objected to the " conduct " of the assistant supervisor and it was his understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter " conducted himself toward the foundry workers in a high-handed and arrogant manner to the extent of causing many of them to quit their jobs . " The company disclaimed any , agreement with the union in relation to Mr. Knowles ' dismissal . In , a statement it declared : " Recently the union officials presented a demand to the management that a member of foundry supervision be removed . This the management never agreed to do , as it has full right in its choice of its supervisors , The management has agreed to submit the problem to an impartial arbitrator as to whether the union has the right to demand the removal of supervision . " It was further charged by Mr. Remsen that there were two factions in the " top management " of the corporation . He said that when the union had been able to reach an agreement with one group it had been voided by the other . " We are going to demand that somebody be given the power to settle these things , " he said . A company spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be given out as to the loss in production of engines and parts as a result of the strike . He added , also , that at this time the company could not esti ? mate the number of man-hours lost by the walkout.                     