@@704905

txt The Army today rushed its draft machinery toward completion as two Congressional committees sought to define the place of the conscientious objector and to iron out other knotty problems in connection with the national military conscription program scheduled to come before the Senate next week . As originally written by the Military Training Camps Association , the conscription bill would have exempted all persons proved to be members of recognized religious sects whose tenets forbade its members to participate in war in any form . The Senate Military Affairs Committee has ruled that definition of conscientious objector out as too narrow . If a man is sincere in his scruples against warfare , , then he should be exempt from participation whether or not be is a member of a church with such principles , committee members argued . As a result , the Senate Committee has ruled that the proof of honest objection to military service I will be entirely with the individual who must be ready to stand trial . The provision is also added that if he refuses to take his place in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such service for his country as the President declares to be noncombatant . Married Men Not Needed In the House Military Affairs Committee where the question of drafting married men was raised , Brig . Gen. William E. Shedd , Assistant Chief of Staff , made the statement that no married man need be drafted , at least within the next year . He estimated there are 4,500,000 men , between the age of 21 and 31 who could be drawn into the training program without handicapping agriculture or industry . With Gen. George C. Marshall , United States Army Chief of Staff , appearing before the House Committee to urge all possible speed in enacting the conscription program , destined to bring 1,500,000 men into the Army by April , 1941 , other Army officials described the nationwide draft machinery as ready to go Tinto action within 24 hours after the bill is passed . A force of 700,000 persons throughout the country will be necessary to handle the details of conscription , the House Committee was told . Use of local election officials would keep the cost down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed , the program calls for the assignment by the local draft board of numbers to registraints . These numbers would be published in the local newspapers . Drawings in Capital Then drawing of lots would be made in Washington , with each number flashed to all local boards , who will list the prospective selectees in four classes : ( 1 ) those who are so situated that there is no reason why they should not enter training at once ; ( 2 ) those working at jobs so vital to the national good that they should be given deferred status ; ( 3 ) those with dependents ; and ( 4 ) those judged physically unfit . When the call is made for a certain number of trainees , local boards will work down ihrough group number one . A recommendation for some sort of guarantee that trainees would get their jobs back when their training period is over was put aside by the House Committee as unfeasible . The Senate Committee has written into the bill a provision that the plan ultimately shall not draw more than 87 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the 21 to 31 age group ; not more than 15 per cent nor less than 10 per cent from the 31 to 38 group ; and not more than seven per cent nor less than three per cent from the 38 to 45 group . This division , it is argued , will increase the morale , and efficiency of the fighting forces , by taking some of the burden from youth .                     