@@709055

txt With the usual last-minute flood ) f oratory , Boston 's 1945 Mayoral:y campaign will close tonight but it is doubtful if any of the verbiage will help to clarify one of the most confusing contests in years . In a whirlwind finish candidates will tour the city this evening in a final bid for votes which may count heavily in what many believe will be a close election . Mayor Kerrigan is scheduled to address rallies in Wards 2 , 3 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 19 , and 22 , and will be on the radio station WHDH at 10:15 . Representative and former Mayor James M. Curley has engaged Symphony Hall for a windup rally and will broadcast directly from the hall between nine and 10 p. m. over Station WMEX . Former Police Commissioner Joseph F. Timilty has been announced as master of ceremonies . Reilly on Radio Former Fire Commissioner Reilly will take to the radio in a final plea to voters and may be heard at 8:45 p. m. on WHDH and at 11:15 p. m. on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Dorchester Manor and Morton Plaza , Dorchester ; Aperion Plaza , Roxbury ; American Legion Hall , West Roxbury , and Warren Hall , Brighton . Candidate Lee will speak on WHDH at 7:45 and Councilor Sawtelle on WCOP at 9 and WMEX at 10:15 . Of the six candidates who have been haranguing the citizens of Boston for the past several weeks only three appear to have a chance of winning and of these Representative Curley. in the view of most political observers , has a slight edge . Man To Beat Curley Mayor John E. Kerrigan and former Fire Commissioner William Arthur Reilly both claimed to be the man to " beat Curley " but experienced election prognosticators were not in agreement on which candidate could do the job . With an expected total vote of less than 250,000 and a six-way split of votes the next Mayor of Boston undoubtedly will be elected by a minority of the votes cast . This has been the pattern in all but two of the Mayoralty elections since 1910 . Size of the field is seen as an advantage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80.000 votes in a Boston election for Mayor . If , as many believe . Mr. Curley can count on that as an irreducible minimum he will be a hard man to defeat . This year 's winner may well poll less than 100.000 . Things to Watch Here are come of the things to look for in the mayoralty elec-tion : Total vote accorded Mr. Curley compared with that of four years ago when he received 116,430 , losing to Mayor Tobin by less than 10,000 votes . Total vote received by Mr. Reilly , who is expected to inherit some of the former Tobin strength but who does not have the solid Republican support accorded the former Mayor . Total vote of Mayor Kerrigan whose position as incumbent is seen as an advantage . Vote of Councilor John J. Sawtelle in Wards 1 and 3 , Curley strongholds . The Executive Councilor may cut heavily into the Italian vote which predominates in these wards . Mr. Curley 's vote in Wards 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 13 ana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Mr. Curley 's vote in these wards could prove his undoing The vote in Republican Wards 4 and 5 in the Back Bay where Mayor Tobin won easily in 1937 and again in 1941 . This year Republican support is divided between Mayor Kerrigan and Mr. Reilly . Jewish Wards The vote in the strong Jewish wards . 12 and 14 , where Candidate Curley has been making a strong bid for support by circulating an anti-Rankin and Bilbo speech which he delivered nearly 18 months ago . Mr. Curley has never fared well in these wards . The vote in South Boston 's Ward . 7 , Mayor Kerrigan 's home ward , where Mr. Curley won in 1941 and where he has always been strong . The vote received by each candidate in his home ward : Mr. Lee , Ward 3 ; Mayor Kerrigan , Ward 7 ; Councilor Sawtelle , Ward 17 ; Representative Feeney , Ward 18 ; Former Mayor Ctirley and Mr. Reilly in Ward 19 . Even more confusing to most voters than the mayoralty contest is the election for two positions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Dr. Patrick J. Foley , both seeking re-election , there are eight candidates in the field . Dr. Elias J. Stewart , Back Bay dentist , a Republican ; Miss Gladys Shapiro , Boston attorney with a Beacon Hill address , and George V. Kenneally of Dorchester , a former professional football player , now a teacher-coach at Revere High School , have been singled out by some as the best qualified for the jobs . The City Council race finds 19 of the 22 present Councilors running for re-election . There are 66                     