@@711313

txt At a crucial moment in history , when Western democracy is engaged in a supreme struggle for survival in the face of new totalitarian aggression from the East , a few antediluvian Republican leaders have undertaken to stampede the House of Representatives into slashing the funds for the European Recovery and other foreign aid programs on which the outcome of that struggle depends . Their action is not yet fatal , and there is still hope that it will be mended by the Senate , and in the House itself by a mobilization of the 142 members who first voted for the aid programs but found it compatible with their responsibilities to . " 1 absent themselves when it came to voting on the appropriations . But the damage which the House action has already done is incalculable , and unless speedily reversed it is bound to have far-reaching repercussions on the whole world situation as well as the American Presidential election , which it would turn primarily into a fight over American foreign policy . For the maneuvers which led to the debacle represent nothing less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican party against the bipartisan foreign policy hammered out during the war and its aftermath by Presidents Roosevelt and Truman , Secretaries of State Byrnes and Marshall , and Senator Vandenberg and John Foster Dulles , which has been the mainstay of the Western World and the basis of American leadership in it . The isolationist group , which has the support of such powerful figures as Representative Taber , the autocratic chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , and Mr. Halleck , the majority leader , has long been sniping at what it terms the policy of the " internationalists . " Heretofore it has been beaten off by the aroused sentiment of the American people , every poll of which revealed overwhelming support for international cooperation that made isolationism a losing game . But now , in the closing days of Congress , this group-is having its revenge , and is attempting to scuttle both the foreign aid program and the reciprocal trade system that form the economic backbone of the democracies and the hope for their survival . To the world at large its initial success now poses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War , when another Republican isolationist group succeeded in scuttling American adherence to the League of Nations and ratification of the guarantees to France . That question is how far it is possible and advisable to rely on the word of the United States . This question is all the graver because in the present instance it is not merely the word of an American President that is being repudiated but pledges made by Congress itself  --  pledges on which other nations have based economic and foreign policies that have exposed them to Russian enmity and vengeance . That involves not only American policy but American honor , good faith , prestige and leadership , all of which are in danger of being betrayed . Certainly Russo-Communist propaganda is having a field day impressing Europe with the slogan that " you ca n't trust Washington . " The political balance in Europe is already so delicate that a victory for American isolationism could easily lead to a catastrophe . This is a situation which imposes a special responsibility on the Republican leadership , in particular the Republican Presidential candidates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let it be known that he will stand by the bipartisan policy and will lead the struggle in the Senate for a restoration of the cuts . But it is the duty of the other Republican leaders , especially Governor Dewey and Mr. Stassen as leading contenders for the nomination , to declare themselves as well . They have supported the aid program in the past , but now is the time for them to speak up against the reactionary elements within their own party . The courage with which they do so will be not only a measure of their stature but also the criterion by which they will be judged .                     