@@705662

txt Topics of The Times No matter how many Our New Yorkers leave the Vacation city to spend their vacaCity tions at mountain or seashore , as many people will come to spend their Summer holidays here . This has always been true , especially as to visitors from the Southern States ; but the World 's Fair . with its display of many attractions the city itself has to offer , stimulated the movement . Now New York is definitely established as one of the great vacation centers ' of the nation . But the vacation season here , unlike the season at most resorts . is not confined to the Summer . It runs right through the year . If more people come in the Summer it is only because their holidays happen to fall in the warm months . New York has as much to offer in Spring , . Fall and Winter . with its shops . its galleries , its theatres , its hotels and night clubs . Our good neighbors from the Latin republics have already discovered this , and usually time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations have now begun to advertise the city as an all-year vacation center . Undoubtedly one of our biggest industries is the entertainment of our guests . With the Summer Parking beach season in full at the swing , a problem has Rockaways arisen of regulating parking throughout the Rockaway resort area in some manner that will cause a minimum of confusion and at the same time please both Mr. Moses and the local property owners . Recognizing the urgency of the situation , Mayor La Guardia has intervened to cut official red tape and make possible quick and easy variances from the Board of Standards and Appeals that will relieve some parking-field owners temporarily from the zoning restrictions . Commissioner Moses wants to stimulate use of Riis Park . in the western section of the public shorefront play area . with its provision for parking 14 , - 000 automobiles . But since crowded Summer Sundays sometimes bring as many as 100,000 automobiles to the Rockaways , permanent solution of the Problem probably will call for the setting aside , where possible , of large community parking space or spaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get something in return for their investment while not hindering Mr. Moses ' ultimate plan for making the Rockaways as orderly and parklike as possible . Connecticut Is almost as Old rich in good old words as Nutmeg in good old houses . Last Word year she brought us that monster of which Joel Bar/ low has written in " The Anarchiad " : " Glastonburian Glowackus scares the bodyguard of Bacchus . " Now The Hartford Courant issues from its wordworks " catouse . " Why make such a " catouse " ? ? that is , such a row , hullabaloo ? It looks honest , though the Dictionary of American English does n't register it . Clearly the last syllable is a cousin of touse , tousle , a well-known roughhouse family . With an engaging fingerto-nose gravity . our philological friend says that what it calls the " prefex , ' ca , ' may have come from the Latin word circa , which we call ' about . ' " Yes , brother , all things are possible to untamed hunters of derivations . So may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kata , which we call " down " ? But the serious student will think of " ca. " as an onomatopoeic formation denoting sound ca-whop , ca-chunk , kerchunk ! Boys used to have a way of skipping a stone over a water surface so that it would disappear with a sound like that . Under a procession of high The Laurentian cloud the swift Salmon salmon rivers of Quebec , Rise New Brunswick and the Maritimes are running out of high water . In the Restigouche , the Nipisiquit , the Kedgwick , the Grand Cascapedia and a score of other streams , ' the Atlantic salmon , often called the king of game fish , is beginning to rise to the deftly placed fly . Boat fishermen and bank fishermen alike are dropping their lures where the shallow beds of these ancient rivers drop off into deep holes and dark pools . Whatever fly they may prefer to tie , and whether they fish along steep banks or between the low g-unwales of pointed boats , the salmon fishermen know an excitement all their own . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight with a canny and courageous antagonist is the sure sequel . Even if the sport of the day be poor . these anglers are in a. land of enchantment ? of sheer bluffs , of sudden wide and smiling pasturage , of deep forest and clear rushing water . And here is also a deep peace . Fifty-seven thousand visitors to the Aquarium have already been polled on their choice of a new site for the Aquarium , and most of them have found it a harder question to answer than anything in the international situation or the future of the capitalist system .                     