@@704446

txt Senator Borah , dean of the Senate and its best known orator , lay near death early today at his home here , with all hope for recovery abandoned Iv his physicians . The 74-year-old statesman , who was serving his thirty-third consecutive year in the Senate , suffered a cerebral hemorrhage Tuesday morning . At 9:25 o'clock last night the Senator 's office announced that his condition was " unchanged . " He was still in a state of coma , as he had been most of the day except for rare , brief intervals . It was stated at that time that there would be no further bulletin issued during the night , unless the Senator 's condition changed . Except for lessened vigor credited to his age , Senator Borah had been in good health . On Monday he attended the session of the Senate after visiting his doctor for a routine check-up , which he told his friends showed him to be in better physical condition than at any time in recent years : Last Thursday he delivered a forceful speech , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy , in which he attacked vigorously the delegation of extreme powers to the Executive under the guise of emergency legislation . While Senator Borah 's confinement to his home Tuesday and Wednesday occasioned some comment , it was explained that he had fallen in his apartment at 2,101 Connecticut Avenue . Critical Condition Revealed Only yesterday did the nature of the fall become generally known , when Mrs. Borah , at her apartment , and Miss Cora Rubin , the Senator 's secretary , at his office , simultaneously announced that he actually had suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. and that his recovery was not probable . At a few minutes past 10 A. M. his office issued a bulletin , which read as follows : " Senator Borah is ill from a cerebral hemorrhage which occurred early Tuesday morning . His condition is critical . " Neither the office nor Dr. Worth Daniels , his physician , would amplify this announcement , but Mrs. Borah told a group of news reporters who called on her that the Senator was in the gravest possible condition . She was entirely composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room that contained Mr. Borah 's collections of books and carved elephants . " He had a physical examination on Monday , " Mrs. Borah said , " and the doctor remarked upon his perfect physical condition . " Circulation of news of the Senator 's illness had an immediate and noticeable effect in Washington , where Senator Borah has enjoyed a respect exhibited without regard for party lines . Scores of telephone calls , many from distant points , came to the apartment house switchboard . Only one of these calls was said to have been put through to Mrs. Borah . President Roosevelt inquired concerning the reports and extended his sympathy . In Senator Borah 's office , Miss Rubin and Miss Grace Hellmann , his principal secretaries , were kept busy constantly answering telephone messages and reiterating reports to Senators and Representatives who visited the office . Various members of the staff took turns in going to the Senator 's apartment to handle inquiries . The only public evidence of Senate concern over the condition of its best-known member yesterday came in the opening prayer by the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special plea for the recovery of the Senator . Off the floor , however , there was less restraint among members . In the office of the Vice President , Mr. Garner paced the floor while he talked of Senator Borah 's condition , and remarked , " Senator Borah will be missed as much as any member of the Senate . " Senator Vandenberg , with tears in his eyes , exclaimed that " one of the foundation stones is being swept out from under the country . " Other members were equally affected and after the Senate convened many gathered in groups to discuss the reports . Senator Borah first suffered a serious illness in 1937 , when he went to the Johns Hopkins Hospital at Baltimore for long treatment . His recovery was considered remarkable for a man of his age . After that illness Senator Borah was noticeably thinner but still a vigorous man . As a concession to self-care he stopped his practice of taking frequent rides on horseback . He had been a familiar figure on the bridle paths in Rock Creek Park , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often rode a horse known as Alfred E. Smith , named for the Democratic nominee for President , who presented it to him . Often Rode to Capitol on Bus However , Mr. Borah declined to pamper , himself , and frequently rode to the Capitol on a public bus . Senator Borah probably has been most distinguished for the fact that he enjoyed world-wide fame but has never traveled abroad , and he is listed as one of the famous Senators despite the fact that his name does not appear as author of major legisktion . In a career that carried him to the chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee under Republican control of the Senate , he won distinction by being as a rule in the midst of minority fights , regardless of whether the Republicans or Democrats happened to be in power . Members reread yesterday with particular interest the last speech delivered by the Senator , on Thursday , seeing in it expression of some of the more important tenets in his political philosophy . In that speech he criticized a proposal by Secretary Edison that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories , ships and other property and dictate their method of operation on declaration of a state of emergency . Such action , the Senator argued , would " be arbitrary and clearly unconstitutional . " He termed it " a startling proposition " that " tends to show how far we have traveled , or are traveling , in the exercise of purely arbitrary powers . " Stating that " faith in democracy is dying ' in the world , the Senator went on : " It is living up to our own teachings and , principles which really counts in this great struggle for the preservation of free institutions . Introducing bills and passing laws which strike at the letter  --  and if not the letter , the spirit  --  of democratic principles  --  these are the things which undermine and break down faith in democracy . " Measures introduced and urged which are in themselves impeachments of the whole scheme of democracy do infinitely more harm than a thousand Communists chattering on the street corners . " This statement was typical of many pronouncements which Senator Borah made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Deal Administrktion , he began criticizing those acts which he thought encouraged a tendency toward centralization of governmental authority . When the Senate adjourned yesterday , Majority Leader Barkley summoned it to reconvene tomorrow , instead of Monday . Senator Borah has only two close relatives , aside from his wife . They are a sister , Mrs. Mattie Renard , of Fairfield , Ill. , and Wayne G. Borah , a nephew and a Federal judge in New Orleans . Senator in a Deep Coma By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Friday , Jan. 19 ? Senator Borah suffered a cerebral hemorrhage Tuesday morning and took a turn for the worse yesterday , when it was revealed that Mrs. Borah had found him about 7:30 Tuesday morning lying unconscious in his bathroom . At first it was believed that he had slipped on a rug in . stepping from his bath , had fallen and ' suffered an injury which gave rise to the hemorrhage . Mrs. Borah said she had been informed , however , that it was quite possible that the Senator had been stricken with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall resulted from this attack . Throughout Tuesday Mr. Borah was semi-conscious , although unable to relate what had happened . Once he called for " Mary " ? Mrs. Borah  --  and demanded his slippers , but was quieted when she assured him he could get up next day . Wednesday , however , he sank into a coma from which he roused himself only at intervals . His condition became still more precarious yesterday morning , and Dr. Daniels issued a bulletin describing the Senator 's illness as serious .                     