@@711336

txt DRAFT BILL FREED IN A SUDDEN MOVE FOR VOTE BY HOUSE Debate Listed to Start Today With a Decision Possible by Evening Session AMENDMENTS MADE READY Fight Looms Over Three-Hour Curb on Argument  --  Plan to Stop Filibuster Is Hinted By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to THE NEW Toms . Tons . WASHINGTON , June 14 ? The House Rules Committee voted by 6 to 4 today to let the whole House vote on the stop-gap draft This committee had withheld the measure from floor action since May 7 , when it was approved by a 28-5 vote of the House Armed Services Committee . It was waiting to see what the Senate would do about the program which President Truman recommended on March 17 . Last week the Senate passed its own bill , 78-10 . After the rules body had acted , Republican House leaders at once scheduled the draft for debate , starting before noon tomorrow . They expressed the hope that a final decision  --  and they predicted passage  --  might be made during the evening . There appeared , however , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About forty amendments , to be sponsored largely by . foes of a peacetime drafting of men 19 through 25 years of age for two years of service , were made ready for proposal , argument and showdown . The Rules body , serving as a traffic force for legislation as Congress headed for adjournment on Saturday , allowed only , L three hours ' of general debate . This was expected to raise a new storm in the House . It was indicated that a big fight would , be made to reject the com.mitte6 's rule . In some quarters backstage it was suggested that enemies of the draft employed strategy in agreeing to such brief general debate , possibly in the hope that the House would ask for another rule . It was doubted widely that another rule would be granted , at least during the present Congress . A majority of the twelve-member Rules Committee has indicated that it would vote against the draft measure when it came to floor decision . Two of this ma // jority , Representatives Forest A. Harness of Indiana and Ross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to let the whole House , at least , have its say in the matter . They have been openly hostile to the bill itself . Representative Leo E. Allen of Illinois , Rules Committee chairman , announced the ratio of voting in closed session . He declined to identify members , but said it was just a showing of hands and that he " did n't remember " the names . Mr. Allen is an outright foe of a peacetime draft . He has introduced a bill which would seek to encourage voluntar , enlistments through payment of , . , onuses ranging from $1,000 to $1,500 . He indicated that he might offer his measure as a substitute later . In authoritative quarters it was said that the Rules body made its decision with the voting line-up as follows : For permitting the House to make a decision on the draft : RepI resentatives James W. Wadsworth , Republican , of New York ; Christian A. Herter , Republican , of ( Massachusetts ; Democratic Representatives Eugene E. Cox of Georgia , Howard W. Smith of Virginia and Rizley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill go to the floor , as reported in these same quarters , were Representatives Allen , Adolph T. Sabath , Democrat , of Illinois , former rules chairman ; Robert F. Rich , Republican , of Pennsylvania , and J. Edgar Chenowith , Republican , of Colorado . Powell Has 31 Amendments It was indicated that the general debating time , if accepted by the House , would represent a relatively small part of the draft fight that was due in the House . Under the rule granted , the draft measure , sponsored by Representative Walter G. Andrews of New York , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , would be open to any and all germane amendments that might be offered . Representative Adam C. Powell Jr. , Democrat , of New York , announced that he had ready thirtyone proposed amendments , each seeking to incorporate into the draft measure a phase of President ' Truman 's Civil Rights program . Proposed incorporation of civil rights edicts , including the banning of racial segregation in the armed forces , lost in the Senate , except for aprohibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Powell announced , however , that all of his thirty-one amendments would be offered , by himself or by cooperating colleagues , when the House floor tight was on . The House majority leader , Representative Charles A. Halleck , said that there was no disposition on the part of the leadership to adopt " rush tactics " for getting the draft measure to a deciding vote . At the same time , he indicated that if resort were made to the House 's limited filibustering maneuvers , " something might be done " to shut it off . He observed that there were many other measures which the leadership wanted to get to a voting decision before adjournment and the national party conventions . While Congressional focus remained on the draft , related Congressional questions and actions included the following : The Senate Appropriations Committee was faced with a reduction of some $547,903,000 which the House had made in the $7,157,842 , - 000 which the Army had requested for use in the expanded military program that had prompted the peacetime draft call . Royall and Bradley Testify Kenneth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief oFf Staff , Gen. Omar N. Bradley , appeared before the Senate committee to plead that new consideration be given to these reductions . They held that the cuts had been made at points most vital to the program for rebuilding American military strength , They said , as examples , that the House-approved money cuts would I weaken preparedness on the foi1 lowing fronts : Prevent the United States from building 142 tanks that could stand up to Russian tanks now being seen in newsreels in this country . Preclude the ordering of 133 armored personnel carriers which , it was held , would " save many American lives " if military action came and the potential enemy used the " proximity fuse , " now widely available in Europe . Let 5,000 combat and 26,000 other war vehicles rust through inability to restore them to operating condition . Disrupt if not defeat the country 's program for keeping warproduction factories alert for a possible emergency . Render the Army helpless in trying to improve housing facilities for service men overseas . It was added that these facilities were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to reduce necessity for a draft was sagging fast . Prevent the Army from procuring 120,000 rounds of ammunition , " as we have practically none now , " for the newly developed 57-mm and 75-mm recoil-less rifles in which that service has proclaimed great combat faith . Prevent the Air Force from obtaining 40,000 rockets , upon which it has been counting heavily for increased sky-fighting strength . Put the Army in a condition similar to that of 1940 , when it drafted plenty of men but could not equip them , for a long time , for either training or war . On the Navy side of the preparedness program , the Senate Appropriations Committee approved funds for the starting of the construction of a super aircraft carrier . 