@@708746

txt Stionger cent , alization of food ontrols is expected as a result of mint action in the Senate and House in modifying the bill to estend the Office of Price Administration for another year . The gene , al outline of the new machinery has been laid by the two houses of Congress which hat e passed widely different vernum , ' of the same measure , which must now go to conference to have disagreements reconciled . At the same time todaythe House Appropriations Committee ecommended a $174,500,000 budget for the agency for the next fi , cal year , as contrasted to $179,000,000 for last year . Up to Congress Congress now has the problem of deciding whether the proposed new sum is adequate , and at the same time of reconciling and harmonizing the respective amendment to the OP u House extension measre passed by ouse and Senate . House and Senate conferees have the raw material for fashioning a pretty good OPA food control bill , it is believed here . if the objectionable inflationary features are canceled out in committee . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New Mexico , who will become Secretary of Agriculture July 1 , M. ill have a veto and a great deal of directive power over the whole food program . although Chester Bowles , OPA Director , will continue in general charge of the situation . Confidence in Him The House voted , 211 to 155 , on June 23 , to make Mr. Anderson tually a food czar . Congress and the President have confidence in the tail , amiable Congressman . Actually , he is expected to hold his veto power in reserve , with Mr. Bowles acting as Executive agent under his over-all food supervision . in his sugar report , issued a day before the announcement ? of his selection as Secretary of Agriculture , Mr. Anderson recommended one over-all food authority , and in a statement here on the House action Saturday , Mr. Anderson declared it assured the break-up of the " black market . " The House approved another amendment to OPA by vote of 200 to 164 which is criticized strongly by friends of the measure . This makes price rulings sub-feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would tie tip the OPA emergency pricg enmrcement stocture by injunctions and male it nonenforceable . Senate conferees are not expected // By Josephine Ripley Stag Correspondent 01 Ti , , ChrzAhnn Sr tPII  --  P Atnn  --  inv WASHINGTON , June 25 ? Rebellion against the acute shortage of food in many areas is sweeping the nation . The public is demanding theremoval of bottlenecks and an efficient distribution of supplies that will give to everyone his fair share . In Congress rebellion reached a climax on June 23 when the House voted to put the reins into the hands of the new Secretary of Agriculture , Clinton P. Anderson , making him virtual food czar of the nation . In Detroit a group of war workers went on strike recently in protest over the absence of meat from factory lunch wagons . In New York , the Governors of 13 Northeastern States have been in a huddle over the food problems in their area and have demanded a major overhauling in the present rationing and distribution system . Herbert Hoover 's proposed 12-point program for dealing with shortages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The general protest today , however , is not over the necessary shortages of wartime which Americans are prepared to accept with patriotic grace , but over what is considered unnecessary scarcities due to lack of co-ordination and proper planning . The nation has been shocked at recent disclosures concerning the widespread operation of " black markets " where meat is reported not only available , but plentitul ? at a price . The Office of Price Administration has been roundly criticized for failing to suppress this underground activity . But the OPA protested , in turn , that it had not been allotted funds sufficient to staff adeq'iately its enforcement division and handle the situation Congress has now remedied this deficiency with an . additional appropriation for that purpose . and a staff three times its previous strength in on the trail of these war profiteers . Military Quota Cut Public rebellions such as this which demand that something be done , and done promptly , to remedy a bad situation usually produce results . There is evidence that the present one over food shortages is in the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home-front fond supply has already brought about a temporary revision downward in military allocations . As a result civilians will be able to obtain more of the better grades ' of beef . An order by the War Food Administration has cut from 50 to 30 per cent the present military allotment of all choice , good and commercial cuts produced in federally inspected packing houses . This should result in a 40 per cent increase in civilian supplies . Civilian supplies of chickens wll be increased under a smilar ruling , with military allocations cut from 90 to 70 per cent , giving civilians 30 per cent of the " chicken belt " supplies instead of 10 per cent as formerly . More canned fruits and vegetables are promised , too . All this represents a temporary adjustment , however , to relieve the present tightness in civilian supplies , and military quotas will be returned to their original percentages again in the fall , according to present predictions . Another move to replenish the civilian meat market is the recent oder halting Lend-Lease shipments of meat temporarily . Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this proposal , and it is likely to be stricken out . On the other side , the House rejected the equivalent to the Wherry Amendment , passed in the Senate , which would guarantee to farmers and stockmen a cost-plus formula of profits , regarded  --  as excessive and inflationary . Thus observers see the House rejecting the amendment of the Senate , which is considered inflationary , and the Senate doing likewise for the House . . If these two actions cancel each other out , OPA extension is likely to be chiefly disinguished by the greater authority given to Mr. Anderson . The House took another action Saturday which seemed at the time more drastic than it may turn out . It voted , with Administration consent , 372 to 3 , to lift all slaughtering quotas on small packers if the Secretary of Agriculture certifies they have sanitary plants and produce clean , wholesome meat . This amendment would permit non-Federally inspected packing plants to ship meat across state lines for the first time . Here again , however , this gives large authority to Mr. Anderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large source of " black market " meat , as Mr. Anderson 's report on food shortages indicated . The OPA has recently been tightening restrictions on these small plants and diverting more cattle to large Federally-inspected plants ? that serve big cities . This effort has roused very strong opposition , some of it based on justifiable grievances . The new program gives greater authority to the Bowles7Anderson team , with safeguards inserted making the lifting of quotas contingent . upon the certification of the Secretary of Agriculture . Basic problems in the food shortages are two : People have more money to buy food while at the same time worldwide war de struction has made the demand for food unparalleled . Supplies of civilian food will be increased by the decision limiting the amount of meat purchased by the armed forces . Some civilians will not feel very happy about this procedure although stories of Army wastes and high calorie meals , indicate a reasonable readjustment can be made . The problem of food distribution is most acute just at present . Here the OPA is handicapped by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there are counties in the United States , while the pressure for choice food is built up by war-inflated national incomes .                     