@@707947

txt inquiry has the right to recommend a further such step and it is believed that the Army board also would be able to do so if its findings should warrant this procedure . Ever since Dec. 7 , 1941 , when the Japanese managed to cripple a large portion of the United States Pacific Fleet , court-martial action has been hanging above the heads of Rear Admiral Husband E. ? immel and Maj. Gen. Walter C. Short , ' Navy and Army commanding officers of the Hawaiian base at the time . Both officers are charged with dereliction of duty . The members of the naval court of inquiry are Admiral Orin G. Murfin , retired , its president ; Admiral Edward C. Kalbfus , retired , and Vice-Admiral Adolphus Andrews , retired . Commander Harold Biesemeier will be judge advocate . Lieut . Gen. George Grunert Is president of the Army board . Other members are Maj. Gen. Henry D. Russell and Maj. Gen. Walter H. Frank . It is believed that the naval ' board will make use of the testimony gathered by Admiral Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was assigned to collect data for the trial of Admiral Kimmel . The Navy ? announced that Admiral Hart traveled extensively , visited many officers at many different stations , and compiled voluminous notes . The data collected will be turned over to the court . The Navy 's court of inquiry and the Army 's board are seen here as compromises between the demands of congressional members that Admiral Kimmel and General Short be brought before a court-martial immediately and the opposition , of the Navy and War Departments to this . The opposition of the services was based on two points : first , that a court-martial would disclose ' military data and secrets which should be kept from the enemy in wartime , and , second , that it would necessitate calling many officers to Washington who are serving at battle stations throughout the world . Admiral Kimmel , however , has been pressing for a trial , and his attitude undoubtedly influenced some members of Congress , who declared it un-American to keep a man under suspicion for so long without either convicting or exonerating him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more formal course than that chosen by the Army . Under the rules Of a naval court of inquiry . Admiral Kimmel can be forced to testify , although it is not known whether he will be called .                     