@@706325

txt : 1 ? ? niocis of a senate naval affairs ? tita-ornmit tee today charged that Frank Kilos . secretary of the navy , and other high officials of the navy d ? ; my-tine:it ate doing their utmost to pluck production of the so-called Sea Otter " cargo vessel , notwithstanding an order from President Roosevelt to cease obstructing this phase of the war effort . The Sea Otter is a vessel of revolurioni , ry design using automobile-type fir , ' .1 . , Sen. Gillette ( left ) , Secretary Knox , and Adm . Robinson ( right ) . gasoline engines to drive a propeller sunk thru the bottom , amidship . It is only 270 feet long , carries a net , cargo of 1,500 tons , and has a draft of but 11 feet , which would permit navigation in shallow waters and allegedly escape torpedoes usually adjusted to a depth of 15 feet . It employs strip plate steel , requiring a minimum of welding . Vessels now cost about $400,000 each , but supposedly could be made for half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in four weeks and turned out at the rate of one a day in full production . Conclude Secret Hearings . The naval affairs subcommittee , headed by Sen. Guy M. Gillette ( D. , Ia. . concluded secret hearings today in an investigation of the Knox-Sea Otter scandal and will report to the full committee within a week , when the testimony may be made public . According to members of the subcommittee , Secretary K n o x , Rear Adm . Samuel M. Robinson , chief of the bureau of ships , and Joseph W. Powell . special assistant to the secretary of the navy , have intensified their efforts to obstruct the Sea Otter since the President told the subcommittee at a White House conference on Monday that its production would be expedited . The President , It was learned , told the senators that the Sea Otter had met strong opposition from " a man named Powell , in whom the secretary of the navy seems to have great confidence . " Named In U. S. Fraud Case . Powell , who was brought into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Shipyards and was vice president and operating manager of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding corporation during the World war shipbuilding period . Powell 's name figured prominently in a Supreme court decision handed down Feb. 16. which held that Bethlehem made profits of 24 million dollars  --  or a little more than 22 per cent on the actual cost of 109 million dollars ? for performing 13 World war shipbuilding contracts . ' The government , charging fraud , lost its suit to recover S million dollars . The majority opinion , delivered by Justice Hugo L. Black , said the profits were such as to arouse " indignation . " but the government had let the contract voluntarily and therefore could not recover . The contract was awarded to Bethlehem by Charles M. Schwab. who served in the dual capacity of director general of the Emergency Fleet corporation and chairman of Bethlehem . Padded Estimates Charged . Powell negotiated the contracts for Bethlehem . The government charged that he willfully overestimated the costs in order to inflate the prospective profits . Justice Felix Frankfurter , dissenting in the Bethlehem case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoting the fol ? ice ing from the District court 's " The managers for the contractor adopted the famous Rob Roy distinc ? t . On , who admitted that he was robber but proudly proclaimed he was no thief . . . Whatever wrong there ? was in this deal may have been the wrong in ' a daylight robbery , but there was no element of deception in it . " The most amazing aspect of the Sea Otter scandal , according to the senate investigators , is the fact that the navy department itself hailed the revolutionary cargo vessel in the most extravagant terms last Sept. 18 . Called Challenge to Subs . " Conceived by daring minds and carried to completion with the active . insistent help of President Roosevelt , the new ship ? . . will challenge the submarine and provide a new bridge from this country to the free nations Of the world , " said an official navy department announcement . The . same statement said the new ship was constructed despite all objections , " due to the intense interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The navy announced at the same time that Ships , Inc. , a government corporation , had been formed to develop the Sea Otter with backing of the Reconstruction Finance corporation . Secretary Knox was named as president of Ships , Inc . Directors included Powell , Rear Adm .. Emory S. Land , chairman of the maritime corn . rnission .. and Claude E. Hamilton , general counsel of the RFC . Tested by Its Designer . The Levingston Shipbuilding company of Orange , Tex. , built ? : S6st Otter II .. as the first full size vessel was called , under a contract with Ships , Inc . It was completed in 90 days . A number of changes in design were made during its construction . The original designer of the vessel , Commander Hamilton Bryan , a re ' tired naval officer , had nothing to do With its Construction , but when it Was completed he took it on a deep sea run to Charleston , S. C. A navy trial board was sent to Charleston to inspect Sea Otter II . The board made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . was early in December , about the time of the Pearl Harbor attack , and nothing more was heard of Sea Otter II . until the senate naval affairs committee received information that . Knox and other officials of the navy department were sabotaging the project . Chairman David I. Walsh f D. , Mass. appointed a subcommittee . consisting of Chairman Gillette and Senators Peter G. Gerry ID. , I.1 and Ralph 0 . Brewster R. , Me. . to investigate the charges . Turned Over to Designer . In the midst of the senate investigation . President Roosevelt last week sent for Knox and told him to put the future development of the Sea Otter In the friendly hands of its designer , Commander Bryan . Commander Bryan , who is back on active duty , was called to Washington last Saturday and told by Knox to go ahead with the Sea Otter . " From now an its your baby , " Knox said . According to the senate Investigators , however , Knox , Powell , and Adm . Robinson immediately set out to prejudice officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had- lunch with Donald N. Nelson . War Production board director , who was urged to give the Sea Otter no steel priority rating , the investigation reported . Next they called in Adm . Land and assured him the Sea Otter was a corn . plete flop . Whe Sen. Brewster heard about this activity on the part of the navy department officials , the subcommittee said he went to Lieut . Gen. Brehon B. Somerville , new chief of the army 's service of supply , in the hope that perhaps the army could be interested in the Sea Otter . Gen. Somerville told Brewster he was too iate  --  he had been assured by Howird L. Vickery , vice chairman of the Maritime commission , Somerville ' mid , that the Sea Otter was no good .                     