@@706292

txt James W. Wadsworth Jr. , Republican congressman from New York who served 12 years in the soliate and has been frequently mentiodned as a dark horse . Presidentin ! possibility , may be the next secretary of war . It was reported In informed circles today that Secretary of War Henry L. Stlmson will resign shortly and Wadsworth has been chosen as his successor . The shift will be made within the month , it was said , it Wadsworth will consent to accept the post . Would Bolster Cabinet . The appointment of Wadsworth , according to administration circles , would bolster the cabinet , which is sagging under criticism of war bungling , and would promote national unity . Stlmson , who is 74 years old , would make way for Wadsworth , who is 10 yearn , his junior , by retiring for his health . Wadsworth , an outspoken critic of ' the New Deal domestic policies , is one of the most popular members of congress . In a poll of newspaper men covering the capitol he was unanimously voted ' as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the outbreak of the war he asserted that the United States should stay out of Europe 's quarrel and put its own house in order . However , . he was one of the lrst , if not the first Republican member of congress to shift to intervention and support the administration foreign policy . Commands Wide Respect . With the shift he became a most valuable man in the house to the administration , because he Commanded t ) respect of both Republicans and Democrats . His speeches and work for intervention did much to advance the administration 's foreign policy . His appointment to the cabinet would come as a reward for this service . Beyond the thought of reward , however , according to administration circle s , Wadsworth 's appointment would enlist his popularity among both Republicans and Democrats to promote national unity and his abilities as On executive to direct a department which has been under fire . Walsworth is considered one of the ablest men In public life . Helped Frame Draft Act . The New York representative would be welcomed at the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid of Stlmson , but because he was co-author of the draft act . He has a son who came to the army by selective service altho Wadsworth could have secured him a commission . Wadsworth , like President Roosevelt , Is a New York aristocrat , He was born In Geneseo , N. Y. , Aug. 22 , 1877 . His parents moved in Washington , . New York , Tuxedo , Long Branch , Deauville , London , Paris , Berlin , and other social circles . Ho was graduated from Yale , where he majored in political history and played baseball . At 27 he started his political career as an assemblyman at Albany . Three years later he was elected speaker of the assembly , and after serving for four years , left politics to become a Texas rancher . Today he raises cattle on his 14,000 ancestral acres in Geneseo Valley , N. Y. Ardent Champion of Repeal . In 1914 he returned to New York state from Texas and was elected to the senate . Reelected after the war he became involved in the battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To bring about his defeat in 1926 the drys ran an independent Republican against him , enabling Robert F. Wagner , the Democratic candidate , to win . For six years he remained in retirement . Irt 1932 he sought and won a scat in the house . He has been regularly returned to his house seat . 