@@705029

txt If it respects itself and recognizes it , own function in the democratic scheme of things , will take a different view . No President should be permitted to regard American foreign policy as his private affair . The world situation today Is just as critical as it was in June . Emergencies and unforeseen needs requiring Congressional action may jusl as suddenly make their appearance a , they have since mid-June . Even if Congressmen feel that they must go home to campaign for re-election , then they should do so , not by adjourning , but by taking a recess to a date , definitely . fixed in advance , promptly following election day . Congress must not abdicate its authority , above all when the decisions to be taken are as momentous as they arc today . CONGRESS SHOULD STAY Congressional leaders have been planning to have Congress adjourn at the end of this week , and the President has indicated his approval of this pro2ram . But we should not forget that on June 4 , when the German drive against France was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason , ital to national defense , for holding Congress in session during the emergency  --  except , as he unflatteringly added , for the no doubt " laudable " purpose of making speeches . The pressure of public opinion prevailed against this view . The leaders of Congress were forced to abandon their plans for an adjournment in midJune , and except for recesses of about a week each for the political conventions , Congress has remained in session . By remaining in session it has made vital contributions to national defense . It has adopted a universal selective service law which the President himself strongly endorsed . It granted the President authority , which has already been exercised , to mobilize the National Guard . It has passed a huge supplemental defense appropriation bill of $5,250,000,000 , under which the President has already been able to let contracts totaling , about $4,000,000,000 for 200 new naval vessels . It is passing an excess profits tax bill which the President himself demanded , embodying amortization provisions that are necessary to make it possible for industry to erect huge new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wanted by the President himself . He could not have had them without Congress . In one or two very important decisions , as in the military understanding with Canada and the trade of fifty destroyers for naval bases , the President has " short-circuited " Congress . But even if no question of legality had been raised , his wisdom in following this course was highly doubtful ? particularly when there was ample time for him to seek Congressional cooperation . Actions without Congressional sanction or consultation on matters of this importance , no matter how much the country may approve the particular steps that have so far been taken , are not precedents to be encouraged . Mr. Roosevelt 's declarations of June 4 and June 11 , that he saw no reason why Congress should remain in session , and his belief that it will do no harm for Congress to adjourn now , contrast sharply With that part of his acceptance speech in , which he declared : " Events move so fast in other parts of the world that it has become my duty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point where I can reach Washington , and even Europe and Asia , by direct telephone  --  where , if need be . I can be back at my desk in the space of a very few hours . " One is obliged to conclude that , while Mr. Roosevelt now regards his own hourly presence and judgment in Washington as indispensable , he does not at all hold the same opinion of the need for the presence and judgment of Congress . But Congress ,                     