@@710523

txt James M. Curley , Mayor of Boston . failed today to obtain suspension of his sentence of six to eighteen months for mail fraud and went this afternoon to the Federal Correctional Institution at Danbury , Conn . Federal District Justice James M. Proctor , before whom Curley . was originally convicted , refused the probation because Curley had been twice convicted of felonies . , The justice also said that suspension was a matter for President Truman , not the courts . There were many reports that ' Curley 's lawyers would ask the White House for clemency , but President Truman told a news conference that no such petition had come to his attention . The Department of Justice made the same statement . Curley said the matter was in the hands of his counsel . " I 'm feeling a bit rocky , but my chin is still up , " he added at the , train . Counsel had pleaded that Curley , was in a " serious and precarious physical condition , " and that to send him to jail might mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curley from punishment , and that penal institutions had adequate hospitals . The Mayor , former Massachusetts Governor , and formerly in Congress , accepted Justice Proctor 's verdict without demonstration , but his wife and daughter broke into tears . Later , when the court room had been cleared of all but Curley and his family . it is said that the prisoner told Justice Proctor : " You are imposing a death sentence upon me but I shall return to my people . " William E. Leahy asked that the Mayor have a few days in which to adjust some official Boston matters . Justice Proctor replied that Curley could take up these subjects " with his keepers . " Mr. Leahy told the court that Curley was afflicted with cystitis , gall bladder trouble , diabetes , arterio-sclerosis , cerebral thrombosis , hypertension and " impend , ing " cerebral hemorrhage . Curley , his family and friends . ' sat patiently in the court while his lawyers , Mr. Leahy and Nicholas J. Chase , were closeted with the jurist . When Justice Proctor took his seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer denounced " loose tongues " which he said he had heard on the street alleging that Curley 's illness was only " a trifling pretense " to evade a jail term . Brief Statement by Court Justice Proctor made this brief statement in the court room : " I have no criticism of Mayor Curley 's attitude , although I was surprised when a formal court hearing was asked . I do not believe that any good purpose would be served by any further statement to the court . I have carefully considered this matter and have reached a conclusion . There is nothing further to say . My conclusion is that this motion should be denied . " Reporters tried to dash from the court room , but Justice Proctor ordered that no one must leave " while this matter of solemnity is being disposed of . " He told the marshals to arrest any offenders . When Mr. Leahy sought the few days ' delay before Curley went to jail . Justice Proctor replied : " I think he should be committed today . " The court room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his family left the chamber , supported by his companions . The party went to the marshal 's office and remained more than three hours before they took the train . Curley and his family rode to the station in a big black limousine he has used during his stay here . The shades of their train compartments were tightly drawn . Justice Says He Lacks Power In his memorandum opinion , Justice Proctor said the court had no general power to suspend the sentence . He could not grant probation , he asserted , because Curley had been convicted in 1903 of the felony of impersonating another in taking a Civil Service examination , and again of the mail fraud . " He has had a fair trial , " the justice added . " He has lost . The case has finally reached its end . Now , in the judgment of this court , the ends of justice and the interests of the public require that the defendant pay the penalty for his crime . It is regrettable that he suffers ill health . Yet that fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions are staffed and equipped to care for prisoners in ill health . Doubtless the defendant will be assigned to one with proper facilities to treat his maladies . " At the Department of Justice it was said that whether Curley would loose citizenship , as a felon , depended on the law of his state . It was also explained that the Parole Board could release him after six months but that he could not obtain time off for good behavior unless his term ran to the eighteen-month maximum .                     