@@711842

txt There is new evidence of a decline in Communist influence in the Italian labor situation . By its decision to discharge workers when necessary , without first consulting Italian labor unions , the Confederation of Italian Industrialists ? roughly corresponding to the National Association of Manufacturers in the United States  --  has taken a major step toward freeing Italian industry from Communist sway , In taking this decision , the confederation repudiated an agreement reached with the communist-controlled General Confederation of Italian Labor in the summer of 1947 , which gave worker committees in the various factories almost a veto right over hiring and firing of employees . Communist Control As these committees were generally , run either by Communists or by their left-wing Socialistallies , Italian industry , w3s placed at the mercy of men who used their power over employment for political . entiAlather-lhan : tor ' the advancement of Italian recovery . If Italian.indestrislistS are able to adhere , to their decision against the rising tide of protest now being organized by the Communist leadership of the Italian Labor Confederation , it . may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is not to strip Italian workers 41 their legitimate rights , but to prevent Italian labor from being used as merely . a tool in Moscow 's campaign to wreck the economy of western Europe and prevent the return of prosperity here , Grip on Labor Loosened Realizing'quite dearly that the loss of veto power over the discharging of unneeded or unsatisfa.ctory workers in Italian factories would ' be a major blow to their prestige among Italy 's working masses , Communist labor leaders are busily studying what steps can be taken to force industrialists to continue the 1947 agreement , an agreement which was hailed as an extremely important Communist victory in that party 's ceaseless campaign to tighten its grip on Italy 's laboring masses . Trade union secretaries from all parts of Italy have been told to rush to Rome for discussion of what is to be done . As was expected , labor leaders have issued warnings that they will never accept this blow to their power and prestige , with Renato l3itossi , one of the Communist secretaries of the general confederation , threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor confederation also is reportedly drafting a letter to be sent to the industrialists ' confederation , declaring it will never accept what it calls a one-sided repudiation of the 1947 agreement . Padded Payrolls Behind these surface maneuvers of labor and industry , there lies the much deeper question of regulating the whole problem of Italian employment . Ever since World War II ended , hundreds , if not thousands , of Italian factories , shipyards , and offices have been obliged , either by law or by public opinion , to keep on their payrolls large numbers of workers for whom there was no need . This was done as a means of preventing a huge jump in Italy 's already swollen unemployment rolls . During the last eight to 12 months , however , and especially since the European Recovery Program began to get under way here , government and industry have realized that these overloaded payrolls were merely . a : . burden to Italiak moyery.s.They. kept production costs so . high that foreign and domestic sales were throttled . Therefore , and with government agreement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This has been rigorously fought by trade unions , with Communists taking a leading part in this struggle . Leftist Strategy Left-wing oppositions had at least two major objectives in try. - ing to prevent what would seem to be a necessary step if Italian industry is to be put on a sound basis : First . it has increased their popularity with workers and their families , who are naturally and understandingly vigorous opponents of being thrown out of work in a country where social security is merely a mirage . Second , by keeping payrolls overloaded , Communists are able to do a job they have been assigned by Russia  --  that is , keep Italian industry in turmoil . As things now stand , it seems likely that neither the industrialists nor the unionists will be able to win a complete victory , since a compromise appears probable . While it is likely that Communist labor leaders will be stripped of their power , to veto discharges , it is also likely that industrialists will be forced to agree that such discharges will take place only under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hoped , protect both workers ' rights and industry 's needs .                     