@@707146

txt A new national wage policy which will touch off a wave of pay in. creases , is about to go into effect . It will aid many employers who , for one reason or another , want to raise their workers ' rates of pay . For companies that feel the cream of the labor crop goes to competitors with higher wage scales , there is a new ray of hope . For personnel managers who would like to restore usual payroll relationships among different classes of employes , a way of doing so is provided . ? But'for some companies disputing employes ' claims for higher pay , the same wage policy may be bad news . These changes in wage policy will result from last week 's directive by Economic Stabilization Direttor Byrnes broadening the basis on which the War Labor Board can approve pay adjustments under the " hold-the. line " order issued April 8 by President Roose. velt . Affects Ten Thousand Pending Cases Its most direct effect will be on the 10,000 applications for voluntary wage increases tossed aside when the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approve wage increases designed to correct " gross inequities . " These applications have been brought back to life . Mr. Byrnes ' directive was issued after the W.L.B. complained the hold-the-line order had narrowed the range of its operations too drastically . The Board had been reduced to approving only ( a ) wage increases that could be justified under the Little Steel Formula ( an increase of not more than 15% since January 1 . 1941 ) or ( b ) those to eliminate substandard living conditions . Previously , the Board had n't bothered much about measuring wages against living standards , as it could find other ways of granting increases . Also , there were few cases left where wage boosts could be justified by applying the Little Steel yardstick . Mr. Byrnes returned to the Board the power it once had to grant increases to , remove " gross inequities " and " to aid in the effective prosecution of the war . " Not returned was the power the Board once bad to adjust for " inequalities : " The Meaning to Employers What do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Board has neither decided cases under the new policy nor issued formal interpretations . But , the general application appears to be shaping up along these lines : GROSS INEQUITIES : Wages may be raised to " going rates " set for each job in each labor market area . The permissible adjustment generally is to the minimum or lowest of the range of going rates . A punch press operator in plant " A " in Cleveland is paid 90 cents an hour . Plants " B " and " C " there pay 95 cents to punch pressmen . Planta " D " and " E " pay $1 . These are the largest industrial plants in Cleveland . A number of the smaller plants also pay between 90 cents and $1 . If the W.L.B. regional board determines . therefore , that the going rate " band " is 90 cepts to SI , it will be able to approve raises to the lowest level of the " band "  - -  90 cents - 'for any other Cleveland plants paying less than that rate for punch press operators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under this authority to get its hourly rate stepped up from 90 cents to 95 cents just because other plants are paying 95 cents or 51 for comparable work . Such differences between plants in the going rate band are called " inter-plant inequalities " and may not be adjusted . EFFECTIVE PROSECUTION OF THE WAR : The minimum of the preexisting going rates may be stepped up to the next lowest of the going rates for other most nearly comparable work in the same labor market " in rare and unusual cases where critical war production can not otherwise be obtained . " This would seem to provide a way around the barrier against adjustments of wage inequalities However , its application is intended to be very limited . The only example given is the cane of cannery workers who , under an earlier special directive . may receive 8 cents an hour above the common labor rate for farm hands in the same locality . Approval was given in that instance because it was felt that the necessary seasonal labor to process 1943 crops - could not be recruited on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aside from these two major foundation stones of the policy . a special kind of adjustment is also permitted to be made within an employer 's own plant . INTRA. - PLANT INEQUITIES : Adjustments may be made to bring back into line any wage rates in a plant made unequal because others got increases - through a longer workweek . Little Steel Formula or substandard wage adjustments . Foremen and other supervisory employes not entitled to overtime pay conceivably may have smaller weekly earnings than men working tinder them on a 48-hour week with the timeand-a-half for 8 hours of overtime . The foremen 's pay may be increased to iron out this intraplant inequity under the new policy . In the same way , men in the machine shop may have lost part or all their wage advantage over men on the assembly line who received a pay raise under the Little Steel Formula . The machinists , who would not be entitled to more money if the Little Steel yardstick is used , could be paid more under the new wage policy presumably to eliminate this pay inequality.I ! As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retains the right to make Little Steel adjustments and to raise substandard wages . These facts of the policy may be summarized as follows : LITTLE STEEL : Wages may be increased above January 1 , 1941 , levels to neutralize the rise in living costs which occurred in the succeeding 16 months . When the Board attempted to atablize wages at the May 3 , 1942. level , it found there were a number of maladjustments in the national wage structure Since then , most of these have been taken care of under the Little Steel Formula . Bowyer. the Board is passing on new cases of this type almost every week . SUBSTANDARDS : Regional W.L.B. 's have been attempting in recent weeks to determine where substandard wages leave . off and standard wages begin . As a guide , the national headquarters has put rates below 50 cents an hour in the substandard class . That figure is being adopted pretty generally , except in the southeastern part of the country tinder jurisdiction of the Atlanta regional office . W.L.B. does not have full freedom , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the new policy . Further approval of Mr. Byrnes ' office is required if wage adjustments so made would upset price ceilings or knock production coats out of bounds . The Office of Economic Stabilization stated that its approval is needed If pay raises " may furnish the basis either to increase price callings or to resist otherwise justifiable reductions in price ceilings . or if no price ceilings are involved which may increase the production costs above the level prevailing in comparable plants or establishments . "                     