@@705713

txt As approximately 750,000 youths awaited a second draft lottery , fixed for July 17 , congress today engaged in heated debate about selective service act amendments during which the charge w a s re ? peatedly voiced t hat President Sneaker Rn3 burn . Roosevelt is betraying the nation by leading it into war . The new lottery date was set by selective service officials to determine the order of new registrants , including all who have become 21 years of age since the previous registration . Red capsules , instead of the white pellets used in the first drawing , will be plucked from the old goldfish bowl used in the World war drawing . Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson , one of the administration 's leading interventionists , has been invited , to draw the first number . Elaborate ceremonies , such as accompanied the first drawing on Oct. 29 , 1940 , are scheduled . Beilew ' War'Actiiities. " ? - Congressional attention centered , however , upon the senational governmental moves of the last week . The landing of marines in Iceland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year service period for draftees and lifting of the ban on expeditionary forces abroad ; the assertion of Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox that the navy should be used to clear the Atlantic of German warcraft  --  all these were assailed vio. lently as war acts of the administra ? tion . The measure before the members was the bill deferring military training for men 28 years old and over , and also authorizing the President to order military seizure of arms factories where strikes hamper production . Block Move to Delay Bill . An attempt , in which some Democattle leaders participated , was made to delay consideration of this bill , but on a test vote , 217 to 148 , the chamber decided to take it up . The legislation then became the vehicle for debate on all recent administration steps affecting the foreign policy of the United States . The controversy found Sneaker Sam Rayburn of Texas aligned for the first time against the President in an Important legislative proposal . Rayburn said he opposed retention of selective service conscripts beyond the one year period as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff . " We have made a contract with selectees , " he said , " which provides for their staying in service for one year . We sholld not break that contract . " Would Keep Guardsmen . Rayburn , however , said he is not opposed to extending the terms of National Guardsmen now in federal service . He suggested an amendment to the selective service act which would permit drafted men to volunteer for longer service . This statement confused a large number of Democrats who have been accustomed to follow the speaker 's lead , as draftees already are permilted to volunteer for service . In fact , army officers have been making strenuous efforts to induce draftees to sign up for a regular three year enlistment . For draftees who volunteer for further service Rayburn recommended that officers ' training schools be set up to give them every opportunity for advancement . Noninterventionists were discon. certed by an announcement by Representative James W. Wadsworth ER. , N.Y. that he favors extension of the one year service period for draftees . He also indorsed the removal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the western hemisphere . Hoffman Leads Attack . The most bitter criticism of the President same from Representative Clare E. Hoffman IR .. Mich.1 , who Introduced a resolution calling for a national referendum on the question of sending an American expeditionary force to foreign soil . " Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected by some 27 million Americans who had faith in him . " he said . " 1 chatlenge him to permit his fellow citizens now to vote in a special election as to whether they still have confidence in him and his plans to involve us in war . " The President has violated his promises . He has violated his oath of office . He has violated the provisions of the constitution . He has betrayed the people . " He is , As a dictator . making war ; and if he is sincere , if he is patriotic , if he believes in loyalty to the constitution , he will not hesitate for one moment to submit the issue for a decision by the people . " Backed by Woodruff . " The developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt 's promises to keep America out of war are not to be kept . " agreed Representative Roy 0 . Woodruff IR. , Mich.J . " The inside powers that be ? British and American  --  appear to have decided that American boys are to be New . overseas to be mangled , gassed , bombed , and killed In foreign fields and alien trenches . ' Woodruff cited the statement of General Sir Claude Auchinleck , new commander-in-chief of the British forces in the middle east , that the r need for American man power in this war certainly will arise in 12 , 14 , , or .24 months , "  - -  The debate on the bill itself centered on the plant seizure provisions . widespread -. pproval having been expressed of the section deferring the induction of men who were 28 years old on July 1 . Outdoes Senate Version . The house version of the plant seizure section is much more stringent than that passed by ' the senate a month ago . It defines as . " sabotage " any interference with the production of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a line of $5,000 , or both . The President would be empowered under the house bill to seize any arms plant where a strike has been called and to use the army to protect persons who wish to work . Interference with persons going to or from work comes under the sabotage provision . President Roosevelt has been represented ac now being against legis. lation which has aroused opposition from organized labor . Representative Forest A. Harness IR. , Ind. reminded the house that the bill was asked for in the name of the President by Undersecretary of War Rob . ert P. Patterson a few weeks ago . " The President is playing politics with this issue now because of the opposition of labor , " Harness accused . A vote on passage of the bill is expected tomorrow or Friday .                     