@@705730

txt Two companies , strongly supported financially , will enter the low cost prefabricated housing field in the near future . A large building supply firm is expected to start production shortly of prefabricated materials for use in defense houses selling for less than $2.500 . The other company will start production as soon as contracts under negotiation are signed . Important factors in the automobile industry are interested in this firm and are contributing technical advice on mass production problems . Official annoucernents on the start of operations by these companies are expected within the next few weeks . Entrance of these companies into the prefabricated field will mark one of the most important developments in recent years . If successful , it may mean that far-reaching changes are in prospect for the building industry . It also may have important economic repercussions , particularly if it brings new home ownership within reach of lower income groups . Such an accomplishment , building men say , would result in further expansion of building activities and might even lift volume above that of the peak years of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly attributable to the defense program , which has created the need for a vast amount of housing in industrial areas Since these dwellings are required immediately , those in charge of the defense housing program turned to the prefabricated field because of the speed with which such homes can be erected . Some ' builders currently are turning out as many as 10 houses a day . in an effort to determine what the industry could do in the housing emergency , the government started a development , involving 650 homes , in Maryland . Orders were placed with numerous prefabricators with the understanding that if the project comes up to expectations additional orders for many thousands of homes will be placed . The development has not been completed yet . One reason why " assembly line " homes have not made more progress than they have is that prior to the current boom in housing there was little demand for such houses , with the result that prices could not be lowered sufficiently to make them attractive to the low income group Like other mass production products , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even with the present favorable start , however , there are many obstacles which must be overcome before prefabrication can be assured of a permanent place in the building industry . Perhaps the most important barrier is consumer resistance . This was built up in the early days of prefabrication when designs were standardized and the finished product was a rather unattractive box-like affair The industry is aware of this situation , however , and nas given considerable attention to architecture with the result that numerous types of homes are now available Another paramount question Is How much volume must prefabricators have before they can realize maximum savings ? If they are geared to turn out , say , 100 houses a week and have orders for only 25 will it still be possible to keep the product in the low-priced range ? Then there 's the question of distribution . Will manufacturers be able to ship to all parts of the country , or will transportation costs compel them to operate within a relatively small radius ? Also , if operations are conducted over a wide area will designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ?                     