@@707900

txt In a surprise move to clinch the nomination of Gov . Dewey for President , 50 of the 59 members of the Illinois delegation in a caucus early today agreed to vote for the New York governor on the first ballot of the Republican national convention , opening tomorrow . Five of the delegates voted ford Gov . Bricker of Ohio . Three delegates were absent , and one present I declined to vote . The move caught the Pennsylvania , - California and other prospective Dewey delegations off base and stirred more excitement in the Stevens and Blackstone hotel lobbies than has attended the convention up to date , for it was realized that Gov . Green and his colleagues were undertaking to start a stampede to Dewey on the first roll call . Pennsylvania Caucus Tonight . Similar action is to be taken by the Pennsylvania delegation , numbering 70 , in a caucus to be held tonight . Republican Leader Joseph N. Pew , Philadelphia oil man and ship builder , planned by such action to achieve for Pennsylvania the credit of putting Dewey across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did Hoover at Kansas City in 1928 . Pew is reputed to have told the Pennsylvanians that if they should fail to announce for Dewey tonight they would " miss the bus , " for otherwise the New York governor probably would be nominated before Pennsylvania is reached on the ballot , as Willkle was named virtually without the aid of the Keystone state in 1910 . Expect Others to Follow . After such action by Illinois and Pennsylvania , most of the delegagallons that intended to vote for favorite sons on the first ballot now will he expected to clamber aboard Ir .. Dewey bandwagon . Gev . Green essayed to steal a n , : Ai on Pew and grab off for Illinois the credit of putting the nom ! , no  --  ion in the bag for Dewey . Green nc. ' acd the Illinois group to meet : h him after the dinner of 1,000 p ! ' es given in his honor in the ' vier house . He took this action after surveying the convention contest and coming to the conclusion that Dewey is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consulting other Illinois leaders on 11w advisability of the step he contemple t eci . Gov . Green in Spotlight . In initiating the action of the Illinois group Gov . Green stood aside as Illinois ' favorite son slated to receive the vote of the delegation on the first ballot . As a result of the Illinois coup the Illinois governor occupies the spotlight of the convention . There is a good deal of talk that Gov . Dewey might choose Green for second place on the ticket , altho the Dewey leaders some time ago picked Gov . Warren for the Vice Presidential nomination on the theory that he could carry California , a doubtful state . Green , a close personal friend of Dewey , was his overnight guest at Albany recently before they went to the governors ' conference at Hershey , Pa . Green Does n't Want Second Place . Gov . Green was asked last night ) whether he would entertain the idea of becoming the nominee for Vice President . " Definitely not , ' the governor said , " I sincerely feel I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the party In my present capacity . " The announcement of the Illinois vote for Dewey is in reality an anticipation of the influence the state has within its power to exercise on the nomination by virtue of its strategic position on the convention roll call . California is the first big state on the alphabetical roster. &Ili.; nois is the second . With California plumping 50 votes for Dewey , Illinois could give the Dewey band wagon an irresistible push or delay it . the probably not for long . Illinois simply decided to take advantags of an opportunity to end the battle In favor of Dewey . Rep. Martin of Massachusetts , ml. nority leader of the house at Washington who will be permanent , chairman of the convention , reached Chicago , went Into half a dozen huddles with other party chieftains , and came out with the prediction that Dewey will he named on the first ballot . Ile had been informed that Gov . Warren does n't want national office , but thought the gov governor might be drafted , as Dewey will be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Martin , " by a more substantial majority than anybody thinks . " Of course , the war might change everything . T h e administration might pull something unexpected out of the war . As they do in foot . ball , the New Dealers might throw a screen pass . Roosevelt is a candidate , of course . He has been all along , but has been trying to play coy . " Bricker Forces Fight Harder . Alt lin conceding that . Dewey will he far In the lead on the tirat the supporters of Itrletcer , ire tighting harder than ever rand report ? ins accretions to their strength the delegates arrive and make known their stand on the nomination . Bricker headquarters still claims upwards of 259 votes on the first ballot of the 539 requisite to the nomination and predicts the vie . tory of the Ohio governor on the third or fourth ballot . All Ready for Convention . All preparations are complete for the 23d G. 0 . P. convention , one of the most extraordinary in the history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like of the situation in both major parties , The Democrats have no avowed candidate for the Presidential lumina. tion , but are going thru the motions of drafting Mr. Roosevelt for a fourth term , ably aided and abetted by Mr. Roosevelt in the same manner that he promoted his " draft " for a third term . Bricker Only Avowed Candidate . The Republicans are meeting to name their ticket with only one avowed candidate for the nomina ? tiori for President  --  Gov . Bricker . Not avowed candidates but receptive to a draft by the convention are Gov . Dewey and Lt. Comdr . Stassen , who resigned as governor of Minnesota to serve in the navy . Stassen , barely old enough to qua ' . ify for President under the Constitution , is In the contest mainly for the advertising , with an eye to 1948 or to nomination for Vice President by this convention . The most extraordinary aspect of the convention about to assemble is that the party appears headed toward the draft of a candidate for President who has insisted all along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has discouraged the election of delegates committed to his nomination and who has said he intended to serve out his term as governor of New York , which ends in 1946 . Gov . Dewey , overlooking the Republican draft of Supreme Court Justice Hughes for the Presi ? dential nomination in 1916 , said that he never knew of an honest to goodness draft of any candidate for any office , that he never knew of a " draft " In which the beneficiary had not connived . Dewey Free item Commitments . Whether the New York governor has connived in the movement to draft him only t-i.e and his closest essocintes are in a position to say . So far as Is known , however , the Dewey draft is an exception to the rule Dewey himself enunciated . Not only has Dewey refrained from manipulatIons to promote his nornitut ? lion . hut he tuts repulsed such efforts . IL thus falls nut that If the convention drafts Dewey the nominee will be one free of any commitments to individuals or entangling alliances with political groups accruing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He will be beholden to no one for his nomination . By the same token , if it falls out that the convention drafts Dewey the party will take a candidate whose views on the great issues affecting the future conduct of the war , the making of the peace , postwar international cooperation for the preservation of peace and the domestic welfare of the country are virtually unknown . Such views as GOV . Dewey has revealed since be . coming a serious possibility for the 1944 nomination are extremely frog . mentary , Course Avoids Making Enemies . As one who professed not to he a candidate for the Presidency , Goss Dewey has refused to make speeches outside of New York , except to the conferences of governors last year and this year , and has refrained from discussing national anti inter . national questions , except on the occasion of his address to the news . paper publishers in late April . That speech was an exceedingly brief treatment of so large a subject . By this course the governor avoided the political dangers of taking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support in the party . what he said In that speech to the publishers caused a noticeable cooling of enthusiasm for Dewey , particularly in the middle west , stronghold of nationalism . Four years ago Dewey , who was opposed to intervention in the European war , was exceedingly popular in the mid . die west . His stand caused the east .. ern interventionists to sour on him and to put forward Willkie , who was secretly known to be a hot in. terven lion ist . Takes Middle of Road . In his speech to the publishers Dewey essayed to take the middle of the road between nationalists and internationalists . While men . Boning with approval the Mackinac declaration on foreign policy , which was acceptable to the nationalists , he declared for American participation in international cooperation to preserve peace by force if necessary , but failed to stipulate that in such cooperation American severeignty shall not be surrendered . The speech was hailed immediately by the internationalists with every manifestation of enthusiasm . Dewey had laid down a formula which would sanction a super-state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The internationalists congratulated themselves that their , dreams had come true . With Dewey the Republican nominee and Roosevelt , named for a fourth term , they could not lose , whoever were elect . ed . Later the President ran out on the internationalists by declaring against a super-state and international police force and against surrender of sovereignty . But Dewey remained their white hope . Among the nationalists gathering for the convention one hears much apprehension that Dewey , if nominated , will come to Chicago and make an acceptance speech of a pronouncedly internationalist character . If he should do so , the nationalists say , his candidacy would be greatly weakened . A good many western states which have stead . fastiy rejected internationalist doctrine , such as Illinois , Indiana , Iowa , Michigan and Wisconsin , would become doubtful in the election , it Is asserted .                     