@@705867

txt President Roosevelt arrived in Washington at 9:15 ( E. D. T. ) tonight and held a two-hour conference at the White House with key officials to discuss final plans for ordering the Navy to take whatever steps may be necessary to protect American shipping on the seas , and to convoke Congress Monday or Tuesday to ask for repeal of the Neutrality Act . The Chief Executive is expected generally to announce steps taking the United States closer to active belligerency in his radio speech to the world from the White House tomorrow night at 10 P. M. ( E. D. T. ) , and in tonight 's conference he was understood to have informed the Secretaries of State , War and Navy of his plans and obtained their advice . The first hint that repeal of the Neutrality Act figured in prospective developments came from informed circles in Capitol Hill , after it was learned that members of Congress , originally scheduled to be on vacation until Sept. 22 : had been requested to come back to Washington next Monday or Tuesday . The President was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who went aboard the Executive 's car for a brief chat before they drove to the White House , where they were joined by Secretaries Stimson and Knox . Hopkins Reports on Train That the President has decided to meet with drastic action the threat to the freedom of the seas and to American security implicit in the sinkings of the Americanowned ship Sessa and the American-flag ship Steel Seafarer , and the submarine attack on the destroyer Greer , was evident in his every action . On his way from Hyde Park his train stopped at the 138th Street station in New York and picked up Harry L. Hopkins , who brought hint a report from all government departments and , it was understood , from Prime Minister Churchill on recent developments . The two , together with Judge Samuel I. Rosenman , who assists the Chief Executive with some speeches and is regarded as a defense organization expert , were closeted together all the way front New York to Washington . The President will receive Congressional leaders at 10 A. M. toe morrow and inform them of the far-reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which many persons think bears a close parallel to that in the Spring of 1917 . Time of Speech Extended Whether or not , as expected , Mr. Roosevelt announces his decision to order the Navy to protect the seas and calls for repeal of the Neutrality Act , or for an outright belligerent stand , few close to hint doubted that the President , who has extended the time of his speech from fifteen to twenty-five minutes , would outline to the American people and the world the German challenge to this country 's rights and security . As Mr. Roosevelt ' stepped front the train to his car here he was dressed in a black suit of mourning for his mother , Mrs. Sara Delano Roosevelt , who died Sunday . He looked grave and determined . Two events today provided evidence that the Executive planned to deal in his radio address with the domestic situation as it applies to the international . Some thought that one of his principal efforts would be to end the internal bickering which has hampered the defense program and government policy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hyde Park , of an Executive order to carry into effect " the cooling off " provisions of the Railway Labor Act . He did this to prevent for at least sixty days a strike of 1,250 , - 000 railway workers . The second was that William D. Hassett , Presidential secretary , said that Judge Rosenman " laid before Mr. Roosevelt some more information regarding defense reorganization . " Judge Rosenman recently made to the President a report which led to formation of the new superdefense agency , the Supply Priorities and Allocations Board . Asked whether another defense reorganization was in prospect , Mr. Hassett replied that " there are always improvements necessary in the defense set-up and there always will be . " That the President should leave Hyde Park earlier than necessary to arrive in Washington in time for his speech and should plunge at once upon his arrival in Washington into a conference with the three men who have most to do with foreign affairs , the Navy and the Army was regarded as of utmost significance . Congress Looks for Action Even before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' about in Congress that repeal of the Neutrality Act would be asked and the State Department released further information concerning the sinking of the steamer Sessa 300 miles from Reykjavik on Aug. 17 . The department said the ship was sunk without warning . Mr. Hassett recalled that the President had announced that his speeh would be of " major importance " before his mother 's death forced postponement of plans to deliver it Monday evening . Mr. Hassett took the position , after a conference this morning with the Executive , that the decision to extend the time of the broadcast in English and the rebroadcast in fourteen other languages spoke for itself . He meant that it would be of even greater import . A reply to the still secret message which he received two weeks ago from Prince Konoye , Japanese Premier , has not been announced by the President and , as far as can be learned , he has not yet made one . What attitude , if any , the President will adopt with relation to Germany 's Far Eastern Axis partner could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt , however , that Japan is merely " stalling " while awaiting the outcome of the Nazi campaign in Soviet Russia . The House was summoned into session at the request of Speaker Rayburn , who telegraphed Acting Speaker Clifton A. Woodrum to act . Mr. Rayburn is in Texas on vacation , and he advised that the holiday should be terminated a weel ' in advance of the agreement reached several weeks ago between the majority and minority . Representative Martin , the minority leader , said he would notify all Republican members to be on hand not later than Tuesday .                     