@@708341

txt By Cable to Tax Now Yons Mime . BUENOS AIRES , Jan. 10 ? The Argentine Government decided today to abstain from participating in any further meetings of tile ran American Union so long as this organization continues to " disregard Argentine rights " and to " alter the procedure of consultation . " By this action the Argentine Government expressed the disappointment and disapproval it feels over the failure of the Pan American Union to act on a request made by Foreign Minister Orlando L. Peluffo on Oct. 27 for a special meeting of American Foreign Ministers to consider the Argentine international situation . Official Argentine circles were careful to point out that Argentina , though she would not participate in meetings of the Pan Ameriloan Union so long as the present situation exists , had not actually withdrawn from the Union and therefore had not slammed the door on any future possibility of negotiating an understanding with the United States . Regarded from this viewpoint , the Argentine stand was considered conciliatory , or at least not as extreme as some people expected . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative to the Pan // American Union was instructed to deliver to the governing board of that organization , and the text of which was made public in Buenos Aires at noon today . The letter , in Spanish , consisted of only seventy words and read as follows : " Mr. President : " I have the honor of informing Your Excellency that so long as Argentine rights continue to be disregarded and so long as the procedure of consultation continues to be altered , as they were in my Government 's opinion by a resolution adopted by the governing board in its meeting of the eighth of this month , the Argentine Republic has decided to abstain from participating in meetings of the Pan American Union . " I salute Your Excellency with my most distinguished consideration . " This letter , though dry in tone and devoid of the high-flown phrases that usually distinguish Spanish prose , is in the intention of those who framed it , carefully calculated not to aggravate the present situation between the United States and Argentina . It certainly does not come up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministry who wished a clear and unequivocal break with the Pan American Union . It is pointed out that not only has not Argentina broken with the Pan American Union but she also has not withdrawn her request for a Meeting of the American Foreign Ministers . That request , therefore , still stands and affords the Pan American Union an opportunity of doing something about it at some future date if conditions should in the meanwhile have changed sufficiently to justify the American Republics in giving Argentina a hearing . No Actual Breach Made Relations between Argentina and the Pan American Union will , from today on , be similar in many respects to relations between the Argentine Government and the Government of the majority of the American Republics . No actual breach has occurred , but there is a de facto cessation of any official contacts . The Argentine stand announced today is regarded here as a personal victory for General Peluffo . Since the Pan American Union announced its decision regarding Argentina last Monday he has been under very great pressure from the more extreme elements , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " energetic " attitude . Supporters of this course maintained that it was required to safeguard " Argentine dignity and honor . " General Peluffo refused steadfastly to do anything irreparable . That General Peluffo must have had considerable difficulty in getting his way is shown by the attitude of the Nationalists , as indicated by this morning 's edition of Fronda , the first newspaper to break the silence that the Argentine press had maintained toward the decision of the Pan American Union . In an editorial entitled " American Disunion , " Fronda says that the Pan American Union has " morally ceased to exist " since " its verdict is based on trickery and puerile evasiveness . " The Pan American Union , in Fronda 's opinion , " fullfills no necessary or even useful purpose " in the American continent and " it has been proved that this organism is managed by only one power ! for its own benefit . " Recent international events have caused all kinds of rumors to fly round Buenos Aires . It was said that Vice President Juan Domingo Peron , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can be seen at present seems to lend support to these reports . The Government today suppressed the weekly newspaper Argentina Libre . This newspaper was founded soon after the outbreak of the European war and has always distinguished itself for its attachment to the democratic cause . It was suppressed by the Government soon after the revolution of June 4 , 1943 . But seventeen months later the Government allowed it to reappear . It was on the street again on Dec. 7 last and immediately published numerous articles attacking the present Government . Five issues had appeared when the editors were informed today that publication of Argentina Libre was again forbidden .                     