@@709316

txt Businessmen whose duties or vacations take them on international plane trips may , some day . say a word of blessing for the accomplishments of a Government committee they never knew existed . In this city where committees and subcommittees flourish by the hundred , the work of nine men trying to snip the red tape of civil aviation regulations has attracted scant notice . But already they have made substantial progress toward streamlining customs immigration and health inspection procedures . Os , erseas air transport will be easier on the nerves and the tempers of world travelers if these objectives are approNed and adopted by other countries . Quick Clearance Is Sought Eventually this " f a ci litation committee " ( its full title is " the Air Coordinating Committee s Standing Subcommittee on the Facilitation of Civil . Aviation " ) hopes , through international agreement , to accomplish these reforms : 1 . Idake it possible for air travelers to plan a trip to the most remote part of the globe and set out on a few hours notice , without the formality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be issued . 2 . Cut the time needed for compliance with customs and immigration rules so passengers wo n't be delayed more than a few minutes in plane hops from country to country . n Simplify the paper work required for flights across national borders : at present , a flight commander on an overseas plane may has ( ' to sign as man , . as 527 separate documents to get his passengers and cargo off the ground in one country and landed in another Number of Agencies rtepre  --  enled Represented on the inter-a , gency facilitaturn subcommittee are the State . ' War . Navy . Justice . Commerce and Treasury departments . the U. S. Public Health Service and the Civil Aeronautics Board . majority sentiment for reducing the formalities of getting across international boundaries . " It 's all very well to establish practices so airplanes will fly safely all over the world , " he said . " But if passengers , freight and mail using such airplanes are subject to long delays before embarkation and after disembarkation , the great advantages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present to eliminate all weather delays , but when we conic to impediments instituted by man , these can be more readily eliminated by man . " The report worked out at the Canadian session last month has been sent to all the member states of P.I.C.A 0 . with the request that they report hack within 60 days on ( la those portions of the document , if any . they believe are desirable for inclusion in a separate binding international agreement , and t21 their reasons for disagreement , if any , and suggestions for alternate provisions . Many Ob , ta* les In the Way Despite the good intentions of the " facilitation experts . " many obstacles still loom in the way of eliminating delays impeding foreign-service air traffic . Suspicion and distrust . officials say , will be hard to break down in Europe and Asia , and emigrant pressure from wardevastated European countries will continue to demand vigilance against illegal entries . So far as the United States is concerned . border controls take the form of laws on the Federal statute books , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising apathy . too , at the " lower levels ? of some Federal agencies toward abandoning the status quo with respect to passport , ? isa and customs formalities . One minor official , questioned about his attitude toward simplifying paper work exclaimed . ? ' Why , if we did that , it would wipe out my whole division . " The Air Transport Association , which has been worl.ing quietly for months to accomplish needed air travel reforni.s , is hopeful that as a first step , international air travel cards can be put into use between the U. S , and : Mexico and Canada Emigration pressures within this hemisphere are light . the A T A. es:plates and relative freedom of mm ement should not be too difficult of attainment Josh Lee Fits ors Lea . Red Tape The Civil Aeronautics Board has a champion for removal of international travel bottlenecks in Commissioner Josh Lee , v. ho provided his associates sonic time ago a sharply-worded report on the subject following a none-too-pleasurable flight to South America " The delay and inconvenience caused by immigration and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ointment of international travel unless it is simplified and systematized. " the Lee report said " The same is true with respect to the exchange of money . " It was necessary for us to run the immigration and customs gauntlet ten times . We had to open our baggage and go into it ten times We had to dispose of all the cash we had of the country we were entering . . I am convinced that a study of this problem will result in a still greater reduction of the delay and inconvenience " Chairman of the U. S. subcommittee working on removing air transport obstacles is ilasststant Secretary of Commerce William A. M. Burden Mr. Lee . representing the C A B .. Is vice-chairman , and Selig Altschul C A H. analyst , is secretary . Other members include George P Baker of the State Department s Office of Transportation and Communo ations Policy . Dr. Gilbert L Dunahoo of the Foreign Quarantine Division , U. S Public Health Service : Albert E. Reitzel , assistant general counsel of the Justice Department 's Immigration and Naturalization Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : - Rear Admiral I M . Navy : and Brig . Gen. John G. Williams , Army The air co-ordinating committee . parent organization of the facilitation subcommittee . is an inter-departmental group established during the .. war to coordinate U S. aviation policy Within the near future , however , the facilitation subcommittee probably will he divorced from he coordinating committee and established as an independent council . 