@@706406

txt President Roosevelt announced today that United States lease-lend aid would be extended to Iran and Iraq , key Middle Eastern countries , as an increasing number of unverified reports that the German Spring campaign might be launched within seventy-two hours poured in on Washington . As far as is physically possible , the United Nations have been building up their strength , and particularly their air power , in the Middle and Near East areas , the British having shipped in thousands of planes , with the number of American aircraft dispatched there I also running into four figures . President Roosevelt disclosed in his radio address Tuesday that I American troops were stationed in both areas , although Major Gen. ' , Russell L. Maxwell of the United I States Army , speaking in Cairo today , said that these were exclusive-I ly service troops supporting combat units of other Allied nations . Note a Key to Victory Although there is no certainty that the main German drive will be in the direction of the Middle East , United Nations strategists here and in London believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany out of the Middle East and the Russian Caucusus until the day comes for the offensive in Europe . The inclusion of Iran , occupied by British and Russian troops , and of Iraq in the list of nations eligible for lease-lend aid represents one more step in the direction of preparing the Middle East , as far as available supplies permit , for what it is said would be a " logical " German offensive . Turkey and Egypt already receive American lease-lend assistance . Iran is an avenue for shipment of supplies to Russia . The disruption of normal life in that country caused by the Anglo-Russian occu- I pation has created certain food and supply problems , which it is understood arrangements made under the lease-lend act will seek to ameliorate . Important Supply Port Basra , in Iraq , which adjoins Iran , is now an important military and supply port , and the British are acquiring 200 vessels in the United States under lease-lend for use on the Euphrates . In case the Nazis demand passage through Turkey , and the Turks fight , Iraq @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a supply center . Both Iran and Iraq are important oil-production centers . Despite the fact that the atmosphere in Washington has been more optimistic in recent weeks , and although operations are well under way for eventual offensives on major fronts , some of which may start this Fall , the disposition in military circles is to believe that Germany and Italy are prepared to gamble on an all-out offensive soon . Whether this will take the form of drives in Northwest Africa , into the Middle East and against Russia simultaneously , with perhaps some coincident " fireworks " in other directions , or whether the expected assault will be directed against only one objective remains to be seen . Washington is aware , however , that diplomatic and military preparations have been attempted that may herald a move in any one of these directions . The White House statement today on Iran and Iraq read as follows. : " The President announces that he has found the defense of Iraq vital to the defense of the United States in accordance with provisions of the Lend-Lease Act of March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required by Sections 4 and 7 of the act , Iraq will be eligible to receive Lend-Lease assistance . " The President also announces that he has found the defense of Iran to be vital to the defense of the United States in accordance with the provisions of the Lend-Lease Act of March 11 , 1941 . The representations required by Sections 4 and 7 of the Act having been made by the Iranian government , Iran is now eligible to receive LendLease assistance . " Iran has signed an agreement that lease-lend goods shipped will be kept in that country and not turned over to others . The first Iraqi Minister to the United States , Ali Jawdah al-Ayoubi , has just arrived and has not yet presented his credentials to President Roosevelt . He is expected to sign a similar agreement as soon as this formality has been complied with . The War Production Board today added Free France , Czechoslovakia , Turkey and Iceland to the list of countries whose government orders are defined as " defense orders , " thus giving them A-10 priority ratings if no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including its dominions ; China and various other countries already had this priority rating .                     