@@704964

txt Although the Italian success in Somaliland does not materially weaken Britain 's strategic position in the Near East , according to military authorities here , it does admittedly strengthen that of the Italians . Somaliland itself  --  an arid land of scrub and desert and low mounl tains  --  is of little intrinsic value , so it is possible for the British to state quite accurately that their forces employed there can be more valuable elsewhere . On the other hand , the occupation of British Somaliland was absolutely essential as far as the Italians were concerned , and it would consequently be quite incorrect to suggest that their success does not matter . In fact , there has been considerable criticism lately of a certain tendency here to present all Britain 's " withdrawals according to plan " as comparative successes . The British colony formed an enclave in Italian East Africa , and , since Britain has command of the seas in these parts , it could have been used at any time for launching an attack on Ethiopia . Thus before any Egyptian adventure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canal threatened , Marshal Rodolfo Graziani was bound to try to render British Somaliland incapable of being used as a back door to the Italian Empire . British military authorities in the Near East are naturally aware of these facts and for them the evacuation of the slender Somaliland forces under Brig . Gen. A. R. Chater was a sad necessity . Plans for the defense of this territory depended very largely on French help . In fact , the French holding of the Allies ' right flank was an essential pivot of the defense plan . Consequently , when it became clear that the French colonial forces were going to follow their leaders and lay down their arms , it also became clear that British Somaliland could not be held without very considerable reinforcements . Now that the Somaliland holding force has been withdrawn it will itself be used as a reinforcement  --  albeit a small one  --  for the British Army in a more immediately significant battle zone . This of course cuts two ways , for the Italians will now be able to employ the major part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan front  --  where their armies have already captured one or two frontier posts , which , although of little significance in themselves , could prove valuable as takeoff boards for the launching of a major offensive . It should be pointed out , however , that the Italian East African forces are in fact surrounded and can not be reinforced and supplied unless they can make contact with their main Libyan Army more than a thousand miles distant to the north .                     