@@711272

txt In mood and manner , there is quite a new Dewey in the national political arena today . It is the Dewey of the informal , friendly , folksy campaign . " Hi , Tom ! Glad you 're stoping here " glowed the banner headline which greeted the New Yorker as his bus cruised into the little community of Sheridan . And that is the mood of casual and relaxed ease with which Governor Dewey greeted the townspeople who had gathered on the lawn and along the street outside the courthouse . The evident fact is that the smiling , easy , off-the-cuff 1948 Republican candidate for renomination is a far cry from the stiff , rather mechanical , mimeographed 1944 Republican candidate for the Presidency . Gov . Thomas Edmund Dewey has become Tom to his Oregon audiences . And he seems to like it . What is more , they seem to like it and to respond to it . He is making new friends ? friends who will stand him in good stead if he is nominated in June . A A A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat the big , appealing Minnesotan , Harold E. Stassen , remains to be seen . But the Dewey who is corning out in these three intensive weeks of barnstorming through the forests and down the valleys of this big State is a different , improved , and more effective campaigner than any Dewey Washington correspondents have seen in action before . From his crowd-captivating performances here it is clear that if Governor Dewey is given a second chance to win the Presidency , he will go about the 1948 campaign with more warmth and affability than he showed at any stage during his cool and unproductive challenge to Franklin D. Roosevelt four years ago . Whether the once over- stylized Governor is receiving an armful of Yamhill County walnuts on the City Hall steps , or is dealing with a balky loudspeaker in a downpour of rain in Dallas , or is riding along the main thoroughfare of at the steering bar of an ancient steam-driven Locomobile , he is doing it gracefully and zestfully . " This car , " he remarked quickly , " was born in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1902 , 46 years ago , and we are both doing well in this campaign . " When his microphone went dead in the rain , Governor Dewey quipped that this was the first time he had been shut up during the Oregon campaign . While it was being fixed . he calmly turned to signing autographs . When he had finished his speech and scores more boys and girls crowded around for his signature , he did not casually turn them aside , but announced over the public-address system that any kid who wanted his autograph could write to him in Albany , and he would send it on Executive Mansion stationery carrying the gold seal of the State . He explained that he had to hurry on to his next stop so as not to keep people waiting . Of course , he occasionally revives an old story , one in particular which I heard him use many times in 1940 . This time he tells of an elderly gentleman who pushed up to shake his hand after a rally Loring . Providence Providence Evening Bulletin Head-On in Salem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Hello , Dewey : I 've been wanting Dewey for President ever since he licked them Spaniards in Manila Bay . " A. A A Governor Dewey is continuing to make good use of his opposition to outlawing the Communist Party . But he is emphatic in declaring his distaste for Communists . He throws the dictionary at them . " I know about Communists , " he says . " They have named me their Public Enemy No. 1 . They are the noisiest , nastiest , most disloyal , dishonorable. untrustworthy , subversive , seditious group of worms the country has ever seen . " The crowd likes it when he pours it on , and he inserts a couple of new adjectives at every bus stop . Then he adds : " But they are worms and they thrive underground . I want to keep them aboveground , where we can see them and lick them , as we have in New Yorlc . " On other issues , Governor Dewey stresses the need to wage the peace more consistently and more competently , favors full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and suggests that the country ease President Truman 's complaint that he ca n't get good administrators to run the Government ? by electing a Republican President this fall . Thus far , Governor Dewey has delivered 89 speeches during his 19 days of Oregon campaigning , mostly off the cuff . From it all there emerges a less polished and more spontaneous personality . " Good-by , everybody , " he called out as he swung onto his bus at Salem . His bus may or may not be carrying him to another presidential nomination , but it is carrying a more friendly and more human politician . All this may liot be entirely natural to him yet , but quite a new Dewey is in the making .                     