@@707685

txt Although the campaign in the South Pacific ' is moving fast , there is no possibility of launching large-scale raids such as American and British airmen are operating against Continental Europe . Americans still lack air-base facilities for raids on this scale , according to Maj. Gen. Willis Hale , commanding the 7th American Air Force . The Allies , he said , would need something like 20 bases properly grouped ' and within convenient range in order to send out a mass raid against the main Japanese base of Truk . However , he added , the islands of the Pacific are not so conveniently arranged as that . Therefore it was necessary to alternate land-based and carrier based attacks , striking at the sev.eral fronts early and often , which makes it possible for the Pacific command to deliver such blows as the United Nations have been scoring . So far the United States possesses no bases within fighter-plane range of Truk . Eniwetok , in the Marshalls , America 's most for- ward advance base , still is a 1,300-mile round trip flight from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already has proved that its carrier task forces can partially offset these problems of distance by carrying the planes to within 1,000 miles of Japan itself . As the carrier strength grows , these attack naturally will be continued on a larger scale . The only time the Japanese have been successful in air counterattacks against the new Allied bases in the Central Pacific has been in the early stages when work was being rushed night and day to get fighter facilities in operation . This happened at Roi on Feb. 11 and at Eniwetok on March 8 . As soon as the American fighter and antiaircraft defense was functioning properly , it was difficult for the Japanese bombers to make successful attacks . For mobility and range , United States air operations in the Pacific are without equal in any other war area today . The fact that such islands are Ponape , Kusaie and Nauru are now on the United Nations ' list of regular targets does not necessarily mean they all soon will be occupied . The raids have four principal purposes : ( 1 ) to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prepare the way for possible future landings ; ( 3 ) for reconnaissance , and ( 4 ) to keep Japan guessing . Prior to the landings on Kwajalein , Eniwetok , and Majuro United States Army and Navy bombing missions were sent without discrimination against all the important Japanese positions in the Marshalls . The Japanese had no idea where they were coming . Now four of these atolls have been occupied ? Wotho was the latest . However , American planes continue to go over the Marshal 's on which the Japanese are stranded . Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , Commander of the United States Pacific Fleet , has pointed out the necessity of keeping the , by-passed islands neutralized . It is part of economy of the Pacific war .                     