@@707644

txt GERMANY BOMBED BY NIGHT AND DAY British Batter Stuttgart ? U. S. Planes Hit Southwest Reich  --  Losses Light By DREW MIDDLETON By Cable to TEE NEW TORE TInes . LONDON , Friday , March 3 ? Fortresses and Liberators of the United States Strategic Air Forces , flying in considerable strength , blasted industrial targets in southwest Germany yesterday in the sixteenth major Allied blow at the Reich in thirteen days . The Americans ' target was not officially announced , but the secret radio station Atlantic identified their objective as Frankfort on the Main , The United Press reported . Early Friday morning The Associated Press reported that heavy British bombers streamed out over the southeast coast Thursday night and Reuter , quoting the Paris radio , said the Paris region had been bombed . The large-scale daylight operations , which also included more than 400 sorties by American Marauders and a series of sharp blows by British medium and light bombers against targets in northern France , followed an extremely successful British attack on Stuttgart early yesterday morning . More than 600 Lancasters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Royal Air Force hammered the city with about 2,125 tons of high explosives , with only four bombers missing , the smallest loss ever recorded for attack on this scale . The blow at Stuttgart , a southern German city that occupies a key position in the German aircraft industry , was regarded here as another in the series of telling attacks against the foundations of the Luftwaffe , especially its fighter command . During yesterday 's operations , which reopened the daylight offensive against Germany that began on a record scale in February , eighteen enemy aircraft were destroyed by United Nations fighters , while eleven Allied bombers , heavy and medium , and three fighters were missing . Sixteen enemy planes were shot down by American fighter pilots but generally the fighter opposition was not heavy . If enemy fighter opposition was not " tough " over southwest Germany yesterday , weather was . One Fortress formation encountered only twenty enemy fighters but flew in a temperature of fifty degrees below zero . Heavily Escorted by Fighters Large forces of Thunderbolts , Lightnings and Mustangs of the Ninth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supported the American heavies in the first March attack of the offensive , which in February was marked by nineteen major operations . Fortresses of the Eighth Air Force also attacked the Luftwaffe air base at Chartres in France yesterday afternoon under an escort of Thunderbolts and Mustangs of the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces . The number of German fighters destroyed by gunners aboard the " heavies " in this and the attack on southwestern Germany , which was made through heavy clouds , has not been tabulated . The Marauders delivering a double blows at a number of targets flew more than 400 individual sorties yesterday for a loss of only one aircraft . Amiens , principal railroad center for those railroad lines supporting German defenses in northern France , was the target for one attack . The Marauders were escorted and covered by RAF , Royal Canathan Air Force and Allied fighters . Amiens Yards Set Ablaze The Amiens assault appears to have been especially effective . Pilots of a veteran Polish fighter wing reported several large fires in the railway yards , which are extremely important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as First Lieut . George Starry of Louisburg , Kan. , said : " We really laid a blanket of bombs on the target . " RAF , Dominion and Allied Mitchells , Bostons and Mosquitos also hammered at military objectives in northern France . They were escorted and covered by RAF , Dominion and Allied fighters . Although the number of sorties was not announced , it is known in London that the British share in daylight bombing attacks is steadily increasing and the numbers of these aircraft now available for these and other missions is surprising . Typhoon fighter bombers of the Second Tactical Air Force of the RAF also attacked military oh'jectives in northern France yester , day . The German airfield at Chartres hit during yesterday 's operations is a major enemy fighter training base about fifty miles southwest of Paris . Weather was fairly clear there and crews reported that their bombs fell among hangars and other airfield installations and fires were left burning . Yesterday was a field day for the Thunderbolts . One squadron got five German fighters , two Focke Wulf 190 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formations in a scrap that started as the Germans were taking a position to attack the Liberators that the Thunderbolts were escorting . In a few minutes the fight , which began at 20,000 feet , had spread across the sky with smoke pouring from the stricken enemy planes . American fighters also destroyed two German planes on the ground and employed novel tactics in supporting the Fortresses ' attack on Chartres . One Mustang group hovered for more than an hour and a half , according to the British Press Association , over four Nazi airfields to pin the enemy fighters on the ground or engage them if they rose while the " heavies " were bombing the Chartres airfield . Not one German plane challenged them . Pilots of another Thunderbolt escort group enlivened their trip home from Germany by sweeping down to fifteen feet and strafing a large German airfield northeast of Paris . First Lieut . Richard Gordon of New York reported his machinegun bullets hit the administration building . He , himself , thought he was knocked out when his engine cut out for a moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flak . " Mustangs also played a part in the fighter operations . Maj. Thomas Love Hayes Jr. , reported . " We saw two , we engaged two , we destroyed two . " Major Hayes , a veteran of the South Pacific theatre , destroyed one of the two ME109 's . The most important target in Stuttgart is the Bosch plant which is the enemy 's main source of ignition parts for all types of aircraft engines . This plant was badly damaged in the last bomber command attack Feb. 21 . Stuttgart is one of the main railway junctions for traffic between Germany and . Italy and has other large specialized engineeringplants , including the Daimler-Benz and the Hirth Aero Engine Works and a number of factories making power plants for U-boats , tanks , spark plugs , magnetos , pistons and injection pumps . Although giving full credit to the part ' played by last week 's offensive in cutting down the enemy fighter opposition , the Air Ministry warned yesterday that the phenomenally low losses at Stuttgart could ' not be taken as a normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactical conditions , the RAF said , and under other conditions losses might have been far greater . Enemy Fighter Loss Mounts However , the enemy 's rate of loss in February was higher than that between last September and the end of January , The Luftwaffe increased its efforts against Britain to the tune of 700 sorties in February but during the same month all branches of the RAF maintained their offensive , in which , although hampered by bad weather , the heavy bombers of the Bomber Command pounded German targets with 13,100 tons of bombs and made five major assaults . Some guidance on the extent of the British-German effort is given by comparison with the RAF 's twin blow against Schweinfurt on the night of Feb. 24-25 with upward of 1,000 heavy bombers , a I figure that is 30 per cent higher than that of total German sorties during the month .                     