@@710951

txt Here and there throughout the United States today , thoughtful Americans are stopping a moment to think about the fact that this is an anniversary  --  the 156th , to be exact , of the date the Bill of Rights went into effect as part of the law of the land , the first 10 Amendments to the Constitution . As they think of this  --  and President Truman by proclamation has recommended that they " re-examine and reflect upon " this part of their charter of freedom  --  the sentiments and observations run in two directions : First , there are those who look backward to the historical period when the freedoms in these 10 Amendments were new and hard-won . These also look outward to see the same freedoms still denied in large areas of the world , and congratulate themselves and fellow Americans that the rights are recognized in English - speaking and some non-English-speaking countries . Equality Still Sought Second there are those who look inward on facets of the national life where opportunities , privileges , and aspirations comparable to those in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all classes or races , and they look forward to the more complete establishment of that equality of treatment which has come to be associated with the ideal of Civil liberty in the United States . Of the first group , Elizur Yale Smith , Historian of the Bill of Rights Commemorative Society in New York , remarked that the world now sees a battle waging between one faction which endeavors to preserve constitutional government and another which would supplant republican forms with Communism . He holds , incidentally , that the United States is not , properly speaking , a democracy , but a republic , and emphasizes the difference between lands where governments are forbidden by their constitutions to infringe individual rights and those where unrestrained dictatorships can impose virtual slavery . " Those behind the iron curtain have no bill of rights , " he said . " They are not allowed to know the meaning of the inalienable rights of man . They have no freedom of religion , of speech , or the press , or the right of assembly and petition , no freedom from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no protection of trial by jury , or the many other innumerable rights and freedoms guaranteed to us by our Bill of Rights . " World Bill Drafted Of some hope to people in those lands is the proposed World Bill of Rights recently offered by a drafting committee of the United Nations . Of somewhat similar hope to those who look for greater realization of freedom and equality in the United States is the recent report of President Truman 's Civil Rights Committee , headed by Charles E. Wilson , President of the General Electric Company . In Washington and elsewhere , ther : is a feeling of urgency about . this subject today . As President Truman said when he set up the committee , " No sooner were we finished with the war than racial and religious intolerance began to appear and threaten the very things we had just fought for . " " In times past , " he continued , " when our American freedoms were threatened , groups of our citizens banded together and set out on paper the principles they felt would preserve freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American Charter In accepting the report , the President declared the committee " has given us . . . an American charter of human freedom in our time . " He added , " The need for such a charter was never greater than at this moment . . . . For us here in America , a new charter . of human freedom will be a guide for action ; and in the eyes of the world , it will be a declaration of our renewed faith in the American goal  --  the integrity of the individual human being , sustained by the moral consensus of the whole nation , protected by a government based on equal freedom under just laws . " In the nation 's Capital , the subject poses concrete questions . Thousands of Washington citizens fervently endorse the committee 's recommendation that residents of the District of Columbia be given the electoral franchise ; but some of these strongly disapprove another recommendation that would abolish the use of " restrictive covenants " whereby purchasers of real estate promise not to sell the property to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close rather than permit Negroes to attend performances and whether the Freedom Train will be turned away from another town rather than permit Negroes and whites to , ningle in its corridors . Recent Cases Cited Just what is the actual meaning of guarantees implied or at least claimed under the Bill of Rights is a matter of controversy also in the recent indictment of 10 motion-picture writers or directors who refused to tell a congressional investigating committee whether they were or ever had been Communists . In another case , one of the nation 's leading conservative newspapers , the New York Herald Tribune , has thrown a searchlight on the discharge of certain State Department employees for reasons of security and loyalty in such a way as to bring about the effect of assuring at least that such suspects see the charges that are made against them and have an opportunity to defend their reputations . One of the fruits of the Bill of Rights is that the search for broader concepts of liberty is going on under the benefit of freedom of speech , freedom of the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 