@@711084

txt WASHINGTON , Feb : 26 ? Congressional foreign policy committees appeared agreed today on a $5,300,000,000 authorization for starting the Marshall Plan . Chairman Charles A. Eaton of the House Foreign Affairs Committee announced his approval of the figure , apparently in an effort to forestall a heavier cut in the Administration 's $6,800,000,000 request when the measure comes up for debate on the floor . The committee chairman said he considered the amount approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to be " fair and sound . " His statement came on the eve of the scheduled appearance before the group of Representative Christian A. Herter of Massachusetts , vice chairman of the House Select Committee on Foreign Aid , who favors a further reduction . The Senate group left the Administration 's estimates intact but converted its fifteen-month proposal to a twelve-month basis . The Senate will begin debating the $5,300,000,000 committee bill Monday with indications the measure will be little changed by amendment . Chairman Eaton had held out until today for the full amount asked by the Administration for the first fifteen months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public hearings stage tomorrow and will begin on Tuesday to draft enabling legislation . It was assumed he had a majority of the group 's support for the $5,300,000 , - 000 authorization . There was much less certainty of majority support of his position on two other issues . One was the question of a joint Congressional " watchdog " committee which he said he would oppose . The other was the conferring of Cabinet rank on the Administrator of the European Recovery Program as provided by the Senate group . The watchdog committee would check on progress under the program including the extent of selfhelp and mutual cooperation among participating nations and report periodically to Congress . The device was employed in the Taft-Hartley and atomic energy measures . " I shall oppose any attempt to invade the constitutional duties of the President , " said Mr. Eaton . " whoever he may be . " The Foreign Affairs chairman said that in addition to infringing the constitutional prerogatives of the President , the proposed investigating group would " invade " the propv functions of the regular or standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fate of the proposal has been made less certain because of the attitude of Mr. Eaton toward the work of the Herter committee . Although Mr. Herter has leaned over backward , according to friends , to avoid interference with the Eaton group , the Foreign Affairs chairman has taken a distinctly cool view of Mr. Herter and his group . The situation was brought to a head recently by the suggestion of Senators Arthur H. Vandenberg and Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , that Mr. Herter head the watchdog committee . Mr. Herter has remained nontommittal . Chairman Eaton indicated his group would complete a legislative vehicle for the Marshall Plan by the middle of March . By that time , according to Senator Vandenberg , who is head of the corresponding Senate group , the Senate will have completed action on its own bill . The Administration , meanwhile , has set April 1 as the legislative deadline . By that time the funds provided by the interim aid appropriation bill will be exhausted . Pending action on actual appropriations for - the European Recovery program , the Senate bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1,000,000,000 . Nearing the end of its public hearings today , the House group heard Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican , of Indiana , explain his scheme for " an international RFC " as a substitute for the Marshall Plan . . I-I " would create an international division of RFC to invest in stock of similar corporations in countries agreeing to work for world recovery . Preferred stock of the international RFC would be purchased by the United States agency . Common stock would be sold to European nations through a system of credits . " Here we would have the recovery of Europe on a private enterprize basis , " said the Senator . He charged that the Marshall Plan amounted , in effect , to " state socialism " and said " if that is the only means by which we can defeat the spread of communism and state socialism , our cause is lost . " Representative Ralph W. Givinn , Republican , of New York , told the committee the United States had aided Czechoslovakia to the extent of $257,000,000 , but " only yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He said American aid was only perpetuating " socialist statism " in western Europe . " We have unwittingly helped to defeat the large and vital groups of people who believe in freedom , everywhere in post-war Europe , " said Mr. Gwinn . " In nation after nation American political dollars have helped to entrench the Socialist elements that have squandered the huge assistance which we thought would be used for the reestablishment of freedom , politically , socially and economically . " Edwin B. George , a Dun &; Bradstreet economist , stressed the importance of the allocating power over scarce materials under the program and urged the President be provided with " a full-time judicially minded aide who would-hear claims " and decide on relative need abroad for such supplies .                     