@@710286

txt Equipped with the latest naval improvements , including air conditioning and new automatic weapons , the heavy cruiser , USS Salem , slid down the ways at the Fore Rixer yard of the Bethlehem Steel Company as the second warship to bear the name of the historic New England city . One of the Idrgest of its type , the new 716-foot craft was sponsored by Miss Mary G. Coffey , sister of Mayor Edward A. Coffey of Salem . Propelled by geared turbines and 40 feet longer than its predecessors of the Baltimore class , the Salem is the first air conditioned cruiser and the first naval vessel to carry eight-inch rapid-fire guns . 10,000-Ton Cruiser The vessel slid neatly into the water just seconds after the releasing mechanism , consisting of four Bethlehem mechanical triggers , was touched off by a single electrical contact . The combined weight of the ship and its launching cradle was 10,500 long tons . The U. S. S. Salem was the 100th ship built at the Bethlehem Steel Conmpany 's Quincy shipyard since Pearl Harbor and one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 months ago . The ship 's keel was laid July 4 , 1945 , but construction was delayed somewhat , officials said , after the Japanese surrender . Then the cruiser 's design was reviewed critically to take advantage of the most recent developments originating from war experiences . Air Cnditioning Stressed As one result of knowledge gained from operation of fighting ships in tropical waters , the Navy installed air conditioning to serve all living spaces , control centers , except in the boiler and main engine rooms . Separate ventilation systems will supply these sections . The air conditioning system , naval officers asserted today , will increase efficiency and morale of crews , especially in areas where high temperature and huniidity combine to reduce stamina . In discussing these new weapons , deimloped to counter Japanese " suicide " planes , naval officers said the automatic eight-inch guns will fire at battle ranges approximately four times faster than any previous weapon of such size . The new technique , they asserted , means elimination of the difficult work of gun turret ammunition handling . Other cruisers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ News now nearing completion , also will be armed with these automatic Weapons , the Navy said . As the Navy 's latest answer to modern Naval warfare needs , the U. S. S. Salem takes the place of the old U. S. S. Salem , the scout cruiser , which was taken out of commission in November , 1929 , and then disposed of in February , 1930.                     