@@711013

txt The Communist offensive against Premier Alcide de Gasperi 's fifth Government , which was interrupted during the holiday season , was in full swing again today . While the nationwide bank strike still continued , general strikes were called or announced in four cities . The ports of Genoa , Naples , Savona and some minor ones were tied up by a dockers ' strike . In Ancona , local shipyards were occupied by workers . A nation-wide newspaper man 's strike was threatened while agitations end partial strikes occurred in a great number of other places . The strikes were accompanied by disorders in more than one place , especially in Tuscany . The strikers there built road blocks on some of the main highways and resisted police efforts to remove them . A. skirmish between police and strikers occurred in Bonelli , about two miles from Pistoia , when the former advanced to remove a road block on the main highway from Florence to the sea . The police tried to drive the strikers away with tear gas , but they replied by throwing hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 and by the time the police captured the strikers ' position , six of their own men and six strikers had been wounded . The Cabinet Council today approved a decree providing severe penalties for persons who estabfi lished road blocks or otherwise interrupted traffic . In Rome a general strike was narrowly averted this evening . It was to have been called as the result of the closing of two factories , whose owners insisted they did not have enough orders to keep going . The workers retaliated by declaring a sit-down strike and refusing to let the managements enter the factories . The leaders of all labor unions held a meeting this evening , and it was considered a foregone conclusion that they would declare a general strike . This morning , however , after negotiations lasting uninterruptedly for fifteen hours , the owfiers agreed to reopen their factories on Monday . The labor unions consequently decided to suspend preparations for strike , and limited themselves to protesting against the alleged " brutality " of the police in dealing with the strikers . Workers in Pistols . went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers in Pescia and Val di Nievole , who have been on strike for some days . It was successful only in part , and did not rise to serious incidents . A twenty-four-hour general strike was declared in Via/Reggio this morning as the result of agitation by the unemployed . It also was not complete and did not give rise to serious incidents . In Crotone , a general strike was declared in sympathy with the striking bank employes . Crotone is the most important industrial center in Calabria . In Forli , the labor unions announced that a general strike would begin Thursday unless steps were taken before then to relieve the unemployment . Some Workers- Reject Strikes The Republican , Right-Wing Socialist and Christian Democratic workers did not back the strikes ' in Pistoia , Via Reggio and Forli . This fact again emphasized the cleavage between the Communist and anti-Communist workers . It gave the Communists , however , one more opportunity for proving that they control the majority of the workers . In all places essential public services were kept running . The occupation of shipyards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not received any pay for two weeks . This , in turn , was caused by the fall of the dollar 's exchange , which obliged the management to cancel a contract in dollars to build a ship for a Swedish shipping company . The workers seized the shipyards yesterday morning and declared that they would run them themselves . The police did not intervene . The bank strike , which has been in progress since the end of last month , has thrown much hardship on all Italian workers , for most firms have been unable to meet their payrolls . In several places , bank employes declared themselves willing to return to work , but were prevented from doing so by their unions . Some banks that had reopened in the last few days were later obliged to close again . The secretary of the bank work deleted 4 lines                     