@@706139

txt All the nation 's average motorists ? including even traveling salesmen , taxi drivers and residents of isolated rural areas lacking other transportation  --  will be prohibited from buying new automobile tires under eligibility requirements established today for the government 's new tire rationing program . The regulations , issued by Leon Henderson , Price Administrator , for the guidance of local tire rationing boards which will begin operating Jan. 5 , bar issuance of tire purchase certificates except to owners of motor vehicles which fall within seven sharply defined classifications covering essential services for health , safety and industrial and commercial operations . Sale of new tires for use on vehicles making deliveries to consumers is barred , but it was pointed out that while the prohibition applied to such vehicles as milk , bakery - and department store trucks there were factors that could help relieve the situation . Officials suggested informally that there could be a pooling of retail delivery facilities . As an example , they said that as many as four or five milk trucks now delivered milk along one street and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree on one truck for the one route . They added that some of the larger truck fleets had stocks of tires on hand which would carry them for a considerable time . Less Driving Is Urged Mr. Henderson urged the millions of motorists who will be unable to buy tires to stop unnecessary driving immediately and " double up " in driving to work . Only retreaded , recapped or other used tires , on which no rationing limits have yet been set , will be available to them . The regulations provide that purchase certificates for new tires may not be issued unless an applicant certifies that the tires or tubes sought " will be mounted " on : 1 . Vehicles used by physicians , surgeons , visiting nurses or veterinarians , principally for professional services . 2 . Ambulances . 3 . Vehicles used " exclusively " for fire fighting services , necessary public police services , enforcement of specific laws affecting public health and safety , ' garbage removal or other sanitation services , or mail delivery . 4 . Vehicles with a capacity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passengers as part of " services rendered to the public by a regular transportation system , " as school buses , or to carry employes to and from any industrial or mining establishment or construction project " except when public transportation facilities are readily available . " 5 . Trucks used " exclusively " for ice and fuel delivery , transportation of materials for construction and maintenance of public roads , public utilities or production facilities , defense housing and military establishments ; trucks used by essential roofing , plumbing , heating and electrical repair services , or waste and scrap dealers ; by any cori , mon carriers ; and for transponing raw materials , semi-manufactured goods and finished products  --  except that no certificates may be issued to transport such raw materials , semi-manufactured or finished goods " to the ultimate consumer for personal , family or household use . " 6 . Farm tractors or other farm implements  --  except automobiles or trucks  --  for which tires are essential to operation . 7 . Industrial mining and construction equipment  --  except automobiles and trucks  --  for which tires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for vehicles used to transport commodities direct to consumers was interpreted here as affecting such services as delivery of newspapers by automobile to suburban and rural subscribers  --  althoughnewspaper delivery trucks within a city would not be involved since they carry a " finished product " to ' a dealer or distributor . No exemptions other than those specified in the seven classifications of eligibles are provided for persons who use their automobile in the daily conduct of their business . Motorists and truck owners on the eligible list who seek new tires must fill out application forms . These forms then must be taken to an " inspector " ? dealers or garage men appointed by the local rationing boards  --  who must inspect and report on the condition of the applicant 's tires . If the inspector finds the tire or tires are unsafe and can not be repaired , reconditioned or retreaded , he will certify the need for a new tire to the local board . The board must then review and take final action on the application . The Office of Price Administration will establish six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a State or county . Mr. Henderson estimated recently that the nation 's supply of new tires was sufficient to last about two months under normal unrestricted demand . All production as well as sale of new tires and tubes has been halted temporarily , except to fill defense orders , and today 's announcement said that only a " very small " supply of tires would be available for civilians after rationing begins . " Few tires will be manufactured for civilian use until the rubber supply situation is cleared up , " it added . The war in the Pacific has cut off crude rubber imports from the Far East , which annually account for nearly 98 per cent of the United States supply .                     