@@711365

txt The movement to draft Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for the Democratic nomination for President and to prevent the nomination of President Harry S. Truman gained impetus yesterday in several quarters . With loud shouts of approval , the delegates at the Georgia Democratic State Convention in Macon adopted a resolution declaring that General Eisenhower is " the one man , the only proper man to lead the people of this nation in their fight against communism , tryanny and slavery and to maintain the peoples of the world at peace . " The delegates acclaimed with rebel yells adoption of another resolution denouncing President Truman as a source of " chaos , confusion and revolt " and calling upon him to withdraw as a candidate . The Georgia convention , in control of supporters of Herman Talmadge , picked Senator Richard Russell , a leader of Southern opposition to President Truman 's civil rights program , as its choice for the nomination for VicePresident , a post which the Senator said later he did not desire . It cheered denunciations of Gov . M. E. Thompson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention at Richmond also endorsed General Eisenhower for the Democratic Presidential nomination and instructed the twentysix Virginia delegates to the national convention to work for his nomination . This action was taken on motion of Senator Harry Flood Byrd , who was in complete control of the convention . Prior to this speakers had denounced the Truman civil rights program . The convention also voted , if President Truman should be nomi-1 nated by the national convention , to give the Virginia Democratic State Central Committee power by a two-thirds vote to call a resumed ' state convention in Richmond and name some other candidate for President to run in the state on the Democratic ticket . It was learned that James Roosevelt , son of the late President and state chairman and Democratic National Committeeman from California ; Jacob M. Arvey , Chicago Democratic leader , and Mayor William O'Dwyer intend to issue today a call for a meeting of chairmen of state delegations to the Democratic National Convention to be held at Philadelphia on Saturday , July 10 . It also was learned that this call will urge delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the meeting . Anti-Truman Move Is Seen This apparently is a definite anti-Truman move intended to help the " draft Eisenhower " movement . It probably also could be diverted to help a boom for Supreme Court Justice William 0 . Douglas if it should become apparent that General Eisenhower was not available . It was understood that Mayor O'Dwyer was prepared to go " all out " in support of Justice Douglas . Here in New York , Jeremiah T. Mahoney , a convention delegate and Tammany district leader , urged the drafting of General Eisenhower in a letter to Paul E. Fitzpatrick , Democratic state chairman , on the ground that President Truman can not be elected and that his nomination would result in defeat of many local candidates who otherwise might win . Mr. Mahoney 's letter and knowledge that Mayor O'Dwyer did not look favorably on . the nomination of President Truman caused a break in the New York delegation . It was said that the majority of New York State 's 106 delegates probably would support Mr. Truman for nomination but that a sizable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party leaders that no pressure would be put on New York delegates who wish to oppose Mr. Truman 's nomination . With the boom for General Eisenhower growing , there was wide interest in a report published in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that George Allen , friend of President Truman , with the knowledge of ' , White House advisers , would seek , to have General Eisenhower Issue , a statement that would irrevocably remove him as a possible Democratic Presidential nominee . Efforts to reach General Eisenhower personally fer comment ' upon the moves to draft him were unsuccessful but it was said at his office at Columbia University , of which he is president , that the General " stands by his letter of Jan. 23 and has nothing to add to that . " It also was said that Mr. Allen was a week-end guest of General and Mrs. Eisenhower but that the General had no comment on the- implications of Mr. Allen 's visit . The letter to which General Eisenhower's. aide referred was that written to Leonard W. Finder , 1Manchester , - N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself from consideration for the Republican nomination for President . In this letter General Eisenhower wrote that it was his belief " the necessary and wise subordination of the military to civil power will be best sustained when lifelong professional soldiers , in the absence of some obvious and overriding reasons , abstain from seeking high political office . " . Mr. Alien said he had " no comment on anything . " He Game here , he said , to help celebrate the thirty-second wedding anniversary of General and ' Mrs. Eisenhower , which took place on Thursday . In Washington , both Charles G. Ross , Presidential press secretary , and Senator J. Howard , Democratic National Chairman , denied that Mr. Allen was seeing General Eisenhower on behalf of the President . Local Democratic leaders , while not attempting to minimize the strength of the revolt against President Truman , are convinced that he intends to stay in the race and make a strong fight for the nomination . He has been told by New York party leaders that he can not hope to carry New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance of election is remote . President Truman , it was learned , does not agree with this opinion. , The President has told callers that in 1940 , when few thought he had any chance fOr renomination in Missouri for ' United States Senator over the opposition *if . Gov . Lloyd C. Stark and ? Maurice L. Milligan , - or for reelection after winning renomination , he made the fight and won . In his talks with visitors at the White House he now sees a comparable situation in the nation . Election of the thirty-four Virginia delegates yesterday completed the roll of 1,592 delegates to the Democratic National Con- , vention with a total of 1,234 votes , delegates-at-large having only a half-vote each . With 618 votes needed for a ' nomination , President Truman has 286 pledged or instructed . for him and 390 claimed for him , a total of ' 676 , or fifty-eight more than needed , according to The Associated Press . Many of the claimed votes for Truman are in dispute and even some of the Truman pledged or instructed delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not bound legally to vote for Mr. Truman 's nomination . In addition to the pledged , instructed and claimed votes for President Truman , fifty-four votes from Georgia and Virginia are instructed for General Eisenhower , the twenty votes of South Carolina are pledged to Gov . J. Strom Thurmond , eleven ' and one-half votes of Mississippi are pledged to Gov . Fielding -L . Wright , fiftyeight and . one-half . votes from other states are anti-Truman and 414 votes are , uncommitted.                     