@@705372

txt Before summer the manned coastal armament surrounding the Hub will constitute a veritable Gibraltar of the North Atlantic , according to Col. Monte J. Hickok , commanding the harbor defenses of Boston . It will just about fulfill a vision of 103 years ago when Fort Warren on George 's Island was in the building and that post alone was thought comparable to the famous rock . Despite a formidable administrative and tactical program Colonel Hickok found time to explain how ten more or less deserted sub-forts and a command of less than 150 officers and men of the Regular Army is expanding to an emergency strength of near 5,000 . These men come from all components of the Army . Inspections have determined that within a few weeks they will be capable of discharging full war-time duties . We started talking on some of the fundamental questions in everyone 's thought by asking the colonel to justify all the tremendous activity in coast artillery , remarking that certain apparently qualified military critics label large coastal guns " practically obsolete under modern warfare if we build up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Status of Armament We asked him , too , about all the alleged obsolescent armament in the harbor reservations , about antiaircraft defense and about the possibility of enemy landing parties establishing a toehold in New England between harbor defense commands . One would hardly expect him to minimize the necessity for strong coastal defense . However , he said that if flying conditions were al ways perfect , and if powerful , undefeated units of the Navy and Air Force were always available , there would be less need of large coast fortifications " But the fact is , " he stated , " that situation can not be , and Boston is one of the most important commercial centers on the Atlantic . Within it lie the Boston Navy Yard , the South Boston Dry Dock ( large enough to have handled the Leviathan ) the Fore River Ship Yard ( where one of our present aircraft carriers was built ) and the Naval Ammunition Depot at Hingham . Potential Enemy Base " It would serve an enemy admirably as a repair and supply base for land operations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other of our largest cities further increases its military importance . Without harbor defenses there would be nothing to prevent a formidable enemy force creeping right into the heart of Boston some dark and foggy night . " Our mission in defending this area is to employ all seaward , landward and antiaircraft defensive elements assigned , in the most effective manner against any naval attack on the harbor . " To afford this protection we should hold enemy capital ships at least 25 miles from the entrance to North Channel , to allow free ingress or egress to our naval and commercial craft ; should hold them beyond naval bombardment range of Boston Navy Yard , South Boston Dry Dock , Fore River Ship Yard , Naval Ammunition Depot at Hingham , and several other important harbor elements ; should deny access to the harbor by any enemy surface or subsurface craft . " To accomplish this mission the balanced armament within the metropolitan area includes some of the newest and longest range guns available ; an ample supply of large disappearing guns capable of reaching ships at middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             