@@705085

txt City Draft Offices Are Swamped With Requests for Information 30 Extra Telephone Clerks Needed to Handle Calls  --  Mayor and Ask Employers to Aid by Giving Workers Time Off Selective Service Headquarters , at Madison Avenue and Forty-third Street , was deluged yesterday with telephone calls from men who wanted to know where they must register for the draft on National Registration Day , tomorrow . By mid-morning the calls were coming in at the rate of 500 an hour . Municipal departments were appealed to for help . At noon thirty trained telephone clerks were on the job , handling calls over twentyfive trunk lines . By late afternoon the calls were coming in 1,500 to the hour . Some of the calls were from men who wanted information about whether dependents or physical disability would put them in a deferred class , but by far the greater number asked : " Where do I register ? " This was taken as a warning of the one big " hump " the registration plan must get over to accomplish its job . All preparations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been made , all the required cards , certificates and instruction blanks have been distributed , all the workers have been told what they must and must not do . The one thing that remains is for each man affected by the law to learn where he is to go to comply with it . Selective Service officials pointed out that responsibility for finding out rests on the men themselves . Registration boards will be sitting from 7 A. M. to 9 P. M. tomorrow in 712 public schools . In general each man goes to the school in his Assembly district nearest his home . If that is not the right one , he can find out there where the right one is . " If men will learn the numbers of the election districts and Assembly districts in which they live , and then consult the lists in the papers , they will learn what school they must go to , " Colonel Arthur V. , director of Selective Service for the city , said . Facts on Conscription Tomorrow is draft registration day . Every man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birthday and has not reached his 36th is required to register . The law affects the ill or crippled as well as the physically fit ; it affects aliens as well as citizens . Virtually the only exceptions are men already in the military service or aliens who are the accredited diplomatic or consular agents of their homelands . The places of registration are given on Page 16 of this issue of THE NEW YORK TIMES . Registration hours are 7 A. M. to 9 P. M. The penalty for failing to register is a $10,000 fine or five years ' imprisonment , or both . Neither Selective Service Headquarters nor the Board of Elections will have enough telephone facilities to handle any great number of calls tomorrow , and so persons who depend on getting their information from those sources may be disappointed . The telephones at headquarters will be needed to take care of an expected flood of inquiries from the registration boards , all of which are likely to run into small points on which they will want advice . The Board of Elections , according to S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ' keeping its telephone lines open for calls dealing with its regular business . " Mayor La Guardia 's economy requirements have cut our phones down to the minimum , " Mr. Cohen said . Major William J. Walsh , executive assistant to Colonel , suggested that any man who does not know in what election and Assembly district he lives- apply for information to the policeman on the beat , any neighborhood busi // ness man , or a neighborhood political club . Officials particularly stress that it is useless now to inquire about deferment- of service under the Selective Service Act . Deferment and registration are wholly separate . Whether he be citizen or alien , athlete or cripple , every man who has reached his twenty-first birthday and has not reached his thirtysixth birthday must register . Questions of deferment are to be taken up later with local draft boards . The list of schools is published on Page 16 in this issue of THE NEW YORK TIMES . A staff of 44,424 men and women will be available to perform the task of registration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - 000 school teachers will form the regular working force . The others will be in reserve for use as needed . They include 5,000 firemen , 18,000 teachers and 1,424 employes of the Sanitation Department . Explaining that all city departments will allow time off for draft registration tomorrow , Mayor La Guardia made a radio appeal over Station WOR last night asking business concerns to follow the same course . Unless time off were granted , the Mayor said , long lines would form at the registry offices after working hours , causing delay and confusion in the registration . He emphasized that all males from 21 to 35 , inclusive , were required to register , regardless of whether they expected to be placed in deferred classifications . He was equally emphatic in saying that registration did not mean that the registrants would be called this year . With 400,000 to be called from a registration of 16 , - 000,000 , he said , each registrant had one chance in forty of not being called . The Mayor urged every man in the age group to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to the designated school to register , preferably in the morning . All policemen have been instructed to aid registrants . Taking the case of a young man who has lost his left leg and right arm , the Mayor said that such a person would not be called to service but that he must register nevertheless . He assured his audience that every comfort and convenience had been arranged for those who register and expressed his belief that the people , . of the city would be proud of the facilities provided by Colonel and his staff . No Interference Allowed " I ask the cooperation of the peomen who must register . In many instances it will be difficult for these men to appear at the proper registration place within the allotted time unless their employers arrange for allowing some additional time off . Of course , this will not he necessary in all cases . But where it becomes necessary , perhaps by scheduling a stagger system to operate for that one day , the men will be given time off without too much dislocation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service in helping out wherever they can along the suggested lines . They will know best how it can be done with a minimum of disturbance to the functioning of their own businesses . " Legal Bureau Chief Named Colonel announced the appointment of Major Knowlton Durham of the Officers Reserve Corps as chief of the legal bureau of the city selective service administration . Major Durham , who will supervise a staff of about sixty volunteer lawyers , will assist local draft boards and appeals boards . He lives at 333 East Sixty-eighth Street and has been in law practice at 70 Pine Street . During the war he was overseas with the Twentyseventh Division , rising from private to captain . The names of the members of the 280 local hoards and of the thirteen appeals boards , the bodies that will classify men for service after their numbers have been called , will be made public Thursday , Colonel said . Plans for the utilization of 1,400 interpreters on registration day were completed at a dinner last night at the Port Arthur Restaurant , 7 Mott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign language groups . United States Attorney John T. Cahill assigned his chief assistant , Mathias F. Correa , to take charge of all cases arising from violation of the draft law . He will have at his call as many of the thirty assistants in the criminal division as may be needed . Colonel will take part with six registrars in an instructional program over Station WNYC at 7:30 o'clock tonight , Morris Novick , director of the municipal station , announced . The city 's registrars have been asked to listen in to the program , on which the difficult questions that are likely to come up will be answered . WNYC will go on at 6:30 o'clock tomorrow morning , providing lastminute instructions , it was said . Thereafter it will broadcast any additional information , as well as rulings of the central registration hoard , every half hour . The registration places will have radi'os and will be asked to keep the instruments tuned in to the city station . If it is necessary , personnel may be transferred from one registration QUESTIONS SWAMP CITY DRAFT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " We will brook on interference or annoyance at any registration place . Register early in the day if possible . Help the board . and the board will help you . I want to congratulate you on your opportunity to register , and many of us old duffers wish we had your opportunity . " The Mayor added that the whole purpose of registration was to provide a powerful Army and Navy to protect American territory and institutions from all aggressive action . Speaking over Station WABC yesterday afternoon , Colonel appealed to employers to cooperate in the registration . " Employers may do their part ' in several ways , " he said . " In their shops , plants and offices are young deleted 3 lines 