@@711063

txt FRANKFORT ON THE MAIN , Germany , Feb. 14 ? The United States and British Military Governors agreed today to permit the Germans to manufacture virgin aluminum , although the Potsdam treaty expressly prohibits its production . The decision was made at a meeting of the Bipartite Board , of which Generals Lucius D. Clay and Sir Brian Robertson are cochairmen . At the same time Generals Clay and Robertson agreed to proclaim tomorrow the establishment of the Bank of German States to centralize financing in the bizonal area and other states interested . General Clay explained afterward that the decision on aluminum production had been taken as an economic measure and that it " does not prejudice the future . " He said German concerns would be allowed to produce raw aluminum " under definite control " and until the Germans could themselves pay for the import of aluminum . At present aluminum imports , paid for by the United States on a deferred account , cost $7,710,000 annually for 24,000 tons . Some aluminum has been manufactured here from scrap - piles but these stocks have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' area for the manufacture of 49,000 tons of aluminum . Today 's decision was based on the desirability of making use of these stocks . It represents a British policy victory , for the British Military Government , backed by German economists and industrialists , long advocated it while General Clay hesitated to take an overt step against the Potsdam decision . Generals Clay and Robertson // met with leading German bizonal officials this morning to respond to la long memorandum on the bizonal area 's economy . The Germans had complained they were not receiving enough responsibility and called ' for the allocation of $400,000,000 from the export proceeds for use in planning imports . General Robertson told them I that he believed that until now I the Germans had not made use of those responsibilities already given to them . However , the Bizonal ' Economic Administration is believed to be a suitable answer to their complaints which were drafted before the Frankfort conference . The Germans also were told that 1$100,000,000 had been allocated for the first quarter of this year for Import planning and that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the establishment of a department of labor was looked upon favorably by the ' Military Governors , but bizonal officials were told to get their present agencies established first . In response to a renewed German request for the re-establishrnent of big German fishing and freighter fleets , the Military Governors said that 100 trawlers were ' now under construction in German shipbuilding yards , representing the yards ' full capacity . As for the chartering of United States surplus ships for bizonal n , eds , General Clay declared a bill was now in Congress to make seventy Liberty ships available and further action awaited Congressional decision . The Germans had presented a resolution of the Bizonal Economic Council to the effect that they wanted to be consulted on monetary reform . General Clay replied that they could not be consulted while the matter was under the jurisdiction of the Allied Control Council .                     