@@710514

txt The nation 's new labor bill , designed to curb industrial strife , has broken the comparative peace and calm of the past several weeks along the labor front as work stoppages made idle at least 188 , - 000 soft coal miners and threatened a slowup in steel . railroad , and other coal-using industries . Less than 24 hours after enactment of the Taft-Hartley Labor Law , miners began leaving their jobs in 10 States . In Washington , the National Coal Association , an operators group , said a full-scale nation-wide strike appeared to be developing apparently in " clear violation " of the new law , In other labor developments since the labor act became law , a strike of 40,000 shipyard workers threatened and Omaha 's big Union Stockyards Company was virtually idle following a strike of packing house workers . Walkout Studied In Washington , the Justice Department sought to determine whether they left their jobs freely or upon advice of leaders of the United Mine Workers Union . Thousands more coal miners walked out today , causing the first steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption of the Taft-Hartley union-curbing bill , while others said the stoppage was merely a " head start " on vacations which begin in the coal pits Friday midnight . An attempt by United Mine Workers leaders to start a return to work in West Virginia mines was outdone by new mine closings there . Against 2.000 men returning in Monongalia County , more than 11,500 joined the walkout , raising the State 's total of idle to 41,000 . Anthracite Holiday Reports from the Coal Mines AdMinistration and operators listed another 10.000 men idle in western Pennsylvania , raising the total to 51,000 or more than 50 per cent of the soft coal diggers there . In eastern Pennsylvania , the first walkouts occurred in anthracite mines , with more than 3,200 quitting work in the Panther Valley area . The Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation announced the shutting down of the equivalent of 41 , ; blast furnaces in the Pittsburgh district . A two-thirds curtailment of its Bessemer Department at Youngstown , Ohio , was also effected , cutting off production of 1,5b0 tons of steel daily . The corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its coal mines in Pennsylvania and Kentucky were closed , causing the loss of about 70,000 tons of coal daily . Other steel firms were similarly hit . With the 400,000 soft coal miners scheduled to start a 10-day vacation at midnight June 27 , there appeared no indication that the men who left their jobs in protest of the new labor act would go back to work before that time . Government control of the pits ends on June 30 and there was no sign of revived contract talks between John L. Lewis , UMW President , and opei.ators . In addition to West Virginia 's 41,000 idle , there were 54,200 away from their jobs in Pennsylvania ; 30,000 in Kentucky ; 24,750 in Illinois ; 20,000 in Alabama ; 11,000 in Virginia ; 6,000 in Ohio ; 5 , , 245 in Indiana ; and 1,200 in Utah . Most of them were members of the UMW . Shipyard Crisis A ? strike of 40,000 CIO Bethlehem Steel shipyard workers in nine East Coast yards threatened to start at midnight tonight following a breakdown of wage negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers , said , " We 're ready to take a chance on testing the Taft-Hartley Law . " In Omaha , Neb. , the Union . Stockyards Company , a livestock handling ' firm , was virtually inoperative by a strike of 425 CIO United Packinghouse Workers . A company official said " resentment of Congress overriding the labor bill veto may have been a factor , " but a CIO leader denied the charge and said the walkout involved wages , hours , and working conditions . In Kearney , N. J .. a threatened work stoppage by 4,000 CIO marine and shipbuilding workers , was averted after an agreement had been reached to continue contract negotiations . In St Louis , Mo. , Mayor Aloys P. Kaufmann called a meeting of directors of the Public Service Company and the union Executive Board with a demand that some agreement be reached to end the city 's two-week-old transportation strike . The walkout has cost St. Louis business an estimated $15,000,000 . Ford Foremen DETROIT , June 25 ( R ' ) ? Walter P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the union 's policy committee into emergency session today to consider a request for assistance from 3,800 striking Ford Motor Company foremen . The plea came from the Foreman 's Association of America . which has been on strike for 36 days against three Detroit area Ford plants employing 85,000 workers . In a letter to Mr. Reuther , the FAA President , Robert H. Keys , admitted an earlier decision to rely on the strength of unionized foremen alone was erroneous and asked the big auto union to respect FAA picket lines at Ford 's Rouge . Lincoln and Highland Park plants . as well as Gar Wood Industries , Inc .. here and the Midland Steel Products Company in Cleveland . 