@@711628

txt Chicago is to be the first city ' in the nation to transmit weather maps by radio as a routine daily service of the government weather bureau , Gordon E. Dunn , chief forecaster , said yesterday . New nigh frequency FM transmitting and receiving equipment is being installed in the central station in the United States courthouse and .. in the Chicago .. airport weather station . Facsimile transmission has been used experimentally , particularly by newspapers ineluding THE TRIBUNE , for years , hit has found few uses in commercial fields . The weather bureau equipment is expected to be ready to broadcast within three weeks . Reduces Time Airport Weather maps now are plotted in the courthouse station every 6 hours and sent by messenger to the , airport for use in briefing pilots , Several air lines also have their own weather bureaus for plotting maps , With the new facsimile transmitter , maps can be received at the airport seconds after they are drawn . Business enterprises will be able to tune in receivers along the transmission beam , thus saving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned to relay the transmissions from Chicago airport to the Orchard Place airport , thus saving time now required to send the maps by messenger and redacting the number of map plotting offices required to serve air traffic . In addition to maps , the facsimile equipment will be used to transmit forecasts and other weather data . The high speed machines will be capable of sending up to 1,200 words a minute . Row It Is Done John Sullivan , technician in charge of the new equipment , said the transmitter would send exact copies of sheets 8 by 11 inches . liben . sending weather maps , the original diagram would be transmilted in from four to six different sections which would be fitted together again as they came off the receiving machines . Printed material , such as forecasts , could be sent by a viatually continuous operation . Two transmitters will be used so that one can be loaded with new material while the other is in service . Facsimile transmitters scan sheets of paper with a photoelectric eye which converts black and white spaces into electrical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converts the signals into black and white spaces on a sheet of paper sensitized to record light changes . The result corresponds to the printing or diagrams on the origi-. all document Chicago was chosen for the first teat of facsimile by the weather bureau , Dunn said , because the heavy air traffic in and out of the city 's airports demands speedy and accurate weather information service . Furthermore , the distances between the , two airports and the central station make messenger service unsatisfactory and the cost  --  of setting up three map plotting offices would be prohibitive . 