@@710786

txt The last illusions nourished on the hope that out of the blood and sacrifices of the Second World War there might arise a new world order , based on the common interest of all nations and able to banish forever the specter of new strife , have been dealt a mortal blow by the formation of the new Communist International headed by Soviet Russia . For that organization , by the dictums of its own manifesto , has not only widened the breach between Russia and her satellites on the one hand and the rest of the world on the other but has thereby created new obstacles to the conclusion of final peace . It has openly gone over to the offensive and has declared what is nothing less than a propaganda war against the United States and all those who would stand with us in defense of the principles for which we fought and to which Russia had also solemnly pledged herself in the hours of her need . And not the least ominous part of that propaganda offensive is that it is being waged not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected by the great majority of mankind , but in terms of power politics and with the technique long since made familiar to the world by Hitler . For there is one great difference between the old Comintern , ostensibly dissolved in 1943 , when Russia urgently needed American aid to save herself , and the new organization . The old Comintern professed to be a worldwide organization appealing to the " proletariat " of all countries to rise in revolt and establish an International Soviet. , The new Comintern is , thus far at least , a purely European organization which , despite a cursory bow to " labor , " knows nothing of an international " proletariat " but rather seeks to enlist Europe under the leadership of Communist-dominated governments against the United States . And just as Hitler proclaimed himself a champion of peace , national independence and a " higher democracy " while building up his armies , and then denounced as " warmongers " all those who opposed his policy of expansion and subjugation of other nations , so also Soviet Russia , swollen by conquests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , national sovereignty and democracy , and denounces as " imperialists " and " aggressors " all those who would check her own aggression . The significance of this brazen inversion of the meaning of words and the blatant utilization of the big lie forged into a propaganda weapon by Hitler is obvious . The new Communist manifesto tears to shreds all the wartime agreements , from the Atlantic Charter to Potsdam , and is bound to have serious repercussions upon the United Nations , already paralyzed by Russian obstruction . The one positive element in it is the fact that it further clarifies Russian intentions and finally stamps the Communist parties as the tools of Russian imperialism . But it is a symptom of the confusion existing in the world that there are voices representing the formation of the new Comintern as the Russian answer to the Marshall Plan . The new Comintern is not the result of any American or Western action but merely a further manifestation of a Russian policy which has split the world and which may change tactics but does not change its goal . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the war ? by the breach of every wartime agreement immediately after it was made , by the unilateral Russian actions in . Eastern Europe , the Middle East and Ghina , by the aggression against Greece which produced the Truman Doctrine , and by the attempt to throw Western Europe into chaos and the arms of communism which led to the yarshall Plan . And though the final goal of that policy will inevitably deriend upon the opportunities offered for ifs realization , there can be little doubt that the Russian-revolution has entered Upon its Napole , it phase , and is now organizing not so much world revolution as countries and government to make them docile auxiliaries of the Russian imperialists . In that campaign Russia has the same advantage that Hitler had ? namely , the initial efficacy of a totalitarian machine which crushes all opposition , and the dedication to peace on the part of the democracies . As long as Russian armies do not step across the new frontiers there is no danger of war and Russia can proceed unmolested . But that does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and watch Russian progress in paralyzing fascination . On the contrary , the latest Russian move can only give new impetus to the organization of the democratic world in self-defense . And the first step of that defense must be the rehabilitation of Western Europe . The new Comintern has again demonstrated the need and urgency of both the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan . And the United States , as the main target of the Russian campaign , can neglect either only at its peril .                     