@@707785

txt The Prensa , great Buenos Aires democratic daily , which ranks among the first half-dozen organs of public opinion in the world was suspended for five days today . It was perhaps the most fearless of all Argentine newspapers in opposition to the policies of the Argentine military governments that succeeded one another since the revolution of June 4 , 1943 . The ostensible reason for this measure is that the Prensa published an editorial criticizing the Argentine public health authorities , charging they had introduced such stringent economies in Buenos Aires hospitals that patients were underfed and laboratory services were dangerously curtailed . The newspaper will not be allowed to reappear after the expiration of the five days unless it publishes the full text of a two-column denial of its charges , issued by the public health authorities . The suppression of newspapers that fall under the Government 's displeasure is usually done without any ceremony by the police on instructions from the Ministry of the Interior . In the present case the Government revealed that it attached special importance to the measure against the Prensa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by President Edelmire Farrell and countersigned by the Interior Minister , General Luis Cesar Perlinger . At the same time the Government indicated that there was more than met the eye in the suspension by instructing all censors not to allow a single word about it to be sent abroad . This prohibition was lifted only after noon today , but foreign correspondents were allowed to cable only the bare facts . There is little doubt that the Prensa was punished not for what it said yesterday about the public health authorities , but for its many editorials published in the last ten months criticizing all antidemocratic and anti-constitutional acts of the Argentine military Governments . The Prensa 's editorials were written with such ability that though their meaning was plain to everyone the Government never dared before today to take punitive steps . The Government was particularly incensed by the Prensa 's opposition to a decree published Dec. 31 , 1943 , making religious instruction obligatory in all schools . This is a subject on which.the Government feels so strongly that it has taken severe measures to stamp out all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to breathe even a. single word to indicate they did not approve . Neverthless , the matter was sufficiently controversial to have caused the resignation on April 17 of the Minister of Justice and Public Instruction , Dr. J. Honorio Silgueira , who wished to repeal the decree on religious instruction . Editorial Angered Officials Last Sunday the Prensa incurred the Government 's wrath by publishing an editorial on the forbidden theme of religious instruction . It did so , however , in very cautious terms so the authorities would have no pretext for punitive measures . It limited itself to protesting against a statement made by the Federal Commissioner of National Education to the effect that all " true Argentines " favored religious instruction in the schools . The Prensa replied that the Argentine Constitution recognized no distinction of " true Argentines " and that all citizens were " true Argentines " in the eyes of the Constitution . Though the Prensa did not enter into a discussion of compulsory religious instruction its remarks were considered of extraordinary temerity under present conditions . The editorial gave deep offense in government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately because it had never overlooked an opportunity to express its disapproval of the Argentine military governments . The appointment yesterday of the Argentine Navy Minister , Rear Admiral Alberto Teisaire , to take over temporarily the duties of Minister of Justice and Public Instruction has done nothing to solve the Cabinet crisis . Three Ministries are still headed by acting ministers and two of them , Foreign and War , have been in this condition for almost two and a half months . The delay in filling the vacant posts is attributed to the fact that the fight for supremacy within the Cabinet between the ultranationalist forces headed by the Interior Minister and the pro-United Nations forces headed by the War , Minister , Col. Juan Perlin , has not resulted in a victory for either side .                     