@@707508

txt Despite offensive campaign amid Finland 's maze of lakes and forests . Hence Finland 's best course is build up its Army and conserve its resources in the hope at some later date of driving a better bargain than unconditional surrender . Further consideration which presumably plays an important part in determining Finnish policy is that the country is dependent upon Germany for food . Negotiations for a new trade agreement are said to be about to begin and the Finns no doubt assume that they would n't stand much chance of getting anything if the German Government thought they were preparing to contract out of the war . Leftists Displeased As far as Finnish Leftists are concerned , however , signs of increasing distaste for continued cooperation with Germany are multiplying . They are voiced , for instance , in the trenchant criticism of the recent arrests and deportations to ' Germany of University of Oslo students . They are continually warning compatriots in the press and on the platform of the folly of thinking that there will soon be a rift in the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The latest anti-German.development is a warning by the Finnish Seamen 's Union against serving in German merchant vessels . In many cases , the union asserted , the men 's wages are not paid . The Finnish official radio was quoted by the Associated Press today as saying that Finland " wants peace and is willing to make peace , " but insists that Russia 's terms be made known first . A Berlin broadcast , however , said that Vaino A. Tanner , Finnish Minister of Finance , had told a Swedish- newspaper correspondent that the possibility of a separate peace with Russia has been " completely ruled out " because of unconditional surrender demands . Situation in Hungary A similar crystallization of public opinion as is seen in Finland has been noticed in other satellite states , where , despite rumors from Ankara , Soviet victories are regarded as having anyhow temporarily strengthened the hands of those who want to co-operate more fully with the Germans , or at any rate refrain from contracting out of the war . Thus in Hungary not only have Premier Nicholas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a dramatic handshake in Parliament , but two Leftist leaders . Karoly Peyer and Mrs. Anne Kethly , appear to have been temporarily deprived of parliamentary immunity and have been forced to moderate their activities in opposition to Government policy , There is still no sign , however , of more Hungarian troops going to Russia , nor of those who are already there being actually sent into the firing line . The Government evidently wants to keep them , like tHe Finns , for the duty of guarding their own frontiers . The Budapest Radio said yesterday , according to the Associated Press , that Alexander Garbai , whom it identified as the President of the short-lived Hungarian Soviet Republic of 1919 , had been arrested in Paris and charged with negotiating with Soviet Russia on behalf of Hungary . Rumania and Bulgaria The Rumanian Government 's attitude also appears to be increasingly resolute , and it shows no sign yet of giving way to the demands of Opposition leaders . Significantly , however , Government emphasis here , too , is now more on the defense of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , where the despised Rumanian Army has even in a bad cause earned the respect of its adversaries . At the moment , the weakest link in the satellite chain seems to be Bulgaria where , however , pro-Axis elements are stated to have successfully surmounted a serious governmental crisis last week . Incidentally , American bombers carried out another heavy raid on Sofia today . Some Balkan observers believe the fact that Turkey clearly intends to keep out of the war , for the present anyhow , is largely responsible for keeping Bulgaria in the Axis camp . So far Prince Cyril , one of Bulgaria 's three regents . ? and Premier Bogdan Phil-off , are thus still even able to persuade an increasingly hostile public opinion that the best policy is to wait and-see . A Budapest dispatch to the Turkish newspaper Aksham was quoted by the Associated Press as saying that within the coming week it was expected that a " national concentration cabinet " or a one-man regency or both would be installed in Sofia . This was taken to mean a Cabinet including pro-Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less general stiffening among the satellites is re-. garded as a normal development by informed observers here . They point out that the Governments of all four satellite states are too closely identified with the policy of co-operation with Germany to be able to make a volte-face . All , however , have reached a state when they are anxious to try to conserve their country 's armed strength in the hope that the United Nations , and the U. S. S. R. in particular , will be too weak to press their attack right home . And they are subject to the increasing pressure of those who realize where their country 's true interests lie . Majority opinion in all the satellites has already given up any expectation of a German victory , but it is still hoping for a draw . The moment it realizes that stark defeat is inevitable the crack is expected to develop with great rapidity . Meeting With Beneg LONDON , Jan. 10 ( 4,13 ) ? Polish Premier Stanislaw Mikolajczyk arranged yesterday to confer within the next day or two with President Eduard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view toward Poland 's postwar boundaries is expected to be the topic . Poles here were unwilling to express hope that a solution is near . " Our position is that Mr. BeneA has brought a message from Moscow , " a spokesman said . " We want to see what it is . " Mr. BeneS returned to London recently from Moscow , where a Russian - Czechoslovak postwar mutual assistance pact was signed . A Polish information bureau official , however , flatly denied the statement of a London newspaper , the Sunday Observer , that a Soviet compromise offer already had been submitted to the Polish Government by Russia .                     