@@706899

txt Rationing of canned goods to American consumers as a war conservation measure was authoritatively indicated here tonight . The prospect was officially and guardedly recognized only by a statement by the Office of War Information and the Department of Agriculture that the heads of these agencies would go on the air ' at 8 o'clock tomorrow night to make a nation-wide broadcast over the four major networks containing " an important announcement on the food situation * directly affecting every family in America . ' Hours before the official statement was issued , however , word had been passed around the OWI press room that the announcement , which the statement also described as of " unusual importance , " would cover a plan for canned goods rationing . Issuance of News Delayed For several hours after this news got about issuance of the statement was delayed on the explanation of OWI press attachds that there were differences of opinion among those responsible for it whether it should state its nature in specific terms . At one point in the late afternoon the report given to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to mention the subject , of which every one present had been pretty well informed hours before . However , at the last moment it was officially announced that this request would not be made and that the reporters were free to write the facts as they had learned them several hours before . When the reported rationing plan would go into effect could not be learned with full authority , but the best information indicated that it would be some time within a month . " Of Unusual Importance " The text of the OWI-Agriculannouncement was as follows : " Claude R. Wickard , United States Food Administrator , and Elmer Davis , director of the Office of War Information , will go on the air over four networks from 8 to 8:30 P. M. Sunday evening to make an important announcement on the food situation . " The announcements will be of unusual importance , directly affecting every family in America . " The announcements will be made over the Columbia , National , Mutual and Blue coast-to-coast networks . " There were other developments affecting food today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales of salmon had been established for the Columbia River district , replacing individual packers ' March ( 1942 ) ceilings . The agency said the three main purposes of this action , following an order yesterday further reducing civilian allocations of the 1942-1943 pack of sardines and mackerel to give more supplies to the armed services , were as follows : 1 . To level off the irregular ceiling prices which existed among various canners along the Columbia River . 2 . To set fair and equitable prices , based on 1942 costs , on half ' Pound flat cans of five types of ' salmon canned in Alaska , which could not be marketed without loss under the prices originally set in Maximum Price Regulation 265. 3 . To provide canner ceilings on sales to civilians and to governmen ? buyers for salmon of the Columbia River district , which was excluded from coverage under the first salmon regulation . The Department of Agriculture announced the resignation of Donald E. Montgomery as its consumers ' counsel , and Mr. Montgomery issued a statement indicating his dissatisfaction with his separation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Hendrickson , director of the Food Distribution Administration , in announcing the separation , said the resignation was accepted " with regret " and voiced hope that Mr. Montgomery would be able " to give us your help . on a consultant basis from time to time and your suggestions whenever you have them . " He said Mr. Montgomery had made " a substantial contribution to American consumers . " In his statement the retiring counsel commented that " the termination of the consumers ' counsel is a clear signal to consumers that they had better begin to look after their food needs themselves . " " Few consumers , least of all those with low incomes , have been able to send paid spokesmen to Washington to look after their interests , " he declared . " That was why consumers ' counsels were set up in the first place . And that is why consumers ' counsels have been liquidated one by one . " Second Ration Book Is Ready% War Ration Book No. 2 is being printed at several plants and it is expected that several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks . This book , known as a " universal " type , is so arranged as to permit the rationing of two or three , items at the same time . It differs from the coupon system in that it uses " points " varying in number for different commodities or types of products .                     