@@706672

txt The contest for the Democratic nomination for Governor took a new turn last night at the conference of party leaders called by James A. Farley , State Chairman , in the Hotel Biltmore , when Governor Lehman read a letter from President Roosevelt , urging the supporters of the rival candidates , Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr . and Senator James M. Mead to settle their differences for the good of , the party . As described by a conferee it was a harmony letter . The President 's letter , in suggesting a course of action to settle party differences and increase the chance of success in the November election , paved the way for the suggestion of a compromise candidate , which was made later by supporters of Senator Mead . The Governor declined to make public the contents of the letter , saying that it was a personal letter from the President to him . Compromise Is Proposed The compromise candidates suggested by supporters of Senator Mead were William O'Dwyer , former Brooklyn District Attorney , former Democratic nominee for Mayor and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals , who also is a resident of Brooklyn . Judge Conway ran for Attorney General in 1928 on the same ticket with President Roosevelt as the candidate for Governor . In that close election , Mr. Roosevelt was elected and Judge Conway defeated . Representative Michael J. Kennedy , leader of Tammany , was reported to have gone so far as to suggest that the conference agree on any man from Brooklyn whom Frank V. Kelly , Brooklyn , might suggest . An informal vote was taken on the suggestion of a compromise candidate after the reading of the President 's letter . All the supporters of Mr. Bennett continued to stand firmly for his nomination , Mr. Kelly remarking : " I have only one candidate . " Excluding two women , who left after the dinner which preceded the conference , Vincent Dailey , assistant to the State chairman , and two other officers of the State committee , fourteen of those at the conference voted for the nomination of Mr. Bennett , with seven Mead supporters apparently willing to accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference , Mr. Farley disclosed , was an agreement to postpone the nomination of the candidate for Governor , originally scheduled for today , until tomorrow forenoon . The State chairman said that this was done at Mr. Kelly 's request , who held that to attempt to nominate today or tonight , wish the Bennett delegates having a majority , would be " railroading it through " and that the postponement would tend to bring about party harmony and increase the chance of the election of the State ticket in November . As now planned , the convention will convene this morning at 11 o'clock in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel St. George in Brooklyn , listen to the " keynote " speech by Governor Lehman , temporary chairman , and , after passing the routine motions and appeinting the various committees required by the election law , will adjourn after the election of David F. Lee 3f Norwich as permanent chairman until 10 o'cloclt tomorrow morning . The platform will be adopted and the candidate for Governor will be nominated at tomorrow 's early session , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session tomorrow . The Mead and Bennett conferees were deadlocked from the start in the discussion that followed a dinner in the Venetian room of the Hotel Biltmore , at which twenty-five men and two women were present . Much of the discussion concerned the availability of the two candidates . Supporters of Senator Mead contended that Mr. Bennett , if nominated , could not be elected . They pointed out that the Senator would have the endorsement of the American Labor party , which Mr. Bennett , they said , could not get , and asserted that the Labor party endorsement was necessary to the election of the Democratic nominee for Governor . Mr. Farley and other supporters of Mr. Bennett were reported to have disputed this and declared that the Attorney General , with his strength upState , would be much stronger than the Senator and would be elected . Mr. Farley declared after the conference that postponement of the nomination did not indicate any weakening on the part of the Bennett delegates and that he regarded Mr. Bennett as certain of the nomination . Supporters of both Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Farley should be the spokesman on what had happened in the conference . Interviewed after the conference , Mr. Farly said : " We had a rather interesting discussion in which everybody participated and expressed his view . It ended by the Mead forces saying that they were going to the floor of the convention with their candidate . The Bennett supporters , of course , will follow the same course of action . " The convention will open at 11 o'clock this morning and we will go up to the election of Dave Lee as permanent chairman , and adjourn to 10 o'clock Thursday morning . Then we will go through with the nomination for Governor . Then we will recess and confer and then name the balance of the ticket . " It was decided that as much time be given to the nominating speeches as the orator might desire , but that seconding speeches should be limited to five minutes . " Explains Postponement Questioned as to the reason for the postponement of the nomination for Governor , Mr. Farley said : " Frank Kelly thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look like ' railroading ' it to use our majority to nominate Bennett at the outset . We want this to be a real Democratic convention . " Mr. Farley declined to give any detail regarding the President 's letter except to say that it suggested various courses of action to bring ' about party harmony . He said in reply to questions that he believed the names of both Senator Mead and Attorney General Bennett were mentioned in the President 's letter . The President has been for the nomination of the Senator and against the nomination of Mr. Bennett . The President , he added , did not suggest the name of any compromise candidate . Mr. Farley declared that neither the President 's letter nor the suggestion of a possible compromise candidate had weakend Mr. Bennett 's support . " The President 's letter did not change the course of those supporting Bennett , " he said . " We decided to go through with Bennett . " . Asked how Mr. Kelly felt about the letter , Mr. Farley replied : " I ca n't speak for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined to nominate Mr. Bennett as he ever was . All I can say for myself is that the situation is well under control . " The conference at the Biltmore was held in its Venetian room on the first floor . A long table , set with dinner service for thirty , was decorated with gladioluses . Among those attending in addition to Mr. Farley and his aide , Vincent Dailey , were Governor Lehman , Senator Robert F. Wagner , Frank V. Kelly of Brooklyn , Edward J. Flynn , national chairman and Bronx leader , Representative Michael J. Kennedy , leader of Tammany , James A. Roe of Queens and Jeremiah Sullivan of Richmond . Also John S. Thorp of Nassau , Edward J. Murray of Westchester , Daniel O'Connell , of Albany , Cornelius A. Casey of Rensselaer , Dr. James E. Smith of Schenectady , Francis L. and William S. Kelley of Onondaga , Roy E. Bush of Monroe , George B. Doyle and Paul E. Fitzpatrick of Erie , James J. Butler of Jefferson , David F. Lee of Chenango , William Larkin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David F. of Broome , Mrs. William H. Good , member of the national committee ; Miss Alice Disbrow , representing Mrs. Caroline O'Day , Representative-at-Large ; Albert L. Ward , secretary of the State committee , and Thomas P. Durell , its treasurer . " Our plans for the nomination of Senator Mead in ' the convention are now complete , " Terence J. , Mead committee chairman , said in his announcement . " Senator Robert F. Wagner , as heretofore announced , will place Senator Mead in nomination . A distinguished array of Democratic leaders of the State will second the nomination . Governor Lehman heads the list of seconding spetkers and Judge John E. Mack of Poughkeepsie will also second the nomination . " Others are Oscar R. Ewing of Westchester , Representative William T. Byrne of Albany , who will also be floor leader ; Assemblyman Irwin Davidson of Manhattan , Mayor Joseph J. Kelly of Buffalo , former Supreme Court Justice Jeremiah T. Mahoney of Manhattan and Thomas H. Dowd , 84-yearold leader from Cattaraugus County . " Recent reports from the Farley-Bennett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid embarrassment to the President . If Mr. Farley really wants to prevent any embarrassment to the President it seems logical to me that he should have Mr. Bennett withdraw . . " Senator Mead in everything he has done in Washington has supported the President . He is , as we have so often said before , the man best qualified of the two candidates to carry out as Governor State policies which will conform with the President 's program of carrying out his war program to a successful conclusion . " ? Mr. added that he had been informed that the Farley forces had been " harassing " by telephone delegates who had announced their support of Senator Mead and had raised the issue of " loyalty to Farley . " " In this situation and emergency , loyalty to the President is far more important , " Mr. quoted one such delegate as saying . " The great , big , outstanding factor in this situation is support of the President and it is not a question of loyalty to any individual , lovable and fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He would give no figures to sustain his claim of a Mead majority , except to say that the Senator had gained delegates in Westchester , Suffolk and other counties . " There is a shift from time to time , " he added . " Pressure has been exerted in the cause of the other candidate , Mr. Bennett , we are advised . " This brought a laugh and Mr. in reply to a question said he would not deny that pressure had been used by some persons on his side of the controversy . He added that the Mead delegates would not present any candidate for permanent chairman of the convention , but would accept former Supreme Court Justice David F. Lee of Norwich , who will be put forward by the Bennett forces . " Judge Lee is a man who will be eminently fair in ' the conduct of the convention , " he said . 