@@711802

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 18 ? Howard Bruce , Deputy Economic Co- ; operation Administrator , whose charges of excessive shipments of aluminum and lead scrap to the United States from Marshall Plan countries are still in controversy , has submitted his resignation to President Truman , effective Jan 31 . In a brief note to the President early in December before calling public attention to the substantial import trade in non-ferrous metals , Mr. Bruce reminded Mr. Truman of the one reservation with which he accepted appointment . The letter to the President read : " My dear Mr. President : " You will probably remember that at the time you so kindly offered me the appointment as Deputy Administrator of the Economic Cooperation Administration , I accepted with one reservation and that was that I should be entirely free to retire from this position at any time after Jan. 1 , 1949 . " As this date is now . drawing near , I wish to tender you my resignation to take effect on Jan. 31 , 1949 , or at an earlier date if Howard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the convenience of the administrator . " Respectfully yours , " Howard Bruce . " Dated Nov. 30 , the letter was not immediately dispatched to the White House by Mr. Bruce because // of a request by Paul G. Hoffman , ECA chief , that he reconsider the matter . It was sent to the President several days later , however , and friends of the wartime director of Army materiel report he has received no reply . Meanwhile , Mr. Hoffman is still trying to prevail on his 70-year-old Deputy Administrator , directly and through associates to remain at his post at least until ECA has completed its presentation to Congress for the second year 's appropriation for the European Recovery Program . As matters stood tonight , it appeared that nothing short of a direct appeal from the President could interfere with Mr. Bruce 's plan to resume his retirement on his farm in near-by Maryland . At the ECA it was explained that the Deputy Administrator 's decision to quit would have no effect on ' thepending investigation of his charges of excessive shipments of aluminum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Officials most familiar with that traffic expressed confidence today that Mr. Bruce would be entirely vindicated by the investigation . Some Allocations Cut The ECA has already cut allocations of lead and aluminum to Marshall Plan countries by about 35,400 tons under amounts requested and officials indicated today that the investigation when completed probably would warrant further cuts . In his original statement on the subject on Dec. 14 Mr. Bruce cautioned Great Britain , Belgium and Holland against further capitalizing on the shortage of nonferrous metals here . In cables to W. Averell Harriman , special representative of ECA in Europe , and to heads of missions in the three countries , Mr. Bruce asked that the respective governments take steps immediately to bring their lead and aluminum exports under control to avoid such drastic action as withdrawing allocations of the metals already made here . Officials familiar with the progress of the investigation declined to discuss the original charges for the reason that at this time " fur , ther discussion would only muddy the waters . " Thus the talk among ECA officials now is away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total importation . Shortage Here Is Cited Irrespective of the uses to which virginal and so-called secondary aluminum may be put , for instance , officials believe that the volume of scrap exports to this country indicates that Marshall Plan countries have paid insufficient attention to the possibilities of utilizing that scrap in Europe . It is the over-all conclusion of some ECA officials that in taking virginal aluminum from the United States in the face of the recognized shortage here while exporting unprecedented quantities of scrap , Western European countries took the line of least resistance rather than that indicated by the Marshall Plan . Stated another way , ' ECA officials conclude from the import figures that at least some of the Marshall Plan countries paid insufficient attention to the self-help requirement of the European Recovery Program , but they suggested that if the positions had been reversed they probably would have done the same thing . How long it will take ECA to complete its full investigation officials are reluctant to guess . But in order that there be some public explanation it has been decided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is attempting to recruit a group of experts to make a survey in Europe to determine whether the participating countries have not overlooked some possibilities of substituting secondary aluminum for the primary American product .                     