@@712159

txt The hottest day so far this year was registered when the mercury touched 94 degrees at 5:50 P. M. yesterday . While it was .2 degrees short of the record for the date , set in 1943 , the searing heat under cloudless skies set another mark when it averaged 85 , an all-time high for June 26 and 2 degrees above the previous record mean , set in 1904 . The year 's previous high was 92.4 recorded last Tuesday . The heat touched off a mass exodus from the city and sent 3,500,000 persons to beaches in the metropolitan area . It also caused the worst traffic jam in the city 's history , with parts of the Belt Parkway in Queens tied up for hours and cars locked bumper-tobumper on Rockaway Turnpike for a distance of five miles . Hundreds of persons abandoned their automobiles to seek water when motors overheated . Others tried to turn back and stalled in sanded center malls and forty policemen struggled for hours to un -- tangle the mess . A police helicopter finally was brought into service and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other roadways to ease the impasse . Another Day of It Coming As the eighth day of temperatures above 80 passed , the Weather Bureau forecast a continuance of the " cheerless " outlook with more strong , steady sun rays and readings in the 90 's today . No rain was in sight to break the drought that has held New York in its grip for thirty-two days . The torrid heat was general throughout the East and South andtemperature records fell in scores of cities . Thunder showers outside this city brought little relief to withering crops and local produce was further endangered by the worst seasonal dry spell in forty : . one years . Four persons drowned in the New York-New Jersey swimming area , and in the city the first death . this year from heat exhaustion was recorded . The choppy surf kept lifeguards busy and more than 50D rescues were reported . Careless beach-goers suffered extreme sunburn poisoning and twelve persons . were hospitalized in New York and seven in New Jersey , according to wire service accounts . Bus and railroad lines added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that started early and stayed late as virtually every shore resort reported the highest attendance so far this year . Concessionaires , who figure they are " working for the landlord " until July 4 , asserted that the early ' heat waves had already enabled them to pay their season 's rent and predicted their most profitable season in years . Wind Lowers Humidity The temperature averaged 14 degrees above normal , with a strong northwest wind described as contributing to the broiling weather , but bringing a minor blessing in lowering the humidity that had made Saturday a stifling 188 degrees , with the moisture rang . ling from 62 to 93 per cent . The hourly temperatures follow : When yesterday 's mark was set ; the humidity was a " comfortable " , 39 per cent and the breeze front land gave a little relief in the city : Those at the beaches had only a calm ' and all but a few took steadily to the water to escape the sharp rays of the sun . The low for the day was 75.8 at 5:20 A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back in 1884 . The temperature was consistent= ly higher than on Saturday and was 82 at 9 A. M. , 8 points above the previous day . In addition , the // CITY IS BLISTERED BY 94-DEGREE HEAT // humidity was 82 per cent and everyone who could started out of the city . The core of the city 's worst traffic snarl was near New York International Airport at Idlewild , Queens , as motorists headed for Far Rockaway , Cedarhurst and Atlantic Beach . They inched along with hoods open to combat overheating of engines on the Belt Parkway , which serves also as Southern State Parkway at that point near the Queens-Nassau border . Rockaway Turnpike , the most direct cut-off to those destinations , dwindles from four lanes to a single lane at the county cross line that is marked by Hook Creek bridge . By 10 A. M. cars had started to back up . A new roadway is being built there , but is not slated to be ready until next year . Vehicles broke down and had to be pulled to the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At noon the police estimated that 5,000 cars were locked fast back of the main trouble intersection of Springfield Boulevard and the parkway at Laurelton , Queens , one of the main points of confluence for traffic from Brooklyn , western Queens and Manhattan . It was almost 4 P. M. , the police said , before the congestion eased and cars could roll again " at about five miles an hour . " Small Fry Sell Water The only ones who rejoiced at ' the plight of the stranded motorists were neighborhood small fry , who came up with buckets of water that they were selling to the highest bidder , with the best sale of the day reported to be $2 . At Valley Stream the State Police reported travel on the Southern State Parkway as " brutal " and said the electronic counter there phowed an average of 2,000 cars an . hour headed for eastern points . Grand Central Parkway and the Sunrise Highway , other main roads ' to Long Island , also were traveled heavily , but no serious tie-ups were reported . As general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fred Kuhn , 57 years old , of 149 West Seventy-eighth Street , had died there of exhaustion , the police said . Subway trains , normally deserted on Sunday mornings , took on a festive air as groups with portable radios and lunchboxes fillet them to capacity and , as it became evident that this was no ordinary beach crowd transit officials hurriedly ordered extra cars added to the trains . At Coney Island , trains from five lines converged at the main terminal on a sixty-second headway and the day barely had started when the only drowning was reported . The victim was Robert Young , 20 , of 204 East Thirtieth Street . Coney Island had 1,250,000 visitors , the Rockaways reported a like number and 75,000 persons went to Riis Park at the tip of the Rockaway peninsula . All parking lots were filled by 11 A. M. and drivers stopped in prohibited areas and grumbled at nightfall when they found summons tags on the cars . Jones Beach had a record crowd of 128,000 for the season . and Long Beach attracted that many , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beach resorts all reported capacity throngs . Orchard Beach , in the Bronx , had an all-time high of 90,000 , according to the Park Department , and extra policemen were sent to subway stations to help bus dispatchers handle the milling groups . Westchester had its influx of city visitors also and at many places in the Bronx hundreds waited for buses to picnic and amusement places in the country . Asbury Park , N. J. , was packed with 200,000 persons , the largest crowd since Easter Sunday . Atlantic City drew 115,000 visitors seeking relief from the inland heat but they found it only in the chilly ocean where the temperature was 63 . One drowning was reported there . The beet crop in Jersey , that so far had stood up well in the worst spring drought in that state 's history , was beginning to wilt , agri- ' cultural agents said , and the inroads of the dry spell were continuing throughout the Northeastern States , although the rains there in the last twenty-four hours had eased the threat of crop failures . 