@@710134

txt The National Labor Relations Board told Congress today that the Wagner act , which the board administers , had " served the public well by reducing strife " resulting from disputes over the organization and recognition of unions . The Labor Department 's Bureau of ? Labor Statistics reported in December that 107,475,000 man days were lost in strikes during the first eleven months of 1946 , which indicated a loss for the entire year of nearly 110 , - 000,000 man days , by far the greatest on record . The pre-war record was 28,424,000 man days lost in 1937 . The NLRB was put into operation in August , 1935 . On the strength of its elevenyear record , the NLRB in an annual report asked for additional funds to bring its work up to date . The claim of work well done , and the request for money were made in the face of threats in Congress to modify the Wagner Act , and curtail drastically the activities of its administering agency . Says 1946 Strife Was Natural The report did not shy away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year . But it said that these work stoppages in the first year after an all-out war effort , when grievances had been stifled , were to be expected . Moreover , according to the board , strikes in 1946 were by and large concerned with wages , over which NLRB has no control . Unrest , resulting from war conditions , was blamed in large part for an unprecedented back-log of disputes now before the board . It was for the purpose of ridding itself of an accumulation of work on hand , that the board asked for " appropriate relief . " " It was hardly surprising that the close of the war should mean the release of tensions distilled during four years of exhortation , unstinting effort , self-discipline , and uncertainty , " said the report . " It was to be expected that both labor and management once relieved from wartime restrictions would turn to the adjustment of accumulated grievances , real and fancied . Restraint Urged on Unions " Concurrent with the recession of Government controls on the price-wage reconversion front , the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down of war plants , the establishment of new firms , conversion to the production of peacetime products , a rise in the ' cost of living and intensified organization drives by labor organizations . " The NLRB had a backlog of 4,605 cases last July 1 , about 5,000 on Jan. 1 and expects close to 10,000 by the end of the current fiscal year , June 30 . Unless the agency is enabled to enlarge its facilities , cases probably will take twice as long to process as normally . Pending the grant of more funds by Congress the NLRB expressed the hope that labor organizations would exercise " restraint " and not return to the self-help of strikes " which the act was designed to discourage . " The report , presented by Paul M. Herzog , board chairman , noted that the Wagner Act 's ? main purpose was to provide peaceful settlement of disputes over the organization and recognition of unions . " The statute has served the public by decreasing such strife , " the report added . " The fundamental rights which Congress said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being bought at the price of economic struggle . " The board declared that the only kind of strikes which it was created to discourage , those involving union recognition and the commission of unfair labor practices , had declined sharply . In 1945 , it said , union organizational strikes accounted for only 29 per cent of strike idleness , while in 1937 the percentage of such strikes was 76 . Of the unprecedented 12,260 new cases filed with the board during the year ending last June 30 , a total of 8,445 ( 69 per cent ) involved representation questions , and 3,815 ( 31 per cent ) carried charges of unfair labor practices . The report said the board was making every effort to do its work faster and more efficiently , and to adjust its procedures to changing conditions while " preserving the basic structure and practices which have been tested by experience and approved by the courts . " Harvey W. Brown , the president of the International Association of Machinists warned members of his organization today to beware of efforts of " reactionaries , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teeth " out of the Wagner Act . This is what the all-out attack on organized labor means , he said . In an article for the current issue of Labor and Nation , Mr. Brown , the machinists ' chieftain , said that labor , with all its weaknesses , still had " a long way to go to match the shortcomings of management . "                     