@@706086

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 6 ? Strikes in defense industries were at their lowest ebb in the history of the defense program this week as the House of Representatives passed the most drastic anti-strike legislation since the Roosevelt Administration has been in power . The reasons for the House action were not hard to discover . There has been increasing resentment on Capitol Hill as the stoppages of work in vital industries have been repeated again and again in a time of national emergency . Congressional impatience over the administration 's failure to stop the walkouts was expressed when the House passed the Smith antistrike bill despite the opposition of the American Federation of Labor and the Committee of Industrial Organizations , as well as administration leaders . On the day the House acted , Wednesday , the War Department records of strikes in factories holding Army orders showed only eight walkouts involving 1,800 men , and the Labor Division of the Office of Production Management said that only one of those , involving ninety members of the C. I. O 's . United Autumobile Workers at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious moment to defense . " Averted Strikes The most serious threatened strikes of the week involved 1,200 , - 000 railroad workers and 11,000 workers at the Bell Aircraft Corporation plants at Buffalo and Niagara , which are working on $155 , - 000,000 worth of United States and British orders for the deadly Airecobra and other combat planes . A compromise wage increase averted the rail strike on Monday , and the threatened Bell Aircraft walkout was called off late Friday when the company and the U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . agreed to submit union demands for a 20-cent hourly wage increase and a union shop to binding arbitration . Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins selected Thomas Murray , New York engineer , as the impartial arbiter . A Bureau of Labor Statistics compilation of strikes , both defense and non-defense , in the first seventeen months of the defense program shows 5,307 walkouts involving 2,527,942 men and causing the loss of 25,748,627 man days of labor . Of these , the OPM Labor Division says that 143 strikes involving 259,000 workers with a toss of 2,556,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense . " There were in this period an additional 129 strikes involving 350,700 workers with a Loss of 3,119,800 man days in plants having defense contracts , but the OPM Labor Division maintains that these strikes " did not impede the defense program . " Sponsored Settlements The division says that in this same period governmental agencies , including the National Defense Mediation Board , the United States Conciliation Service , and the Mediation Service of the OPM , had adjusted 481 disputes involving 1,026,500 employes with no stoppage of defense production . With the captive coal mine stoppage entrusted to binding arbitration for a decision on the union shop issue , it appeared to official Washington this week that the peak of defense work stoppages had been passed , at least so far as could be seen at present . The Mediation Board had before Improved Situation Is Reported as Congress Works on Legislation Harris &; Ewing Rep. Howard W. Smith of Virginia , author of the anti-strike bill . it thirty-one disputes involving 356,113 men and none of them was on strike , a fact which William H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association of Manufacturers , indicated to him clearly that " voluntary continuing of production is becoming a habit . " There were a number of persons in the Administration who believed that the comparative calm on the labor front was not a temporary development , resulting from the pending drastic anti-labor legislation on Capitol Hill . Mr. Davis , the Mediation Board chairman , was one of these , and he contended that the pattern for successful settlement of labor disputes without compulsion and without work stoppages had been well established in American industrial relations . He expected it to continue regardless of the form of the labor legislation enacted by the Congress . Organized Labor Opposes From the A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0 . came well-organized campaigns of opposition to all the labor bills now before the Congress , but both groups expressed a willingness to join with industry and the government in an effort to seek a mutually satisfactory voluntary set of principles for guiding labor relations in the emergency . There were some within the Administration who said they believed that industry , specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board , might ask labor to such a parley in the near future . Secretary Perkins , asked for comment on the defense labor situation , said that she believed there was a growing realization of the vital importance of cooperation in defense work " so far as American workers are concerned . " Miss Perkins 's statement was as follows : " Since the defense program got under way , the time lost through employe-employer disputes in all defense and non-defense American industry put together ranged from .11 per cent in July , 1940 , and in January , 1941 , to 1.18 per cent in April , 1941 , of the time actually put into production by the cooperation of merican labor and American management . The man-days of idleness during all October strikes , the latest figures available , amounted to about 0.3 per cent of the time worked by the nation 's wage earners . " Any lost time at this period is regr - , V:able . I have repeatedly said during the past year , and I say again , that there should be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production is not quantitively great , but it is true that in some industries interruption has caused a delay in getting vital parts . " American workers have as great a stake as any one in all-out production so that our representative republic and democratic society may continue safe and unmolested . The working people of this country realize this and know that democracy is a pattern of order as well as an idea and that it is a human practice requiring self-discipline and considerable unselfishness from every one involved . Stake of Workers " Labor in the United States today has a responsibility which calls for cooperation with employers and with all responsible groups to avoid delays and interruptions in defense work . I believe there is a growing realization of the vital importance of meeting that responsibility sd far as American workers are concerned . " Differences of opinion will always arise with regard to wages , hours and working conditions and even the status of trade unions , but there is method and machinery to handle and adjust such industrial disputes . It should be promptly utilized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of arbitration if common sense and the capacity for agreement is not equal to an occasion . "                     