@@707518

txt qwq the boys their targets from those which who must cross the Channel in softened Germany to those which boats and land on the shore is stand directly in the path of the under way . invading forces . Two of the biggest air operations of the war took place . They were directed not at basic German industry such as steel or synthetic oil , nor even at key German industry such as roller hearings , but at airplane factories and at coastal defenses . Now well the preliminary task of " softening " Germany as a whole has been clone will be learned at some future date . Probably there will be more of it when weather conditions make such targets the only ones available . But it was obvious that the order has been reversed on the target priority lists in Britain . The invasion has been set . The day is coming nearer . Guns on the French coast and German fighter planes which must try to protect them are the first targets . More Urgent Tasks There will he fewer and fewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If a few factories still produce in the Ruhr , if some Government offices still function in Berlin , that may be and replace sand-bagged revetments before the final day . They stay on the ground when we sweep over France and bomb factories which are less important to them than their fighter reserve . They only come up when the blow ' is directed at their vitals deep inside Germany . Fighter Hatching Ground The target chosen for Jan ? 11 was the one the Germans had above all to defend . It was the hatching ground of the German fighter forces  --  the factories which turn out the finished Focke-Wulfs , the Junkers and the Messerschmitts . Earlier we would n't have gone after them and the Germans would n't have spent dangerously in their defense , because assembly plants can be replaced in a few months more easily than steel foundries and roller-bearing plants . But the Germans wo n't have time now to replace them for the time when they are needed most . What moves off the assembly line between now and the invasion day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triple thrust at Brunswick . Oschersleben , and Halberstadt served a dual purpose . struck at the hatching ground of German fighter defenses and it forced the existing German fighter force into desperate combat . As a battle . it was not a decisive victory for us , nor for the Germans . They took a heavy toll of our bombers . exactly the same toll of 60 which they exacted over Schweinfurt in October . They were able to oppose our increased attacking force with increased defending force . But it strained them to do it  --  perhaps dangerously . Their defensive success was limited . While they brought down 60 bombers as they did at Schweinfurt they spent 152 fighters to do it as against 104 at Schweinfurt . The 60 represented less than 9 per cent of the total of American bombers engaged whereas at Schweinfurt the 60 lost was over 20 per cent  --  how much over never has been disclosed . According to their own admission they were forced to put into action strategic reserves which they were holding back for the moment of greatest emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German fighter force to its utmost exertion , ' we did not win a decisive victory over it , but we did get through to our target with much lower proportional losses , and in the process we hurt , although we perhaps did not criple , the breeding ground of new German fighter planes . On Jan. 14. the target was the invasion roast itself . Much has been written about " rocket-gun " emplacements and other " secret " targets . We are not told what lily of the specific targets are . There may be some secret about the targets , although why it has to be hush-hush is a hit of a mys-. tery because the Germans know perfectly well what we hit . A plausible guess is that such sweeps are primarily full-scape invasion maneuvers dealing out in the process what preliminary damage can be done to German defenses . Few German planes rose to contest the coastal attack , which is one of the two main reasons why costly penetrations deep inside Germany must be made . On the Russian front , operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the mouth of the Dnieper to the sector just north of the Pripet Marshes continued to fall back in a fairly rapid but , for the most part , orderly retreat , except on a short sector just southeast of Vinnetsa . There the Gerinan retreat had reached the Bug River defense line . On that front , the Germans turned and counterattacked heavily in an apparent confirmatory indication that the Bug River is the next line where they plan to try to stabilize the southern front . Fifth Army Pushes On In Italy , the Fifth Army pushed doggedly through gnarled mountain passes towards Cassino . By the week 's end they were within sight of Cassino and the end of their week 's end , they were within sight of Cassino and the end of their worst troubles . For the valley opens out at Cassino , It will be easier and ' more open country after that town is taken . They will have pushed through the best German defense line before Rome . In Burma the British made a fresh start down the road to Akyab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time they had the benefit of experience , better troops , more equipment . and a young , active commander who believed in the operation . There was every expectation that the push would reach Akyab before the rains begin about three months from now . It got off to a good start . In the Pacific , it was a week of consolidating new positions . The Japanese counterattacked heavily at Cape Gloucester and pushed back our patrols to the neck of the Arawe Peninsula , But the big question was not whether the counterattacks might succeed , but where the next Allied blow would fall . 