@@705363

txt Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura presented his ' letters of credence as the Ambassador of Japan to President Roosevelt today in a cordial personal atmospherewith Secretary of State Cordell Hull making the formal presentation . All three then joined in a conversation on international afI fairs that lasted for twenty minutes . The act of the Secretary of State in making the presentation was unprecedented . It was a circumstance that pointed to the importance attached by the American Government to its relations with Japan and the whole Far East and to the personal friendship that has existed between the President and the Ambassador for a quarter of a century since Mr. Roosevelt was Assistant Secretary of the Navy and Admiral Nomura was naval attach ? here . Ordinarily the Secretary of State is not even present at the ceremony . Custom decrees that the presentation shall be made by the Chief of Protocol of the State Department . Today , however , protocol was brushed aside . Admiral Nomura was accompanied to the executive offices of the White House at noon by Stanley Woodward , Acting Chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hull , who had by then joined them , alone escorted the Ambassador into the President 's office . Ambassador is Pleased Admiral Nomura was greeted warmly by-the President and then the diplomatic conversation proceeded around his desk . The new Ambassador was represented as particularly gratified over his reception . It stood out in contrast to recent press reports of mounting tension in the Far East . Those reports have not been confirmed in official advices , according to the State Department , and they were not encouraged from what little President Roosevelt had to say in response to questions at his press conference this morning . Asked whether the warning given this week by United States consular officers in the Far East for Americans to leave reflected the " increased gravity " of the Far Eastern situation , the President replied that the warning was a repetition of one given last October , and that the correspondent should consuit the State Department before using such adjectives as " increased " to describe the conditions . No Confirmation of Tension The department , for its part , repeated what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no official confirmation of the reported mounting tension . Although Mr. Roosevelt was encouraged at his press conference to comment on the Far Eastern situation , he refused . As for Admiral Nomura , when he left the White House he pointed out that there were Japanese merchant as well as war ships in Japanese waters and said that he had no reports of movements to other areas . In the meantime Senator Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin suggested that the Senate call Secretary Hull Ito an executive session of the entire Senate for a confidential report on conditions in the Far East and the Middle East . " Are Adolf Hitler and his associates , Japan and Mussolini , " he asked , " attempting another war of nerves or is there a synchronized , coordinated movement in process , whereby when Hitler opens his Spring offensive in the Balkans , Japan will attempt some move against British interests , and perhaps our interests in the East ? " The meeting of the President and Ambassador Nomura today was on a background of statements each has made in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francisco said he did not believe there was any possibility of a conflict between the United States and Japan . He added that there was " no question whatsoever outstanding between the two countries that can not be settled in an amicable and satisfactory manner . " For his part , President Roosevelt at his press conference last Tuesday said he did not think there was any question of America 's getting into war in the Far East . Admiral Nomura saluted the President " as one of the oldest and closest " of the large number of friends he has in this country , and Mr. Roosevelt said it was an " especial pleasure to renew our former association . " TEXT OF ' REMARKS ' The text of the formal " remarks " of Admiral Nomura follows : Mr. President : His Majesty the Emperor of Japan , my august sovereign , has been graciously pleased to entrust me with the Mission of representing him as Ambassador to the United States of America . I have the honor , Mr. President , to present to you herewith my letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my predecessor , Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi . I wish to assure you that it is a source of real pleasure to me to be stationed in your great country , where I have a large number of friends , among whom I am happy to count you , Mr. President , as one of the oldest and closest . The recent developments in Japanese-American relations have unfortunately been such as to cause considerable concern on both sides of the ocean . It is needed neW , more than ever , to bring about a better understanding of each other 's position in order to secure the Interests and well-being of our two nations , thereby preserving the peace of the Pacific and maintaining the traditional friendship between us . Toward that end I am resolved to do all that I can ; and I hope , Mr. President , that in my endeavors I may merit your confidence and be accorded the high privilege of your cooperation . In conclusion I desire to express my most earnest hope for the prosperity of the people of the United States and for your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied as follows : Mr. Ambassador : I am glad to receive from you the letters of credence by which His Majesty the Emperor of Japan has accredited you as Ambassador to the United States of America and to welcome you to this country in that capacity . I accept also the letters of recall of your distinguished predecessor , Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi . There are , as you have stated , developments in the relations between the United States and Japan which cause concern . I welcome your assurance that , In the interests of the traditional friendship between our two countries and of the well-being of the American and of the Japanese peoples , ' you are resolved to do all you can to bring about a better understanding . I am confident of your devotion to this objective , and I feel that your long associations with the American people specially qualifies you for your mission . You may be sure that I and other officers of the government stand ready at all times to facilitate in every appropriate and practicable way your performing of your duties as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to renew our former association . I thank you for the good wishes which you have extended both to me and to the people of the United States . In reciprocating these good wishes I request that you convey to His Majesty the Emperor of Japan my hope for his continued health and well-being .                     