@@709146

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. ** a bipartisan vote of 254 to 126 , the House passed and sent to conference today its drastically changed version of the Senate 's " full employment " bill . The House measure , unaltered from the form in which it was reported from its Expenditures Committee , eliminated all reference to " full employment , " even changing the title to that end . Opponents of any " full employment " legislation asked by President Truman predicted that the measure would be strengthened in conference in a way critics would not like . The Senate draft was fairly close to what the President asked and the conferees must make compromises between the two drafts if any legislation is finally to be passed . The House vote indicated compromise . However , despite these warnings , the House rejected , 243 to 136 , a motion by Representative Hoffman , Republican , of Michigan , proposing to send the House draft back to committee . On the other hand , the House also rejected a motion to substitute the Administration-approved plan , doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote of 185 to 95 . Mr. Hoffman was one of the four members of the twenty-one-man House Expenditures Committee who urged House refusal to pass any legislation on the ground that conference action might strengthen it . Senator Murray , Democrat , of // Montana , who introduced the legislation in the Senate , has expressed hope that whatever the House passed could be strengthened in conference . The Senate draft , as originally offered by Mr. Murray and supported by Senator Wagner , Democrat , of New York , and other Senators , was moderated by that body in some respects , but still held fairly close to the type of bill President Truman has apparently envisaged . The House , which spent a long session yesterday in general debate on the measure , acted quickly today on proposed amendments . By a voice vote , in committee of the whole , it rejected a proposal of Representative Folger , Democrat , of North Carolina , to strike out any references to " free " in the policy declarations , asserting that the bill was planned to preserve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any enterprise system would necessarily be " free . " Also rejected was an amendment by Representative Dirksen , Republican , of Illinois , to authorize a " national economy survey . " Opponents said that it had a " worthy aim , " but would be unworkable and woudl cost millions . An amendment by Representative Judd , Republican of Minnesota , requiring Senate approval of appointees to the " Council of Economic Advisers " of the President , lost on a voice vote of 58-48 . The House draft provides for such a council to tell the President what he should say to Congress on the economic situation of the country before he makes any recommendations on whether Federal public works should take up any slack in private employment . Name of Bill Is Changed The measure passed by the House today is titled the " Employment-Production Act of 1945 . " It calls for governmental ' action to maintain " high levels of employment . " and makes provisions for an economic council to advise the President in reporting to Congress how he thinks the economic situation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Senate bill , however , to require the President to tell Congress why private enterprise may not have been able to give jobs to all wanting them from the Senate draft , which " assures " such jobs and pledges the Government , in effect , to provide them through public works if private enterprise can not . It was thought doubtful that conferees on the conflicting Senate-House measures would report an agreement for decision by both bodies before the expected holiday recess .                     