@@709946

txt 1 LONDON . Nov. 10 ? Underlying the recent increases in the British Government 's exhortations to greater industrial production and appeals to trade unions to put off their demands for a forty-hour week is the fear of a major economic crisis when the transition period under loan agreement with the United States ends next July . One year after the effective date of the agreement Britain is obligated to begin paying for imports in freely convertible sterling , Before that date she must reach an agreement with her major creditors on the progressive release of nearly ? 2,500,000,000 ( equivalent to nearly $10,000,000,000 ) of sterling balances from the present restrictions on their use . It is not easy for trade union leaders to see the connection between these obligations under the loan and the forty-hour week and ' other measures to improve the worker 's lot , for which they are impatient to begin a real fight . In a series of private meetings Cabinet members have been explaining how the loan agreements will cause a pinch on Britain during the next year or two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not want to air the arguments publicly for fear of their being regarded in the United States as the beginning of a campaign to get the loan terms revised . Trade union leaders are being told that the short transition period allowed by the loan agreement for changing from the wartime system of semi-blocked sterling to a system of freely convertible sterling is forcing Britain to skimp on everything to build up exports . It is not just that an export drive is essential over a long // pull to raise the British living standard . That is an old story here . The point the Government makes is that the export drive must reach a certain stage in a hurry if the loan obligations are to be met without actually reducing British imports and the living standard next year . The Government also is pointing out that the country has not time to let the normal process of an increase in consumer goods take place as a means of stimulating greater output from workers . This lis the toughest point of all to get across to the workers . Say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loan accord here feel that the United States made a big mistake in insisting on a transition period of only one year . They recognize that this was probably necessary to get the loan accord approved . But the long run effects on Britain may prove to b. unfortunate in their view . By forcing the pace , rushing an exhausted old economy into a turbulent Jtream of multilateralism , the United States is risking Britain 's being unable to resume her place as a great industrial nation and a great consumer of world trade goods . With a little more time the transition could have been made smoothly , they add . There is no sign yet that Britain can not pull it off . There is no evidence yet that she will seek a re- , la:cation of the loan terms , A. lotl depends on the results of the current effort to convince the unions of the realities of the situation . If the long-suffering British people , and the unions in particular , can not be made to wait yet a little longer for a post-war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , Britain has to release as much as one-third of the wartime accumulations of sterling of India and Egypt for immediate conversion into dollars next July , the Treasury will have to find about $1,250,000,000 . Negotiations during the coming months may scale this down somewhat but they also may fail to get even twothirds of the balances funded or otherwise insured against the demand for immediate conversion . Neither the Egyptians nor the Indians show any signs of letting Britain off easily . Unless the Treasury can solve this situation , Britain must be in a position to earn those dollars by exports . Within the time available those exports can be produced only at a cost of greater effort by the British workers and the continued withholding of goods from the home market .                     