@@707207

txt Big business interests in Great Britain have made a serious start this week with the job of organizing emiployers into a common front for the great task of postwar reconstruction . They are , in fact , making the most serious attempt yet to face the fact that the Government and the Trades Union Congress have so far been getting away to a flying start in blueprinting the iuture  --  at least , so far as the public here knowi about it . First main task of business organizations here is to try to remove internal barriers of organization such as overlapping interests , rivalries , and petty jealousies . that way may be cleared for presentation of a considered program by employers , incorporating business practically with an outlook sufficiently progressive not to be out of harmony with new national aspirations . Important Meetings While two chief organizations , the British Employers Confederation and the Federation of British IndustrieS met in secret sessions in London this week in separate meeting places , they did nevertheless meet on the same day so that an outstanding authority could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron t . It is now generally accepted here that the future of Britain and future British policy , as it affects the rest of the world , will be builtby the method so well tested in this war , namely , by negotiation and planning by Government , labor , and employers . That , in fact , is the general policy I propounded not only by Prime Minister Winston Churchill , as ! national leader , but also by the ! Conservative , Labor , and Liberal parties alike . In Tact , Britain is ; going to - pin its hopes for the future on an economic system hall- ; way between capitalism and Socialism . or , as Mr. Churchill has described it , " development side by side of private enterprise and state enterprise . " Procedure to Date But up till now , it is organized labor speaking for workers and the Government speaking mainly in behalf of consumers who have been filling speeces and columns of the press with their cases . The threat this situation offers to business interests is recognized by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidential address to the National Union of Manufacturers , declared that the postwar industrial ! situation will be " profoundly more embarrassing than it was after the last conflict . " Mr. Hannon criticized a plan already outlined in a pamphlet entitled " A National Policy in In- ? industry " and signed by 120 leading ! industrialists . He charged the plan with being too much concerned with questions of labor and social service and with being too much like " a King speech under a Socialist administration . " He contended the plan- " attaches burdens to industry which indus try this side of Paradise can never discharge . " Unequal- Publicity Britain has no comparable busi-. ness force to America 's Henry Kaiser . Various organizations , such as the Federation of British Industries , have from time to time outlined ideas for the future . But for every column of newspaper space given to the employers ' case , hundreds are filled with cases for labor and the consumer . Besides being divided and unorganized . British business has hardly begun to appreciate the meaning of publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their contacts with the press . Few deny right of business to have its say  --  hitherto it has not said it . This week 's meetings represent a start in a move to right this situation by formation of a strong central authority for industry .                     