@@704851

txt The British navy , turning both with ferocity and reluctance upon its former ally , has seized , sunk , damaged , or dispersed the greater part of the mighty French war fleet . Prime Minister Winston Churchill told the dramatic story of the unprecedented attack to a house of commons both exultant with pride and downcast with sorrow last night . Churchill wept with anguish when he told of the heavy loss of life among the French , but he spoke with pride of the achievement of the British navy . The magnitude of the English move became more apparent than ever when the Daily Herald said this morning that nearly 250 French war . ships  --  bound under the German armistice terms to be Interned  --  had fallen into British hands . Pulls No Punches . Churchill told the house he spoke with sorrow , but at the same time he pulled no punches in saying what he thought of the French government of capitulation , headed by Premier Marshal Henri Philippe PetaiU . He characterized its treatment of the British government as " callous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill address will tell/ be found on page 3 . Informed sources said that the BritIsh action , carried out Wednesday in home ports and off Oran , Algeria , and Alexandria , Egypt , may lend to a complete rupture in diplomatic relations with the French government of Marshal Petain . Even a French dec. laratlon of war was regarded possible by some Britons . The sudden attack ' on and seizure of the French ships was precipitated , it was believed in some quarters , by an order from France to its warships to proceed immediately to home ports , as required by terms of the German armistice . Quick Action Necessary . Thus it was believed that immediate British action was necessary to prevent these ships from reaching French ports and thus falling under control of the Germans . Seizure of the French fleet was hailed thruout England as the best news received since the war began because it relieved the nation of Its greatest fear  --  that the French fleet might be turned against this country . Early this morning British sources Indicated that the royal navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French fleet than were seized in the original action Wednesday . Take Ships Into Scottish Waters . The well informed British press as , sociation said the additional vessels were taken into Scottish waters  --  to which they presumably came them . selves . British guns were loosed at Oran . Churchill said , only after agonizing hours of suspense and the final rejec ? tion by French Admiral Gensoul of these British alternatives : " a Sail with us and continue to fight for victory against the Germans and Italians . " b Sail with reduced crews under our control to a British port . The reduced crews will be repatriated at the earliest possible moment . British Warning to France . " If either of these courses Is adopted by you we will restore your ships to France at the conclusion'of the war or pay full compensation if they are damaged meanwhile . " c Alternately , if you feel bound to stipulate that your ships are not to be used against the Germans or Italians unless they break the armis. tice conditions , then sail them with us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indies  --  Martinique , for instance , where they can be demilitarized , or be perhaps entrusted to the United States and remain safe until the end of the war , the crews being repatriated to France . " If you refuse these fair offers I the British commander must , with profound regret , require you to sink your ships within six hours . Failing the above , I have the orders of the government to use whatever force . may be necessary to prevent your ships from falling into German or Italian hands . " This document was ceremoniously presented to the French admiral , ceremoniously declined , and then the guns spoke . Battle Lasts 10 Minutes . Churchill , speaking with restraint , thrilled the packed galleries with a vivid account of the 10 minute bombardment of the French at Oran . He managed to take another verbal crack at the Italian fleet when he said . " The Italian navy , altho considerably stronger numerically than the fleet we used at Oran , kept prudently out of the way . " This remark was greeted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their turn is corning during the operations we are pursuing to secure effectual command of the Mediterranean . " Then , the prime minister , in ' discussing the French ships which escaped the British dragnet , declared it was Britain 's " inflexible resolve to do everything to prevent them from felling into German hands . " Scuffle Aboard One Ship . French , fleet units seized within British water proper were taken over by strong boarding partier , the ' , Arne minister said . There was bloodshed - on only one vessel , the Surcouf , 2,880 " ' tons , tons . the world 's largest submarine . This scuffle , as Churchill described It , resulted from a misunderstanding . A British seaman was killed . Two British officers and a seaman were . wounded , and one French officer was killer . and another wounded . " The French sailors mainly cheer ' fully accepted the end of the period of uncertainty , " Churchill went on . ? Some 800 or 900 of the Frenchmen , he said , had expressed an ardent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he continued , had asked for British nationality . Ropes to Repatriate Crews . Those of the Frenchmen who do not want to fight will be repatriated - to France , " if the French government is able to make arrangements for their reception by permission of the German rulers , " he said . - - This stroke against the French fleet should set at rest any rumors that , Britain might be looking for a peace* ful way out of its fight with Germany , Churchill said . He iisserted with great emphasis that the British government was con. winced that however painful and un : pleasant the action , history and Britain 's friends ' thruout the world , ' including the United States ; would ; justify the seizure of the French ships , and even the bombardment of them . Churchill acknowledged that the destructive fire power turned on , the French at Oran probaly had caused heavy loss of life . Attacks retain Government . " We were compelled to use a very severe measure of force and immense explosions were heard , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action was affected in gun power ' or mobility by the heavy gun power directed at it . " Churchill accused the French government of having struck what might have been a mortal injury to . Britain not only by breaking its pledge to send the fleet to Britain before sing ' ing an armistice , but , also in turning over to Germany 400 skilled German ; airplane pilots who had been captared by the French . Many of these flyers , he said , had been shot ' down by British aviators in France . They were released , he charged , in the face of the " . sure knowledge that they would be used against this country a second time . " Cites Cabinet 's Support . It was while discussing this action that the prime minister referred to the conduct of the French government as both " callous and even malevolent . " The British naval action , he explained , was approved unanimously by the cabinet , including those mem. bers who were noted for " their long friendship with France . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and French officers , Churchill said , especially since on the very morning of the coup French ships at Alexandria had fired heavily and effectively at air raiders carrying out an attack on the British base . - Tribute to French Admiral . Churchill paid tribute to Admiral Gensoui , who spurned the British ulti. matum at Oran . " Every allowance Must be made for him and his officers , who felt themselves obliged to obey the orders from their government , behind whom they were unable to see the German dictator , " he declared . At the end of his speech , the prime minister sat down on the front bench between his parliamentary spokes. man , Clement R. Attlee , and Former Prime Minister Chamberlain . He slumped back with his chin on his chest . For a moment there was a hush , then wild cheering . Churchill was visibly moved by the demonstration .                     