@@705642

txt The resignation of Agriculture Minister Tadaatsu Ishiguro and his immediate replacement with Vice Minister Sekisai Imo again directed attention to Japan 's economic structure and the effects on it of the " China incident " and the defense program . Although statistical data have become rather meager in Japan because of the War Secrecy Act , neither the Premier , Prince Fumimaro Konoye , nor other government officials made any secret of the fact that production and distribution are not functioning as well as they should . Economic commentators accuse the government of lacking proper management and of unwillingness to use its power to correct the situation . Even Masatsune Ogura , recently appointed ? Minister for Coordination of War Economy , is said to have changed some of his reform plans after he became familiar with the difference between the government and private business management . ? Some problems are the result of determined efforts by the government , presumably under the impetus of Mr. Ogura 's urgings , to effect necessary reforms . One fundamental problem is the " synthetic " price that is designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , e ? tcessively , raising the prices of Consumption goods , thus starting a circle of rising prices and rising wages , which spells inflation . Prices Are Curbed Now Present prices are determined on the basis of the price limiting decree of Sept. 18 , 1939 , which is the foundation of the government 's low price policy and its distribution system . Despite this decree , however , prices have risen constantly . According to the Bank of Japan the wholesale price index for March , based on 1933 levels , was 179.3 for Japan against 165.6 for Britain , 124.4 for the United States and 119.7 for Germany . Retail prices apparently vary greatly according to locality . The April cost of living index for wage earners was put by the Cabinet Bureau of Statistics at only 146 compared with the July , 1937 , level though better class goods and foods have risen 100 per cent and more . Increases have been general . The disparity between wholesale and retail prices has hampered distribution with . the result that there is a general demand for price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in September , 1940 , but a survey of figures indicates production has begun to - slump . Between July , 1937 , and December , 1939 , it had risen from 172.1 to 187.9 but dropped to 178.2 by September , 1940 . Since then , according to the Oriental Economist , the trend can still be clearly discerned from railroad carloadings and these are seasonally adjusted to show a virtual standstill since September . In the face of rising prices taxes , dividends and stock prices have been showing a gradual downward trend . The industrial stock index for April was 79.5 compared with 959 in April a year ago . The stagnation is due mainly to curtailment of consumption goods industries because of the luxury ban at home and a reduction in exports which is filling warehouses with goods for an export spurt when the war ends . Warehouse commodity values rose from 142.7 in 1939 to the last published figure of 339.5 in November , 1940 . War Material Work Slumps War material industries are continuing to expand and employment continues at a high level , though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its high point of 149.3 in May , 1940 , to 145.8 in March of this year . The problem of production expansion is being attacked from three sides  --  prices , working hours and technical efficiency . " The production of many vital materials is being hampered by the low prices that result from the government 's low price policy and proper adjustment will have to be made in respect to prices of such materials , " says the Japan Chronicle . That task Prince Konoye has entrusted to the reorganized price inquiry commission . Mr. Ogura opposed abrogation of the price limit decree because of the bad psychological effect , but has urged price increases for vital war materials since his appointment . Lengthening of working hours beyond the present twelve-hour day was demanded by Communication Minister Shozo Murata and Commerce Minister Teijiro Toyoda at a recent Cabinet session . But the Welfare Office opposed this on the I ground that twelve hours a day for factory workers mark the limit of human endurance , and it was backed by a large increase in in dustrial accidents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twice as high in 1940 as in 1936 . The Imported Industrial Technique Control Committee is to be appointed immediately to import foreign industrial technique exclusively from the Axis powers . In return Japan will either export its own industrial technique or pay for the imported technique by " exporting certain classes of industrial outputs . " Prices of agricultural products are so low , it is claimed , that farmers do not ship produce or sell only to the " black market " at illegal prices . The result is that food is plentiful in the country but is scarce in the cities , where it must be rationed or where it is again sold on the " black market " at increased prices . The extent of the " black market " is indicated by the announcement of the Home Office that since the establishment of the economic police two years ago the authorities have handled 973,208 cases of illegal transactions involving 1,000 , - 000 persons and 275,127,454 yen yen is quoted at 23.48 cents which yielded the " bootleggers " a profit of 41,834,046 yen above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to indictments . The fines imposed totaled 13,414,602 yen . The jail sentences were not revealed . One of the biggest problems facing the new Minister of Agriculture is the growing demand for an increase in the price of rice , which at the present level is declared to be below the cost of production . Rice is the staple food of the Japanese masses and what an increase in its price would mean can be easily pictured from the average earnings of Japanese workers . Japanese smile when they read United States reports that 45,000,000 Americans are on a - " slow starvation diet " or that the American working girl needs $1,100 yearly to live properly . They have never aspired to American standards . Wages , as supplemented by bonuses , have risen faster than the cost of living and , according to The Oriental Economist , real wages are 115 per cent above those of 1936 . But they still are low . . The official wage scale announced by the Welfare Ministry this week , effective July 15 , is 0.98 to 3.30 yen per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1.19 yen per day for women , though higher wages are possible for senior employes . Most ' married Tokyo factory workers and office clerks earned 70 yen monthly . A few married couples earned as little as 40 yen monthly . A survey of Kobe shops showed a maximum salary of 200 yen monthly , earned by one man . According to Professor Yoshio Kusama , about 70 per cent of the Japanese people are living on 1,000 to 2,000 yen yearly . According to his figures , salaried men drawing not more than 150 yen monthly must have a deficit of 50 yen monthly if they maintain Japanese standards . Under these circumstances every penny counts and an increase of even a fraction of a cent in a pound of rice is a big item . It is therefore a tribute to Japanese frugality that , despite such wages , Japan is able to set a goal of 13,500,000,000 yen for national savings for the current fiscal year . According to a survey the average savings per worker in that prefecture were 67.65 yen last year , while farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem facing Japan because of the cost of the " China incident " and increased armament confounds all orthodox calculations . The official budget passed by the Diet amounted to 17,875,000,000 yen and various supplementary budgets and special accounts are expected to bring the grand , total to 20,000,000,000 yen . Japan 's entire total income in 1940 was put at only 25,500,000,000 yen .                     