@@707166

txt General compliance with the order of the Office of Defense Transporation for skip-a-day milk deliveries was reported yesterday for most of the metropolitan area by William .1 . Clark , ODT regional manager in charge of motor transport , as milk dealers carried out their program of no doorstep deliveries for the day . While no serious effects as regards the milk supply were evident on the first day of overall enforcement of the ODT order , Mayor La Guardia , conscious of the emergency that is expected to develop if the members of the Milk Drivers Union continue their refusal to distribute double loads every other day , indicated last night that he was considering setting up delivery points for big trucks to ease the distribution problem . This would enable retail stores to obtain extra supplies for sale to home consumers unable to receive their regular quotas . Two million homes in the metropolitan area failed to receive their milk yesterday . In the afternoon Mayor La Guardia conferred with Ralph T. Seward , impartial chairman of the Metropolitan Milk Distributors Commission . The Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were carried out yesterday without difficulty , but the lack of deliveries to homes caused inconvenience to many . " I am a little hopeful today , " the Mayor said . as he left City Hall last night . " Store deliveries were okay . On home deliveries there was great inconvenience felt by a very large number of consumers . " The Mayor said he talked over the telephone with Chester Davis , Food Administrator , on the milkdelivery problem and that he would confer with Washington officials by telephone today . Action by the War Labor Board in Washington was awaited on the dispute between milk dealers and the Milk Drivers Union , an affiliate of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , American Federation of Labor , arising from the refusal of the union to cooperate in enforcement of the ODT order on the ground that it would deprive many drivers of jobs if enforced on the skip-a-day basis . The dispute was placed before the WLB on Tuesday by Mr. Seward after the failure of - his - attempt to move the union to compliance . It was learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself with the facts . Cut in Milk Prices Planned Because of the cut in labor costs through skiy-a-day deliveries the Office of Price Administration is planning to reduce milk ceiling prices in New York and vicinity by half a cent a quart , it was learned last night . A formal order ? will be issued either from the regional OPA office here or from the OPA office in Washing-ton , it was said . In reporting satisfactory overall compliance with the ODT order , Mr. Clark announced that there were some violations in Northern New Jersey and in Fairfield County , Conn . The few dealers and ' farms guilty of violations received warnings to desist on pain of revocation of their commercial gasoline coupons. - Mr. Clark said that no repogs of violations of the skip-a-day schedule were received from field examiners in New York City , Nassau , Suffolk and Westchester Counties . " This would seem to indicate , " he said , " that the milk companies in these localities have put the skip-a-day plan into effect . " Few Violations Reported Despite some reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in nearby Connecticut was good , Mr. Clark said . He called attention to two types of violation . Some milk companies making wholesale deliveries are making call-backs and giving special service , he said , though such deliveries were expressly prohibited in the order . Some subdealers ? operators of small milk routes who buy from large concerns  --  are under the false impression that , , their operations are not subject to the every-other-day schedule . Both types of violations , he pointed out , were equally subject to enforcement proceedings . Edward 0 . Mather , executive director of the Milk Dealers Association , reported general compliance with the skip-a-day order , even though union truck drivers ' appeared at plants to make deli , veries if the dealers changed their minds . Most of the drivers remained -. t the plants only a short time . Wholesale deliveries to stores , restaurants , hotels and hospitals were normal . Such deliveries are permitted for six days in the week , excluding Sundays . In many in- , stances demands of stores and restaurants were heavier because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the trade . No double loads were delivered to stores , however , the drivers having refused to do so , as before . City Officials Watch Situation Some wholesale depots sold milk at retail yesterday to assist families unable to obtain any at neighborhood stores , according to Sol Pincus , assistant commissioner in the Department of Health . " We are watching the situation closely , " he said . " There was a great deal less milk distributed today , but we hope the situation will straighten out . " Mr. Pincus disclosed that some of the city 's twenty-nine milk stations , where milk is sold at 11 cents a quart to the public , also experienced some difficulties , and that these stations were in the same category as stores with respent to Sunday deliveries . To meet a shortage of milk tank trucks Mr. Pincus said the Health Department and Federal authorities were cooperating to put back into milk channels tank trucks that were taken out last Spring for other beverages . No statements were forthcoming ( from officials of the Milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be becoming restless and demanding that the union call a general membership meeting to discuss possible strike action against the skip-a-day schedule . However , Michael J. Cashal , international vice president of the Brotherhood of Teamsters , said the union was " committed to a policy of being 100 per cent against any strike or any tie-up which might affect the war effort , and certainly the delivery of milk is a definite war effort . "                     