@@708984

txt " SELECTIVE " PRICE CONTROL Is in the cards for early 1946 . Before the end of the first quarter of 1946 the O.P.A. expects to do what the W.P.B. thinks should be done right now  --  remove price ceilings from large groups of wares and concentrate on regulating a few scarce essentials . The law of supply and aemand will be resurrected then , officials calculate , because of reviving production , stiffer competition  --  and unemployment sufficient to discourage some consumption . Sonic key inflation fighters frankly agree that price control is slowing reconversion for many firms . But they feel inflation is still the big danger and the fight still worth the cost . U. S.-BRITISH financial talks have turned into a trade conference . Reason : U. S. spokesmen fear Congress will balk on a big ( $4-5 billion ) , liberal ( no or nominal interest ) , long-term ( 40-50 years ) advance unless Britain makes commitments to free trade . Negotiations now center on gradual abandonment of Empire trade preferences , import and exchange controls and on membership in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once agreements have been reached on these issues , discussions will turn to how and . how many dollars the U. S. will make available to Britain . CROWLEY QUIT In a row with the " give it to Britain " clique . He was leaving Washington anyhow . about December 1 . His earlier resignation came when it appeared the White House might side with those who would give the British  --  for free ? some $1 billion of left-over Lend-Lease rood and clothing and a few more billions of Arm:v surplus . Mr. Crowley 's position was that with the war over , British-U . S. relations should be on a business basis , with the American taxpayer getting something for his money . This issue is still up in the air at the White House and State Department . Truman does have a hot letter front Crowley. on U. S. foreign financial relations . but he May never make it public . A PUZZLE faces the Surplus Property Board . The Army turned over 400,000 foun tain pens as no ' longer needed , then changed its mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surplus can - be withdrawn and i 2 : if not . whetbar the pens shall be sold to distributors or turned back to the manufacturers . RUSSIAN INCOMPREHENSION of America extends to U. S. products . Our Siberian correspondent dispatches a pitiful story of two Muscovites looking at a Studebaker truck , consulting their dictionaries and wondering how the vehicle could be the creation of " students " and " bakers . " SURPLUS SHIPS wo n't be sold through brokers , the Maritime Commission has decided . It wants to deal directly with prospective buyers to make sure they do n't ( 1 ) make a down-payment , operate awhile at high freight returns and then default or ( 2 ) insure newly purchased ships and then scuttle them . RUBBER EXPORTS from the Dutch East Indies may come sooner than expected . Unofficial messages from- the islands say labor shortages are the chief bar to almost immediate shipment of 150,000 tons of crude rubber . The Netherlands Indies civil ad- ' ministration has established " rubberfonds " ( government-supervised agencies ) to speed ' plantation reconstruction . OVERSEAS AIR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee changes . Justice Burton . as a Senator , opposed the McCafran community airline bill , which calls for a Governmentcharted corporation with stock ownership held by Pan American and the domestic airlines . But advocates of the measure hope his successor on the committee will support it . Possible strategy could include the shifting of the bill to Senator Wheeler 's Interstate Commerce Committee . GOVERNMENT COMPETITION faces Alcoa in aluminum production . There 's talk of a federal subsidy to assure peacetime operation of the $700 million surplus aluminum plants . Otherwise , officials fear , the properties may go begging , Wartime leases on most of the 50-odd plants expire October 31 . Advocates of a Government underwriting scheme say prospective buyers are hesitant to take them over because ( 1 ) they lack technical know-how , ( 5 ) 3 billion pounds of inventories overhang the market , ( 3 ) magnesium may become a stiff competitor in the light metals held . Sonic wartime operating agreements guaranteed Alcoa against loss but took SP : , of any profits . Similar deals ' night he worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested . MINOR MEMOS : An enterprising R.E.C. salesman In Denver , stuck with shrplus smokestacks from an Army camp , disposed of 75 as ventilators for a vanadium mine and the rest as culverts for rural road projects . . . Officials say a major problem facing the United Nations ' Food and Agriculture Organization meeting in Quebec is how to establish agriculture in " backward nations " without adding to world surpluses . . Housing experts report some vacancies in war-boom towns like Portland , Wichita and Mobile . but say they 're all in defense housing areas , not In sections where people want to live . . . Supreme Court expects to hear argument on the Public Utility Act " death sentence " cases between November 5 and 17 . . . . Labor Secretary Schwellenbach will ask the agenda committee for the President 's labor.mnnegement conference to move up the date of the meeting from November . 