@@709312

txt FRANCO TURNS GUNS ON FOREIGN CRITICS Spain Blasts France and Reds ? Madrid Holds View That U. S. Plan Is Unfeasible By PAUL P. KENNEDY By Wireless to YES NEW YORK Tuns . MADRID , March ** today definitely joined the battle in the war of nerves by launching an all- ' out offensive against external pressure . Spain 's reaction was seen in the prominent publication this morning of the two notes drawn up by the Cabinet last night and by a third issued by the Spanish Ambassador in London . The first Cabinet note struck out furiously against communism in general , but particularly against communism in France and the United States . The other note presented Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's itemized account of France 's " bad neighborliness " as against Spain 's " good neighborliness . " The London Ambassador 's statement contained his version of the detailed evidence against Cristino Garcia Granda , recently executed . This note , as a matter of fact , served to bring back into focus the original incident that in two weeks has put the Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's rise to power . While the Cabinet 's two notes seemed stern in character , observers here detected a more defensive than offensive attitude in them . In other words , these observers interpreted the notes as part of Generalissimo Franco 's policy of " riding with the blow . " This policy , they pointed out , has carried him through many bouts and may do so again . As an example , while today 's United States Embassy radio bulletin published here states that Great Britain and France have agreed in principle to the United States note , the official feeling here is that there is only a remote possibility of bringing the note 's suggestions into fruition . It is also pointed out that the // suggestion of an interim government embodying all parties is a patent impossibility inasmuch as , Dr. Jose Giral , Premier of the Republican regime in exile , has reportedly declared that he would have nothing to do with such a government . Whether the Monarchist , who currently indicate more tractability , would cooperate in such a government is not known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forthcoming soon may be attributed to the opinion of isolated militarists and not to an organized Army decision . There have been attempts to consolidate Army opinion , but the High Command is still divided  --  as it has been since 1942 ? into three schools of thought : anti-Franco , wavering and proFranco . In the field of Hispano-French relations , the Franco Cabinet last night made a good case for itself , in the eyes of many Spaniards . The Cabinet document declared that Spain had admitted into her territory agents of Gen. Charles de Gaulle ; refused asylum to Laval ; allowed thousands ? of French soldiers to pass through , Spain to North Africa to join the French farces of resistance there without passports or documentation ; and protected the citizenship and property rights of French nationals living in Spain even during the darkest days of the occupation of France . France 's Hostility Described France , on her part , according to the note , returned these favors by maltreating exiled Spaniards in concentration camps ; permitting attacks on Spanish consulates in ' Algiers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maquisards on the Spanish border in 1944 ; attacking Spanish workers ' at Chambery , and by a continuous anti-Spanish propaganda campaign . There is some feeling here that Generalissimo Franco foresaw the ultimate result of the execution of Garia Granda and his associates and then deliberately went through with it to force the issue . Other opinion leans to the belief that the executions were essentially the result of the ingrained Spanish characteristic of proudly pursuing a course despite any and all pressure  --  the more pressure , the greater the determination to follow the chosen course . The general feeling seems to be that if the Franco regime rides out this storm , its life will be as- , sured until at least midsummer . Spring and summer , historically are looked upon as the two most dangerous seasons in Spain 's political history . Franco Answers U. S. Obliquely MADRID , March 2 ( JP ) ? The Spanish Government , in an apparent reference to outside pressure against the regime of Generalissimo Franco , asserted today that the " new roads offered from abroad " were only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement , taken as an oblique reply to the United States note to France and Britain urging a joint declaration against Generalissimo Franco , was contained in a 2,000-word communiqu ? dealing with France 's action in closing her frontier with Spain . The French Foreign Office declined to comment on the communiqu ? and said no official response would be made . In French foreign circles the Spanish announcement was described as " a weak attempt at defense of the Franco regime . " Regarding the French protest against the execution by Spain of ten Spanish Republicans , the communiqu ? termed the executed men " some outlaws who had committed numerous crimes and acts of terrorism in several places in Spain . "                     