@@711410

txt The numerous conferences and discussions regarding the Berlin crisis appear to be crystallizing into a tentative agreement among the Western Powers to make another diplomatic approach to Moscow in an effort to find a compromise before considering more drastic steps . As a basis for such a compromise it is proposed that the Western Powers accept the Russian demand for new Four-Power negotiations not only on Berlin but on all Germany , as suggested by the Warsaw conference of the Russian bloc and the Russian reply to the Western protest notes . if in turn Russia will abandon its efforts to drivel the Western Powers out of Berlin and lift the blockade against them . A note to this effect is now being prepared in consultations between Washington . London and Paris , and may be dispatched to Moscow as soon as a new French Government can approve it . This procedure is in line with the wishes of the French and British Governments , and also with the assertion of Secretary of State Marshall , endorsed by President Truman , that we shall exhaust every resource @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Berlin crisis in order " to avoid the tragedy of another war . " It is also in line with the statements of Mr. Marshall and Foreign Secretary Bevin that we shall not be coerced or intimidated . For , as Mr. Bevin told the House of Commons , " it is impossible for a self-respecting Government to sit down and discuss these matters when our troops are put under siege and two and a half million people are being used as hostages to influence our decisions . " We believe that both American and British opinion supports this position . Whether the Russians would accept such a compromise- remains to be seen . They stated in their last note that the start of the negotiations they desire can not be linked with any preliminary conditions , and their actions suggest that instead of trying to ameliorate the situation they are doing their best to aggravate it by intensifying the blockade and by sovietizing their occupation zone . But the proposed new effort is well worth while , if only for the record . In the event of its acceptance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental problem , and that is the basis on which the proposed new Four-Power negotiations are to be conducted . It is evident by this time , whatever may be said about the principles of the Yalta and Potsdam agreements , that the governmental structure set up by these agreements in the shape of a joint Four-Power administration of Germany has broken down . The Berlin crisis is merely a symbol of this bankruptcy . The breakdown is recognized in the effort of the Western Powers to organize a new German government for their combined zones , and it is recognized by Russia in the Warsaw proposals calling for a provisional government for all Biermany , for a German peace treaty , and for a withdrawal of all occupation forces . These facts compel the Western Powers to seek a new basis of their own from which to proceed . It must be hoped that they will be able to unite on a basis which will enable them to pursue a more constructive policy than merely fending off the demands of the Russians . It would seem , therefore , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their discussions with the Germans regarding the temporary West-German regime , the Western Powers must also begin to discuss their own permanent solution of the German problem It he C been the strength of the Russians in all these conferences that they knew eactly what they wanted and did not hesitate to combine                     