@@708455

txt The Nurses Selective Service Act should , no doubt , be put into effect immediately , because there should be no delay in providing skilled nursing care for the war wounded . It is equally important , however , that such legislation should be written in a form to bring about desirable resulth . The bill which THE TIMES of Feb. 20 reports as approved by the House Military Affairs Committee should be revised now to avoid future difficulty . First , a compulsory registration of an nurses is imperative , since a major difficulty in the current nursing crisis is that no one actually knows how many nurses there are in the United States . It has been estimated that we have 400,000 graduates of accredited schools able to give at least part-time service if need be , and about 275,000 of these are now active in their profession , including approximately 53,000 in military service . It will cost the Government very little more to register all of them . The bill as approved by the committee applies only to nurses between 20 and 45 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon after graduation . They make excellent mothers , and exemptions should be granted to bona-fida homemakers . The military services do not now accept nurses with dependents under 14 . It would , however , be a mistake to overlook those nurses without real home responsibilities who choose to find in marriage an excuse for not devoting their needed professional skills to helping win the war . Civilian Needs Heavy The situation in civilian hospitals is really desperate . The nursing staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New Yorx is 30 per cent below its pre-war figure , and most health agencies have a similar shortage of staff . A. recent study of public health nursing resources in Greater New York  --  both Health Department and private nursing agency staff  --  revealed approximately one public health nurse to 9,000 population . Revised wartime standards for public health practice state , as a minimum , one public health nurse to 5,000 population . Second , I am glad to see that nurses classified as essential by the Procurement and Assignment Service of the War Manpower Commission will not be inducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered essential . As a member of the National Committee on Allocation of Medical Personnel of the Procurement and Assignment Service , I know the careful attention *given to the criteria for classification of all nurses . Nearly nine hundred Procurement and Assignment Service Committees all over the country have classified about 235,000 nurses during the past year and a half , and in so doing have secured the greatest body of information about nurses to be had anywhere . This information should be used . Third , a serious feature of the committee-approved bill is that it seems to exempt all other nurses until all United States Cadet Nurse Corps graduates have been inducted . A high percentage of service should be expected of the cadets , who are educated at public expense , but the number of cadets now available will not begin to fill the immediate need and those already graduated have received Government funds only during their senior year . The corps was organized in July , 1943 . The immediate effect of such a regulation would be to slow up volunteering of non-cadet eligible nurses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the call to military service long ago . Volunteering must continue TAzhile a draft law is being shaped P.a put into operation if our wounded are not to suffer for lack of nursing care . Proposed Rule Disapproved But more important , the long-range effect of such a regulation will be to dry up the nursing service supply at the source . Cadet nurses were promised a choice between military service and essential work at home upon graduation . If the law is changed now many of those now in school may drop out . This must not happen . And think of the difficulty of recruiting students for new classes ! It will be hard enough if nurses are the only women drafted , but if cadets are inevitably to be the first nurses taken , regardless of how many other nurses should be serving , the situation will be impossible . Draft regulations can be so written as to place greater obligations upon cadets than upon other nurses without giving a blanket excuse from military service to all other nurses and without dragnetting the cadet graduate who should teach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fourth , the Committee on Military Affairs should think carefully before it lowers standards set up by the Army and Navy Nurse Corps by specifying that no nurse ' shall be disqualified because the school from which she received her training was affiliated with a hospital not having a specified number of beds or patients . Obviously , a nurse who has worked only in a very small hospital may never have seen types of injury and illness , including communicable diseases that are prevalent in military hospitals . On first thought it is easy to say that an inexperienced nurse is better than no nurse , but it is more comprehensive than just having a person to attend the wounded . Both the Army and the Navy nurses teach and supervise the hospital corps men , and the skill and knowledge of these nurses has a far-reaching effect . While there has been a great cry from nurses trained in schools that do not meet military standards , their num1,300 schools in the country do not qualify , and since they are small , average only about ten graduates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules to admit nurses from these schools who have , subsequent to graduation , had adequate supplemental training in large hospitals . Fifth , and finally , I hope the public will say that even a comprehensive draft of nurses will be inadequate without a national service act . It is not a question of discrimination . Nurses are proud that their skills are needed first . It is a question of use of those skills . Too many nurses are now washing dishes and scrubbing floors to keep civilian services in operation . Their entire time could be given to nursing duties if adequate auxiliary help could be secured . There are a great many matters which might better be left to regulations than written into the text . I urge that the simplest sort of law be passed , and then Selective Service and the War Manpower Commission work closely with nurses in setting up wise and fair regulations for carrying out the law . When over a third of all those of military age active in a profession have volunteered for military service  --  a remarkable record  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure . We can not afford delay in getting nurses to the war-wounded while we struggle with the inevitably tough job of passing a national service act for all women and men . But nurses want it clearly understood that they believe a draft of nurses alone is only piecemeal legislation and that the whole problem should be tackled as soon as possible . In connection with your recent editorial " Surplus Disposal , " allow me to call attention to the huge quantities of scientific equipment and apparatus that have been acquired by our Government . Generalizing from my close acquaintance with one large Army laboratory , it is likely that ten to twenty million dollars ' worth of equipment will thus be subjected to inexpert handling , to obsolescence in warehouses , or acquisition by speculators . The American Association of Scientific Workers has recommended that the Surplus Property Authority set up a special committee which would be empowered to recommend allocation of the surplus scientific equipment to institutions carrying on research and education . Particular attention should be given to the needs of smaller colleges , hospitals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase expensive apparatus , and whose students , teachers and scientists therefore are handicapped . This surplus equipment could also help rehabilitate the destroyed scientific laboratories and institutions of our allies in Europe and Asia . Equally important would be the effect of such actions upon the building of solid and continuing friendship between ourselves and our allies . A detailed program for the disposal of Government-owned scientific equipment is now being worked out for the American Association of Scientific Workers , under the leadership of Prof. Karl Lark-Horovitz , head of the Physics Department of Purdue University . In your item of Feb. 24 regarding the British plan for a " ' Domestic ' Army ? Uniformed Organization to Solve the Servant Problem , " you cite the efforts being made for the solution by Ernest Sevin , Minister of Labor , and his committee . You also note their search for an attractive title in place of the objectionable trade ones " domestic " am ; " servant . " Many of the duties of the capable and intelligent so-called " domestic " are on a par with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills , receives and sends phone messages , makes appointments , gets various information , checks outgoing and returned laundry , shops , keeps tabs on household needs , assists in planning , etc . So I suggest a title " household clerk , " and if the young woman has qualified under an appropriate course that she be a " licensed househok clerk . " It should mean something .                     