@@709510

txt Prospects for immediate launching of the long-delayed South End , 514-family public housing project , were strengthened today following a favorable report by the Legislative Committee on Public Safety on a , bill to eliminate restrictions blocking the plan . The Committee approved a redraft of a measure providing for readjustment of fire walls and fire doors in the houisng project to meet the main objections of John Mahoney , Boston Building Commissioner , and the State building code , Supposedly modernized following the Cocoanut-Grove disaster of 1942 , the Boston building code still clung , according to Boston housing authorities , to a stairway location stipulation applicable to wood frame apartment houses , without regard for modern fire- safe construction . The law requires two means of egress for buildings over three stories , which egresses shall be " remote " from each other , Hinged on Stairwells " Remote , " in the common Interpretation of the statute , infers distance , contrary to the location of two main stairways , back-to-back in a central stairwell , ev4n though separated by a two-hour , fire-resistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Board of Fire Underwriters , claimed that " remote " implied adequate fire-safe separations between the two means of egress , as opposed to distance . The new legislation , to which an emergency preamble is attached for quick legislative action , provides a compromise that will keep the stairways where they are , and require little additional expense for readjustments. while maintaining established fire-safe standards . Further than that , the State Department of Public Safety is prepared to relax its State code minimum widths of 3 ft. 6 in. for stairways , corridors , and doors to three feet on the basis of the high standard , fire-safe construction of the proposed Federally-financed project . The Department will do this , after consultation with the National Fire Underwriters , and New York authorities , who have had experience with these minimum widths . Enthusiasm for Change Senator Ralph V. Clampit ( It ) of Springfield , Chairman of the Public Safety Committee , said that State and Boston authorities were openly enthusiastic about the new legislative draft , and believed that work could be begun shortly on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over stairway locations and corridor widths . The redraft also provides for more discretionary powers by the Boston Building Commissioner concerning means of egress based on what he considers good engineering practice . Heretofore , Mr. Mahoney has been bound by the factual wordings of the City code , which is a State legislative act , making him strictly responsible to the State in the matter of enforcement . Legal obstacles are not new to the South End project . Planned before the war when land takings were cleared and readied for an early start , the design was adapted to the housing of 514 families on seven acres , held to a $1,400 unit maximum cost requirement for public housing and the Federal stipulation of no more than 30 per cent ground coverage by buildings . To meet the changes in local codes after the Grove fire , the design has been altered a dozen times already . From now on , however , there appears smooth sailing for the project which may yet prove to be the first postwar slum clearance venture in the United States . 