@@707248

txt Has anyone forgotten when the word Panzer was a synonym for doom and the word Stuka made the bravest men cower ? There went the Panzers  --  over Poland , with the riding dead men of the Polish cavalry coming in hopelessly on their flanks ; through the Low Countries ; through France ; through the helpless infantry , past the seventyfives , arrogant in the little towns and cities that lay along the road to the sea ; breaking all the rules of war except the rule to conquer . Overhead shrieked the Stukas , flying artillery , fatal as unknown monsters from Mars . But what conquered , in those sad days ? Not the Panzers themselves . Not the Stukas themselves . It was the idea of the Panzers in men 's minds . It was the idea of the Stukas in men 's minds . It was the master of battles , the decider of destinies , the intangible . When you have taken a census of all means of war that can be touched , weighed , measured you must still reckon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  with an element that is known only by its results . There went the Panzers . There flew the Stukas . Now turn the page . See the leaves of the calendar flutter , as they used to do on motion-picture screens-1940 , 1941 , 1942 , 1943 . What is a Panzer division now ? It is armor . The Russians learned first how to deal with it . The British Eighth Army learned next . The Americans learned in Tunisia and every hour comes fresh news from Sicily as to how well these lessons have been mastered . What is a Stuka now ? An outmoded airplane . What an Olympian shout of laughter would go up if the Nazis tried to slow our advance with the Stukas of 1940 ! It is an idea that has died , not a machine . The idea that the Nazis have a special grasp of the art of war . They are , indeed , skilled practitioners . But their tricks can be mastered , and new and better tricks can be invented . The intangible has come over to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years and one year ago to admit they were defeated when they actually were ; the intangible that carried the Eighth Army from El Alamein to Bizerte ; the intangible of American ingenuity ; the intangible of the nameless infantryman who said , " Are we going to let those so-and-so 's push us around ? " ; the intangible of suspense and fear that has left our camps forever and gone over to the camps of the enemy . In Tunisia , again in Sicily , the United Nations are ahead of schedule . Add together all the material elements , and they should have taken longer . Herbert Matthews writes to this newspaper of a German officer with an Italian division , composing a report , later captured , to his High Command . The Italians were retreating too fast , he complained . The Americans were advancing with undue haste . There was nothing in the military science of logistics , nothing in strategy and tactics , nothing in the material aspects of the situation to justify these rapid movements . But they took place . There went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes remain , but not the dreadful ideas that once ac companied them . Let us not underrate the task our troops and those of our allies must still accomplish . It would be a cheap and shameful thing to do . But let us bear in mind what is now in the hearts of those troops  --  the confidence that they can outmarch , outfight , outthink , outlast their enemies . The ghost of doom that haunted France in 1940 is laid . A hard job remains to do . It will be done . Are we going to let those so-and-so 's push us around ? The yell that answers that question , in many languages , along thousands of miles of battle line , is just now the greatest intangible in the world , made vocal . Dust of Panzers in the distance , retreating . Smoke of burning Stukas going up to heaven .                     