@@706783

txt Prices ei 11 types of widely used foods , makir:g up 15 per cent of the average usewite 's food bill , will be increased in approximately a fourth of the nation 's retail grocery stores under an amended price regulation issued today by Price Administrator Leon Henderson . The new ruling will : become effective next Thursday . Foods affected by the amendment are breakfast cereals , canned fish , reeking and salad oils , sugar , canned vegetables , coffee , rice , hydrogenated shortening , other shortenings , dried fruits , and lard . Annual retail sales of these items amount to about 2 billion dollars out of a total yearly food bill of 13 billions . Ifiblc showing the percentage in s of cost that a dealer may use ; comparing the acts Ceilings will be J , q , nd on page 5.1 Items Sold at a Loss . OPA officials said the new pricing regulation was issued to relieve many retail and wholesale grocers from a squeeze " that has resulted from present price ceilings , which are based on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted that many merchants have either sold these items at a loss or discontinued carrying them altogether because of the arbitrary March price ceilings . In replacing their stocks in recent months , officials said , merchants have been forced to pay higher prices than they previously paid for foods held in ftock last March . Thus , they have been squeezed between higher prices they have had to pay and fixed prices at which they could sell . The new regulation permits wholeral ? and retail grocers to add per44-iliages fixed today by OPA to their ! c ! i , is for each item in the IL food gr. ups . If this procedure results in a higher price than the old March ceiling for a given item , the higher p : ire becomes the ceiling . If the : ? lar , . h ceiling is higher , it may still be used . Must ray ' Uglier Prices . Exceptions to this rule were made for dried fruits and lard , on which OPA ruled out March ceilings altogether . Officials explained that increases in processors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , y OPA since March . Because of this . March ceilings on these items will he less in the case of nearly all merchants than ceilings on the new cost  --  plus-markup basis . Thus , virtually all stores will soon tie charging housewives more for lard and dried fruits than previously . Henderson estimated , however , that only 20 to 25 per cent of the retail grocers will be able to boost prices nn the other nine food groups under the new rule . Two Principal Changes . Henderson said two principal changes will he noticed by housewives after next . Thursday as a result of the amendment : 1 . Higher prier 's ? ranging up to 1 or 2 cents per unit on some items in those stores which have been bqueezed stiverely by the March price ceilings . ( Officials said they were unable to estimate at this time the total increase that will result in food bills. ) 2 . Reappearance on the shelves of many grocers of canned goods and c her foods affected by the ruling hich have been scarce or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handle them under March ceilings . Must Display New Prices . Retailers must display any new ceiling prices in their stores . If a retailer 's or wholesaler 's cost of an Item increases between next Thursday and Dec. 31 or Nov. 30 , respectively , he may continue to boost his ceilings accordingly . No increases may be made after these deadlines , however . The percentage markups allowed OPA differ with various classes if wholesale and retail stores , it was explained .                     