@@704887

txt President Roosevelt sat in the big oval room of the executive offices in the presence of his immediate secretarial staff early this morning when he spoke over the radio to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago , with the country listening in over nation-wide networks . His message accepting nomination for re-election was delivered as quietly and intimately as if his hearers were in his presence . The personal note was sensed by the group who were there with him . This was especially recognized when he said that the " call of party alone would not prevail upon me " and that , while " self-appointed commentators and interpreters " would " seek to misinterpret or question motives , " he was " thinking only of the national good and the international scene " end would have to how to " the invisible thing called ' conscience ' " and accept his nomination . Night Hours of Waiting There had been a question during the evening hours whether the address of acceptance would ever be delivered . Insistent upon the choice of a running mate satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention 's action on the Vice Presidency , When the President had been informed late in the clay that party leaders in Chicago were unable to , agree on the selection of Secretary Wallace , he sent word through his secretary , Stephen T. Early , that his address might he postponed or canceled . " The President is determined not to address the convention unless and until its work has been completed , " Mr. Early said at the time , although he did not mention Mr. Wallace . Mr. Early went so far as to say that nomination of the running mate agreeable to the President might mean the difference between his acceptance or rejection of the third-term nomination . White House sources stressed that the selection of a Vice Presidential candidate would be of the convention 's choosing rather than that of Mr. Roosevelt . No Callers at the White House It was plain last night , however , that President Roosevelt had not changed his mind about Mr. Wallace as the one man acceptable to him on the third-term ticket . During the day and evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the appearance of a newly occupied office building . The President was in the big oval room which is the focal point of the executive office , but not a single caller crossed the checkered floor of the lobby where alert Secret Service operatives mingled inconspicuously with the reporters and camera men accredited to the White House establishment . To the last during the day , the White House secretariat , questioned repeatedly on the Roosevelt " draft , " insisted that there was " no news " and that " the story is at Chicago . " Throughout the day the President closeted himself in his office at the west wing of the White House . He listened to the broadcast proceedings of the Chicago convention and , when the session recessed for the afternoon , went back to the drafting of his message to the convention . At his side was Judge Samuel I. Rosenman of the New York State Supreme Court . Frequent Calls to Chicago Mr. Roosevelt was beyond reach of the White House reporters . It was after 2- A. M. yesterday when he retired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly five hours . He came over to the executive office at about the usual time and intimates reported that he was in good spirits . Frequently during the day he called Secretary Hopkins and other key men at Chicago for information and to answer questions on the Vice Presidential nomination . Formal notification to the President of his nomination apparently was delayed on instruction from the White House until the nomination of the Vice Presidential candidate had been completed . Mr. Early said that an official check-up showed that 2,500 telegrams had been received during the night after the President was nominated . He added that from the first of April to date a total of 25 , - 000 letters and telegrams had been received at the White House , all urging a third term for the President . First official announcement of the President 's intention to address the convention came late in the afternoon when Mr. Early released the text of Mr. Roosevelt 's telegram to Senator Byrnes . Early Makes Announcement It was nearly 7:30 last night when Mr. Early called in reporters to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the factors on which Mr. Roosevelt would base his decision whether to accept or reject his party 's nomination . " I think you put your finger on the problem , " Mr. Early said when a reporter asked whether the Vice Presidential nomination would be an important factor in the final decision . " Is the choice of the Vice President part of the issue on which the President will decide whether he will or will not accept the nomination ? " a reporter asked . " That is part of the convention 's unfinished business , " Mr. Early replied . 