@@705040

txt BARTON IS SELECTED TO RUN FOR SENATE Republicans Agree as Wilikie Expresses Preference on Eve of the State Convention The nomination of Bruce Barton as the Republican candidate for United States Senator to oppose James M. Mead was agreed upon yesterday afternoon by the leaders of the Republican State organization . Their decision was reached after word was conveyed to ' them from the Willkie campaign train that the party 's Presidential nominee desired Mr. Barton as his running mate to head the State ticket in New York . As a result of the decision , a floor fight at the State convention , which opens this morning at the Westchester Community Center in White Plains , was averted , and the State machine bowed once more to forces that it had opposed . The first occasion was at the Republican National Convention . Split on Judgeship Issue But while a fight on the Senatorship was averted , the Republicans , in a conference which broke up at midnight , failed to agree on a third nominee for the Court of Appeals , and decided to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The leaders , after talking to the Democrats , agreed to endorse Edmund J. Lewis , Republican , and Albert Conway , Democrat , Court of Appeals judges now sitting by appointment , and the Democrats will name the same pair at their convention Monday . For the third place , to succeed Charles B. Sears , retiring because of the age limit , the bitter battle between friends of Christopher J. Heffernan of Amsterdam and James P. Hill of Norwich could not be ended in conference , and it was decided to let them battle it out on the floor , with James 0 . Moore of Buffalo as a possible added starter . The Democrats made no commitment that they would endorse the third judge but the Republicans decided to go ahead and then let the Democrats decide whether there would be a complete bi-partisan slate or only a partial one . Influential Democrats are understood to be opposed to the nomination of Judge Hill . Two Representatives at Large also will be selected today , from a list containing a dozen names or more . Barton Called by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State leaders in the afternoon , immediately declared that he would accept the nomination if it was tendered him by the convention , and that is now a mere formality . His statement , however , acknowledging the call by Chairmen Edwin F. Jaeckle and National Committeeman J. Russel Sprague was designed to dispel any idea that he might be a candidate opposed to the State organization , and peace was restored , just as it had been after the Philadelphia convention . Kenneth F. Simpson , who backed Mr. Wilikie and then demanded the Barton nomination , stayed in the background so that party rivalries might not interfere with the Barton campaign . He did not attend the conference of party leaders and did not comment afterward on what was obviously a victory for himself . The conference of party leaders , attended by representatives of the nine judicial districts and by other leaders as well , started in the morning , with Mr. Barton 's candidacy put aside for the time being , while the State machine leaders brought out the names of other possibilities // BARTON IS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could get any one to match Mr. Barton 's stature and thus avoid his nomination . Thomas E. Dewey and Rolland B. Marvin already had ruled themselves out and none of the others compared with Mr. Barton in appeal , especially in view of the pressure being exerted in the latter 's behalf . The State leaders were inclined for a time to cling to Mr. Barton 's original letter of declination , sent to them more than a month ago , but they abandoned this in face of pressure that somewhat paralleled the pressure for the Willkie nomination at the Philadelphia convention . Finally Mr. Jaeckle and Mr. Sprague detached themselves from the gathering , and when they returned it was with word that Mr. Willkie wanted Mr. Barton as the nominee . Whether they spoke directly with the candidate or whether he sent word through an emissary was not ascertained , but it was definite that word had come from the Willkie train . STATEMENT BY JAECKLE Late in the afternoon reporters were called in and Mr. Jaeckle dictated the following statement : " Representatives of the nine judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very desirous to have a State ticket which will aid Wendell Willkie in carrying New York State . The election of a Republican President is our first consideration . " We are convinced that Mr. Willkie is impressed with the strength of Congressman Bruce Barton as a candidate for United States Senator , and he is coming over here to discuss the matter of his candidacy . " Up to this time , while a Barton headquarters had been opened on a lower floor of the Hotel Roosevelt , Mr. Barton had not indicated definitely that he would run . He arrived at the hotel and after a conference with the leaders agreed to make the race . In the presence of the leaders he then declared : " I 'd like - to say that at the invitation of the national committeeman and the State chairman I have conferred with the representatives of the nine judicial districts of the State and have said to them that if the convention tomorrow should nominate me for the United States Senate , I will be proud and happy to accept the nomination . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have assured me that if I am nominated they will give me the heartfelt support of the State organization . Ever since I graduated from college I have had the idea that to represent a great State , and particularly the Empire State , in the Senate is the finest honor that a man can have and give to his children . I have no question that I am going to have that honor and that we will carry the State for myself and Wendell Willkie . " Platform Will Be Short At a meeting of the platform committee of the State committee earlier in the day it , was tentatively agreed that the platform should be short and should contain an endorsement of the Republican National platform , plus an additional economy plank in reference to the State government , for the legislative candidates . The nomination of Mr. Barton for the Senate will leave open the Republican seat for Congress from the Seventeenth district , a district previously represented by Ogden L. Mills and Ruth Baker Pratt . No decision on a successor to Mr. Barton has been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating through the committee on vacancies , early next week . Mr. Barton , a successful advertising man , was elected to Congress in 1937 when a vacancy occurred in the district through the death of Theodore A. Peyser , Democrat , who had won it in the 1932 election . He has held the seat since then , being re-elected for a two-year term in 1938 , and was renominated this year . The State convention session , which opens at 10 A. M. today , will end its business by late afternoon , under scheduled plans . Spedial trains will be run out of Grand Central Station to White Plains , with the first train leaving at 8:40 A. M. Invocation at the opening session will be by the Rev. George Phillips Payson of the Chatterton Guild Congregational Church . May B. O'Keefe will sing " God Bless America , " after which will come the roll call , a welcoming speech by Chairman Jaeckle and the keynote speech of Thomas E. Dewey . Katherine Kennedy will be elected secretary of the convention and Richard H. Schnoor as sergeant-atarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Rabbi David M. Shohet of Yonkers , Mr. Dewey will call the meeting to order , introduce Joe R. Hanley , who is to be permanent chairman ; the platform will be adopted and nominations for State-wide office will be in order . The convention will adjourn after its business session until tomorrow night , when it will reconvene at the Empire City race track to hear a speech by Mr. Willkie . However , late tonight all the delegates will adjourn to the Westchester Country Club at Harrison . N. Y. , to hear a speech by Governor Harold Stassen of Minnesota , at a dinner given by the State Association of Young Republican clubs .                     