@@706794

txt United States Army ground and air forces have arrived on Guadalcanal to help dpfend the Solomon Islands base , according to War Secretary Henry L. Stimson . The Japanese succeeded early yesterday morning in landing heavy reinforcements to the west of the United State. , Marines ' positions on the island . From the fact that the American reinforcements were announced to be under ** Gen. Millard F. Harmon , who has been assembling a force on New Caledonia about 1.100 miles east of Northern Australia . it is probable that the troops moved in either from that base , or from the general American headquarters at New Zealand . Although few details of the Japanese landing are given , it would appear that the invader sent at least two squadrons on this errand . The first of them contacted a detachment of United States cruisers and destroyers that had been detailed to prevent landings at the end of last week and kept it heavily engaged , finally heading off in a northwest direction . This engagement cost the Japanese two heavy cruisers , four destroyers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their end by diverting the American task force so that the second landing squadron under strong naval protection made land without interruption . Moreover , the naval force accompanying the second convoy was able to train its guns upon the American airfield and land installations . So far these had been kept clear of all raids by the vigilance of the American airmen . What damage was done was not stated . However , it is scarcely likely that any planes were caught unawares on the ground at so critical a moment . After this bombardment , the American base was again bombed , this time by 25 Japanese planes , which were not intercepted . A second aerial bombing , however , found the Americans ready and nine out ? of 15 Japanese bombers were downed . The extent of the Japanese preparations to take this United Nations outpost which has severely disrupted their plans in the Pacific for two months shows that they mean to take it at all costs . However , today 's announcement by Secretary Stimson , together with recent pronouncements by Admiral Chester W. Nimitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations are equally determined to hold their gains . Elsewhere in the global war , the Russians are still holding their own . while expected new developments have not yet broken out . The expectation that one of the fields of new activity will be North Africa has been strengthened by reports of the arrival of General Field Marshal Erwin Rommel back in Egypt from his visit to Berlin . Solomons : Enemy Brines Up New Naval Forces The United States announced today that the Japanese have brought up heavy naval units in their apparently all-out effort to drive United States Army and Ma'rine forces out of the Solomon Islands despite considerable enemy losses in the last four days . The enemy 's losses in the fight and its preliminary stages ; covering a four-day period , were reported by the Navy in a communiqu ? as b.ing seven ships , including a battleship . damaged and 33 planes shot down , destroyed on the ground or damaged both in actions over the American airfield on Guadalcanal as a result a ! Amerkan attacks on Japanese bases . Damage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an unintercepted enemy bomber raid on the airfield at Guadalcanal and also the loss of two fighter planes . Secretary of War henry L. Siam-son disclosed today that substantial United States Army ground And Mr fIrces had arrived on Guadalcanal to help the Marina 's defend the Solomon Islands key point against newly-developing Japanese attacks . ' Mc damage done to the Guadalcanel airfield , which had previously been bombed by Japanese wan- , ships , was not disclosed nor was there any exact explanation as to why American fighters in that one ; instance had faile to take the air to repel the attack . A communique , followine up announcement on the night of Oct. , 14 that the enemy troops on the strategic island had been heavily reinforced , said that United States ' reinforcements had been landed on Oct. 13 , Guadalcanal time , and that although the ships which took them in were attacked by enemy bombers they suffered no damage and unloading operations were accomplished successfully . The Japanese reinforcements were made on the early morning of Oct. 15 , Guadalcanal time , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered not only by destroyers and cruisers , but also by a battleship . An American aircraft striking group attacked the enenv ships and the communique said reports indicated that three direct hits were made on one transport while two other transports were set afire and were burning when las observed . The Japanese battleship was damaged in this same United States attack and one enemy flehter plane was shot down . Heavy Enemy Forces Sighted in Vicinity Such resistance . however , apparently did not deter the enemy the Air Forces . General Harmon , the Secretary said , has his headquarters in New Zealand but has spent most of his time at his advance base in New Caledonia . attack was made by two seperate groups of bombers , each of which had fighter escort . and it was the first group which got through tin-restricted . " Our fighters were unable to intercept the first flight , which contained about 25 bombers , " the communiqu ? said . " During the second attack they shot down nine of the 15 bombers in the grow ; and destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The communiqu ? then can led the reoort into the 15th. and dis the escort which consisted of torpedo boats and minesweepers was such that it was obvious that the enemy attached great importance to the safe passage of this vessel , " the Admiralty added . The engagement was said to have taken place off Cape de la Hague and the Admiralty declared that in this action and in the subseqeunt clash near Guernsey " enemy coastal batteries opened fire on our ships without effect . " The flames from the two damaged escort vessels were visible from the English Coast , the communique said . The rest of the escort was reported to have scattered and withdrawn . The important supply ship first was damaged by gunfire and then hit with two torpedos in a motor torpedoboat attack . The communiqu ? said " only superficial damage was sustained by one of our ships . Casualties were confined to two sailors wounded . " The German High Command said that a British " artillery motor torpedoboat " was sunk and five motor torpedo-boats were damaged by shellfire in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between British and German light naval forces . I " One of our own vessels was lost . " the announcement said . French Coast : Germans Report ' Commando Raids losses to 21 since early 1942 , when diplomatic relations with the Axis were broken off . The four latest United Nations losses boosted to 491 the Associated Press count of disclosed Western Atlantic ship sinkings since entry of the United Nations into the var . Netherlands : U. S.-Built Planes Attack Rail Yards American-built Mustang fighters of the RAF attacked railway la cilitics in the Netherlands and damaged three small Axis vessels off the coast on Oct. 14 , the British Air Ministry announced . None of the Mustangs was lost in the fcrays , which coincided with a series of offensive sweeps over Northern France by Spitfires and Beaufighters . The Spitfires were credited ! with damaging two enemy minesweepers off the French Coast and attacking a railway workshop near Lannion , while the Beaufighters were reported to have strafed two Axis E-boats . The Ministry of Home Security announced that civilian casualties in German air raids on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 238 injured . Malta : Germans Claim Nine Spitfires The German official news agency , DNB said today that German fighters protecting bombers in attacks yesterday on Malta destroyed nine Spitfires . It said British losses of aircraft in recent operations over Malta therefore increased to 40 . The British , on the other hand , claimed to have destroyed at least 65 Axis planes from Oct. 11 through Oct. 14 and have reported I the loss of only seven of Malta 's Spitfires.                     