@@709792

txt Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee today formally opened the Palestine Conference in Lancaster House , St. James , by declaring that the British Government can not allow continuance of the present unrest in the Holy Land . Mr. Attlee reminded the Conference that although Palestine is a small land , what happens there reverberates all around the world . He said he did not believe the conflict of Jews and Arabs in Palestine presented an insoluble problem . Half a Conference Unfortunately , Mr. Attlee was opening barely half a Conference . Fifteen delegates representing the seven Arab States of the Middle East were seated in red silk-covered chairs about the round table in the Conference Hall . Two of them were wearing flowing desert robes and native knives . But no Jews were there  --  none having accepted the British Government 's invitation . There are , however , hopeful indications . today that Jewish representatives may take part in the discussions later in the Conference . Nor are Palestinian Arabs C.-rectly represented . They wanted to be represented by the Mufti of Jerusalem , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of association with Germany . But the Arab States are pressing the Palestine Arabs to reconsider their decision . There was less oriental splendor than expected . Only the delegates of Yemen and Saudi Arabia wore eastern robes . The other Arabs wore lounge suits . The most colorful figures were Prince Faisil , Chief Saudi Arabian delegate , and the Yemen representatives , led by the Amir SaiUl-Islam Abdullah in robes of black and gold with white turbans . Representing the United Kingdom , in addition to the Prime Minister , were Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin . Colonial Secretary George Hall , and Sir Norman Brooke , Cabinet Secretary . Mr. Bevin returned to London from the Paris Peace Conference to attend the talks . The Prime Minister expressed regret that Palestine Arabs had refused to participate , but said he thought " the Arab point of view is adequately and effectively represented by the present gathering . " Present are delegates from the Arab States of Saudi Arabia , Transjordan , Egypt , Yemen , Syria , Lebanon , and Iraq . Mr. Attlee said Britain would open the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federalization " the Holy Land , recently put forward by a commission of British-American experts , but added that Britain was not committed to the proposal and that the Arabs could suggest amendments " or put forward proposals for a settlement on different lines " " No settlement Is possible in Palestine unless each community is prepared to take account of the other 's interests and to make the concessions necessary for peace , " Mr. Attlee declared . The Prime Minister cautioned the delegates against devoting " too much time to past history " and said the Holy Land problem " must be regarded against the wide background of world policy . " Jews Missed Mr. Attlee appeared to have a difficult task injecting enthusiasm into his opening speech , as it was delivered to the Arabs alone , An alternative speech was available if the Jews changed their minds at the last minute . Most elaborate Conference room arrangements were worked out whereby Jews and Arabs , were they both here , could have been kept from meeting each other , at least in the early stages of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come , such precautions will not be necessary . Mr. Attlee reminded representatives of the Arab States that it was Britain which had freed them from Turkish domination and fostered their progress towards independence . The somewhat arid atmosphere of Lancaster House has been lightened somewhat by activities outside the Conference room which may yet bring Palestinian Jews and Arabs into the discussions later in the proceedings . The Jewish Agency has refused so far to attend because it will not accept the British Government 's basis for discussions , namely a federal plan for Palestine . Jewish Agency spokesmen have contended that the mere presence of the Jewish Agency would lend moral weight to the British Government 's plan . The Agency says it fears that if both Jews and Arabs rejected it then the British might say " a plague on both your houses . This is a compromise and we will impose it willy nilly . " But in Bloomsbury , only about a mile away from Lancaster House , leading Jews have been narrowing down the differences keeping them from accepting the British invitation . Jews Hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is here . So is Dr. Nahum Goldmann , American member of the Jewish Agency Executive , and Mr. L , Stein , President of the Anglo-Jewish Association . These men have been seeing Britain 's Colonial Secretary , George Hall . And they have been back and forth to Paris to consult with Jewish Agency headquarters there . The significance of the Bloomsbury meetings behind the scenes is that they have brought together for the first time the official Jewish Agency and other Jewish leaders outside the Agency who have been invited by the British Government to the Conference . The Jewish position , it is understood , is that there must be established in Palestine a " viable " Jewish state . Viable , according to the dictionary , means " capable of living : able to maintain a separate existence . " The Jewish Agency contends that the plan for a Jewish province as envisaged by the British does not conform to this definition . The Arabs claim they will not agree to any more Jewish immigration into Palestine . But if that was their last word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bothered to come to London at all .                     