@@709775

txt The British have quietly slipped in a reparations claim against Italy totaling $11,520,000,000 , it was learned today as the peace conference 's Economic Commission for Italy set the procedure for hearing the various claimant states and Italy on the reparations issue . By nearly doubling the total reparations demands on Italy the British have created a radically new situation with respect to the bargaining position of the claimants . Though the claim appears to have been technically filed on Aug. 29 , most delegates learned of it only today when Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Vice Foreign Minister , said in the commission meeting that he had " heard " that Britain was filing a large claim . Territorial squabbles occupied most of the rest of the conference commissions today . Ivanoe Bonomi , former Premier of Italy , urged the Italian Political and Territorial Commission to extend the Free Territory of Trieste southward along the Istrian coast to include Italian-populated towns , if these localities could not be left to Italy . Hungarian Claim Opposed At a joint meeting of the Hungarian and Rumanian Political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Foreign Minister , opposed the Hungarian claim to 4,000 square kilometers of the richest part of Transylvania . Vassil Kolarov , president of the Bulgarian National Assembly , appeared before the Bulgarian commission to oppose Greek claims for a frontier adjustment and state his country 's demands for a " window on the Aegean . " The Military Commission rejected a Yugoslav proposal to reduce the Italian Navy below the level fixed by the Big Four . The real importance of the new British claim on Italy is in connection with the clauses of the Italian treaty relating to disposition of Italian assets in territory of members of the United Nations , and not as an indication that Britain hopes for or expects reparations from Italy of the type awarded to the Soviet Union . The Russians have been making persistent efforts to place the Western Allies in an unfavorable light because of their insistence on the right to liquidate Italian assets in their respective countries . At the same time the Russians have been laying tremendous stress on the justice of Russian reparations claims . The British , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . Assets in United Kingdom Actually , the British really are interested in only about $40,000,000 worth of Italian assets in the United Kingdom . If those assets are returned to the Italians at all , they will be returned as a matter of generosity and not of Italian right . It was also learned today that the United States delegation had considered filing a reparations claim for the same tactical reason . However , in view of frequent statements that the United States was not seeking reparations , it was decided that the advantages within the framework of this conference would be outweighed by the disadvantages of making such an obviously insincere maneuver . Despite the fact tlIte : the British do not really intend to get reparations , the situation faced by the Italian Economic Commission is considerably changed by its having a claim of this size before it . The British claim is about twice the total of the claims of all smaller countries and is more than 115 times as big as the Russian claim , which already has been approved . Furthermore , Britain is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brushed off by the Russians , as Australia was again today when her delegation sought modifications in Article XXIII of the Italian treaty , which relates to the manner of paying reparations to Russia . In the end this British move may actually turn out to be Italy 's biggest break . By piling up reparations demands to an absurd level , the British are in position to force the conference to consider Italy 's capacity to pay . Thus , what the Australians have failed to do by reason the British may accomplish by strategy . The Italian Economic Commission decided today to hear Italian views on reparations after hearing all claimant countries ( except Russia , since her claim of $100 , - 000,000 already has been approved ) but before voting on the reparations awards . Australian Plan Beaten The commission voted 13 to 7 against an Australian amendment ' designed to make a permanent reparations commission the agency for determining the kinds and ! amounts of goods to be delivered Ito the Soviet Union as reparations . The countries voting with Australia were Canada , Brazil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the treaty stands , there will be bilateral arrangements between Italy and Russia concerning the reparations deliveries . There is a good chance that the Australian amendment or something like it will be accepted in connection , with reparations settlements for other countries . In that case , an ' interesting question will arise as to whether Russia 's arrangements are to remain under a different regime than that applying to other countries . The Economic Commission for Ithe Balkans and Finland approved Article XXIII of the Rumanian treaty , providing for restitution to members of the United Nations of property looted by the Axis during the war and located in Rumanian territory . The commission refused to give formal consideration to Rumanian observations on this clause , accepting the view of Herv6 Alphand of France that these observations were not " well founded . " The discussion was featured by a strong defense by New Zealand delegate P. Costello of the Soviet Union 's right to keep as war booty art treasures , religious objects and similar property taken from Rumania by Russian troops and considered by Russia as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Axis operations in Russian territory .                     