@@712090

txt The Senate passed tonight a bill to increase the official stature and authority of the Secretary of Defense over all the armed forces in a moderate strengthening of the Unification Act of 1947 . It was approved unanimously by voice vote after most of the controversy had been eliminated by the decisive rejection of a series of hardening amendments that would have extended the Secretary 's control a great deal further . One change was permitted in the text of the measure as it was reported out , 12 to 1 , by the Armed Services Committee . This was a provision , which the majority accepted without debate , that the Secretary might transfer a permanent officer from one service to another under four conditions . These were : that the President must approve ; that the officer involved was willing ; that his service was ready to let him go , and that the new service wanted him . Tydings Admits Conservatism This alteration : was the only one obtained by the forces for stiffening the bill , led by Senator Wayne Morse , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they offered on the ground that the measure would not ? otherwise ' go much beyond the existing Unification Act toward pulling the services together . The prospect for final Congressional action at this session on the bill was obscure . It has yet to be taken up in , the House . The leader for the bill , Senator Millard E. Tydings , Democrat , of Maryland , in substance conceded in debate , as his committee had done before , that there was " considerable validity " to the criticism that what was being done was " somewhat too conservative . " Nevertheless , he described it as a great advance toward unification and , at all events , as the longest step that could be taken for the present . By putting better budgeting and buying practices into the armed forces , Mr. Tydings predicted , it would save $500,000,000 to $1,000,000,000 a year . Mr. Morse and Ms colleagues argued for a much longer step . They alluded to the suicide of James Forrestal , first Secretary of Defense , in an effort to support their assertion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more authority than now , or under the new measure . Major Provisions of Bill The bill as it passed the Senate contained the following major provisions : 1 . Raising the present supervising National Military Establishment legally to the status of an executive department , for example , like the State Department , and reducing the existing departments of Army , Navy and Air Force explicitly to subordinate compartments of the whole . 2 . Stipulating that the Secretary of Defense is to have not merely " general " authority over these departments but " direction , authority and control " over them . 3 . Withdrawing from the administrative heads of the Army , Navy and Air Force their present right , under some circumstances , to appeal to the President on policy matters over the head of the Secretary of Defense . 4 . Creating the office of a deputy Secretary of Defense and thus laying down what proponents called " a perfectly clear chain of command " running from the Secretary down through the deputy secretary , then to the service secretaries for Army , Navy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , which is the highest strategic council of the United States , and making hint the principal military adviser to the President and to the Secretary of Defense . 6 . Establishing in the office of the Secretary a controller , as the chief fiscal officer of the Military Establishment , and setting up within three years a " performance budget " for the military forces . Its purpose would be to make clearer and more readily separable and identifiable the nature of requests for appropriations by the subordinate military authorities . Mr. Morse , who lost yesterday in an effort to permit the Secretary of Defense to reassign combat personnel from one service to another , returned to this proposal today with five other amendments . The only one adopted , that permitting the voluntary and conditional transfer of permanent officers , did not satisfy him . His two principal defeats in the four other rejected amendments were concerned wth his attempts to strengthen the Secretary 's position officially on the one hand and militarily on the other . In the first case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his proposal that the title " Secretary , " one of high prestige in Washington , be dropped from the subordinate administrative heads of the Army , Navy and Air Force , and that hereafter they be called " Under-Secretaries of Defense . " In the second case , he was defeated , 63 to 13 , on a proposal to give to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff a tenure of four years , under Presidential appointment , and a vote in the deliberations as well . As the bill was passed , the voting members of the joint chiefs will be the Chiefs of Staff for Army and Air Force , and the Chief of Naval Operations .                     