@@708793

txt The destroyers Hugh W. Hadley and Evans knocked down 38 Japanese suicide planes in an hour and 45 minute , battle off Okinawa on May 11 , the navy disclosed tonight . The bag , the navy said , was the largest ever reported for Capt . Archer ships of their size during a single action . Altogether , 88 enemy planes were destroyed in the epic struggle with marine Corsair pilots shooting down an additional 50 from the attacking force of more than 150 . The 2,050 ton Evans , smaller of the team , got 15 planes and was credited with four assists in 73 min. utes before its guns were silenced . The 2,200 ton Hadley established an all time record for destroyers by bringing down 23 Japanese planes in 105 minutes . In the last 30 minutes the Hadle- protected the crippled Evans altho the Hadley itself was damaged . Four Hit Evans ' Deck The Nips struck in groups of four to six at a time , The battle reached such ferocity at one time that the Evans was bringing down suicide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself . Lt. James M. Smith of New Freedom , Pa. , the Evans ' surgeon , said guns were firing so rapidly and so long that relief had to be provided for exhausted ammunition loaders . Four suicide planes crashed on the Evans ' decks and Mill and the Hadley took hits that flooded both engine rooms and one fire room and knocked out its main battery . The first Kamikaze pilot crashed into the Evans ' bow an hour after the battle started . In quick succession , three more hit her . One resulting explosion blew the executive officer , Lt. John W. Gilpin of Windsor , Vt. , over the side . A seaman , Pat J. Macclocca of Baltimore , Md. , plunged into the water and supported him until both were picked up . Wounded Taken Oft Hadley A few minutes later the Evans ' guns went out of action and the Iladley alone took over the job of fending off the Japanese planes . Sensing a kill , 10 suicide planes struck simultaneously . All were shot down , but the Hadley was damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attack began to taper off , many of the Corsair pilots ran out of ammunition but continued to shield the battered destroyers by riding the enemy planes into the water . When the Hadley threatened to capsize , the wounded were taken over the side to life rafts and floats . The remainder of the crews , however , managed to keep the craft afloat and both destroyers reached harbor the next day . The skipper of the Evans is Capt . Robert John Archer of Piedmont , Cal . Capt . Baron Joseph Mullaney of New Bedford , Mass. , is captain of the Hadley . The Evans was commissioned in December , 1943 , the Hadley last November .                     