@@706180

txt While Navy ships cut swiftly through Atlantic waters close to the New England coast today hunting the enemy submarine that sent three torpedoes into the Panamanian oil tanker Norness , 100 miles off Long Island , at 1:20 a. m. yesterday , and Navy planes searched from the skies , 37 of the 38 survivors of the vessel were questioned by Immigration officials at the Naval Torpedo Station . The other survivor remained at the Naval Hospital . Rear Admiral Edward C. Kalbfus , Commander of the Newport Naval Base , who talked to newspapermen today in the library of the Newport Naval War College , said that Nils Mickalsen was the only survivor seriously injured . Other rescued men were described by the Admiral as in " good shape , " as he disclosed that the submarine attack on the Norness had resulted in the loss of two men ? revising an earlier Navy estimate that only one member of the crew was missing . No Press Interviews " The men had been wallowing around in the water for some time in fuel oil , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being allowed with survivors for the time being because his first concern was their health and comfort . This afternoon , however , 57 of the 38 survivors were being interviewed at the Naval Torpedo Station by immigration officials . The Norness still was partly afloat today , her bow sticking out of water . Telling the story of the attack , the naval officer disclosed that the enemy submarine had circled the tanker , which was loaded with fuel oil , sending two torpedoes into her port side and one into the starboard . Magnus Isaksen , skipper of the Malvina B. which rescued Harold Hansen , Captain of the Panamanian Tanker , and seven of the crew , quoted the Captain as saying that " not until we were hit by the second torpedo did we realize we were being attacked by a submarine . " He said that Captain Hansen was " apparently quite casual about the affair . The tanker 's master told me , " he stated , " that the sub stayed on top while firing three torpedoes at regular intervals into the tanker . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishing about 2:30 yesterday afternoon , " Captain Isaksen continued . " We noticed there was something floating in the distance . As we got nearer , we saw it was a lifeboat in which were Captain Hansen and his men . One man had a broken knee cap . We took them aboard and brought them to port . " Other survivors were picked up by rescue ships and attack vessels that sped out from Newport and the New London Naval Base after the partially sunken tanker was spotted by a patrol plane . Some were taken actually from the icy cold water , others were found in lifeboats , and six were rescued from a life raft . Admiral Kalbfus identified the lost men as Keare Reinersten and Ecil Dremseth , both apparently Norwegians , as were most of the rest of the crew . None was an American citizen . One Norwegian seaman 's chief concern , when rescued , was that his sister in New York might be worried over his safety . Admiral Kalbfus said he had . had a telegram sent assuring her of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not spent a rather harassed night , the Admiral commented that he was a veteran Navy man and that his only regret was that he was ashore and not at sea where he could do a little harassing himself . On the tanker 's crew list were the names of six Hansens , including two Harolds  --  one of whom was the Captain . Four of the crew carried the name Anderson .                     