@@712311

txt BROAD AGENDA LETS 3 POWERS CONSIDER POUND DEVALUING Way Also Opened for Asking the International Monetary Fund to Support Sterling PROGRAM SET IS FLEXIBLE Chairmen of the Missions Will Determine Levels to Which Talks Will Be Confined By FELIX BELA1R Jr . Special to THE New foriaC WASHINGTON , Sept. 2 ? British , Canadian and . United States conferees on Britain 's financial plight agreed today on a broad agenda for next week 's meeting of Cabinet ministers that left the way open for consideration of sterling devaluation and support from the International Monetary Fund . With the program of the conference agreed to and after a meeting of minds on the statistical basis for the talks beginning Wednesday , the negotiators adjourned over the week-end with the understanding that there might be a further brief session before the arrival of the British and Canadian ministers . As finally drawn the agenda for the meeting reserved until the end a discussion of the International Monetary Fund and the possibility of drawing on its resources to ameliorate the British short-term position . An exchange of views on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled . Since sterling devaluation and its implementation to protect Britain 's dwindling gold and dollar reserves are considered here to be basic to a return to sterling convertibility even on a limited basis , discussion of the latter might easily lead to an exchange of ideas on the proper level of the pound sterling . II . S. to Avoid Dictating This Government is determined to avoid the devaluation question unless it is broached by the British or Canadian delegations because , among other reasons , it is determined to avoid any semblance of dictating what British policy should be . However , unless it was intended to leave the way open to such a discussion , there seemed little point in scheduling a discussion of the International Monetary Fund and the resources immediately at its disposal for protecting the reserves of member countries from any drain resulting from establishment of a new par value . Use of the fund 's readily avail : . able resources behind a devalued pound has been the most frequently mentioned possibility of aiding Britain in the short-term phase of her problem among Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned it to the British because the latter are completely informed on the point . Agenda of Conference Subject to any last minute changes on submission to the respective heads of the mission , the agenda for the Ministers ' conference provided the following pre-cedure : 1 . Introductory remarks by the chairmen and members of the delegations , This will largely determine whether the talks are to be confined to the economic and financial level or to include broad questions of foreign policy as they are affected by economic and financial consideratijns. 2 . An assessment of Britain 's balance of payments difficulty and what can be done about it bilaterally by Britain and the United States on the one hand and by Britain and Canada on the other and on a multilateral basis by alia three countries . 3 . General discussion of the long - term outlook for the sterling area , including prospective dollar earnings , production and employment levels , tariff procedure , s , and shipping and agricultural policies , including the effects of subsidies whether in the form of government contract* for shipping or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of ecoz nomic policy subject to contra by the United Kingdom and by the United States . 4 . An appraisal of possibilities of overseas economic development and investment . In this the British would hope to discover United States intentions under . President Truman 's Point Four program now pending in Con ! . gress . This country hopes to ? on what terms Britain would welcome American private // BROAD AGENDA SET FOR DOLLAR TALKS // investment in British dependent areas . 5 . Discussion of the possibilities of stepping up the . American program of stockpiling primary products from the sterling area such as rubber , tin and jute . If this is to include measures for stabilizing prices to be paid for such imports the agenda did not so specify . 6 . Possible modification of the . European Recovery Program and allocation of funds by the Economic Cooperation Administration to include total requirements of the sterling area in determining British needs . The question here is whether allocation of ECA funds should continue the primary responsibility of the Organeation for European ) Enondmic 43oopezationnateliaris. 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fund for helping Britain bridge her short term " dollar gap . " 8 . General discussion of what might be done by the United States , Britain and Canada to bring about a return to multilateral trade and exchange convertibility . Conflict on Trading Policy There is yet to be a crystallization of United States policy on the last item . The State Department has adopted a more tolerant attitude toward Britain 's bilateral trade agreements program believing that it stems from a policy of necessity that Britain would gladly abandon if she could . The Treasury Department , on the other hand , inclines to the view that Britain 's bilateral trading as a device for protecting foreign markets for British products is only postponing the day when that country must face the realities by I , devaluing the pound , cutting production costs and trying to compete in the world market without restrictive measures . There is general agreement on this side that British bilateralism goes hand-in-hand with the Government 's effort to maintain the pound sterling at its present artificial level . But while the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's importance in United States foreign policy , the Treasury takes the view that Britain can never regain her economic strength until she abandons bilateral trading and puts her financial house in order . Although the British suggestion that total Commonwealth needs be considered in future allocations of the Economic Cooperation Administration funds represents a radical departure in the European Recovery Program , the ECA has already indicated a willingness to overhaul the allocating process . ECA to Use Funds as Rewards The agency late yesterday overruled the Organization for European Economic Cooperation on two counts , cutting its total allocation of the prospective Congressional appropriation by $150,000,000 and serving notice that in the second half of the current fiscal year the resulting individual country allocations would be based on perform , ance under the recovery program . The $150,000,000 cut by ECA ' from the total , annual allocation had been set aside " for special purposes of the highest importance to European recovery . " These included reduction of trade and payment barriers between participating countries , encouragement of development of dependent areas and financing investment projects in Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said had to be read between the lines . Coming as the ECA reply to a report by Robert Marjolin and Baron Snoy , OEEC Secretary General and Chairman , respectively , the agency 's ? announcement served notice that no amount of complaining about lagging European recovery would alter this country 's determination to end the program in 1952.                     