@@709403

txt With the level of Lake Michigan a foot higher than it was last year , the Evanston shore , including the Northwestern university campus , is washing away at a rate that will re . quire elaborate systems of protect . ing jetties immediately , it was digclosed yesterday . Both the city and the university have plans to construct as soon as priorities for materials can be obtained . Evanston is under the heaviest attack by rolling waves across its nar. row beaches in 10 years , university authorities said . ' Furthermore , said John Dillon , Evanston superintendent of parks , it appears to have been singled out among other north shore ' communities for capricious treatment by the lake . Land Point Diverts Waves A point of land at Lunt ay. , in Rogers Park , he said , diverts the force of the waves onto Evanston beaches . Another set of waves picks up the natural sand from Evanston and delivers it white and clean to Wilmette . Suburbs farther north , he said , have broader beaches and higher banks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the campus , the waves have eaten into the bank to a depth of 25 feet . Maurice Ek. burg , superintendent of buildings and grounds , said that some buildings will be threatened unless protecting piers are installed . Dr. Robert Garrels , professor of geology , said that the lake last month was 12 inches higher than in March , 1945 , and that the seasonal peak will not be reached until August or later . Present level is 580.7 above the sea . In 1929 it reached the highest recorded , 582.4 feet , and students formed a sandbag brigade to save the old coast guard station . Levels Change in Cycles " One foot rise make a tremendous increase in erosion , especially in this area , where the beaches are narrow , ' said Dr. Carrels . In addition to the variation from month to month , lake levels change in cycles , with a peak every 10 or 11. years , he said . Definite reasons are unknown , he said , but they include rainfall , underground flow of water and evaporation rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piers , said Harry L. Wells , vice president and business manager . They will be 204 feet in length . It is intended that they will catch enough sand moving ? in the water to extend the beach . Dillon said the city of Evanston planned to spend $15,000 for jetties to add to the system that has been under construction the last four years .                     