@@706200

txt ? The war is now beginning to show its ugly side in Berlin and elsewhere in the Reich . After the special victory communiques announced over the radio to the blare of trumpets throughout various campaigns , including the Russian for almost six months , there has come a period of silence , depression and privations  --  and the blind , the legless and the armless heroes of the battles in the East have made their appearance in the Berlin streets in sufficient numbers to be noticed . Women who wear mourning are also prominent . At the same time , the Reich capital is rapidly becoming cosmopolitan in that foreign workers , whom circumstances have made a vital factor in Germany 's war effort , to-1 gether with war prisoners of many nations , especially Polish and French , who do pick-and-ShoVel tasks , have forced themselves on the streets to the extent that in some sections of the city they seem to be crowding off the natives . If Berliners feel annoyed  --  especially when an indifferent Italian or French waiter does not understand or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not show it , for the Germans are becoming masters in hiding their emotions . Their way of expressing a noncommittal attitude is to register apathy . Those who eat out get the daily High Command communiqu  --  s with their meals . Four times during the day  --  at noon , at 2 , 5 and 10 P. M. ? the restaurants must turn on their loudspeaker radio sets for the broadcast of the German version of the day 's war news . During the broadcast the service of food and // GERMANS NOW SEE UGLY SIDE OF WAR // drink must cease and it is expected that conversation should also cease ? which was observed up to and ineluding the more promising phases of the Russian campaign . But today restaurant patrons keep on talking . This writer left Berlin three days ago and was able to see how the war was being brought home to the German civilians in an evergrowing measure . The German capital today may look like a wellset stage  --  with slightly more cheerful appearance now that shop windows need not black out before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walk many steps to discover the emptiness behind the scenery . Window displays are attractive , but the merchandise is not for sale . Wertheim 's , the big department store , looks normal from the outside , but within it is a 10-cent store in what it offers for sale ? and a good deal more dismal . Many conquered countries have contributed to the window dressing ? much comes from Paris , such as cosmetics , children 's dresses , haberdashery , lingerie . The people in the streets are as tell-tale as the windows . It is certain that the woman in an expensive fur coat has or had a husband or friend in France , and it is equally certain that the father of the child with the bright red , white and blue mittens is or was in Norway . So far no Russian furs have appeared . One plentiful item for Berliners is newspapers , but they do not appear to have much of a market despite stories of authentic Axis successes in the Far East . Rationed articles may be had against the corresponding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , shirts and suitings , is mostly poor . The better grades are exported to obtain selected foreign credits , among which dollars , sterling , Swiss francs and Swedish crowns are the most in demand . Fruit is a rare luxury . A long line is formed whenever a store can offer an exceptionally limited quantity of tobacco , candy or women 's silk stockings , and the persons at the end of the queue are almost certainly doomed to disappointment If a department store has obtained a lot of fifty pairs of silk stockings and the news spreads by word of mouth several hundred would-be buyers turn up before the sale opens . A typewriter , a radio set , an umbrella , a pair of leather gloves . a woman 's handbag , an alarm clock , a padlock , and a suitcase are just a few of the many things impossible to buy except in the second-hand market , where fantastic prices are the rule . But Germans will not forget how these articles look , however , for they are still ' on display @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ items , not for sale . Only once in a while does the foreigner come into contact with any evidence that at least some Berliners do not like the war . A few weeks ago I saw in a subway car one of the conventional warnings , " Be Careful When You Talk ; The Enemy Listens Too , " altered to read " The SS " instead of " The Enemy . " The SS is the Schutzstaffel , the party elite organization that harbors the most potent , of party members . At another time a taxi driver to whom I made a casual remark about the bad weather we were having just then replied : " It is bad , but other things are much worse . I can not get a new overcoat and Goering turns up in a different new uniform every day . In my day it used to be all for the Junkers ; now it is all for the party boys . We still get nothing . " 