@@705661

txt With a sudden fury which seems in one dramatic moment to epitomize the whole long record of their own internal violence , the two great revolutionary regimes of modern times have now been thrown into mortal combat . This is the war which destiny has plotted , the long foreseen conflict between totalitarian and totalitarian . It cuts across , and merges with , the older and larger war of totalitarian against democracy , leaving the rest of the world still stunned by the violence of its coming . That it will have a profound effect upon the course of the larger war seems certain . It is equally certain that since Hitler has chosen suddenly to play for still higher stakes , he has increased enormously the potential danger of our own position . To an American observer of this rev , war the first clear fact is its final , unequivocal proof of the perfidy of Nazi Germany . Can any American ever again talk seriously of appeasing Hitler or trusting his promises ? He had given Russia the most explicit guarantee of non-aggression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wishes . To " appease " him , Stalin had broken the so-called " democratic front " which Russia itself had sponsored ; he had betrayed the international Communist movement of which he was the leader ; lie had groveled in the Nazi dirt at Hitler 's feet . Small good it did him . At the first moment that seemed advantageous to him , Hitler has broken his promises and made war on his appeaser . Let us note that fact , for our own guidance , if we note no other . Equally clear is the moral of Stalin 's own double-dealing- . He had broken faith with his potential allies , France and Britain . He had deliberately given Hitler the signal to start this war in 1939 , by promising a hands-off attitude toward Poland . He had built his whole strategy on the foundation of his own perfidy . He had gambled the future of international communism on the prospect of a long-fought war that would leave both Germany and Britain prostrate , and the way clear for Russia to capitalize on their exhaustion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own diplomacy , with his whole regime in deadly danger of destruction . So war begins between two former partners . From the point of view of the British and ourselves , it would be a dangerous error to regard that war as an unalloyed blessing . That error has been made too often in the past . It was made when Hitler attacked Poland , when he pounced on Norway , when he drove through Holland , Belgium and France , when he marched into Yugoslavia , when his troops appeared in Bengazi , when he began the aerial invasion of Crete . Each time it has been said either that Hitler was taking a desperate gamble , that he was making his " first great mistake , " that he was foolishly and needlessly taking on new enemies , or creating a new front against himself . Each time it was Hitler 's judgment that proved correct , at least as far at . immediate results were concerned . But compared with one possibility , at But a Hitler victory in Russia holds ominous possibilities for the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies ? airplanes and tanks and guns and submarines which , even if we assume all of them to be second-rate , have none the less great potential uses wherever they can be used against inferior or non-existent equipment . Hitler would gain enormous resources , notably of wheat and oil , which in themselves might enable him to defy the British blockade for years . He would be able to set up a puppet Government , more servile than the Vichy Government in France , to direct Russian resources and natred against the democracies . El ' occupation of Russia would enable him to attack and perhaps to seize Syria , Iraq and Iran , with their huge petroleum resources ; to penetrate , if he thought it necessary , India and China ; to make direct connection with Japan . If Japan were tempted by the same uneasy alliance for immediate loot that proved Stalin 's undoing , and has reduced Mussolini to the position of a vassal , Japan could receive clouds of planes from Hitler to fulfill its ambitions in China and the Netherlands Indies and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler on two oceans . The danger to our position would be immediate and ominous . In these circumstances the requirements of our national policy are clear . This is no time for idle satisfaction in the news that two violent totalitarian regimes , both of which are detestable to us , are now engaged in the pleasant process of destroying one another . It is rather a time for action . For , as Mr. Churchill said yesterday , this is clearly one of the great climactic moments of the war , and if it confronts us with a new danger it also brings us a new opportunity . It is manifestly to our advantage to have Hitler 's campaign in Russia as long-drawn-out and as costly to him as possible . This will not only give Britain precious time ; it will enable us to perfect our own defenses . We ought , therefore , to seize boldly the opportunity to increase Hitler 's difficulties , at the very moment when he has at last risked war simultaneously on two fronts , by doubling and redoubling our aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of two things will happen : either Britain will be able to bomb Germany almost at will on the Western Front , inflicting vital damage to Hitler 's war industries ; or Hitler will be forced to deflect from the Eastern Front a large part of his air force , in order to protect himself in the west , in which case there will be much greater likelihood of his bogging down in Russia . This is the moment for the United States to throw into the war on the Western Front every bomber , every fighter and every pursuit plane that can possibly be spared from our own Army and our Navy . Swift action now will be doubly rewarded later . least  --  a possibility that a few days ago seemed by no means remote  --  the German attack on Russia is an unalloyed good from the standpoint of the democracies . This is the possibility that Hitler and Stalin might have announced a complete military alliance . As compared with this possibility , every plane , every tank , every soldier , every day that Hitler now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the United States . Even if he could take Russia without the loss of a man or a gun , he would still have to destroy much of the Russian fighting material and production that he might otherwise have seized or used .                     