@@706243

txt Jesse P. Wolcott declares that current lack f-5c:e of information regarding activities of the United States Pacific Beet is " due to the fact that America lost control of the Pacific at Pearl Harbor . " " T h i s control was 1 o s t , " Wolcott told a Re- Rep. have P. Wolcott. publican rally here last night , " because eight out of nine American capital ships  --  light and heavy cm's. en and battleships  --  which were in Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7 when the Japanese attacked , were destroyed , as well as 473 bomber planes , which Were reduced to scrap . " Says Knox Veils Truth . Wolcott said Navy Secretary Frank Knox " veiled the truth " when he said certain damaged ships could be salvaged . " As a matter of fact , " the congressman declared , " it will take months or years to effect repairs . " The speaker urged a policy of frankness concerning losses which , he said , weie common knowledge in Washington and known as well to axis foes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . Wilson 's Words Quoted . Rep. Wolcott asked support of those in authority who are directing efforts toward winning the war , but quoted the late President Wood . row Wilson as saying : " We do not need less criticism in times of war , but more , if it is constructive . " Wolcott declared : " We must reserve our rights as citizens of the United States to draw a distinction between national unity and political unity and between government and administration . " France lost out when the chamber of deputies and senate were humiliated into impotency . Mussolini first destroyed representative government in Italy ; the Japanese diet was ridiculed into impotency ; the voice 01 the German people was lost when the reichstag was destroyed . These all show that the destruction of the legislative body is the last step to dictatorship . " We need a moratorium on cheap politics , but not on the effectiveness of the voice of the people in govern . ment ; we need a moratorium on the perpetuation of heads of our government ; we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adagio dancers , and actors . " Our President pledged the United States to war in the Pacific , at the famous Atlantic conference with Winston Churchill , without even consulting congress , who is supposed to have the authority to declare war , " said Rep : Wolcott . He gave as authority for this statement the speech made two weeks ago in the house of commons by Churchill , at which he said : " President Roosev el t pledged to me at the Atlantic conference that the United States , even If not attacked , would come into the war in the far east . " lvolcott said members of congress wished to thank Churchill for the Information because , until they heard the radio speech from London two weeks ago , they had not been enlightened as to what actually took place at . the Atlantic conference . 