@@711279

txt EDUCATION NOTES Varied Activities on the Campus And in the Classroom NYU-SARAH LAWRENCE  --  Culture New York University and Sarah Lawrence will jointly sponsor the Second Workshop in Contemporary Culture to be held at the latter 's Bronxvile campus from June 7 to July 2 . The program will offer seminars , studio and laboratory work in the physical and social sciences , the arts , literature , psychology and philosophy . The workshop is intended for college teachers and advanced graduate students planning to teach in colleges . YALE  --  European Trip Twenty students have enrolled for an educational field trip to Great Britain and other parts of Europe , sponsored this summer by the Department of Education ' at Yale University . The tour , designed primarily for education students , has been arranged on a cooperative , non-profit basis and will run from June 25 to Sept. 10 . The itinerary includes Waits to cultural institutions , factories and social and governmental agencies . STANFORD  --  Hispanic-American An extensive program of HispanicAmerican ? studies will be held during the summer quarter at Stanford University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , where only Spanish will be spoken . Special screenings of Spanish films , stage performances , concerts and an art exhibit are among the events planned . TRANSYLVANIA ? In Washington Transylvania College , at Lexington , Ky. , will participate in a " Washington Semester " study plan next fall . The plan , which is also being utilized by five other schools , will enable Transylvania to send four students to the American University at Washington , D. C. , for the first semester to study government and political science . WILSON  --  International Economics A new course in international economics has been added to the offerings of Wilson College to give students a wider view of the world scene . The course will show the effect of the distribution of population , natural resources , food , raw materials and other basic factors upon the foreign policy of the United States and other nations . It also will survey trade agreements , the International Monetary Fund , the Export-Import Bank and other methods of international economic cooperation . CORNELL  --  Student Voice For the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice in forming the educational policies of the College of Home Economics . The faculty has just approved a plan to establish a special committee composed of five students and two faculty members . Two students will also be elected to the college 's regular educational policies committee . A student vote to endorse the program will be held later this month . WILMINGTON Dayton Branch Wilmington College , Wilmington , Ohio , will open a branch school at Day-1 ton next Month The unit will offer a full schedule of freshman classes . During the summer months classes will be conducted in the mornings only , to give students the opportunity of working full time . LESLEY  --  Childhood Education A Workshop in Childhood Education for kindergarten and elementary school teachers will be offered during the summer session at Lesley College , Cambridge , Mass . The course will cover elementary grade teaching methods with every member of the twenty-student class contributing lectures and materials . WLYNE  --  Workshop for Ministers A six-day workshop for ministers dealing with " Human Relations in Industry " will convene June 7 at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University . The course will be limited to 100 ministers selected by denominations affiliated with the Detroit and Michigan Council of Churches . ILLINOIS TECH  --  Psychology Courses in clinical and industrial psychology will be offered as part of the summer session at the Illinois Institute of Technology , June 22 to Aug. 19 . The industrial psychology courses will be held in the early morning and late afternoon for the benefit of employed students . PACIFIC  --  Workshop A workshop for admissions officers , registrars and recorders will be held from Aug. 2 to 7 at the College of the Pacific , Stockton , Calif . The program will cover admissions , registration , records and files , reports and statistics and other phases of administrative activities . ST . MICHAEL 'S ? Summer Session St. Michael 's College , Sante Fe , N. M. , which was converted to a fouryear college last September after eighty-eight years of operation as a secondary school , will begin its first summer session on June 16 . Twentytwo courses in business administration , foreign languages , English , social studies , education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America A special program of summer studies dealing with the history , sociology , civilization and geography of Latin America will be offered at the University of Florida , Intensive study methods and the oral approach to Spanish will be emphasized . The program is under the auspices of the university 's new Latin-American Area Studies curriculum . EVANSVILLE  --  Guidance Workshop Reflecting the increased emiphasis being placed on college counseling , the Evansville Center for Advanced Study will offer a two-week Workshop in Guidance beginning June 8 at Evansville College , Ind . The Center is sponsored by Evansville College in cooperation with Indiana University , Purdue and the Evansville Public Schools . The workshop will study problems affecting the development and adjustment of young people . ITALY  --  New Institute The Dominican Sisters of Sinsinawa , Wis. , will establish a graduate school of fine arts at Florence , Italy , next fall . To be known as the Institute Pius XII , the school will be open to all qualified American women , regardless of race , color or creed . Women of other nationalities will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sisters also conduct Rosary College at River Forest , Ill . FASHION INSTITUTE-Classes The Fashion Institute of Technology , the only school of its kind on the college level , will move its classrooms to Madison Square Garden from June 7 to 13 during the Fashion Fair . Faculty members and students will demonstrate steps in the manufacture of clothes , from raw material to finished garment .                     