@@705328

txt Led by Eivind Berggrav , the Bishop of Oslo , all the Norwegian Bishops ? numbering seven  --  have addressed to the Education and Church States Councilor , Professor Itagnor Shanke , a document that the Swedish press calls " sensational . " While it is in the form of a demand for " clarification , " it constitutes a most outspoken indictment of the Norwegian " new order , " which is accused of open encouragement of violence and contempt for the law . First the Bishops , who are Protestant , ask whether a state that interferes with clerical life accepts and feels itself responsible for right , justice and the moral duties contained in the Bible and the confession . " The Church 's whole ex , istence depends on this , " say the Bishops . They further emphasize that the authorities had promised to respect the Norwegian and church laws , and that even the German Commissioner , Josef Terboven , in one speech declared that the independence of the courts and of justice would be respected . Now , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Question Maintenance of Order " We are confronted with the question whether the State , through its organs , will maintain order , right and justice in the way that our church prescribes , " the Bishops say . Then they add that there is a definite impression that not only does the State not prevent acts of violence , but it actually encourages them and that justice is being deprived of its very foundations . " The concrete reasons for anxiety , " the Bishops declare , " are , first , the Quisling Storm Troopers ' systematic violence ; second , the resignation of all the members of the Supreme Court , and last , but not least , the interference with preachers ' sworn secrecy . " With a great wealth of documentary evidence the Bishops dwell on these three points . Concerning the first they recall the Storm Troopers ' recent attack on Oslo 's Commercial School , when uniformed hooligans beat up many teachers and pupils , " a brutal attack on the president of the students ' union in Trondheim on Nov. 29 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kidnapped in a car , undressed and flogged by Storm Troopers and other similar events in ' and outside Oslo . " There can not be any question of provocation , the Bishops contend . What is more disquieting than the actual attacks , they continue , is that not only are the culprits not arrested and punished , but " on Dec. 12 the supreme representative of the government gave an order to the police not to interfere but actively to support the Storm Troopers . " The Bishops then point out the withdrawal of the members of the Supreme Court and state that the governmental decree of Nov. 14 , " in open conflict with the acknowledged principles of law , abolished the independence of the courts . " Church Feels Insecurity This has created a deep feeling of insecurity within the church , the Bishops say . " It is the church 's role to show what is legitimate , and on this basis to teach every Christian to be loyal to the State , " they continue , " and the State 's Councilor surely would agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right and the duty to denounce and ask for orientation in such important questions as the above mentioned . " The State 's Councilor will understand that the seriousness of our situation is not diminished by the fact that violence creates violence and a mentality of hatred in the people , especially among the youth . " The Bishops finally dwell on the interference by the State with the preachers ' work , especially in the abolition of the vow of secrecy .. " This , " they say , " is not only granted by law but is the foundation of the church , the Magna Charta of the conscience . To abolish it is to attack the church 's lifeline . " It is doubtful if the State 's Councilor will give a satisfactory answer to the Bishops ' appeal just as it is doubtful that they really expect it . " Regiment " Germanized Meanwhile the visit to Norway of Gestapo Chief Heinrich Himmler has had wholly unexpected consequences for the " Regiment Nordland " and its promoters . Under the orders of Herr Himmler , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by patriotic Norwegians to a common cause has been transformed into a body of foreign Janizaries who must forfeit their own language and their national characteristics . ' When the idea of the regiment was launched by Major Vidkun Quisling , many Norwegians understood that it would give the future Norway the status of almost an ally , and not a conquered nation , in the event of a German victory . It was generally believed that the regiment would be led by Norwegian officers , have Norwegian uniforms , obey commands in the Norwegian language , and generally enjoy a status somewhat similar to that of Polish and Czech units within the Allied armies . Illusion Is Shattered This illusion has now been shattered . It has been announced in Oslo that the " Regiment Nordland " will be placed under the command of a German Elite Guard officer , Obergruppenfuehrer Damm ; that all its officers will be Germans , and that the German language will be used for command and even for conversations . The first enlisted men are already being taught German in the Oslo barracks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of the Police and Justice Ministers for enlistment in spite of Major Quisling 's pleas , but that Major Quisling 's demand to join the regiment has been accepted by Herr Datum . The formation of the regiment Is contrary to many Norwegian laws , and the Quislingists have been busy abolishing one law after another to put the affair on a legal basis . Yesterday the Minister of Justice published a prescript abolishing the authorization by parents of the enlistment of minors , the law enforcing the loss of Norwegian citizenship for those accepting other citizenships , and the section of the Criminal Code law forbidding the enlistment in foreign military forces on Norwegian territory . It was also announced that pupils in the last classes of high schools enlisting in the regiment would obtain diplomas without examinations .                     