@@707359

txt Last week 's task force attack on Wake Island developed into a major air battle in which at least thirty Japanese planes were shot down in addition to thirty-one destroyed on the ground , Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , Commander in Chief a the Pacific Fleet and Pacific Ocean areas , disclosed today in his second communiqu ? upon the Wake Island action . United States losses in combat were thirteen planes , and damage to ships in the powerful force commanded by Rear Admiral Alfred E. Montgomery was negligible , the communiqu ? said . Carrier aircraft and land-based Liberator four-motored bombers manned , by Navy crews dropped 320 tons of bombs upon the three islands that comprise the atoll of Wake , Admiral Nimitz said . This is believed here to be the greatest tonnage of bombs dropped in any single operation in the Pacific theatre including the Southwest and South Pacific areas . The bombing extended over the two days of Oct. 5 and 6 , United States time .. The dawn attack Oct. 5 was followed by heavy shelling from ships in Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval bombardment virtually neutralized the anti-aircraft defenses at Wake , the communiqu ? indicated , while the carrier fighters destroyed the enemy 's strength in the air . Thus the bombers that followed the initial attack encountered only negligible opposition while they finished mopping up the once formidable Japanese base . There was no estimate in Admiral Nimitz 's communiqu ? of the number of planes the Japanese put into the air at Wake . However , the total of sixty-one destroyed in the air and on the ground was at least twice the number counted in any of the eight previous assaults upon Wake  --  one in February , 1942 , by a task force and seven since by Army Liberators . This raid , incidentally , proved the effectiveness of the new Gruman F6F Hellcat fighter , which in this operation had its first extensive test in combat against the ' Japanese Zero . By the communiques estimate Japanese plane losses in the air battle were better than two for one , but the enemy , must have been heavily outnumbered . The communiqu ? left a clear inference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,000 miles west of Hawaii , and is the nearest Japanese base to Pearl Harbor with the exception of some enemy-held islands in the Marshalls which are almost as far away . Pacific Menace Lessened The destruction wrought upon , Wake , coupled with the Aug. 30 task force assault upon Marcus , clears the northern part of the central Pacific , at least temporarily , of Japanese strength and moves the enemy 's northern defense perimeter back to the Kuriles . Until Wake is repaired and reinforced there now remains no near flank threat to United States operations against Japanese bases in the Marshall and Gilbert Islands , southwest of Hawaii . Occupation Sept. 4 of Nanumea , northermost island in the Ellice group , just ' south df the Gilberts , and the strong task force bombing of TaH rawa , Makin , Apamama and Mau-ru Islands in the Gilbert area Sept. 18-19 may have been preliminary moves toward a major offensive in the Marshalls and Gilberts . When the enemy is driven from this part of the Pacific his outermost defense base will be Truk . Admiral Nimitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began at dawn Oct. 5 with a heavy and protracted attack made by carrier aircraft and ship bombardment . The Navy 's Liberators , led by Comdr . John K. Hayward of Great Neck , L. I. , hit the atoll late that afternoon . The shelling from the task force was intense , the communiqu ? said , and , combined with bombing , inflicted considerable damage to installations on Wake , Peale and Wilkes Islands . " Enemy defenses were so neutralized in the initial bombardment , " the communiqu ? continued , " that the heavy bombers encountered only weak and ineffective anti-aircraft fire and no air opposition in their low-altitude bombing attacks . " Besides destroying thirty-one planes on the ground , damage listed by the communiqu ? included fires in the plane dispersal area and in shops , barracks and storage centers throughout the three islands . Two small vessels , one of which was a tanker loaded with gasoline , were destroyed . Commander Hayward reported that this tanker was sunk in the atoll 's entrance channel and would have to be removed before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Channel Commander Hayward gave the first eyewitness account of the raid . A tanker sunk in the channel between Wake and Wilkes Islands blocks the only entrance to the atoll by surface vessel . Fifty per cent of the barracks buildings for the Wake garrison were destroyed and bombs and shells inflicted destruction upon the stores , including the enemy 's concealed fuel storage tanks , which looked from the air like a line of beehives . Wake was a well-constructed air base as photos brought back by Commander Hayward show . But now the runways are ruined from many bombs and shell hits . At least eighteen twin-engined bomb'era lay , burned out , on the runway . He made a reconnaissance run , with an undisclosed number of Liberators , that developed into a grim mission of vengeance for some of the fliers . Commander Hayward was a senior submarine commander who went along to " see what bombing is like . " " We arrived over Wake at 1700 ( 5 o'clock in the afternoon ) , " Commander Hayward began . " I assigned specific targets to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and proceeded to attack . " We observed extensive damage on all three islands , Wake , Wilkes and Peale , " he said . " This was all the result of the task force bombing and ship bombardment . A small tanker was.burning fiercely in the channel . " Severe fires were still burning on Peale Island . It was evident that the shops , installations and barracks area had been very heavily bombed . I should say that 50 per cent of the barracks were completely destroyed . Shops Are Demolished " The big shop installations on Heel Point ( on Wake Island ) were completely demolished . A cargo ship was beached on Wake just off the runway . " All of our bombs dropped into the target area except three which fell when the bombardier acciden tally struck the release lever as the plane was trying to avoid ack-ack ' and hit in the lagoon . " Then I circled the island to take pictures . All the time I did this the anti-aircraft was bursting below us to no effect , despite the fact that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was no air opposition . Seeing all those planes destroyed on the ground , it looked to me like the Japs had been completely surlprised by the previous hornbillg and shelling attacks . All of the anti-aircraft batteries firing at us ? there were not more than fourteen at most  --  were locally controlled three-inch stuff . " We came down to 300 feet to do a little strafing with our machine guns . This was not part of our assignment , but I had promised the crews I would do it . Quite a few of the boys had a score to settle . Some of them had been in the American Volunteer Group in China and had fought in the Philippines , such as Lieut . Allan Seaman of Coronado , Calif. , who had been shot down on Bataan and got a medal for flying a Grumman C2F ( Duck ) to Java " We chased  --  and got  --  twelve Japs who were running on the ground . I saw a number of dead Japs who appeared to be untouched . There was no evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was last to leave , having been over the target an hour and twenty minutes . " Commander Hayward 's major mission was to obtain information for the use of the task force that was then preparing for its second dawn attack the next day .                     