@@710743

txt A countrywide campaign against high consumer goods prices is in full cry . The perennial complaint of labor leaders has been taken up in political quarters and it is not unfair to say that some of the price crusaders are employing standard political methods . The Department of Justice publicly instructs all district attorneys to ferret out and attack monopolies . Some officeholders attribute high prices to high living . Labor unions blame corporation profiteers commodity exchanges are accused of permitting rank speculation : commodity dealers retort that the clumsiness of government agencies in their buying for export marks up foodstuffs . Some volunteer publicists call for voluntary restriction of food use . Others seriously propose compulsory rationing and another 0 . P A. None of three proposed or implied measures . nor all of them together can match the power of the forces making for price Inflation . Thewe combine great home buying power with foreign emergency needs in one impact directed at American resources . Our principal commodity markets now betray in abrupt and %latent fluctuations the nersousness that usually follows " record high prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprehenshe traders become as to their immedate future course . The deciding factor will doubtless he our government 's decision on what to do shout further aid to western Europe . Decision will hang fire for some months . even though a special session of Congress is called . That body need not he expected to act before some of its members now surveying the European scene come home to tell their stories . Another and perhaps more important delaying influence is the fact that at least one of the suppliant peoples has begun to demonstrate its will and its capacity to help itself . Great Britain has sold to the United States a little of her gold reserve and has rather unexpectedly obtained a dollar advance from the Monetary Fund against pounds sterling . The government of ' South Africa contemplates putting the country 's current gold production wholly at Britain 's disposal . The commendable motive prompting these steps is to make a practical response in action to the sell-help condition of Secretary Marshall a assistance proposals . but perhaps it is hoped that they will grease the Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will almost inevitably direct public . attention here to the question how much more westein Egrape is able to do for Itself . particularly In the matter of tiding its peoples over the coming winter . Britain 's initial example has not yet been followed elsewhere In Europe . unless one may suppose that settlement of the politically inspired strike of Italian farm laborers was effected with an eye on Washington . Some possibilities of other efforts at economic recovery not dependent on a gift of dollars remain to he explored . such as loans from private or semi-private sources where resulting productivity is fairly assured . It must be rather more mar , a Coincidence that at this Juncture of the aid-Europe debate the Department of Commerce publishes its estimates of capital assets remaining in foreign ownership . Of a total of $16 7 billion in gold holdings and United States hank balances the department assigns some $9 billion to Europe . Labor organizations have let it be known that they plan to use food prices as the springboard for another drive for wage advances if living costs are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five railroad operating unions have decided to ask a 30 ' " e increase in their scale rates , plus changes in working rules . Whether employer resistance will be more vigorous than during the past year is a question . But unquestionably consumer resistance to . or at least resentment of high prices is increasing . The stiffening attitude of shippers toward the pending freight rate increase is avowedly based on the ground that it will add fuel to the inflation fire and aggravate the danger of a business recession resulting from an effective " buyers ' strike - As far as the railroads are concerned . there appear to be two possible brakes on the wage-price merry-go-round . The Interstate Commerce Commission may allow the 10 per cent emergency freight rate in. crease , but deliberate long over the remainder of the 23 per cent rise the carriers have applied for and reduce its pro portions . In that ease the railroad companies would have no choice but to carry the forthcoming wage dispute to a Presidential hoard . Or . in the event that Congress should summarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our exports would decline sharply . leaving a larger proportion of our output to the home markets at lower prices . Congress could . of course , make a substantial appropriation for foreign relief without continuing to finance a 110 billion excess of annual exports over imports . Although strained international relations have long hung like a cloud over world securities markets , neither in London nor in New York did stocks react notably to the violence of Mr. Vishinsky 's denunciation of the United States before the General As-1 sembly of the United Nations . His speech tight be said to make a new high  --  or a new tow ? in the bad manners of Soviet states-1 men . but It is not news that Russia is bent on preventing the United Nations from amounting to anything That was the only sub- ' , stance in the Deputy Foreign Minister 's hourand a half tirade.                     