@@711104

txt WASHINGTON , March 6 ? Congress showed great interest this week in allegations of subversive connections maintained by one prominent individual  --  Dr. Edward U. Condon , Director of the United States Bureau of Standards . On the other hand , the analysis of the global revolutionary aims of Soviet communism by a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee has been received with relative calm . Failure of the House report to shock or surprise ' was quickly taken here as striking evidence in itself of the degree to which people , particularly their Representa , - ; tives is Congress , have come to accept the idea of a " Communist menace . " A suggested reason that the comprehensive , heavily documented report received only passing notice in Congress was the preoccupation of so many of the members on the subject already . Different Goals " Communism in its objectives , its strategy and its practical working methods or tactics * * * assumes top priority for the attention of all concerned with the foreign affairs of the United States , " said the report . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive goal " of economic stabilization and international collaboration . It added , however , that this objective could not be reached unless " negative " action was taken to fend off Communist " sabotage and interference . " While ERP is regarded as a step toward the " positive goal , " most other plans relating to communism are directed at curbing Communist advances at home . If the " menace " is increasing , as public statements almost daily say it is , there is little evidence that the membership rolls of the Communist party in the United States , are growing . Card-holders in pre-war years were believed to number up to 100,000 , but estimates of current membership run somewhat under that totaL The true membership of the party , however , is regarded as only the hard core of a much larger body of fellow-travelers , who , it is feared , are influenced and directed , innocently or otherwise , by the hard-working , closely disciplined card holder . While pending legislation to wipe out the menace is aimed primarily at the Communist party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attack to cover the " fringe " activities also . Current Proposals Principal proposals now before Congress are these : ( 1 ) To outlaw the Communist party ; ( 2 ) to tighten existing law restricting subversive aliens ; ( 3 ) to tighten the espionage act ; ( 4 ) to require political propaganda agencies , including Communist - dominated organizations , to register their membership and other pertinent data with the Attorney General . Two , House . committees are currently considering bills to outlaw thq07ommunist party in the United States and to exclude its candidates from the ballot in all Federal , state and local elections . Meanwhile , an Un-American Activities subcommittee has conducted separate hearings on means of curbing communism , including that of delegalization . Grave doubts as to whether the Supreme Court would uphold outright barring of the party from the ballot , however , has thrown a big question mark around the proposal . Question of Legality Framers of this legislation bear in mind that a California law , later copied by nearly a dozen states , barred the party by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part by the Supreme Court in 1942 . They are aware , too , that in New York , where the Communist party is most active , the organization since 1936 has appeared to prefer operating not through a " legal " party of its own but through the machinery of the American Labor party . Attorney General Clark and J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , argue that an outlawing measure would simply drive the Communists underground where their activities would be all the harder to detect and control . Several states have restrictions against Communists running as such for public office , and known Communists and Communist sympathizers are screened in many instances from Federal , state and local employment through laws , directives and loyalty tests . The Communist party , however , enjoys at present full legal standing in the United States , and there are no laws barring citizens of the country from joining the party . In this connection it must be kept in mind that deportation proceedings can be brought against the Eisler brothers , Hans and . Gerhart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aliens , accused of advocating violent overthrow of the Government . This is also true of the labor leaders now facing deportation in New York . Furthermore , the ten Hollywood personalities coming up for trial in Washington are being prosecuted not because they may be Communists , 1:rut on charges of contempt of Congress , before the un-American Activities Committee last fall . Liberty of Others . Communists and their supporters have denied categorically that the party is subversive in any way , and the American Civil Liberties Union objects to outlawing on grounds that denying civil rights to Communist citizens would jeopardize the liberties of all citizens . A law compelling all Communist and . Communist-front organizations to register pertinent information with the Attorney General has been strongly advanced in some quarters as a more effective measure which would have a better chance in the courts . Representative Mundt of South Dakota has introduced a bill with more specific requirements on registration . He would require registration as the " agent of a foreign principal " by any person who is " a member of the Communist party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination of individuals which is dominated , directed or controlled by the Corn-munist party . " The legislation would also require Communists to identify themselves in all their literature I as agents of a foreign power . Such legislation , its supporters contend , would have the merit of " exposing " Communists , rather than covering up their activities . There are also anti-Communist bills to bar Communist literature from the mails , to prohibit the teaching of Communist doctrines in public and private schools , to deny veterans ' benefits to Communists and Communist sympathizers , and to apply other special penalties to subversive groups .                     