@@708678

txt Britain has allowed her 5 per cent replacements . We have allowed het none . The twelve Liberty ships , eta. , were lent on bare bottom charter , to man , equip and run , for the war only ' they are not replacements . Unquestione ably there are powerful moneyed inter ? ests here , powerfully supported , ready to squeeze Norway off the seas , if they could , in defiance even of the views a of even-handed justice and good-neighour Department of State . Norway paid spot cash fior air force materiel , business personnel , training men , social services for her seamen , most ground occupied , and a fully functioning Government in London ; used lend-lease little , contracted no new national debts , paid up some she had , kept payments up to date on all others , and rebuilt her navy from scratch to 25 per cent of the joint United Nations navies ( excluding America , Britain and Russia , but including France ) . How was it done ? Partly through earnings of the Norwegian Shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merchant fleet so abruptly cut off from owners and home ports . Partly through saving the whole national gold reserve , whisked to England piecemeal in fishing craft during the invasion , right under Nazi noses . Norway fought longer after invasion than any country occupied , standing almost alone the last month , after England 's withdrawal ( to face Dunkerque ) . Today her secretly trained and armed military Home Service has proved the most effective home force . So instantly and efficiently did it take over the mined darns for Norway 's immense electric power , and other mined utilities , that in Norway 's length ( over 1,000 miles as the crow flies ) the one explosion was when Reichskommissar Terboven blew himself to bits in his air raid shelter at Skaugum . Norway 's political stability which made possible a Government functioning constitutionally outside the country , trusted and obeyed by the people at home , has the distinction of proving that democracy can act quickly  --  when it is so old in a country 's tradition that power is relegated in utmost confidence that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is past , as is happening . There is no disorder or uncertainty in Norway today . Five years ago the Norwegian Parliament in extraordinary session during invasion unanimously voted dictatorial powers to the Government ( King in Council ) at home or abroad . That Government 's representative capacity and constitutional authority have never ' been questioned , and there has been no break in contact between the Home Front and the Government in London . The importance of this can not be overemphasized . This Government does not have to be re-established , reconstituted , or fumble for the reins  --  the reins are in its hands . The contribution to world stability is inestimable . Obey Instructions The much misread " tolerant " attitude of the Norwegians regarding the 350,000 Germans , 20 per cent still walking their streets armed , awaiting Allied removal , springs from this . Just before V-E Day they had published instructions from their Government , which they are obeying to the letter , in the interests of " an orderly conclusion to the German occupation . " They are trusting nobody but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Primate , and important leaders of labor and manufacturing interests . The administrative Inner Circle held appointment from the King . Occasionally , leaders " escaped " to London to confer , and returned . For a year past no important decision has been made by the Government without first laying it before the Home Front for reactions . On May 8 Home Front leaders were in London . To the five Cabinet Ministers who returned with them and to six Inner Circle leaders was delegated the full power of the Government until the Allied command leaves with the Nazi troops , and the King and remaining Ministers return to Norway . Prime Minister Nygaardsvold stated clearly May 8 that his first duty on touching Norwegian soil will be to tender his resignation to the King . Whatever temporary Government is invited by the King ( there are several possibilities ) to carry on , pending a general election at the earliest possible moment , Norwegians express absolute contentment as to the right thing being done . With an economic structure  --  ready to pick up again  --  that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Norway is able to paddle her own canoe , unless we swamp half her means of balancing her budget . Norway lost 3,000,000 tons ( 50 per cent ) of Conversion , Not Hate , Urged Stern but Humane Rules Advocated tot Rehabilitation of Germane To ME EDITOR OF THR Nsw ? YbRiti TEAM C The shocking revelations of Buchen. wald , Daohau and other conoentrattion camps have aroused horror at Nast cruelty , even if belatedly , throughout the western world . But little would it compensate the victims  --  German or other  --  of such atrocities if our natural reactions of hate merely led us to lay the ground for new human tragedy . No people has suffered more than the Russians . Yet , according to newspaper reports , their football teams in Berlin are allowed to play with German teams , while west of the Elbe our armies are being urged to treat all Germans indiscriminately with contempt and toughness , the only language they are said to understand . Should we not ask ourselves what it is we are trying to achieve ? If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fervently believe in force , brutality and conquest , how can we protect ourselves from them except by exterminating them or by converting them to a different faith ? Kicking them around for a while will accomplish neither . Or does anybody sincerely believe that young Germans now in their ' teens will become more reluctant to fight America because American soldiers , instead of handing them chocolates , impress them by their militancy or humiliate them ? If not converted , the Germans , ten , twenty or thirty years from now , will have to be made to understand that an attack on any one of their neighbors means war with the United States ; but how could anything we do today to intimidate them or to demonstrate our anger convince them of that ? Coddling or softness to offenders , aside from being dangerous , is incompatible with military government ; encouragement of those who are shaken in their Nazi creed or who never adhered to it is not . If ever there was to be a time when Germans would be groping for an alternative to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it should be now , when the Nazi edifice has come crashing down upon them . Must it be left to the Russians to show them an alternative ? If the Allied Military Government were allowed to apply stern but humane rules to punish the guilty , but to seek to restore in others confidence in the power of human decency , it might in the course of time bring us closer to that ultimate goal of real peace with the Germans which the counselors of fear and hate would bar forever . AB NOLD WOLFERfi . New Haven , Conn. , May 28 , 1943 . Toll Paid by Service Men To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Service men using the shore line on N. Y. , N. H. &; H. R. R. from Providence and Boston , riding on a " furlough ticket " into New York City , are not informed in advance of a cash toll of over $1 , collected by the conductor , if the train on which they ride is a P. R. R. train coming into New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very unfair . If they were told they could avoid the " surprise . " And since regular-fare passengers are not subject to such toll , though they pay no more for one ride or the other , why must service men be so penalized ? To say the least , the charge is excessive . W. P. HAR WICK . Providence , R. I. , May 30 , 1945.                     