@@708575

txt The Allies are firmly up against one more oversize war-end problem : What to do with the hordes of German prisoners captured since the D-Dav landings in Normandy ? Supreme Allied Headquarters has announced more than 1,000,000 , prisoners were taken on the Western Front in the first 23 days of April . Probably 2,500,000 in all have passed through Allied prisoner cages since D-Day . On April 1 , there were 311,630 German prisoners in the United States and more coming , as i well as 50,549 Italians and 3,258 Japanese . The apparent Allied intention is to keep a firm grasp on all German commissioned and noncommissioned officers and on known Nazis of all ranks until the finish of guerrilla warfare in Germany . Some non-ardent Nazi soldiers may be permitted to return home when facilities are available to receive them . But the entire problem is complicated by the fact that no postwar German government will exist to which prisoners can be delivered , as was the case in World War I. Delicate Issue Quite obviously it would not do for the Anglo-Americans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontiers , while to hand them over to Allied military governments wrestling with a disorganized Reich would further complicate the chaos . Moreover , the Allies will assuredly make certain they have given decent home comings to the liberated slave laborers found inside Germany before they burden transport facilities with Nazi soldiers . Repatriating war prisoners obviously is not a subject for the San Francisco Conference , which is designed to establish machinery for a postwar order , not handle every international question imaginable . But the immense task of returning Germany 's manpower to the Reich , and guiding . the absorption of these hordes into German existence is part and parcel of the whole question of how Germany shall be governed after surrender . To send German prisoners home at the cessation of hostilities or immediately thereafter might be highly risky . Germany is in at least as chaotic a situation as it was in 1918 , and to turn several million skilled fighters loose on the wrecked streets of the Reich might pave the way for anarchy and revolution . On the other hand , had the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camps ? in the form of noncompulsory lectures , motion pictures . and reading materials presenting the democratic way of life ? it is possible these returned soldiers would become the sanest and most progressive element in defeated Germany . Many Germans taken on the Russian Front  --  officers if not men  --  have received systematic de-Hitlerizing. pro-Russianizing indoctrination at the hands of the Red Army . The prisoner problem is complicated by the fact that Germany is not surrendering , but rather is having capitulation imposed upon it . This means that the Geneva Convention concerning repatriation is well-nigh useless . It provides as follows : " When the belligerents conclude a convention , they must in principle have appear therein stipulations regarding the repatriation of prisoners of war . If it has not been possible to insert stipulations in this regard in such convention , the belligerents ' shall , nevertheless , come to an agreement in this regard as soon as possible . In any case , repatriation of prisoners shall be effected with the least possible delay after the conclusion of peace . " The Allies have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions equal to those enjoyed by Allied soldiers ; they are giving the enemy no excuse for mistreatment of American and British soldiers . But with new enemy hordes swept up in the drive through Germany , the problem of feeding these hundreds of thousands is multiplying . If German rations can be found , prisoners in Germany will be fed them rather than Allied food . But if 500,000 Germans are maintained indefinitely in the United States enjoying the same basic pay rates and food as American soldiers , this fact is going to get around to the taxpayers . Right now , prisoners are useful due to the labor shortage , but this shortage may end with the war in Europe . Russia suggests a harsh temporary solution when Moscow proposes that labor corps composed of SS troops and other prisoners be drafted for rebuilding areas in Ruhr Faces Hunger PARIS , April 25 ** million Germans in the Ruhr face starvation next winter , Maj. Gen. G. W. R. Templar , ' chief of the military government of Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery 's 21st Army group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world to go around and there is no use pretending there is , " the General said . " 1 am telling the Germans by every available means that they had better get all the seed they Nam and plant them wherever they can to keep from starving . " General Templer said the highly industrialized Ruhr Valley with its great concentration of population and lack of transportation would offer a most serious problem . He said hordes of displaced persons , largely Russians and Poles , were swarming along roads living off the countryside in areag occupied by the British and Canadian armies . Sometimes , he said , they were engaged in looting and murder , while they were outside Military Government control . The problem of handling them liberated laborers and war prisoners is so great that the Military Government can not hope to control the situation fully for sem ( time . General Templer said .                     