@@709399

txt Coal , once the Atlas of British industry and trade , is today its Achilles ' heel . The coal , that a century and a half ago helped Britain launch the great industrial revolution and gave her the jump on the world in manufacturing and trade , comes so sluggishly from the mines today that many British shins are run on American fuel . A survey of John Bulls palsied coal industry , made on the eve of its nationalization , reveals how doddering is its state and what are some of the factors behind its aches and pains . Actual nationalization is not yet in effect , and will not be until finally approved by Parliament . While production increased slightly in the past two months . It is currently not much a hove an annual rate of 175 million tons . That 's about 23% below the 1938 rate , and nearly 40% less than what Britain produced in 1913 before World War I. The Britain that poured out 98 million tons for export and ship bunkering in 1913 now sees her exports shrunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well under 10 million tons . The quality of saleable coal has deteriorated because of inefficient screening . while prices have doubled since 1938 and trebled since 1914 . Not only are power plants , steel mills . factories and railroads living from hand to mouth on meager coal supplies , but the poor quality and high price increase costs of all manufactured products and jeopardize Britain 's export drive . Present output is hardly sufficient to keep the comparatively low level of industrial production going , and would be quite inadequate were British industry running full blast . One thing that keeps production planners lying awake nights is the dearth of men who want to work in coal mines  --  and the epidemic absenteeism of those who do work there . Coal Mine Labor Force Slumps The coal mine labor force which stood at 1.104.400 back in 1913 has skidded to below 700,000 today . Time was when the coal miner brought his son up in the trade But he does so no more . He now urges his son to get some other job  --  any other job . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old miners ' bitter memories ? of unemployment , low wages , long strikes . They were out on strike for seven months in 1926 . Over 40% of them were unemployed during the dark days of 193$ . With the old men advising the young ones to " stay out of the pit ? " enlisting new workers is one of the chief problems of the industry . A. national recruiting officer has been appointed and has started a campaign to bring another 100,000 boys into mining to replace wastage through age and sickness . The theme song of recruiters seeking to flush new miners out of the bushes is that mechanization will in the future lift the miner to the status of a. " skilled mechanic . " Absenteeism Is High Going hand in hand with the shortage of workers as a brake on production is absenteeism . Even with the labor force as depleted as it is. estimates are that if the miners worked as regularly today as they did in 1939 an extra 20 million tons could be produced annually , and perhaps even 40fanlllien . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which 11% was voluntary . Absenteeism in 1938 was only 6.4 % . Mine workers ' leaders maintain that increased absenteeism is due to old age among miners and undernourishment . But an analysis of the ages of absentees recently nrade by one well known collier owner showed that over one-third were youths and young men between 14 and 25 years of age ? while one-quarter were men between 36 and 45 . " Men above those ages have a grand record for regular attendance , " the i'Sport said . The Fuel Minister , having unsuccessfully tried persuasion . is at last attempting to enforce discipline on young absentee miners by drafting culprits into the Army . Production Efficiency Is Low But there 's more wrong with British coal mining than absenteeism and a shortage of workers . Efficiency in production has not kept pace with European Continental mines . A recent study by a group of mining engineers revealed that from the middle twenties to the middle thirties output per rnanshift in Holland increased by 118 , e , in the Ruhr by 81% , in Poland by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semi-monopolistic position of the British coal industry until the United States and Germany became large-scale competitors left a legacy of uneconomic production which is partly responsible for Britain 's troubles today . The fact that mineral rights were in private hands has resulted in small or awkwardly shaped leaseholds , and in the development of an excessive number of mines of insufficient capacity for requirements of the beat mining practice . On the Continent mineral rights were always owned* by the state and concessions and mines generally have been large . Grouping of many mines under one ownership on the Continent has facilitated concentration upon the most economic pits and given the owners adequate financial resources . There are 1,720 separate mines in Britain , owned by 746 undertakings . About 90% of total output is accounted for by 816 mines , each producing over 50.000 tons annually , owned by 353 separate undertakings . Underground Haulage inefficient Where British mines mainly lag in mechanization is in underground haulage . The traditional method in Britain is the endless rope . whether for subsidiary or main reads . And no lees than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Coal handled per haulage worker is only five tons per shift . against 20 to 25 tons in Holland . and upwards of 50 tons in the United States . The use of locomotive haulage on straight level roads on the Continent ( British mine roads are undulating and circuitous ) constitutes one of the greatest single technical Causes of higher output per manshift in Holland and the Ruhr compared with British mines . Coupled with all its other troubles has been the fact that ever since 1917 when the Government took over control during the first world war , the British coal industry has been the sport of politicians And though control was abandoned in 1921. until reestablished in 1940 , private enterprise was never allowed to function freely between the wars . Royal Commissions and Committees of Enquiry have followed each other in rapid succession , and the whole period has been punctuated by sectional and national strikes succeeded by wage awards designed to endure but which have rarely had any prolonged currency . Legislation setting up selling agencies and establishing production quotas and levies had the usual effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more efficient . Merger Atteimpts Failed Attempts to bring about mergers of adjacent pits by voluntary and even by compulsory methods failed in their purpose . Throughout the period relations between owners and miners were the worst in any British industry . The miners had firmly made up their minds in favor of nationalization and would listen to no other alternative plan for reviving the industry 's fortunes . Perpetual financial embarrassment and uncertainty over future ownership of the mines were not conducive to expenditure on long term improvements . Until the nationalization bill becomes law , the industry continues to be operated under government control established during the war in 1942. which gave the Minister of Fuel full power over mine operations and coal allocation . When nationalization goes into effect , existing boards of directors of private owners will be replaced by the new National Coal Board .                     