@@705311

txt President Roosevelt is about to be inaugurated for the third time . As this is written it is 11:40 and the temporary wooden stands built above the great flight of stone steps that spill down like a broken bag of sugar from the gleaming dome-capped Capitol are filled . It is a crystal-clear mid-winter day , one of the few such days in inaugural history . There is enough snap in the air to numb the hurrying fingers of reporters who are racing their running accounts against the verbal announcements from radio broadcasters above them , on the President 's platform . Just ahead the overcoated Marine Band , gay in bright uniforms , is playing martial music , carried over Washington in amplifiers and over the Nation by radio . The President 's stand , raised two stories above the street level , rises just beyond  --  fashioned after some old colonial mansion . It curves out in front like the west portico , painted a blinding white in the sunshine , that looks and feels like a pocket in a snow bank . One reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Telegraphers sit beside reporters at pine benches with Morse instruments . It is like some of those scenes in the campaign that led up to it : the exciting Republican Conven tion at Philadelphia , the dull Democratic one at Chicago , the mighty open-air spectacle at Elwood , Indiana ; all these events and others were milestones to this culminating scene today  --  the first third term in history . He Is on His WaY 11:45 ? We can hear loudspeaker announcements that the President is on his way ' up Pennsylvania Avenue . We are directly under the portico where he will take his oath with the Great Seal of the United States beneath the white colonnade ? the Great Seal which four years ago was left covered by canvas in the inclement weather by somebody who forgot to remove the covering . The gay scene , the band , the crowds , the excited faces  --  are all reminiscent of a football crowd . But what a crowd ! Here on Capitol Hill as we climb onto the pine table , we can see it extends as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Library of Congress  --  across the Plaza . This historic quadrangle is sacred to great American scenes ? from Washington 's day on Lincoln , Theodore Roosevelt , Woodrow Wilson and others they have all left their associations with it . 11:47 ? " Hail to the Chief ! " the band is playing it now , the President is arriving in a cavalcade of military escorts , the soldiers wearing tin hats . The President 's progress runs parallel to growing cheers which swell to a roar as he appears , and the massed thousands take up the greeting . Here Are Garner and Wallace 12:06 ? There is a delay . The band , in its blue and gold uniform , stands waiting . White-haired , white-eye-browed Mr. Garner appears , accompanied by his successor , Henry A. Wallace . Both look out , laughing over the crowd , in high good humor . 12:07 ? President Roosevelt in top hat slowly comes forward . The immediate crowd cheers and the multitude behind takes it up and it diminishes behind like an echo . That receding noise gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything so far . 12:09 ? The invocation : the President stands silent and solemn as the prayer for his guidance is uttered , the lines on his face reflecting the difficult times he has faced in the eight years passed , and is to face , in the four years to come . 12:11 ? In good Texan dialect Mr. . Garner quickly administers the Vice-President 's oath . " I do , " says Mr. Wallace firmly . Mr. Chief Justice Hughes in his dark robes speaks more slowly and solemnly . The oath is simple and austere . Mr. Roosevelt 's voice is vibrant with emotion as he slowly re- peats the great oath after the majestic figure of Mr. Hughes . " So help you God ' " adds the Chief Justice . " So help me God . " adds the President dwelling and pausing after every word . The third term has begun ! Barehead in the Cold 12:14 ? Mr. Roosevelt stands bare-headed as he delivers his inaugural adress . A lone airplane circles high overhead as he speaks . The sky is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and House Office Buildings , and the Library of Congress . The bare winter frees bend in the breeze . The sunshine sparkles on every object . 12:18 -- - " Democracy is not dying ! " exclaims the President . The big crowd gives its first applause with the clapping of tens of thousands of gloved hands . 12:22 ? Mr. Roosevelt is telling the country of the dream of America . On the platform beside him about one-third of the celebrities wear top hats . Others wear felt hats , but they all agree on one thing  --  their collars are turned up . Address Like a Sermon 12:30 ? He has finished . The speech was like a sermon , almost a prayer ; calling on Americans to keep the faith . It is hard to do justice to the solemnity and majesty of the scene , caught up in the deep emotion of the President 's voice . 12:31 ? Now there is the final benediction . The President steps forward . waves his hat to the crowd . The band plays " The Star Spangled Banner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black skull cap back on his head that he tok off to administer the oath . James Roosevelt . the President 's son . returns to the speakers ' stand . picks up the pages of his father 's address . The band plays " The Stars and Stripes Forever . " It is all over  --  all , that is. except for a great military show down . Pennsylvania Avenue this afternoon which will symbolize America 's armed might . 