@@705407

txt Can the Greeks hold out in the likely event of a German attack ? This question may prove the crux of the war in coming months . Greece is a small country . It is a poor country . Four months of heroic successful resistan ! e to the Italians under exceptionally trying conditions have cost it much . It would be foolish to deny the extent to which the Greek Nation has drawn upon its material and human resources to withstand invasion . Moreover , though the Greeks have always despised the Italians , the appearance on the scene of fresh well-armed German forces would be a severe blow to their still excellent morale . Ever since Italy 's unprovoked aggression forced them toward war the Greeks have made the utmost effort to escape embroilment with Germany , avoiding words or deeds that might provide the Germans with nretexts for intervention . Deny Entry to Other Troops That is why the Greeks keep emphasizing that they have not and will not allow any non-Greek troops on their soil . The Germans for their part have pretended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their partner 's misadventures , and hinting that Italy acted without their advice and that they disapprove their policy . Considering Germany 's complete ascendancy inside the Axis this is an obvious falsehood , especially since Premier Mussolini saw Reichsfiihrer Hitler at Florence just before launching his attack . Doubtless he acted upon instructions . Even before the Greco-Italian war Germans in Greece disparaged the Italians , thereby seeking to ingratiate themselves with the Greeks and they have continued playing the same game . Herr Hitler doubtless intended that once Italy had forced Greece to its knees Germany could come forward and offer its services as an " impartial " arbitrator . Greek valor plus timely British aid foiled this scheme . But even now , when it is evident that the Italians can never extricate themselves unaided from their mess , Germany , though prepared to intervene , hopes that the Greeks may be threatened and cajoled into a separate peace . As a bait they might offer what would seem superficially generous terms : a slice of Southern Albania in exchange for expulsion of British air forces and placement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greeks , knowing German perfidy , and loyal to their allies , reject such an offer , the stage would be set for an invasion . The Usual Invasion Technique The German technique of prdpaganda has always been the same in the invasions of Poland , Scandinavia , and the Low Countries . To resist German invasion and maintain their positions in Albania , the Greeks would have to accept ground troop reinforcements either from the British or the Turks if the latter should become involved . The number of these reinforcements would depend upon the amount of troops Germans sent against them . The Germans may be expected to use anywhere from 10 to 20 divisions . Any Allied troops would also need to bring along munitions and armament , including proportionate air support . Although a German attack on Greece would complicate the Allied situation , the Germans , too , will face grave difficulties . A Wild and Rugged Country Their communication lines through Western Bulgaria will extend across the wildest and most rugged mountainous region of the Balkans . The only highway from Bulgaria to Salonica is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it last autumn it was little more than a muddy wagon track for long stretches . Elsewhere it zigzagged up the mountainsides at a dizzy angle . There were no bridges and we had to ford eight streams . During the spring floods these must be impassable . In any case this road when I saw it was in no condition for mechanized columns . Under German Supervision During the early winter roadwork was done there by Bulgarian teams under German supervisors . but for the last two months this work had to be suspended and was only resumed two weeks ago . Although on the Greek side the road is much improved it crosses . several steep ranges befort reach ing Salonica . The Germans have no other route unless they decide to pass through Yugoslavia also . The Azios River valley provides a natural gateway to Salonica and the Macedonian plain into which the valley broadens out near the Greek frontier . Here the Germans would have a direct railway and comparatively good motor roads . But this would involve complications with Yugoslavia . Here again the German pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of threat and bribery . The pressures on Yugoslavia will be similar to those imposed on Bulgaria ? diplomacy which led the Bulgarian Premier to explain his signature with the Axis as having been made necessary by the " pressure of events . " Yet the developments in the Balkans must not be taken as establishing a situation which was unanticipated . From the moment that France fell it was clearly apparent that the Nazi 's could copquer the rest of the Balkan stales " by telephone . " That has happened . But the situation has developed two unexpected elements which were not visible in those grim and disappointing days when the collapse of the Third Republic seemed to offer the Nazis a free hand on the Continent . The fi'rst was the heroic resistance of the Greeks . The second was the swift victory of Gen. Sir Archibald Wavell 's Army of the Nile in Africa . The first presents a potential threat against Germany , even though the Germans are not directly involved  --  the threat of a war on a second front  --  a military development Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second makes available an undetermined number of British troops should the British decide to use them in any other section of the Mediterranean theater . German Action Defensive With these things in mind , and judging from the character of the movements already familiar in the German military plans , it is clear that the German action in the Balkan Peninsula , though it involves attack , is essentially defensive . For Nazi military opinion appears convinced that it is vitally necessary to prevent the British from using Greece as a bridgehead for an attack upon Germany 's " back door . " Only the developments of the next few days can accurately show the extent to which Greece beleves that British military assistince could be effective or whether Lt must give way before the pressure of the German legions massing to the north . Turkey appears for the moment to have decided to honor its pledge as an ally of Britain only by defending its own territory  --  holding the Straits but refraining from any expeditionary move in Bulgaria itself . Russia  --  perhaps as a result of secret concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise  --  has refrained from challenging the German penetration among its Slavic brothers in Bulgaria . Anticipated Long Ago Yet with all these factors the military situation which today confronts Greece and Britain is one which has been anticipated for a long time . The British and the Greek General Staffs have had a priceless oportunity to make their plans for just this eventuality as a result of time gained through the vigor of the - Greek resistance against the Italians . These plans , shrouded in the closest military secrecy , will become visible only in response to Germany 's movements . Those movements have now occurred , and the next few days should show what kind of reception committee is waiting for the Nazis . ' Rumanian troops sent to Soviet border as Moscow demands bises on Black Sea . By the Associated Press Turkish leaders declared today that Turkey would remain faithful to it , s alliance with Britain , despite Adolf Hitler 's last-minute attempt to drive a wedge between the Allies , as Rumania massed a million reserve troops on the Soviet Russian frontier . The Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital yesterday , had expressed a desire to protect Turkey 's " interest and well-being . " Meanwhile , high diplomatic quarters in Belgrade , Yugoslavia , said tonight that Gen. Ion Antonescu , Premier of Rumania , rushed to Vienna today to confer with Reichsmarshal Hermann Goring because Soviet Russia had demanded that Rumania immediately cede naval bases on the Black Sea to it Word From Bucharest The diplomats said they had received this information in dispatches from Bucharest . They asserted-that Russia 's demands were of " an ultimative nature , " setting a brief time limit for Rumania 's reply . " Rumania 's army , now nearing full mobilization , is dominated by Germany . Only 43 hours ago , Russia publicly condemned Bulgaria 's action in permitting Nazi troops to enter Bulgaria . In Athens , Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Gen. Sir John G. Dill , chief of the British imperial general staff , were reported to have reached a " satisfactory " agreement with Greek Government leaders on acts to be taken in the event Germany attacks Greece . Nazi troops were declared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with steady stream of tanks , armored cars and heavy artillery rolling into Bulgaria from Rumania . Greeks Rusk Fortifications Thousands of Greek soldiers and workmen toiled vigorously on fortifications barring the mountain passes from Bulgaria . The Greek high command , bluntly rejecting reported German pressure on Greece to sue Italy for peace under threat of a Nazi invasion , announced : " The army and the Greek people have decided in the face of events , no matter from what direction , to fight on with the same undying will for their liberty and their fatherland . " Reports reaching Sofia said 12 German divisions  --  about 150,000 troops  --  had already reached the Greek frontier region by nightfall . Germany 's fourth air fleet , estimated at 1,000 bombers , 600 fighters and 100 observation planes . was reported already installed in Bulgaria . British Minister George W. Rendel , in asking for his passport shortly after 10 a. m. , Sofia time ( 3 a. m. , E. S. T. ) . bluntly accused Bulgaria of co-operating with Germany in preparations for an attack on Greece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be expected . " It is a matter of indifference to His Majesty 's Government what steps Bulgaria may see fit to take to protect herself against external danger , " the British declaration said . The rupture in British-Bulgarian relations came 25 years after a similar schism before the two nations dashed in the World War , in which Bulgaria went down to defeat .                     