@@711215

txt The Literary Gazette today printed an open letter bearing the names of thirtytwo United States writers , painters and composers , who , the magazine stated , were squarely on the side of the Soviet Union in opposition to current United States leadership and policies . The letter said the group wanted to " share the public duty " , that has been assigned to the bound creative workers . The authors of the letter allege:lly said that they would help the cause by " writing new books and painting new pictures on simple facts and the road to peace , by telling our people the truth and ex posing all lies . " Among the names listed at the end of the letter were those of Howard Fast , novelist ; Marc Blitz , stein , Hollywood composer-play , wright , and Alvah Bessie , movie I writer . Mr. Bessie is one of ten ( persons recently cited for contempt by the House ox R Garclzezstab'vw for having refused to answer questions during the investigation of alleged Communist activities in Hollywood . The other signers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Allen , Herbert Aptheker , Thomas Bell , Walter Bernstein , B. A. Botkin , Richard 0 . Boyer , Lloyd L. Brown , Arnaud drtIsseau , IPhilip Evergood , Ben Field , Sidney Finkelstein , Barbara Giles , Robert Gwathmey , Charles Humboldt , V. J. Jerome , r/feridel le Sueur , Ray Lev , A. B. Magil , Carlton Moss , Joseph North , Isidor Schneider , Howard Selsam , Samuel Sillen , Raphael Soyer , Ira Wallach , Theodore Ward , Max Weber and Doxey Wilkerson . The letter was in answer to an open letter published recently by twelve leading Soviet artists , including Konstantin Simonov , Soviet journalist and playwright . The Russians asked flatly which side the American intelligentsia favored . The reply stated that the thirty-two Americans dared answer that they were on the Soviet side despite oppression in a country Whose President had set himself up as an art critic and where capitalist rulers had only contempt for , and horror of , artistic work . " Our Capitalists know the strength of culture , " the American letter said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and must not say in defense of their system . " Our President takes upon himself the rule of art critic . After several elementary lessons , , , he egotistically insults painters , " the Russian translation says . The letter did not explain this reference . " If a book does not give a 6 per cent profit , or a symphony does not attract ticket buyers , this is not art , " it continued . " Verses and music used in State Department broadcasts to Europe very often are created by people who have been lespised all their lives by the hypocrites who now pretend to respect them . The protectors of Gen. Charles de Gaulle and Italian Premier Alcide de Gasperi know only contempt for , artistic work , and the horror of it . " The Americans allegedly said it had been proved the Russians had ' not " been deceived by the American press and radio , " and that they knew simple Americans were innocent , peace-loving " victims of exploiters who want to turn America into a Fourth Empire . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they would not permit America to go Fascist , although they knew the difficulties they faced , including oppression like the " persecution of Hans Eisler " and " the arrest of Mme. Joliot-Curie . " This was a reference to the deportation of composer Eisler from the United States on a charge of being a Communist and the detention of Mme. Irene Joliot-Curie , French atomic scientist , for questioning at New York when she arrived there from France recently . Editor of U. S. Magazine Explains Samuel Sullen , editor of the magazine Masses and Main Stream , successor to the defunct New Masses , said last night that the open letter referred to in the Moscow dispatch appeared in the current issue of his publication . He explained that a copy of his magazine had been sent to the Literary Gazette , but he doubted that there had been time for the Russian publication to receive it . " I iniagine , " he said , " that the text of the open letter , or at least portions of it , may have been cabled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a ' similar open letter that appeared in the last published edition of the New Masses on Jan. 13 , 1948 . " That letter was signed by twelve leading Russian novelists , playwrights and poets . It expressed a. desire for peace and friendship between the two countries , reminded American intellectuals of past struggles against fascism and urged them to speak up against a new war and a new fascism . " Mr. Sillen made public the text of the letter as it appears in his magazine . It showed some variances from the excerpts quoted in the Moscow dispatch , presumably because of ' translation difficulties . The paragraph in the American text in which reference is made to President Truman reads as follows : " Our capitalists have become sharply aware of the force of culture . They want to tell us what to say and not to say in defense of their system . Our President becomes an art critic ; after a few easy lessons he insults painters with confidence . At a dinner in Washington connoisseurs- from Wall Street admire a sculptured pastry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prize to the cook who created this masterpiece . " The reference to the State Departnient radio broadcasts reads , in the American text , as follows : " The poetry and music our State Department broadcasts to-Europe , to impress everybody with the riches of imperalistic culture , are the work of men neglected and scorned throughout their lives by the hypocrites who now pretend to honor them . " The letter also referred to the candidacy of Henry A. Wallace , saying : " The growing support of Wallace 's ? candidacy among American cultural workers shows that they have a memory for their history . It is a memory shared by millions of Americans who have already turned to a People 's party movement in defense of their basic rights and their very lives . " The letter closes with these sentences : " We hope that your letter and our reply will begin a close and fruitful communication between us , so that we can exchange ideas and speak together against the voices of death . Our enemies will see that our international solidarity for peace and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On this May Day we grip your hand , the hand of all mankind . " Howard Fast , one of the signers , said here that he had not been aware that the letter had been published in the Moscow magazine , and expressed the hope that the American public would be able to read the original version . He spoke of the difficulties of translation , adding that the version contained in the Moscow dispatch might well have been " garbled " in instances .                     