@@708696

txt After almost nine weeks of some of the heaviest fighting yet done in the Pacific the keystone of the bases from which the final attacks against Japan will be launched has been set in place . Formal announcement that Okinawa is " secure " may be delayed . Ever since the Shuri-Naha line was broken last week by Marines and Army troops the decision has been inevitable and foreseeable . The Japanese commander apparently staked all his hopes and all his reserves on holding that original line . Once that hard crust was broken through , the enemy troops had no other prepared positions to which they might retire to offer an organized defense again . The cost of Okinawa has been high5,592 Army and Marine dead , 23,064 wounded and 4,729 killed and 4,640 wounded on the Navy vessels offshore , through May 29 . That is greater than for any other Pacific campaign except that in the Philippines , which was on a much greater scale . But , like Iwo Jima , 825 miles to the east , which also was bought at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or another of the Ryukyus . In an island campaign such as our forces have had to wage through the South and Central Pacific few alternatives have been offered . One or two islands were the key to each group . They had to be taken . They have been taken . In many ways Okinawa is the most important island conquered up to now . Each of the others  --  Guadalcanal , Bougainville , Tarawa , Kwajalein , Saipan , Iwo  --  had its vital importance at the time . None provided the sixty-fivemile long , ten-mile wide springboard for the final attack that does Okinawa . That is why the Japanese fought so hard to hold it . That is why they sent out a battered remnant of the Imperial Fleet , spearheaded by the damaged Yamoto , in an attempt to interfere with it . That is why they sent and have kept sending their suicide air fleets against our invasion ships and the island airfields . That is why the Japanese newspapers now say that the bridges are burned , that the Japanese people must steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The next large campaign for us and for them is " Operation Tokyo . " The Japanese showed no greater intelligence in their defense of Okinawa than they have of combat waves as they splashed ashore on the west coast on Easter Sunday , April 1 . They did not Launch the counter-attacks that might have been equally effective the first two or three days . But they did fight tenaciously , bravely and fanatically even after all hope was gone , and they had to be killed almost to the last man . Our commanders and troops can expect no less fanatical resistance , and even better prepared positions from which the enemy can fight , when the invasion of the home islands is made . Six United States divisions ? four Army and two Marine ? have been identified as having taken part in the Okinawa fighting . Perhaps even more were used . Behind the lines thousands more of service groups , construction battalions and engineers have been waging their own private war against mud and snakes and jungle in preparing Okinawa for its role as a vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as 150,000 to 175,000 Army troops , Marines and Navy shore parties were used in the Okinawa operation . The total of Navy personnel supporting the campaign from the sea must have been two or three times as great . When over half a million men are required to take an island the size of Okinawa , garrisoned by an estimated 80,000 enemy troops , an idea can be gained of the numbers that will be needed for the assault on the home islands , which are many times as big , with better defenses , and garrisoned by a force that has been estimated as high as 2,500,000 men , thirty times as many as on Okinawa . No one ca. afford to stop for a moment to exul over the Okinawa victory , as impor tant as it is . The task ahead still i great .                     