@@710120

txt There are current reports that some American quarters are considering a new plan for international control of the atomic bomb , in order to meet Russian objections to the official American plan already adopted in principle by the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission . The new plan , which presumably is to be urged upon General Marshall , as the new Secretary of State , and Mr. Austin , as the new American delegate to the Security Council and the Atomic Energy Commission , would sidetrack the United Nations in general and the Security Council in particular in the matter of imposing punishment for serious violations of the control provisions , and would leave such punishment to the discretion of the individual Governments . This would obviate the need of eliminating the veto against such punishment , as demanded in the plan already adopted in principle , but opposed by Russia , and would thereby make agreement easier . The outlines of the new plan are still vague , but its central effect is clear . It would knock out the decisive feature and corner-stone of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bomb , now held by the United States by virtue of sole possession , would be transferred to the United Nations only on condition that the United Nations undertakes to employ all the might and resources of its members to guard this cataclysmic force against misuse and to restrain and punish any international outlaw attempting to misuse it . The long debates before the Atomic Energy Commission and the General Assembly have already convinced all nations but Russia and her satellites that any plan falling short of this condition would not only fail of its purpose but would be a snare and a delusion . Under the plan which has already been approved by the U. N. Commission , the nation of the world are called upon to conclude a treaty establishing an International Authority which would supervise , administer and control every phase of atomic energy production ; inspect all nations for , possible violations of the treaty , and report serious violations , defined by the treaty as international crimes , to the Security Council and all treaty signatories for punishment , without giving any Power the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against punishment for such crimes . The treaty would also specifically recognize the inherent right of any nation to take action in selfdefense even before the Security Council acts , in conformity with the United Nations Charter , if such crimes are so grave as to constitute a direct threat to it . Under the proposed new plan the Security Council would deal primarily with minor violations , which under the old plan are put under the jurisdiction of the International Authority ; and while the Security Council might also deal with serious crimes if it could agree , and order punishment if no Power used its unlimited veto to stop it , the primary - esponsibility for restraining violators and imposing punishment on them would be left to the individual nations under the right of self-defense already provided in the old plan . In short , where the old plan emphasizes collective action , the new plan emphasizes individual action . Where the old plan seeks to mobilize all the world 's force and its legal and moral authority against an international criminal , the new plan abandons this high aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect itself as best it can but also enables the criminal to cast doubt upon the legality of such self-defense by a veto against action in the Security Council . That is not only a negation of the United Nations ; it is also a dangerous procedure . For all the experience of the previous decade , from the Manchurian " Incident " to Hitler 's attack on Poland , demonstrates again and again that unless nations are by compact bound together against a sure and certain menace they will not only shrink from individual action but even berate others for not doing what they themselves refuse to do , thereby sowing discord among the forces of law and order and further encouraging the prospective criminal . This is all old-style reasoning ? wholly ignoring the bitter experience of recent years . Any plan based on individual action can only lead in the direction of the very catastrophe it is designed to prevent  --  the employment of atomic weapons by some international outlaw of the future . No such plan can be made good enough to persuade the United States to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   