@@707268

txt Lifting of OPA restrictions on pleasure driving later this month will mark the end of the gasoline crisis in New England and signalize the beginning of a progressively Improving outlook for gas-hungry , East Coast motorists , Ellsworth S. Harding , manager of the Boston Automobile Club , predicted today . Flom his vantage point as spokesman for hundreds of individual ear owners , Mr. Harding added up the pros and cons of the gasoline equation to arrive at the first sound , optimistic viewpoint that loco ) motorists have heard in some time . Completion of the ? big-inch " pipe line from Texas to New York , pending completion of another pipe line by Dec . I , elimination of the submarine menace to coastline tanker service and the prospective equalization of gas distribution on a national basis were among the factors giving rise to Mr. Harding 's optimism . Afore Tanker Shipments Consideration is already being given in Washington , Mr. Harding has learned , to the return of tanker shipments of gasoline up the coastline to New England , which he felt could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time he saw fuel oil inventories in these parts being brought to levels promising further liberalization of gasoline restrictions beyond the lifting of pleasure driving curbs , And if that Is n't enough to support his optimistic outlook , Mr. Harding added that fact that teopening  --  of the Mediterranean to United Nations Waite would make immediately available to military services the petroleum supplies of Iran and hag . These countries p  --  oduce 4 per cent of the world 's petroleum supplies , or nearly twice the volume of Rumanian wells which Germany considers a military prize , he pointed out . Naturally , Mr. Holding explained , there are certain extenuating circumstances which stand more or less in the way of Mei easing gasoline supplies to East Coast motorists . One of them is the prospects of heavier military drains upon available supplies . No one anticipates a European setback for the United Nations , but if this should come it would seriously affect the prospects of increasing civilian supplies of gasoline . And New England must always consider its needs for winter fuel , Mr. Holding warned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unusually moderate winter could have the effect of , bi ightening the gasoline outlook . These are only speculative prospects however , whereas the immediate factors pointing to gpsoline relief are tangible enough to be riled boldly by Mr. Hauling . " Big Inch " as the new pipe line to New York Is termed , will carry from 300,000 to 325,000 gallons of elude oil a day to the Eastern Coast , Mr. Hauling estimated . This will relieve other forms of transportation for gasoline . Another ( pipe line to be finished by Dec . I , he added , will have a capacity of 1225,000 barrels per day and will be designed for carrying gasoline as well as light fuel oil and kerosene . Here 's the Rex Score Mr Harding summarized his outlook on the gasoline situation as follows : I. Lifting'of the pleasure driving ban is expected momentarily . 2 , Vast improvement in transportation facilities allows for equali/ation of the gasoline allotment for eivilan use over the entire country east of the Rockies , 3 . Serious consideration will be given to . supplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from foreign resources . 9 . Proposed increases in the Price of petroleum will come before Congress for careful consideration in September . b . Gasoline supplies for New England will hinge to a great degree upon the demands for fuel this winter . 