@@706936

txt Wartime spending has spilled over into New York hotels , bringing them their greatest prosperity since the lush days of the late 1920 's . A Cleveland newspaperman , arriving here the other day , went to his hotel at 8:15 a.m . He had made a reservation three days before . After waiting in ft double line , five people deep , he reached the clerk and registered . No room was available  --  until 8:e0 p.m . He got it then . but the following morning he was changed to another room . A soldier on week-end leave called five hotels seeking a single room . He took a double . the only room available at any of the five . Instances like these add up to a room occupancy averaging more than 80% . Thati normal " capacity production " for the hotel business . with its terrific turnover of customers . Food and beverage sales arc at record levels , too . Rooms offering dancing and entertainment are full almost every night . Playground of America That hotels in war-swollen Washington or booming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York has n't much war production , considering its size . The answer seems to be that this largest city has become America 's wartime playground . Soldiers and sailors on leave find New York a good place in which to have a fling . War workers from nearby arms centers come into the city for a night or week-end of fun . And business men stop over on the way from their home towns to Washington . Even the East 's oil shortage helps hotels . Hundreds of people from the suburbs and from country homes have moved into the city for the winter , letting the hotels worry about providing heat . Besides , they ca n't drive their cars around country now anyway . The steady ringing of the cash register in all departments of the hotel business means that many of them are beginning to put their financial houses in order . It 's by far the biggest ppportunity.they 've had- to do that *Mice this overbuilt and overfinanced industry went through the wringer of recapitalization during the 1930 's . In the decade of the 1920 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City area . Receiverships were rampant during the 1930 's , in an attempt to make the financial readjustments necessary . It is estimated that in larger cities throughout the United States 807e of the hotels were forced to go through reorganization . New York experienced its full share of that . Now , however , the hotels are doing well . Hotel bonds reflect that and there has been a substantial rise in recent months , in response .                     