@@710464

txt If American business is to keep selling the merchandise flooding from factories . It needs at least two million more good salesmen . That was a belief expressed here as some 1.200 of the nation 's sales executives wound up the 12th annual conference of the National Federation of Sales Executives yesterday . They represented companies selling everything from welding rods to linens . With the nation 's productive capacity some 455- above pre-war 1941 , the sales chiefs ran their eyes gloomily over Labor Department figures on the salesman population The show about 4 million salesmen in the country now . There were 4 5 million in 1941 There were 6.5 million in 1939 . Sen. 10 Million Salesmen Needed Gene W. Flack , director of advertising and trade relations counsel for Sunshine Biscuits , Inc. , and newly elected president of the federation , thinks the nation now needs a sales force of 10 million men . Many others agree with him . William E Holler , national sales consultant who was known as " America s number one salesman " when he was vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sets the needed sales force at 6 million Said he , " We must get from the order-taking of the last five years to the order-making of the next ten . Sales departments have been the stepchild of industry and business for five ' long years . Now , we 've got to become a maJar , front-door department . We need the world 's greatest distribution and selling system to keep free enterprise alive . " The government has been priming the pump for half a decade . Mr. Holler declared Then he added : " Now we 've got to go out and get the business ourselves . Instead of one order from Washington . we must get millions of orders from all over the country , and that means we have to contact people one at a time " Top-flight sales executives see a tough job ahead . " Manufacturers and retailers are going to have frayed nerves during the next 90 days , " said one . " But if we are smart we will not pass the frayed nerves on to our ' customers We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission " Trend In an effort to get more good men on the selling front , said executives at the conference . more companies are moving away from the straight commission method of paying salesmen . The trend is toward a " salary plus commission " payment basis . The reason : Many potential salei-nien , say the executives . have ve stayed out of the field because they want the security of an established salary : others on straight commission get discouraged before they really get started And discouraged salesmen who quit create a costly turnover for companies that hire them Salary plus commission payment will mean greater costs , but greater distribution costs must be expected , says Don Francisco , vice president of the 3 . Walter Thompson Co " Wage rates are advancing in the field of distribution as they have in the field of production . " he emphasizes . " But the opportunity to increase the output of workers in the distribution field is less than in the field of production , where mechanical improvements will be an important factor . " Over and over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough competent salesmen to go around . " Business is crying for salesmen , " said the new president of the federation , and he added that manufacturers who sell direct to consumers are particularly short-handed . " The Real Silk Hosiery people say they have 5.600 salesmen and need 10.000 . " Spotlight on Distribution " The country has 11 million more people employed than before the war , " he declared . " and to keep them employed is a challenge to salesmanship . The salesman is the guy who is going to prevent a major depression by stimulating demand . The spotlight has shifted from greater production to better distribution . " Robert H Cowing , sales manager in Lots Angeles for American Linen Co. , summed it up thus : " You ca n't grow without selling . You 've got to tell people when , where and how to get things . It takes manpower to do that. - Company officials attending the conference agreed , too . that the nation 's sales force has to grow in more than mere size . Major stress on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . Special training for the profession will be emphasized . And the training will start in college . " College and university training for salesmen is n't a new idea , " declares one leading advertising executive . " But real development in the field has come in the past year . " The University of Redlands , Redlands . Calif .. has a four-year course in salesmanship and retailing in its business administration department , leading to a Bachelor of Arts degree . Loyola University in California is said to be considering such a course . Among other schools which are now offering courses in salesmanship are the universities of Virginia . Kentucky , New York and Denver . In addition to their work with educators in setting up college and university courses as a potential source of manpower , sales executives ' clubs throughout the country are dipping into junior colleges and high schools to stimulate interest in their " selling as a career " program .                     