@@704796

txt The Roosevelt administration Is considering the use of American vessels in convoys , escorted by the navy , if necessary , to transport war supplies to the allies . Opponents of the pro posal declared flatly that It would amount to en act of war . Congressional sources responsible for the management of army and navy legislation disclosed today that administration officials already are conferring on plans to permit the use of American ships to transport supplies to the allies , or to Great Britain if France concludes a separate peace with Germany , " That is the next step , " said the chairman of one of the committees handling the national defense program in congress . " We 'll be convoying ships in 30 days . " Still another scheme to aid the allies by having American automobile factories build planes for them was put forward yesterday by Senator Claude Pepper ( A , Fla . ) . Details on page 6.3 Few Ships In Harbor . The need for ships to transport materials arose when England threw open its treasury to purchase arms in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in New York harbor , and most of them are loading scrap iron . This makes necessary the use of additional vessels If the arms are to he shipped abroad quickly . It was estimated Britain and France have 7 billion dollars in quick assets with which they could purchase war supplies immediately in the United States . The question of using convoys to transport supplies to the allies was discussed at a private and informal meeting of senate military and naval affairs committee members in the capitol today . Barred by Neutrality Act . The neutrality act of 1939 bars American ships from belligerent countries . This act would have to be amended or suspended to permit the use of convoys to transport war supI plies to the allies . A pending resolution by Senator Claude Pepper DI , Fla. authorizes the President to suspend any part of the neutrality law . There is one loophole In the neutrality law . It permits use of ships bearing the Red Cross insignia to transport food , clothing , and other nonmilitary supplies . An amendment to the relief appropriation bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 million dollars for the distribution of agricultural products , clothing , mediI cine , and other supplies to men , women , and children made destitute by invasion or hostilities . The amendment gives the President authority to transport such supplies , under such regulations as he may make . Method of Circumventing Law . The ' Red Cross and refugee relief methods are being urged by prewar spokesmen as possible methods of circumventing the neutrality law if congress should refuse to amend or - repeal it . The plan favored in administration quarters , however , calls for the suspension or amendment of the neutrality law and the use of convoys escorted by warships , according to well Informed congressional sources . This proposal is predicated on the assumption France can not hold out against the German war machine and that after the French army has been defeated , Hitler will launch an aerial blitzkrieg against England . By constantly bombing English ports and British shipping , the Germans may be able to make good on their announced intention to blockade the British Isles , administration officials fear . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tion would use convoys protected by warships in an effort to break the German aerial blockade . 