@@709012

txt An indictment was presented today before the international military tribunal representing the United States , Russia , Britain and France to charge twenty-four of Germany 's war leaders  --  all Nazi followers of Adolf Hitler  --  with participation in the bloodiest , blackest plot against peace and humanity that has ever stained history 's pages . It was an unparalleled proceeding and never before have men been called on to answer for such heinous crimes on so vast a scale . All the human and material loss that Europe has suffered since Hitler came to power , including the blood of 5,700,000 Jews who were systematically exterminated , was laid to their criminal machinations . They were charged , too , with the ultimate responsibility for forcing more than 5,000,000 Europeans into slavery to Germany 's war machine and for crimes committed by the German armed forces on the battlefield and at sea . The prosecution requested the tribunal , which holds the power of life and death over the accused Germans , to declare that the Cabinet and the military and semimilitary organizations that helped them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be declared " criminal in purpose . " The seven organizations included the Leadership Corps of the Nazi party , the Elite Guard , the Storm Troops , the Gestapo and the General Staff and High Command of the German armed forces . Would Minimize Later Trials ; If this were done , it was pointed out , it would be unnecessary to hold any more protracted trials such as that to be held soon in Nuremberg . Such action by the court would relieve the prosecution of proving in each instance that the members of those organizations were war criminals and would transfer the burden of proof to thousands of defendants to show that they were unwilling or passive members of the outlawed bodies , thus reducing the proceedings in their cases to the level of magistrates ' hearings . The indictment contained four counts . The first traced the historical development of the plot to turn peaceful Germany into an instrument of aggressive war by submerging everything in the state to the Nazi will as personified by Hitler . All twenty-four defendants were accused under this count . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of aggressive wars in violation of her treaty obligations . The third charged that , in the prosecution of " total war , " Germany had resorted to murder , pillage , torture and destruction in violation of the conventions of civilization and the penal laws of the countries where the crimes were committed . The fourth count laid at the door of most of the defendants the responsibility for the extermination , enslavement and ' deportation of civilian populations before and during the war , and for the persecution , on political , racial and religious grounds , of all those who opposed them or threatened to do so . This count is entitled , " Crimes Against Humanity . " Fourteen of the prisoners now in the Nuremberg jail were made defendants on all four counts . Besides former Marshal Hermann Goering and Rudolf Hess , who were Deputy Fuehrers , these defendants were : Joachim von Ribbentrop , former Foreign Minister . Alfred Rosenberg , official " philosopher " of German racial theories and commissioner for occupied Russian territory . Wilhelm Frick , Minister of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albert 3peer , Minister of Production . Walther Funk , Minister of Economics . Gustav Krupp von Bohlen and Halbach , armament manufacturer . Baron Constantin von Neurath , " Protector " of Bohemia-Moravia . Arthur Seyss-Inquart , commissioner for Austria and the Netherlands . Field Marshal Gens . Wilhelm Keitel and Alfred Jodi. as members of the General Staff . Hans Fritzsche , arch-disseminator of German propaganda at home and abroad . Four defendants  --  Ernst Kaltenbrunner , who helped to rule Austria ; Hans Frank , Governor General of Poland ; Robert Ley , leader of the Labor Front , and Martin Bormann , Deputy Fuehrer , still at large  --  were charged with complicity in the plot to wage aggressive war and with responsibility for war crimes and crimes against humanity , but their names were omitted from those who actually led Germany into war in violation of her treaties . Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , former president of the Reichsbank , and Franz von Papen , former Ambassador , were accused of plotting to wage aggressive war and doing so in violation of treaties , but they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimes or crimes against humanity . Grand Admiral Erich Raeder , former commander in chief of the navy , and his successor , Grand Admiral Karl Doenitz , who assumed succession to Hitler , were called on to answer all the counts , including responsibility for submarine warfare , but they were not held accountable for the wholesale extermination and enslavement of conquered peoples . All the defendants will have at least thirty days to prepare their defense . Whole System Indicted As the indictment was drawn It places the whole Nazi system , if not totalitarianism itself , on trial . The conspiracy to subjugate Germany to Hitler 's will dates back to 1921 , when Hitler assumed the leadership of the party . After the abortive Putsch of 1923 Hitler and his followers decided to seize control of the German state by " legal " means and then , by the suppression of civil liberties and the imprisonment and murder of all opponents , use it for their own purposes . The Nazi party , the in dictment charged , was the core and heart of the conspiracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims or became accessories to its evil purpose at some time during the development of the plot , which , it was charged , had three main objectives . These were , first , to abrogate the Treaty of Versailles by " unlawful means , " not excluding war ; second , to recover German territory lost in the first World War and to gain European territory inhabited by so-called " racial Germans " and , third , to acquire " living space " at the expense of other countries . " The aims and purposes of the Nazi conspirators were not fixed or static , but evolved and expanded as they acquired progressively greater power and became able to make more effective application of threats of force and threats of aggressive war , " the indictment charged . In furtherance of their plot against the peace of the world , it was charged , t ! e Nazis fostered the growth of the myth that , as members of the " master race , " they were destined to reduce other peoples to the status of helots . So , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was necessary and noble for the same purpose , it was charged . Plot Against Germany Seen The leadership principle and the idea that the State was everything and the individual nothing were dinned into , the ears of the German masses until they accepted it and goose-stepped to destruction . All this was part of a scheme to bend the whole people to the leaders ' plan for German aggrandizement , the indictment charged . What happened after the Nazi party had gained power is all in the twenty-seven pages of the indictment , from the suppression of civil liberties at home after the Reichstag fire to the cruelties and barbarities practiced in the name of Germany in the countries that the Germans overran , each lulled into a false sense of security by Hitler 's worthless , promises . But that the evidence to be sub- mitted at the coming trial will contribute some new details was indicated by the indictment 's references to specific meetings of Hitler and his most influential followers while the plots against Austrian and Czechoslovak in tegrity were hatching . At one time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the indictment charged , Hitler and his satellites even debated whether to have Germany 's Minister to Prague . Dr. Ernst Eisenlohr , murdered or to leave it to German agents-provocateurs to find the necessary casus belli . Attached to the indictment is an appendix listing twenty-six breaches of international promises against countries in western Europe , eastern Europe , the Balkans and Scandinavia . Even the strengthening of the Rome-BerlinTokyo Axis in September , 1940 , was cited as another step in the German plot to dominate Europe , for it was charged that by encouraging Japan to embroil the United States and Britain in the Pacific the chances of German victory in Europe would be enhanced . @194510272 The House of Commons , led by Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , made it clear today that the British people are horrified by the specter of German misery and starvation occurring now and threatening in even worse form this winter . In his speech Mr. Bevin said that the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration faced disaster within a few weeks unless Congress voted $1,800,000 , - 000 additional funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . The American contribution , together with that of Britain and other members of the UNRRA , was imperative to pre-vent chaotic world conditions . There has been a truly extraordinary swing of opinion by these embittered people of last winter and spring who suffered under German V missiles but who now feel their humanity outraged by conditions that Russia , Poland and Czechoslovakia are thought to be encouraging , and one speaker likewise attacked the United States . Moreover , there is a deep feeling that the disease and economic col- ' lapse caused in Germany wiW spread to all Europe . Mr. Bevin himself has rarely1 spoken with more passion , bluntness or earthy common sense although he was careful to give full weight to the natural feelings of Russia and Czechoslovakia , and his speech was not so much of blame as a plea for humanity and freedom . He admitted that it would have been better if Germany had not been zoned , and placed all hope for the future in a world organization . It was an emotional , highly strung House today which cried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " did not care two rows of pins what happens to the German people , men , women or children . " But even that member warned that " disease can spread like wildfire " and urged relief for Germany . All the others , Conservatives included , pleaded for the German people . The discussion , in fact , was begun by an Independent , Sir Ar- thur Salter , who himself gave a vivid picture of the distress in Germany . " If , as is now thought , millions during this winter freeze and starve , " he said , " this will not have been the inevitable consequence of material destruction and world shortages of material . " " Wanton and Deliberate " " We are protesting against the wanton and deliberate creation of a new sore when all Europe is crying out from her wounds , " said Michael Foot , Laborite , in a typical interpellation . " We should consider whether it is not possible to make a new call to our Allies , and if we find they will not act with us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still our duty to show that this country is the foremost champion ) of tolerance and decency . " The House heard passionate talk of " starving children , " of " quite unnecessary cruel conditions , " of the " greatest catastrophe the human race ever experienced " and of the " lunatic policy " of Russia and the United States . Offers were made to give up food points here to free food for Germany . It was in that atmosphere of I charged emotionalism that Mr. Bevin rose to make his own deeply emotional plea . " I wish there were similar ParIliaments to this and free and unfettered discussion of this problem I in other countries in Europe , " he said amid cheers from both sides of the House . " There are two kinds of hunger in Europe today . One is physical hunger . But I sometimes think that the awful blackout over Europe is creating a great spiritual hunger more devastating even than physical hunger . " Condemns Racial Hatreds He inveighed against racial hatreds such as that of the Sudeten Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until Hitler 's stooges and agents broke up their democratic state . " Let people live their own lives , whatever nationality they are , and in the main , ordinary folk will live happily together , " he went on . " It might be said that we were wrong to develop zones . I think that probably , now looking back , it would have been better if we had not done it . " I hope and trust and long for the day when all nations will put their trust in a world organization . " A transfer of territory does not bring security , he said . Then he told how something like 14,000,000 to 15,000,000 Germans were being driven , some one way , some another , while about 10,000,000 other displaced persons were waiting to be moved from Germany back to Italy , France and elsewhere . He hinted that German men were being kept by the Russians as slave labor , for German refugees being sent out of Russia were , in " an overwhelming majority , women and children , but no men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streams of refugees in Berlin , he said ? " As I watched I felt , my God , that is the price of man 's stupidity and war . It was the most awful sight you could possibly see . " Turning to the critical financial situation of the UNRRA , Mr. Bevin said : " Difficult as our own financial situation is , we have agreed to pay the same equivalent amount with America-1 per cent of our national income . " The UNRRA , he said , had come in with a flourish of trumpets , and added : " It is a misfortune to hold a press conference at birth , for you do n't quite know how the infant is going to grow up . " Mr. Bevin said he considered the evolution of the UNRRA from the standpoint of efficiency as most remarkable in the past few months but added that the organization 's responsibilities were growing as welt Sir Ben Smith , Minister of Food , said that the requirements of various countries were considered by a combined board in Washington , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world food prospects were seriously disquieting , he said , and " we are facing deficiencies on the balance sheet for the coming year on almost all main foodstuffs . " In meat there is a possible defiency of 3,000,000 tons , " he continued . " For oils and fats the deficit is nearly 500,000 tons . Sugar will be short 1,000,000 tons or more . " I am particularly concerned with the world wheat situation . The only hope of avoiding very serious hardships and possibly famine conditions in certain parts of Europe and elsewhere this winter and next spring is by maintaining an adequate flow of wheat imports , and we must direct all our efforts to this objective . " Members of the House commented on reports that Argentina would be burning wheat and other vital foodstuffs this winter in place of coal and suggested that means be found to supply fuel to prevent this waste of vital foodstuffs . Criticism of Russia Seen LONDON , Oct. 26 ( U.P. ) ? Mr. Bevin 's criticism of Europe 's situation involved Russia on special points . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highways for the movement of relief supplies and ordinary commerce , could be cleared " without endangering Russia one iota " if the factors of " strategy and spheres of influence " could be dropped from the picture . He recalled that United States proposals for overall administration of European river traffic were stalled in the Foreign Ministers ' Council . It has been impossible to get Allied control councils in the Danube River basin to work out the possible food surpluses there , he said .                     