@@711317

txt Peace has come to Palestine ? at least temporarily , It has come through the efforts of the United Nations Security Council and the mediator named by the General Assembly or the world organization , Count Folke Bernadotte , In accepting unconditionally truce terms laid down by the Security Council , the Jews and the Arabs have pledged themselves to refrain from hostilities for a period of four weeks . beginning at 2 a.m . New York time , June 11 . Three Major Facts There are still a lot of ands , ifs , and buts to the cease-fire compact and there is no positive assurance that both sides will comply with it . But three important facts stand out : 1 . The eN has scored one of its greatest achievements to date . In Cairo , Count Bernadotte was quoted by the United Press as saying . " I first of all thank Almighty God . This has been an act of God . " At Lake Success , Secretary-General Trygve Lie told correspondents " this is one of the great days of United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of . Jewish and Arab lives have been saved . 2 . The chances of an ultimate peaceful solution of the complex Palestine problem are better than they have been at any time since Britain announced its intention to surrender its League of Nations mandate over the Holy Land . Council Notified Count Bernadotte , member of the Swedish Royal Family and President of the Swedish Red Cross . notified the Security Council late on June 10 that the Jews and Arabs had accepted the Council 's truce proposal as interpreted by him . At the same time , he asserted that he would turn his attention immediately " to the broader aspects of my task as mediator . namely , the promotion of a peaceful adjustment of the future situation of Palestine . " According to Secretary-General Lie , this " broader aspect " will take the form of a conference with Jewish and Arab leaders on the island of . Rhodes , a dozen miles off the coast of Asia Minor . Count Bernadotte apparently is determined to make every effort to see that the truce is carried out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented on the Security Council 's Truce Commission  --  United States , France , and Belgium  --  to furnish six coastal vessels to see that no attempt is made by either side to bring in reinforcements by sea during the cease-fire period . The United States has been asked for three vessels , France for two , and Belgium for one . All UN Applauds Virtually everyone at UN ? from top delegates to humblest Secretariat member ? is singing the praises of Count Bernadotte . There is no disposition to minimize the difficulties that lie ahead of him . Both the Arabs and the . Jews have reiterated their determination to stand by their original demands  --  the Arabs for a unitary state for all of Palestine , the Jews for recognition of the sovereignty of the new state of Israel . Nevertheless , the general atmosphere here is one of extreme optimism , one might say of jubilation . Regardless of the difficulties that remain to be resolved , it is realized at Lake Success that the very fact that the Jews and the Arabs both have agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cessation of fighting . It implies , in the view of , most diplomats , a realization by both sides that neither can expect to profit much by continued fightng . In other words , it is a tacit admission by both Arabs and Jews that compromise offers them more than continued intransigeance . Transjordan Leads One of the most significant aspects of the whole picture , according to authoritative opinion , is the fact . that Transjordan was the first of the eight governments involved  --  the seven Arab League governments and the Jewish state of Israel  --  to issue a cease-fire order to its troops . Britain is known to be bringing heavy pressure on King Abdullah of Transjordan to make a " deal " with the Je.vs whereby he would accord recognition to Israel in exchange for territorial concessions in the Palestine areas allotted to the Arabs under the General Assembly 's partition recommendation of last November . The two combatants agreed to lay down their guns after Count Bernadotte had offered them a detailed plan for a truce , covering the controversial question of continued Jewish immigration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " no fighting personnel , " which he described as " persons identified as belonging to organized military units " as well as " all persons hearing arms . " should be brought into any of the Arab states or into any part of Palestine . Regarding " men of military age , " the classification which caused considerable difficulty . Count . Bernadotte said . " The mediator shall exercise his discretion during the period of the truce in determining whether ? men of military age are represented among immigrants in such numbers as to give one side a military advantage if their entry is permitted . and in such event shall refuse them entry . " Although the text of the Arab and Jewish replies to the mediator 's proposal are not yet available here , there is some indication that substantial differences of interpretation exists . For example , it is learned that Foreign Minister Moshe Shertok of Israel included a number of " observations " in his reply , while affirming that Israel " attaches no conditions " to acceptance of the truce . Jewish Observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main points : 1 , Arab representatives had A " final " opportunity to confer with Count Bernadotte before he offered his plan more or less in the form of an " ultimatum. " 2 . Israel regards the mediator 's limit restrictions on immigration of men of military age as inconsistent with the Security Council 's truce resolutions of May 29 and trusts he will use his discretion to eliminate this inconsistency . 3. 751-act will regard as unjustified any attempt by Count Bernadotte to interfere with the normal flow of Jewish immigration , even though it is ready to cooperate with him in his job of supervising the truce . 4. 1st-AO takes it for granted that the plan for International Red Cross administration of relief for the city of Jerusalem will not affect those parts of . Jerusalem in Jewish hands , where Jewish forces previously had secured passage of food supplies . 5 . Israel assumes that the truce specifically prohibits the Arabs from imposing a commercial blockade on Israel by confiscating or holding up cargoes of normal supplies consigned to it . 6 . Israel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its original ? position if the Arabs reject the truce and the issue reverts to the Security Council .                     