@@712229

txt Gov . Ingram M. Stainback today asked a joint special session of Hawaii 's Legislature for power to operate the islands ' docks to end the stevedore strike that began on May 1 . Measures demanded by the Governor include also injunctive and seizure powers and authority for the Territory to take over operation of the pineapple and sugar plantations . Immediately after the Governor 's address , in which he stressed that the eighty-seven-day-old waterfront tieup was strangling the insular economy , the Upper and Lower Chambers of the Legislature simultaneously began consideration of twenty-one bills , nineteen of which represented direct legislative action aimed at ending the dock impasse . The situation grew out of a strike called by the International Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Union , CIO , when demands for a pay increase of thirty-two cents an hour were refused by the waterfront employers . Their basic pay rate on May 1 was $1.40 an hour . Two thousand stevedore members of the ILWU struck at that time , and immediately all of Hawaii 's six major commercial shipping ports were crippled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Stainback warned the legislators that they must act " to insure continued operation of shipping . " " We can not do that unless the Government itself takes over the stevedoring operations with its own employes or is empowered to do so whenever necessity arises , " he declared . This governmental move to " crack down " on the strike is generally believed to represent the first time in recent United States labor history that a state or territory had sought seizure powers to end a labor stoppage , although the Federal Government frequently has intervened in some strike on the ground that the specific walkouts were jeopardizing public welfare . Anticipates His Critics Anticipating possible criticism of the plans for Territorial operation of waterfront facilities and services , Governor Stainback had this to say to the legislators : " For those who see in the Government operation of our piers and longshore activity a threat to private enterprise . I submit that there is a far greater threat to private enterprise in this Territory if these operations are not immediately resumed and kept functioning . " On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a method of unionbusting , I point out that the welfare of a half-million people is more important than the interests of a relatively small group of workers . " If labor is the hands and management the head of Hawaii 's economic life , ocean-going transportation is the jugular vein ; if that is cut , both hands and head are sure to perish . " Mr. Stainback specifically pointed out that the Executive Branch of his Administration had exhausted all means of putting an end to the shipping paralysis . The National Government has pointed out that the strike is a " local matter , " hence " apparently only this Legislature can bring an end to the present progressive paralysis of our economy , " he added . Continuing , he declared that " the prolonged strike has wrought incalculable damage to the whole economy of the Territory . Wages have been cut , employes dismissed , businesses closed or threatened with closing , unemployment is gaining and it is estimated that some 12 per cent of the total labor force in the Territory is unemployed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tourist business would provide the needed expansion of the insular economy but " the strike has already created the impression on the mainland that Hawaii is a bad place to which to come , a difficult place to get out of and a place of turmoil , disorder and violence . " " We will have to work years to correct this impression , " he warned . Of the strike-abatement measures introduced today the three relating to seizure , injunctive proceedings and the operation of essential functions are considered the most controversial . One covers waterfront operations and hospital services and the sugar and pineapple industries , the second only the waterfront and hospitals and the third only the sugar and pineapple plantations . Meanwhile , the Governor asserted reports of a rift in the ranks of the longshoremen 's union were partly confirmed when one company 's wharf clerks voted unanimously to secede from the organization . It was the first break in the union front since the dockers went out on strike . The action by the clerks ' local . affiliated here and on the mainland with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighty-five clerks of the Castle &; Cooke Terminals , Ltd . There was an air of grim determination at the historic Iolani Palace this morning as the legislators convened for the strike session , with only a token show of usual abundance of flowers and music . As one legislator put it : " We 've got to do something . Seizure is like a dose of castor oil . It tastes bad , but maybe it 's what we need . " All the strike measures put forward today in both Houses of the Legislature were passed on first readings , this being a Territorial procedure . Second readings are scheduled for tomorrow . After that , the bills will be referred to Committees of the Whole , which meet in joint session for public hearings on controversial issues . These committees then submit the bills for final passage .                     