@@708103

txt CHURCHILL INSISTS NAZIS MUST ATONE He Tells House War Criminals Will Not Escape  --  Debate on Policy Set for Tomorrow By RAYMOND DANIELL By Wireless to Tar Nrw Yorm Tatra . LONDON , Sept. 26 ? Prime Minister Churchill was welcomed and , cheered in the streets of London and in the halls of Parliament today when he returned to Westmin-1 ster . But he found that members I of the House of Commons and the House of Lords were concerned about plans that were being made for the punishment of war crim-i inals , the treatment of vanquished Germany and the international or- ganization for the maintenance ofl peace . Hardly had the Prime Minister entered the House when he was on his feet answering a long series of questions , most of which had to do with the problems of peace . On proposals for the establishment of an organization to maintain international security , Mr. Churchill said that if agreement were reached at Dumbarton Oaks , it would be submitted to the United Nations ' governments as the basis of discussion by all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that remarks attributed to Sir Cecil Hurst , chairman of the United Nations War // Crimes Commission , implying that all that Nazi war criminals needed to do to escape punishment was to escape to neutral countries had been inaccurately reported . Insists on Punishment Mr. Churchill assured his questioner and the House that the Government was firmly resolved to exert " almost every resource that civilized powers can contemplate " to prevent anything like that from happening . Many neutral nations had denied the right of asylum to Nazi war criminals already , he said , although he declared that Spain was not among them . The ? Prime Minister confined himself to answering questions , but when he made his remark ' about Spain 's failure to adopt the line taken by Sweden and Switzerland , he let his eyes wander to the diplomatic gallery . The Duke of Alba , Spanish Ambassador , who was seated there , rose and left at that point . Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden informed members that Mr. Churchill would make next Thursday a full statement on the progress of the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontier since the House adjourned . Time will be set aside Thursday and Friday for a full debate on the military and political policy of the Government , he said . It was believed that the Prime Minister would open the discussion and Mr. Eden close it . The House was extremely curious about the Government 's commitments regarding post-war Germany . The House of Lords was even more so . Lord Vansittart demanded answers to three questions . These were : " First , who is going to occupy what ? Second , what are the instructions to the occupying and administrating powers ? And third , which departments are going to be responsible for this occupation and administration ? " Joint Occupation Urged Lord Vansittart made an earnest plea for the joint occupation of Germany by all the United Nations , arguing that the small Continental powers had a vast knowledge of the Germans that not even Russia , the United States and Great Britain possessed . Besides , he said , it would be a lesson in humility for the German people to be garrisoned by the armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cranborne , replying for the Government to the debate in the House of Lords , said that the ex- , act form of occupation of Germany was an issue under examination at Dumbarton Oaks and that it would be unwise for the Government to make a unilateral statement of its views at this time . He said , however , that it was this Government 's desire that the cooperation of various nations allied in the war should be continued in peacetime . Germans Not Guiltless It was inevitable , nevertheless , Lord Cranborne said , that the nations that had borne the brunt of the war should bear the chief responsibility of maintaining peace . Besides , he said , other countries that had been ravaged by the Germans would have their hands occupied by the problems of reconstruction while some members of the grand alliance would be preoccupied with the Japanem war in the Pacific . ? For these reasons , he said , it was impracticable for every nation to participate in the occupation of Germany equally . On one point Lord Cranborne is a point that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it is American thought , at present . That is just where Nazi responsibility ends and the responsibility of the German people begins . Charging that there was growing evidence that the German General Staff was planning already for another war in another generation , Lord Cranborne said : " We can not hold the German people entirely guiltless of continued aggression . I do not feel any certainty that they would not follow new leaders into war like sheep when the time comes . It is not a reason for treating the German people with the savage cruelty with which they have treated other countries . This , in any case , would be contrary to our traditions and practice and entirely contrary to the declarations of all Allied leaders . "                     