@@710239

txt Pickets of the AFL Brotherhood of Teamsters shook ' their fists today at a helicopter which shuttled hack and foiNh over their heads to deliver raw ninterini to the struck plant of the Cornell- ! Dubilier Electric corporation here . Labor sources here said it was the , first case within their knowledge of a helicopter 's being used to evade a picket line and confessed they were nt a loss to know what to do about ft . The helicopter first appeared about 10:30 a. m. , winging into the city from the southeast . Four pickets were on duty at the plant 's main gate . They watched the helicopter pause above the plant and descend ' , to a neat landing on n narrow lawn inside the company 's fence . Pickets Hoot at Plane The pickets watched workmen unload the plane and deduced from the size and appearance of articles unloaded that the picket line had been defeated in its purpose . Word spread to union headquarters , and union officials , - strikers , and strike sympathizers assembled at the plant gates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and flew away . Within an hour it was back with another cargo . By this time the crowd at the gate , augmented by spectators , was estimated at more than 2,000 persons . S. P. Jason , business agent of the striking local 59 , ordered henchmen to learn where the helicopter was based . Unionists . said that if they could locate its base field they would set up a picket line to prevent its being loaded . Base Remains Secret . ? But whereabouts of the base re- , mained a mystery at sunset , when the helicopter knocked off work after six round trips to deliver materials essential to the plant 's operation tomorrow . Officials said the company manu ? factures capacitators for electric motors and needs a daily shipment of material for 200 units . This amount of material can be delivered in a single ' truckload , they said , whereas the helicopter on each flight was able to bring In material for only 11 units . - The strike began Thursday when 32 persons ; employed as drivers , warehousemen , stockroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced a 24 hour picket line was being set up . The plant 's 2,400 production workers , members of the AFL International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , remained on the job . Neither the company nor f he union would reveal the exact . demends in the strike , but they termed It n wage dispute .                     