@@709318

txt Now that the lid has been partially lilted from turbulent Manchuria by a group of visiting American newspapermen , it seems cleat that Russian troops are acting with disregard for international commitments . Facts now have replaced rumors in assessing the Manchurian situation . The following four definite points were esiablished on the basis of eyewitness evidence : 1 . Russian troops in the Mukden area have systematically stripped the major factories of all large equipment , especially power , producing machinery , such as motors , generators , and turbines . Where the machinery has been taken is a question , but the evidence points to its movement into Siberia . 2 . Russian troops , while perhaps not openly aiding the Chittese Communists , are giving theib an opportunity to organize and consolidate freely , while the Kuomintang troops for the most part are severely restricted . Soviet " Arsenals " 3 . Certain sections of Man ' churia , notably Dairen , are being built up virtually into a Russian miltiary arsenal . 4 . Although the Russians agreed to withdraw completely from Manchuria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Tu Yu-ming are prepared to take over Mukden , Changchun , and Harbin , the Russians apparently refuse to quit these cities . The best evidence points to the probability that the Russians intend to remain at least several months longer . The story of Mukden today is one of devastation . Once the center of a prosperous industrial empire , it is now an empty shell of stripped factories and brokendowNhomes . Anarchy is apparently the order of the day . Military discipline is poor . Chinese Communist troops along with bands of would-be war // WASHINGTON , March 5 UPI  --  Secretary of State James F. Byrnes said today that Gen. Douglas 's authority as Supreme Allied Commander in Japan extends to alt areas where there are Japanese forces , including Russian controlled Manchuria . The subject came up at a press conference in which Mr. Byrnes was asked for comment on news reports from Dairien , China , that the Russians have removed thousands of Japanese soldiers to Siberia for forced labor . WASHINGTON , March 5 ( /P ) ? Russia has made a proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and China has rejected it , Secretary of State James F. Byrnes disclosed today , Mr. Byrnes said the United States . would send a message to Moscow on the Manchurian situation . Preliminary signs indicated the American position would be in support of the Chinese Government . A partial text of the Chinese rote , which Mr. Byrnes released , stated : 1 . On Jan. 21 , 1946 , the Soviet Government told the Chinese Government that it regarded as " war booty " for Soviet forces all Japanese enterprises in China 's northeastern provincees which had served the Japanese Army , The Chinese Government rejected this Soviet definition of war booty . Previously Mr. Byrnes had said that the United States does not consider any country has the right to decide without Allied agreement what war booty it may take.1 Joint Operation Bid 2 . In another memorandum to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek 's headquarters , the Russian Government proposed to hand over a part of the so-called " war booty " to China and called for joint operation by China and Russia of specified remaining enterprises in Manchuria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to spread terror throughout the countryside . Even at meetings of the local cultural societies , invited guests ' appear with their pockets bulging where a hidden pistol testifies to the feeling ' of persona insecurity . Reporters Rigidly Curbed Most of the newspapermen who visited Mukden have had plenty of experience in covering a war , with its . attendant threats to personal security . They are used to being shot at , but not by an army which supposedly is a member of the Allied forces . Correspondents were at first greeted cordially by Soviet Army officials , who were more or less presented with a fait accompli when the newspapermen rolled into Mukden aboard a train from the city of Chinchow in the south . But as the reporters split up and began roaming about the town in search of stories , the atmosphere underwent a distinct change . More and more curbs were placed on the correspondents ' liberties . In one instance a non-Russian news source was shot by unidentified assailants after being ' interviewed by the reporters . ' At other ? times , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story duplicates destroyed . Those who tried to visit fhe loCal , industrial establishments were brusquely ordered away by Soviet troops carrying tommy guns . Often the correspondents had to move ? away from rifle . /fire , which on certain occasions would burst forth in their vicinity . The correspondents were as reluctant to venture forth in the city at night as they would . be to enter a jungle no-man 's land a few months ago . The final ceremony came when the correspondents were loaded on a truck to quit the city . Driving down a lonely road at night , the correspondents suddenly were halted ' by SoViet troops armed with machine guns . When the correspondents apparently failed to understand the Russian guards , one of the latter fired a machine gun burst over the heads of the newspapermen , apparently as a reminder that the Russians still are the occupying authority . However the rePorters to some extent laid the blame for looting to . local residents rather than to the Russians . It appears from statements made by local Russian commanders that Russia considers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty is signed with Japan . Under this interpretation , the Russians continue their tight grip an Dairen and , in the words of the local Russian commander , further consider Dairen the same as Russian territory . This is despite the fact that the Sino-Russian treaty specifies that Dairen will be a free port , jointly administered by Chinese and Russian authorities . Still another conclusion reached by the visiting newspapermen was that the Russians are transporting captured Japanese troops ' into Siberia , presumably to be used as slave labor . While no direct evidence was uncovered , local Russian commanders left no doubt the minds of corespondents that this was the case . The Russians also are apparently conducting a purge among certain groups of White Russians . Whether the arbitrary action by Russian troops is on or4ers from the command in Moscow , Ter merely the result of the discretion of local commanders is difficult to determine . The atmosphere of tensity which at present is building up around the Manchurian situation is , however , unquestionably one for immediate international negotiation . It appears now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some irresponsible act might easily touch off an incident with unpredictable consequences . power plants , steel and chemical industries . and cement plants . The Chinese , the Foreign Office note to Mr. Byrnes stated , rejected this on the grounds it went beyond provisions of the SinoSoviet agreement of last August which strictly limited Russian postwar activity in Manchuria . Along with the Chinese note , Mr. Byrnes released the text of an American note sent to both Chungking and Moscow Feb. 9 inquiring about what is going on in Manchuria . The Chinese note was a reply to that inquiry , but Mr. Byrnes said Moscow had not answered . In the Feb. 9 communication , Mr. Byrnes said the United States had heard reports " that discussions are under way which might result in the establishment of exclusive Sino-Soviet control over industrial enterprises in Manchuria . " Mr. Byrnes described these reports as " disturbing " and made this declaration of policy : " Under present conditions when free access to Manchuria is not open to nationals of other powers and equality of opportunity in seeking participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Allied nationals , it is felt that negotiation of agreements between " the Chinese and Russian governments with regard to industries in Manchuria would be contrary 1.0 the principle of the open door , would constitute clear discrimination against Americans who might wish an opportunity to participate in the development of Manchurian industry , and might place American commercial interest at a distinct disadvantage in establishing future trade relations with Manchuria . " In response to inquiries Mr. Byrnes said there was a section in the Potsdam ultimatum issued to Japan last summer which says that after being disarmed Japapese military forces " shall be permitted to return to their homes . " Mum on " Violation " He declined to say whether this meant that Russia was " violating " any Allied repatriation pledge to the Japanese . On other problems involving American-Russian relations , Mr. Byrnes said the United States had not yet sent any communication to Russia regarding the Soviet decision to maintain troops in Iran beyond the March 2 deadline for removal of Allied forces there . But , he said he had been advised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iranian Government on its attitude might be forthcoming . Mr. Byrnes said there was no question that the Russian troops were supposed to withdraw March 2 , which was six months after the Japanese war . That deadline was clear to the United States Government , the Secretary declared .                     