@@709058

txt TWO DEVELOPMENTS have encouraged rank and file Labor members of Commons in their belief that their pet political theories will he realized in practice One was the sweeping victory for the Labor Party in the municipal elections . The other was the government 's announcement on nationalizing civil aviation and long-distance communications The business community . on the other hand . rather ruefully sees the strait-jacket of government control being strapped more firmly on the nation . Many cabinet ministers have continually stressed that the aim of their economic policy is efficiency in industry , and that state control Is the best means of achieving this by avoiding the waste of the capitalistic. sxstem . The run of the mill members of the Labor Party are much more frankly out for control on ideological grounds . They try to make out that private enterprise only benefited the rx ignoring the enormous growth of the standard of living of all classes which private enterprise has achieved since the industrial revolution . ? ? ? The civil aviation the Churchill government had outlined programs for quite a large share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private enterprise in fa.or of state control . Regarding telerommunications , anyone mho has experienced the efficiency of American service . comparrd with the British goieminent telephone services , or sok ho has contrasted the British Post Office s telegraph erince with European and American private cable companies ' service to the rnited States . has no doubt as to which is more efficient . Nor is it likely that state owned and operated civil aviation service will be superior to what would have been provided by railroad and shipping companies which have been devoted entirely to transport problems for generations . Ideologies are no criterion of efficiency as England may learn when it comes time for the taxpayers to foot the bill for all these experiments in state enterprise . ? THE GOVERNMENT has shown creditable firmness in dealing with the dock strike by refusing to intervene until the men returned to work On the other hand , it could n't very well hate acted other.nse. with ( at undermining the tr. ? de unions 1 . The strike was partly a protest aga.nst the trade union leaders ' lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In expectation that the new Labor government would give immediate backing to their demands . If this had been conceded . the claims of other industries would has e immediately been slapped on the table and the inflationary spiral given another twist . The next step will have to be reorganization of the dock section of the Transport Workers Union to ensure better leadership . ? MORE " LIGHT " for stockholders is promised by Geoffrey Heyworth. chairman of Les er Brothers . He says his company will provide much fuller information on its affairs han that recent1y recommended hr the Cohen committee on tompany lass reform . Heyworth plans to supply shareholders before the annual meeting with an earnings statement and balance sheet silpe nor to Cohen committee standards They will a:SO receive a review of the company 's activities in two sections . dealing y. ith trading operations and with strategy for determining long-term and day-to-day running of the business . . ? THE LABOR GOVERNMENT 'S passion for equality somewhat marred the House of Commons vote of thanks for victory to the fighting services . No one doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the - , omrnon ' roan and woman in this war but big battalions alone never won a s ictory Without leadership of the highest quality as any fighting man kno , vs Not one name was mentioned among the many outstanding commanders Britain has produced in this war Nor was there any mention of General Eisenhower 's supreme contribution to victory by his genius for binding the heterogeneous Allied force into one victorious army . The ancient Greeks , Romans and Hebrews did n't lack appreciation of genius and even the modern Communists seem mindful of their leaders ' part in victory , but Britain 's chosen few must remain anonymous . ? CHANCELLOR DALTON has proved both encouraging and disappointing in several debates where he figured as chief actor He has whetted the taxpayers ' appetites by hints of further tax relief , in the April budget , on beer and tobacco and other items subject to the purchase tax But he made It clear that the purchase tax would continue In his armory as long as the danger of inflation continued . 011 the bill for nationalization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conciliatory regarding the definition of powers he proposes to give the Treasury over commercial banks . The Labor Party has never forgotten or forgiven what they called " the bankers ' ramp " which they thought was the cause of Britain being forced off the gold standard in 1031 . It is determined that in the fututie the government shall have its whip hand over the banks statutorily defined in ease some chancellor might want to exercise such powers The banking community has so tar offered little criticism except about the vague definition of the Treasury 's powers in the hill This has now been improved by the amendment Dalton accepted . ? THE CIGARETTE FAMINE continues unabated though there is some hope in printed signs displayed in tobacco shops . Now they read " Sorry , no cigarettes " in place of the old terse " No cigarettes . "                     