@@709785

txt Washington politicians are reading a lot of meaning into the New York State conventions this week . They see political events of national importance in the making . They see maneuvering calculated to bear upOt presidential politics in 1948 as well as congressional and state politics this fall . Their immediate conclusions , based on a between-the-lines study of the news from Saratoga and Albany , are these : That Gov . Thomas E. Dewey sees a good chance of getting a return try at the Presidency in 1948 , and is getting ready to go after it energetically . That Governor Dewey has shown his easy control over the New York Republican organization , and that in securing the senatorial nomination for his hand-picked candidate , Assembly Majority Leader Irving M. Ives , author of the New York State FEPC bill , he is acting to head off any potential rival to his own dominant position . That if Governor Dewey can not get the Republican presidential nomination for himself , his dominance in New York gives him a virtual veto over the other G. O. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overtones to the New York political news . The ticket of James M. Mead for Governor and Herbert H. Lehman for Senator , Mr. Lehman being one of the biggest vote getters the Democratic Party ever has had in New York State , is a formidable combination . If Senator - Mead wins the Governorship , he will eliminate Governor Dewey from national politics and he himself will become an putstanding prospect for Mr. Truman 's running mate two years hence . Finally , Chairman Hannegan 's tip to his Party that its best bet is to run Franklin D. Roosevelt for the Presidency apparently has taken hold at once  --  or else the New York Democrats thought of it all by themselves . Dewey L. Fleming , chief political correspondent of the Baltimore Sun , noted the following evidences of this strategy in a dispatch from Albany : " The speeches , the shouting , the music , even the principal decorative features of the convention hall , were hitched firmly and conspicuously to Franklin D. Roosevelt . " The biggest campaign portrait on the platform was that of the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and roundly cheered at each mention , was Mr. Roosevelt 's . ' " Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , the President 's widow , delivered the keynote speech . Her son Elliott sat near her on the platform . " Then Mr. Fleming touched on the other Democratic presidential candidate who seemed to emerge at the convention as sort of after-thought and denouement . He wrote : " President Truman 's picture was on the platform , too , and once during the day 's proceedirigs his name was mentioned . " A A A The Democratic tactic of trying to present to the voters a Roosevelt-Truman ticket is not entirely crass political trickery . It probably is not more than 80 per cent hokum . In part , it reflects the struggle within the Democratic Party to retain the New Deal as its cardinal doctrine and by repetition to keep President Truman firmly committed to the Roosevelt policies . But it is trickery and deception just the same , because the choice before the voters in 1948 will not involve President Roosevelt . The real choice will be between President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Republican nominee plus the record of  --  the Republican Party in Congress . A A A ? Republican leaders here never have take ? seriously Governor Dewey 's repeated disclaimer that he was out of national politics . When he said it soberly , they were sure they saw his tongue in his cheek , and when he remarked jestingly that the Republican Party never would make the same mistake twice , they were sure they knew a joke when they heard one . His care in checking any budding rivalry to his unchallenged position in New York Republican politics is taken as evidence that Governor Dewey is n't ' foreswearing a chance at a presidential renomination . If he wins comfortably this fall , he will go after it with all the energy of a released atom and all ' the outspokenness of a sphinx .                     