@@707693

txt The Atlantic Charter has been buried by many mterpreters of policies and events , but apparently it will not die . Last week more than seventy members of the House of . Commons pressed for an open debate on the subject . Mr. Churchill did not answer this demand when he said yesterday that " as the changing phases of the war succeed one another , some further clarifications will be required of the position under the document which has become honorably known as the Atlantic Charter , and this must be a subject for renewed consultation between the principal Allies . " Nor did Secretary Hull 's reaffirmation of the principles of the Charter in his seventeen-point summary of American foreign policy satisfy uneasy questioners on this side of the Atlantic . The principles are clear enough ; it is the application of principle to concrete cases that causes doubt and anxiety . The two official statements , made at the same time in response to popular prodding , emphasizes that in Britain and the United States there is a common and increasingly insistent desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general aims into specific settlements . Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill issued their manifesto of war aims under circumstances very different from those prevailing today . The proportions and perspective of the struggle have been radically altered by subsequent events and particularly by the global involvement of the United States and the predominant military role played by Russia in the European battle . Mr. Churchill implies that these changes dictate changes in the Charter ; Mr. Hull that its concepts are still the basis of our policy . He reiterated yesterday his faith in the Four-Power Declaration , which confirmed the Atlantic Charter , and declared that as this agreement is carried into effect " there will no longer be need for spheres of influence , for alliances , for balance of power . " Undoubtedly this represents American policy as most Americans understand it . But the promise of consultation on all points of dispute , embodied later in the Moscow Declaration , has not been fulfilled , and the high hopes placed on the Teheran conference have dimmed as it has become apparent that the consultations held there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The impression spreads that these issues were left to settle themselves , or at best to be settled by each of the three Powers independently and without a concerted plan for the future . What both the British and American people wish to know is whether the Atlantic Charter still applies , and , if not , what takes its place as a standard of conduct and a frame of reference for the organization of victory . It is late to be asking such an elementary question ; it arises because the Atlantic Charter is the only declaration of general principles the war has produced , and until it is defined or superseded by a statement of aims to which all the victors can subscribe and carry out in action , there will continue to be doubt , uneasiness and danger of division . New consultations on the highest plane are certainly in order .                     