@@706099

txt The Japanese reported today the sinking  --  certain or probable ? of two British capital ships and two battleships , two aircraft carriers and a submarine of the United States Navy , together with a number of smaller vessels . Official summaries of the hostilities in the Pacific thus far said that the British Far East Fleet had been " obliterated " and that the Japanese Navy " already has smashed the main force of the ' United States Pacific Fleet . " A joint statement by the Army and Navy Sections of Imperial Headquarters declared that Japanese troops had effected a landing in the Philippines and " now are rapidly continuing the operation . " The Japanese announced officially , according to The Associated Press , that Guam had been occupied and that Japanese forces were firmly established there . Naval Victory Reported Imperial Headquarters announced that a Japanese air attack on the British Fleet off the eastern coast of Malaya had sunk the battleship Prince of Wales and the battle cruiser Repulse . The German news agency D. N. B. , in a Tokyo dispatch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was almost certain that the battleship King George V , sister ship of the Prince of Wales , had been sunk In the same action . Only the Germans gave out this report . There have been no indications that the King George V is in the Far East . A Domel dispatch date-lined Manila said that the United States aircraft carrier Langley had been sunk yesterday . In an official denial that a Japanese carrier had been sunk off Hawaii , the Japanese also declared that the United States carrier Enterprise was be= lieved to have been sunk by bombs . It also was reported officially that the sinking of the United States battleships Oklahoma and West Virginia , in the initial attack on Hawaii , had been verified . The navy announced the sinking of a United States submarine " that apparently belonged to the United States Asiatic Fleet . " It said that Japanese naval units had destroyed the submarine , which was " assumed to have left Manila and headed for Japanese waters , " near Pelew Island . The Navy Command also claimed the sinking of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submarines , and said that a British armed merchantman had been captured south of Hong Kong . A British patrol boat of 820 tons was reported to have been sunk at the mouth of Hong Kong Bay . Imperial Headquarters reported that Japan had lost two transports and that two more had been damaged , but said that no lives and no Japanese warships had been lost . The navy has lost thirty-eight planes so far , it was announced . Domei said that attacks on United States air bases in the Pacific had destroyed more than 300 American planes , including seventy longrange bombers . Heavy fighting was reported between Japanese and British forces in the Kota Bharu region of Northern Malaya , to which British reinforcements had been sent . It also was asserted that British troops from Burma were engaged in a hard battle with Japanese in Southern Thailand . Domei denied unconfirmed American radio reports of air raids on Japanese territory , saying that no enemy planes yet had appeared . While precautionary lighting control is being carried out in key cities , complete blackouts have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Tactics Rear Admiral Minoru Maeda , chief of the Imperial Headquarters Navy section , said in a broadcast that the- Japanese tactics were to operate simultaneously at different points in a manner similar to the German Blitzkrieg actions , and that results had been. ? achievedso far by . close cooperation between army and navy . The Cabinet met in extraordinary session at the official residence of Premier Hideki Tojo to " consider and decide important diplomatic matters . " An announcement was expected soon . ToMokazti- Hori , chief Japanese spokesman , said in outlining Japan 's war aims : : " The Anglo-Saxon powers , under the cloak of peace , took refuge in the internationally known ' dollar diplomacy ' and intimidation by armed force in order to place East Asia in a state of permanent bondage and satisfy their ambitions for hegemony in the Orient . " We , therefore , resorted to arms , and have done so for no other reason than to guarantee the security of our country and the peace and welfare of the people of East Asia who share the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural factors . " The war affects only East Asia . In the name of the Japanese Government I can state that Japan feels no enmity toward any other country of East Asia , with the exception of the Chungking regime , and also is not against the remainder of the world , with the exception of the United States and the British Empire , who are Japan 's enemies . "                     