@@711770

txt The United States has urged Britain and Israel to treat the shooting down of five British planes as a " regrettable incident only . " A statement by the State Department expressed hope that the incident will not interfere with Palestine truce negotiations expected to open Jan. 12 on the island of Rhodes . By William IL Stringer Chief of Me Lne  --  ion News Burrow of The Chri. ; t ; n Science Monitor London The British Government is taking a grave view of the shooting down of five RAF aircraft in the Mideast . A rush of preparations is under way here which best can be lumped under heading of " bringing strong pressure to bear . " But it is not expected that the emergency cabinet session or the alerting of an aircraft carrier at Malta presages anything like actual hostilities between Britain and Israel , What is under way is a vigorous test of strength , staying power , and determination between Britain and the Jewish state , a test which is likely to be fought out in the United Nations at Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's primitive port of Aqaba on the Red Sea . British Prestige at Stake This crucial test of strength well may determine , on the one hand , the future boundaries of Israel and the limits of its expansionism at a Mideast power . On the other hand , British prestige and Britain 's whole sphere of influence in the Mideast are at stake . There is deepest concern among those dealing with Anglo-American strategic policy at that crossroads of the empire that the struggle has reached a point where Russia 's minister at Tel Aviv , Paval Yershov , was presented with a wide-open opportunity to don the mantle of close ally , call on the Jewish Foreign Minister . Moshe Shertok. and offer " assistance . " Mr. Shertok reportedly replied that the Jews did not feel the situation was grave enough to require Russian aid . The most hopeful view here . following a week end of tense developments , is that repercussions from the disaster to five RAF craft will be similar to the repercussions which followed a collsion of Russian and British planes along the Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in short , that both sides will draw back from precipitous and precipitating actions , that Israel will be more ready to work through the United N'ations , that British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin will seriously reconsider whether his Palestine polic.i is having its desired results , and that the Israeli government will seize this moment to curb the far-ranging ambitions of its ebullient military commanders . Israeli protests against the dispatch of British troops to Aqaba. diminutive port on the Red Sea where Palestine and Transjordan wedge in between Egypt and Saudi Arabia , actually pinpoint the core of the entire struggle . British policy is determined et all costs that Israel shall not capture the southernmost slice of the Negeb or this port , which is Transjordan 's only seat outlet . Vital Strategic Area This area represents the only land link between the Suez Canal zone and all other British or allied installations in the Mideast . It also represents the only land link between Egypt and its Arab neighbors to the eastward . Finally , it is the port through which funnel all British supplies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower Negeb and the gulf of Aqaba area . they would sit astride a crucial land highway between East and West . There is no word as to how directly this consideration swayed the emergency session of the British Cabinet Jan. 10 . But significantly . Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee and Mr. Bevin consulted not only with the defense minister and his three service ministers . but also with the chiefs of staff of the army , navy , and air force . Jet Planes Considered One possibility was dispatch of a squadron of jet fighters to the Suez Canal zone . ? These swift planes could conduct reconnaissance with less danger of being jumped successfully by the Israelis ' orthodox Messerschmitt 109 's  --  the planes which shot down four RAF Spitfires and one Tempest on a recent reconnaissance over the Egyptian-Palestine border . It was this attack which drew from the'British Government two sharp protests , one to Jewish representatives at the United Nations and the other to " Jewish authorities in Tel Aviv " demanding satisfaction and reserving all rights . Rather ironically . the notes have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather pointed reply that " Jewish authorities " do not live there any more ? it is the " government of Israel " now . Stern Orders Issued The British Government now has ordered its pilots to regard as hostile any Israeli planes encountered over Egyptian territory . Earlier the British Government laid particular stress on the point that the British reconaissance aircraft shot dawn had been ordered not to fire their guns and to keep within Egyptian territory . Tel Aviv reports insist that the captured British pilots say they are uncertain whether they had crossed the frontier into Palestine or not . To those who ask why British planes were venturing into the battle area anyway , the Foreign Office replies with the reminder that the Israeli Government had refused to allow United Nations observers to visit the front lines there , and thus no one knew the extent of the Israeli army 's intentions . By now , there is considerable overlapping of legal and international rights in the Palestine issue , which some expect to make for further confusion at Lake Success . The Egyptian Government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to entreat the UN for assistance when such intervention seemed advantage : - Aims Assayed It is believed here that the short-range aim of Israel-at-war is to end the menace of invading Arab armies along the Palestine frontiers once and for all . Consonant with this aim is the objective of compelling the Egyptians to negotiate for permanent peace . All but extremist groups in Israel recognize that once this is accomplished , the new Jewish state will require a lengthy period of peace so its new economy maybe built up and its new inhabitants permanently settled . The British Government , on the other hand , apparently has been activated by apprehension that unless somebody did something , Israel 's victorious army would run away with the Tel Aviv civilian moderates . March on Aqaba and then seek to realize extremist dreams that Israel should control all of Transjordan and even wider horizons .                     