@@706287

txt One of them has Installed a roller skating rink in his showroom Others have opened up bowling alleys , night clubs , grocery stores restaurants One has partitioned his space and sublet it for offices Another converted the top two floors of a three-story building to small apartment .. he has kept the ground floor for his auto business  --  what 's left of it . These 's are a few examples of what s being done , according to stories coming into Detroit utomabile manufacturers A check of leading cities , however , indicates that for the most part dealers have n't adjusted in a wartime economy Many of them having repair shops have sought subcontracting work from arms plants Few have succeeded in obtaining that kind of work . At Chicago , for instance , where most dealers have looked into the possibility of lending a hand to war production it was found that a considerable Investment in additional machinery would be required . Dealers are hesitant to take the gamble since they would be going into A strange field Two-Thirds Ma ? Leave Field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indication , about two-thirds of the dealers will be out of the business before the year is over In Philadelphia it is forecast In auto curies that two out of three of the Rpm oximately 280 dealers there are going out of business Cleveland reports that about 60 , , of Cuyahoga County 's 185 dealers will disappear before the year end . So far only a handful of dealers have turned it . their franchises to manufacturers ? less than V , . One Informed estimate at Detroit puts fthe mortality rate at no more than 4 ' . , through June The manufacturers are fairly optimistic on the survival of the dealers They believe that at least 50 ' , , of them will be in business at the end of the war , through the use of the same ingenuity which made them an extremely large and efficient retail distribution group . Reports such as those from Philadelphia and Cleveland , however , indicate a higher mortality . The pace at which auto dealers are trying to convert their facilities to other uses is expected to Increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to survive Liss , on " Fat " for Awhile The had an especially good sear in 11141 and by quick adjustments of some of their costs ? such as sales forces  --  may he able to live for a while on their financial ' fat A few dealers have been fortunate enough to move quickly into arms subcontracting One in Elue Island ( Chicago suburb . had an unusually complete machine shop and is working for prime contractors He was a machinist before he became an auto dealer Another in Cleveland finds himself in the cadmium plating business He discovered a manufactut et friend who needed such work done , bought $5,000 of equipment and since has four other cadmium plating contracts This dealer is giving up his agency His salesmen have long since left A Detroit Pontiac defiler had barely finished a new showroom before it became evident there would he no new cars produced He promptly went down the street . found a factory which was overloaded with a small defense job , and took on some of its work His showroom , designed as a setting lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So far few new activities have been found that offer any generally feasible help to the average dealer 's steadily dwindling automotive income . Many dealers have non-arms projects in mind , however . One an Cleveland is planning to become dealer for cold storage lockers for home use They 're used to store meats . fruits and vegetables . He thinks there 's a big market lot this Item . He plans to employ people in this work and eventually to service the lockers . An auto dealer since the days of the Franklin . the Pierce Arrow and the Reo , he plans to hang onto that business but is counting on the food locker dealership to see him through the war period A beer distributorship is the goal of a dealer in Chicago . He 's trying to get Government permission to use unsold trucks from his present stock Still another Chicago auto man intends to go into the bowling alley business if he can liquidate his stock of cars . He 'll set up shop in a new location , and not in his present auto showroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of them ca n't live on that , though . One large Pittsburgh dealer used to employ 98 men . He cut that to 48 and put them all in the service department This firm had a good business in January but February saw a slump , so he may have to curtail further One service problem is getting  --  and keeping ? mechanics . Service and repair business is reported good at Washington but between men being drafted into the Army and those taking better jobs in arms plants the dealers are having a tough time keeping skilled employes One large dealer there says he could double his service business if he bad the men .                     