@@707659

txt Rail travelers of the postwar ptriod will ride in coach seats made to their " special order " if a plan announced today by the Boston and Maine Railroad has any bearing on the matter . ... , A chair especially designed for measuring purposes , has been built for the tests by the -Heywood-Wakefield Company , of Gardiner , Mass. , and will be set up in the concourse of the North Station commencing March 22 where 3,000 Boston and Maine passengers will be asked to aid in developing the ideal railroad coach seat of , the future . Directing the research project will be Dr. E. A. Hooton , head of the Department of Anthropology at Harvard University . The results will be made available to the various Passenger Department Associations as well as the Mechanical Departments of all American raliroads in an effort to standardize the dimensions of the seat of the postwar era so that all railroads may " fit railroad coach seats to the public instead of attempting to make the public fit the seats . " Dr. Hooton and assistants will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passenger , record sex , age , and birthplace . No names will be recorded . With the aid of the specially-designed test chair , they will determine through a series of measurements what seat height , length , breadth and distance from the floor best provides a maximum of comfort for the majority of individuals . Dr. Hooton explained yesterday that preliminary tests in present-day railroad coaches show that the cushions are anywhere from 16 to 21 inches from the floor , depending on the particular design of the coach . " Somewhere in that range is a figure which should standardize the fundamentals of railroad coach-seat dimensions , " said Dr. Hooton . " The purposes of the study which we are to undertake in co-operation with the Boston &; Maine Railroad and the Heywood-Wakefield Company are not to determine the color , nor the upholstery , nor the actual design of the train coach seats of the future . " What we shall attempt to do is to , by a scientific process of tabulation of 3,000 men and women , arrive at the height , width , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seat 4vhich will fit the public generally . " The cards which will be filled out for each applicant , contain 23 statistical questions and are so - arranged that the cards can be coded in a tabulating machine . Ve shall measure such things as elbow height , hip breadth , back height , stature and weight and from the statistics obtained we shall be able to arrive at a standardked dimension for a comfortable coach seat for future railroad trains . "                     