@@704807

txt Is there any significance in the fact that although the battle continued to be waged today all along the front from the coast to the Argonne , it was notable that at certain points its violence was abating ? That question is in every mind tonight , for it may contain confirmation of the belief that the Germans have now engaged the maximum of their available forces . The communiqu ? issued tonight gives little information on the day 's operations , but it implies that all the retreating French forces continue to fight rear-guard actions and that at several parts of the front they have , in addition , counter-attacked the advancing Germans . The only reference to Paris is as follows : " The prescribed withdrawal has been effected in conformity with our plans . " But if there has been a relative lull on the main line of battle the Germans were very active in front of the Maginot Line , especially west of the Saar River . Early in the morning they launched a violent attack with the now customary accompaniment of tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back the attacking force , on which they inflicted heavy losses . Present Front Uncertain Manifestly this attack must he considered in correlation with the fighting in the Argonne , farther to the west . It is impossible tonight to indicate the present front even approximately . It is really one long line of pockets and salients , a. situation calling for great qualities of generalship in order to preserve cohesion of the French forces . Meanwhile , with the withdrawal of the French troops charged with the defense of Paris the first phase of the Battle of France was ended in defeat . It may be called the Battle of the Seine . The next phase may be the Battle of the Loire . The issue was clear from the moment it wa .. decided to declare Paris an open city and the news of withdrawal can not have surprised many . A communiqu ? issued this morning from French General Headquarters explained that there were insufficient strategic reasons for defending the capital to justify risking destruction of France 's very heart . From the military point of view it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have immobilized troops , added to the loss of life and brought about no commensurate result since the Germans were in a position to envelop it both on the east and the west . The communique explains the situation thus : " The enemy 's thrust against Paris on two sides has been still further accentuated . Because of this advance the troops protecting the city have withdrawn in conformity with orders . " Nothing is yet known of the government 's intentions ? it must be recalled that it is the government 's prerogative to conduct the war generally while the High Command is entrusted only with the direction of operations . Nazis Advance in Champagne But iv ) words today can conceal the fact that from every point of view the situation is of the gravest . In Champagne , for instance , the German forces continue to advance toward the south . This morning it was indicated officially that their vanguards are at Romilly and St. Dizier . The latter town is on the main highway from Nancy to Paris . Romilly is on the upper Seine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire Seine Valley from its source to Havre . A corollary to this advance is that German pressure will be directed toward compelling the French to retreat from the Argonne here three words were censored which would mean a menace from the rear for the Maginot Line . The armament of the works of the Maginot Line was planned for lateral and forward fire only ; it could do little against an enemy coming from behind . Manifestly there are but two alternatives ? to fight on or to cease fighting . It is for the government to decide . From the military point of view General Weygand has steadfastly and successfully countered the German moves within possibilities limited by the number of men and thequantity of material at his disposal . The German High Command has been sedulously applying the tactics that brought about its defeat by Marshal Foch in 1918 ? battering the opponent without cease at points varying also without cease . General Weygand , having assisted Marshal Foch in applying this process to the Germans , was the very man to parry each blow when the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that all French movements continue to be made in perfect order . This morning the French Army is still in being . French Retreat Below Paris TOURS , France , June 14 ( . ? 12 ) ? The main armies of France fell back tonight far below abandoned , German-invaded Paris in a fighting retreat that may be their last movement of the war . Other forces far to the east were declared to have thrown back , with " tremendous losses . " a German head-on attack against the Maginot Line . All but broken : littler the mightiest assault ever thrown against men , the French who fought the main Battle of France counterattacked with a desperate fury as they retired under the Nazi pressure . They did not even know whether their command could continue the struggle . Paris , from which the government long since had fled , was gone ? occupied by the Germans and ringed by their armored units and infantrymen . Word from the fronts was little and bare of comfort for the French , asid , from the French success reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The German west flank also advanced five words were censored here . If the war goes on , the Loire River line through Tours and Orleans is the next strong natural barrier for a new defense . The valley is the gateway to the center of France . Orleans , the nearest point to Paris , is seventy miles south of the capital . The German charge Into the very mouths of the mighty guns in the Maginot Line was said by the French command to have been spearheaded with tanks and airplanes , all of which were declared beaten back . It had been acknowledged earlier , however , that Nazi thrusts between Paris and the Maginot Line were threatening it from the rear and that the line was being tuyned from Montmedy , its northern anchor . The High Command did not say specifically where the German effort to storm the Maginot Line occurred ( other tahn that it was west of the Saar River ) nor over how wide a front . But the stretch westward from Sarreguemines , where the river joins the line , to Montmedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This frontal attack apparently was intended to coordinate with the turning operation effected by the Germans . French Bombard Westwall BASLE , Switzerland , June 14 ( JP ) ? Wary of German offensive preparations at Baden , the French shelled German Westwall positions on the opposite side of the Rhine sporadically through the morning and then laid down their regular bombardment this afternoon . The French fire in the afternoon came every five minutes from their Rhine positions . Main objectives of the shelling , as usual , were German rail lines and the German fortress in Istein Rock on the opposite side of the Rhine rapids . Apparently conserving ammunition , the Germans did not reply , except with occasional bursts of machine gun and rifle fire against French observers .                     