@@710243

txt LAKE SUCCESS , N. Y. , March 10 ? The United Nations Security Council approved unanimously today a United States resolution to refer the entire question of international atomic control back to the Atomic Energy Commission . There is some hope that the Commission may be more successful than the Council has been in obtaining Soviet acceptance of the basic principles of the United States plan . The American resolution , which was introduced on Feb. 25 but was drastically revised today by Warren R. Austin , United States representative , calls on the Commission to present specific proposals in the form of a treaty or convention , and in any case to submit another report to the Security Council by the time the General Assembly meets on Sept. 16 . Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet representative on the Council , who is this month 's chairman of the Commission , said after the meeting that he would have to think over the question how soon he would call a meeting . The Commission 's membership is the same as that of the Council , except that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council . Mr. Austin , replying forcefully to the " defamation and innuendo " of Mr. Gromyko 's statement last Wednesday , flatly rejected the Soviet proposals , and declared that // although they were said to do so , " they do not provide for an international system of control of atomic energy at all . " " They provide for a system which at best would give no securIty , and at worst would be a constant incentive to distrust and war , " he declared . Mr. Austin , denying that the proposed international atomic agency would be a United States monopoly , warned that the alternative was " a control which would be neither international nor effective ? a control which would permit or encourage national rivalries . " " Because the United States believes that national rivalries would create secrecy , suspicion , and finally preparation for the horrors of atomic war , it has proposed to turn over in due course all its knowledge , its facilities and its scientific skills to an international agency , " he declared . " The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of atomic energy , on other countries . The ( Commission 's ) report itself proves the opposite . Ten countries united therein to forestall an atomic-weapons race . " Later , during a long wrangle with Mr. Gromyko over the wording of the resolution , Mr. Austin warned the Soviet representative that as far as the United States was concerned any agreement finally reached on international atomic control would have to be in the form of a treaty , to be ratified by a two-thirds majority of the United States Senate . French Delegate Is Somber A grave view of the situation was taken by Alexandre Parodi , the French representative , who said it would be useless to conceal the measure of disappointment and " the fear that arises in our mind as the result of the negative character " of Mr. Gromyko 's statement . He warned that an atomic armaments race was inevitable if atomic energy were developed along purely national lines , and he declared that the statements reflected the " apprehensions " of the Soviet Union . " These apprehensions , " he added with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the world has been witnessing with anguish and which we see every day in the course of the work of the Security Council . " No member of the Council expressed support of the Soviet statement , and several , including M. Parodi and Dr. Quo Tai Chi , the Chinese representative , supported Mr. Austin 's point that the Commission had adopted the report by a 10 to 0 vote , so it was not a question of a United States monopoly proposal . Since the new year , Belgium , Colombia and Syria have replaced the Netherlands . Mexico and Egypt on both the Council and the Commission . How ( -. r. the Colombian representative r . Eduardo Zuleta Angel , expr , , warm approval today of the t ? remission 's report and pointed out that if the United States had desired to do so , it could have used its present monopoly of atomic-production technique to gain a commanding lead over other countries . Pessimistic View Prevails By its action today , the Council closed the books on its own efforts to obtain Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to approving the basic principles of the Baruch plan , presents an elaborate and detailed procedure for international inspection of atomic activities . Although the Soviet Union , along with Poland , abstained from the Commission 's vote on Dec. 30 , the other members were surprised and taken aback by the vehemence of Mr. Gromyko 's speech it ! week . If the Soviet Union holds firm , ther is no chance of international atomic control ' that pessimistic outlook was reflected in the changes Mr. Austin made today in his resolution , which as introduced noted with satisfaction " the wide areas already explored by the Commission , the progress made by it , and the far-reaching extent of agreement of its interim report . " As a result of Mr. Gromyko 's bitter attack , these and other optimistic statements of the preamble were eliminated today . The revised draft stated merely that the Council " recognizes that any agreement expressed by the members of the Council to the separate portions of the report is preliminary since final acceptance of any part by any nation is conditioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its final form . " Text of U. N. Resolution The text of a resolution adopted unanimously by the United Nations Security Council : The Security Council , having received and considered the first report of the Atomic Energy Commission dated 31 December , 1946 , together with its letter of transmittal of the same date , Recognizes that any agreement expressed by the members of the Council to the separate portions of the report is preliminary , since final acceptance of any part by any nation is conditioned upon its acceptance of all parts of the control plan in its final form ; Transmits the record of its consideration of the first report of the Atomic Energ ' - Commission to the Commission ; Urges the Atomic Energy Commission , in accordance with the General Assembly resolutions of 24 January and 14 December , 1946 , to continue its inquiry into all phases of the problem of the international control of atomic energy and to develop as promptly as possible the specific proposals called for by Section 5 of the General Assembly resolution of 24 January , 1946 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 , 1946 , and in due course to prepare and submit to the Security Council- a draft treaty or treaties or convention or conventions incorporating its ultimate proposals ; Requests the Atomic Energy Commission to submit a second report to the Security Council before the next session of the General Assembly . Mr. Gromyko insisted that any nation would naturally have the final right to reject any plan , even if it had previously accepted all its component parts . His amendment to delete the paragraph was reelected by a 6-4 vote , with France , Poland and Syria supporting the Soviet Union , and China abstaining . Apparently trivial , and obviously important , matters were curiously intermingled throughout the long and dreary Council meeting , but the most bizarre was the interchange between Mr. Austin and Mr. Gromyko that produced the American 's announcement that the Senate would have to ratify the participation of the United States in any international atomic control plan . This was occasioned by a second amendment by Mr. ** who wanted to strike out " treaty or convention " and substitute " convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner in which the Atomic Energy Commission should submit its final proposals- to the Security Council . tended that his version was in conformity with the General Assembly 's disarmament resolution of last December . Both were right , since that resolution sometimes speaks of " treaty or convention " and sometimes " convention or conventions . " Mr. Austin argued that the Constitution of the United States and decisions of the Supreme Court supported his view that an international agreement on a really important matter must be in the form of a treaty , and that conventions concerned less Important matters . Mr. Gromyko retorted that he had of course the greatest respect for the Constitution and the Supreme Court , but that fifty-four nations had accepted the disarmament resolution , and each of them had its own Constitution . The major result of the exchange was the definite statement that the United States will insist upon a treaty , subject to Senate ratification , which is an extra indication This brought statements from that no essential alteration in the Baruch Plan will be accepted by Mr. Austin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought between the United States and the Soviet Union . According to Russian authorities consulted tonight , in Moscow the important agreements are formulated as conventions , and treaties are reserved for less important subjects . Mr. Austin and Mr. Gromyko fi-I nally agreed.upon use of the phrase , ' a draft treaty or treaties or convention or conventions . " Mr. Austin also accepted another ' amendment by Mr. Gromyko to include a second reference to the General Assembly 's disarmament resolution in the same section of the American resolution . This demand for spelling out the exact terms of the , directive recalled similar disputes over the wording of the Assembly 's disarmament resolution , which was made extremely repetitious to guard against any future assertions that the omission of a certain reference carried some subtle meaning even though such meaning was not apparent to those who drafted the resolution . Mr. Austin emphasized today that at the Moscow conference in December , 1945 , the Soviet Union had joined with the United States and Britain in agreeing to recommend the establishment of the Atomic Energy Commission , adding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " One or two delegates , Who still believe that the Soviet statement was intended for bargaining at the new Moscow conference , hope that the Atomic Energy Commission can make progress in its efforts to resume the constructive work that it was slowly accomplishing up to last December . As M. Parodi pointed out today . since , Mr. Gromyko " has mistaken the motives which led not only the French delegation but certainly other delegations to accept the report , it will be for the Commission* * * to define more closely the rules and constitution and the functions and activity of the control organs , and these rules will guarantee the impartial working of this institution , with a guarantee of the equality of all states . " ? 