@@710834

txt There is a standing joke among officials in SCAP 's Government Section about the many Japanese who come in seeking to " talk " their way out of being purged . When they get through pleading their case , these officials explain , they seem to feel that rather than purge them , Supreme Commander , Allied Powers , should give each one of them a gold watch . And as a growing number of ex-military officers , ultranationalists , and other advocates of aggression and expansion try to convince the authorities that in reality they are harmless and actually " very friendly toward America " they have become known in Government Section as the " gold watch cases . " Gold Watch Joke Backfired The other day , however , the joke backfired on Government Section . A little , wizened , elderly Japanese gentleman was granted an appointment with a Government Section official . And after he had seated himself in the office of the Dai Iti Building , overlooking the Imperial Palace , he began the now-familiar lament . He was a career military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been retired in 1942 with the rank of General . But actually , he explained , he did not agree with Japan 's military aggression . And besides , he liked Americans and had made many friends among them . For this reason , he felt , he should be exempted from the purge which automatically includes all Japanese career army and navy officers . The Government Section official listening to the interview sat back somewhat resignedly . And inasmuch as the little visitor seemed like an Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . amiable person , he explained to him about the many Japanese who come in for the same . purpose . And he told him about the gold watch joke . " Well , " the General fumbled apologetically , apparently not understanding the little joke , " you see , I do n't need a gold watch ? I have one already . " He pulled from his pocket a watch , on the back of which was engraved a dedication to him for services rendered to American Brig . Gen. Frank Ross McCoy during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Government Section official then asked him whether he had any other such proofs of his service to an American cause . Again somewhat apologetically , the little General pulled from his pocket a piece of paper .                     