@@711394

txt Ignited by President Truman 's fighting speech and his daring political strategy , Massachusetts ' delegation to the Democratic National Convention headed back home today , its members as confident of November victory as they had been pessimistic only 12 hours before . President Truman dispelled the gloom in 20 dramatic minutes . In those minutes , the President told the Massachusetts and other New England delegates what they wanted to hear . The President 's proclamation calling Congress back into session on July 26 to force Republicans to make good Republican platform pledges on housing , prices , and other issues was greeted by Bay Staters as master strategy that places the Republican Patty on the defensive . Whereas only the day before e Democratic leaders avoided the subject of the November clet lions and the effect of a Duman-Rai k-ley ticket on Massachusetts State contests , today they are gleefully ready to comment . Dever Gets Lift Paul A. Dever , Comer Attorney General and now candidate for the Democratic gubei natot - int nomination , asset ted the Truman speech will give the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Democt a-tic State Committee , said Precedent Truman had pi ovided the spark for a successful campaign " I had hoped he would tall a special session , " she added . " A masterpiece of strategy " was the comment of Roger I .. Putnam , former Mayor of Springfield and former Democratic nominee for Governor . John M. Deely of Lee , forme ! Chief Secretary to former Governor Tobin , said that through the President 's electrifying speech , the " Democratic Patty takes the offensive on high prices and housing . " He also hailed the action of the convention in adopting strong civil rights program . By such action , the convention showed that the Party was ready to support a moral principle and not make concessions to hold southern states in line , he said . Spark Ignited To State Senator Chester A. Dolan , Jr. , Senate Minority Leader of Boston , the punch-packed speech of the President was the spark needed to ignite the Massachusetts campaign . Edward P. Gilgun , Secretary of the Democratic State Committee , commented that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come over the delegates in the space of 15 to 20 minutes . " Similar comment came from Representative Thomas P. O'Neill , who excitedly predicted a Democratic sweep and said " Truman is better than Roosevelt . " Even Mayor Curley of Boston hailed the speech as " very effective . If he continues with the same vim and vigor , he can win . " Undoubtedly when the excitement of the occasion dies down , Party leaders and workers will assess more clearly the problems before them . But at any rate , they are no longer the gloomy crew that roamed Philadelphia 's hotel corridors , lobbies , streets , and Convention Hall from Sunday through Tuesday , McCormack Loses Many Massachusetts delegates still are displeased that Reptesentative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts , House Minority Whip , was not the vice-presidential nominee As far as Massachusetts is considered , they feel that the addition of Senator Albeit W. Barkley of KentuCky to the ticket does not help Massachusetts candidates in their drive tp recapture the State House . Mr. McCormack dropped out of the vice-presidential contest only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He bowed to the President 's choice . Many observers felt that his withdrawal would have been more strategic if made the day President Truman pointed his finger at Senator Barkley as his choice . Actually , the McCormack campaign after that was futile . The only hope the Massachusetts delegation had was that Senator Barkley would refuse the bid . Martin Bid Failed Other New England states were safely aboard the Barkley wagon long before the Massachusetts delegates were released . The McCormack defeat marked the second time in three weeks that a Massachusetts " favorite son " has gone to the national political well and found it dry . Three weeks ago Representative Joseph W. Martin , Jr . ( R ) of Massachusetts , Speaker of the House , made a bid for the Republican presidential nomination . Like Mr. McCormack he ran Into roadblocks . Both men , however , retain their powerful posts in Congress .                     