@@707781

txt Establishment of a single war department to coordinate all the nation 's military and naval forces , and the inauguration of peace time universal military training , were indorsed today by war department spokesmen as post-war national defense measures . They appeared before a special house committee studying post-war military policy . The single department , as proposed by two general officers currently studying military reorganization for the army , would embrace the army and navy and all ' their units , including the air forces . It would thus replace the present separate war and navy cabinet positions . Brig . Gen. William F. Tompkins , director of the war department 's special planning division , told the committee , headed by Rep. Woodrum ID. , Va. that , in his opinion , ; single agency would provide " the most efficient national military machine and the best arrangement for unity of command , for economy , and for elimination of duplication and overlapping . " Economies Expected . Such an arrangement , he added , would result in economies in producing muqjtions and supplies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army officer with whom he has discussed the proposal has favored it . Brig . Gen. John . Palmer , advlser to Gen. Tompkins ' division on matters of post-war policy , also indorsed the single agency proposal , but ' devoted most of his testimony to a plea for peace time universal military training as a defense preparedness measure . Such a training program would , ho said , be an economy measure because , he explained , the existence of trained reserve forces would reduce the size of the regular army needed in peace time . Cites Help to Budget . " With a reserve system based upon universal military training , " Gen. Palmer told the group , " we will be able , for the first time , to erect a scientific and economical military budget . . .. This budget will be based upon the fact that the money required to maintain one man in the permanent establishment of our armed forces will Maintain several trained reservists . " Discussing the proposed single military agency , Gen. Palmer said that lacking such an office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for defense " must be left to the President  --  without any workable machinery to aid him . " Rep. Maas ER. , Minn. said he favored going a step farther , and merging all fighting and supporting units into one single force , with army and navy personnel all wearIng the same typo of uniform and functioning as " teams . " Gen. Palmor replied that , in his opinion , " unity of command at tho top " was sufficient and that ho would not favor abolishing the army and navy as separate entities . Gen , Tompkins said a major prob . ! cm now engaging his planning division is the procedure for partial demobilization of the army and war industries after the defeat of Germany . He did not elaborate . The committee will hear War Secretary Stimson tomorrow .                     