@@709485

txt China today is dangerously balanced on the brink of a full-scale civil war  --  which , if not prevented , might bring in most of eastern Asia . Through some Herculean effort , Gen. George C. Marshall , the United States special envoy to Nanking , may avert such a catastrophe , but prospects for such a last-minute solution are growing increasingly uncertain . This is the almost unanimous opinion of high-ranking American military authorities , Allied diplomats , and Govern-Merit and Communist Party leaders with whom this correspondent has talked in the new Chinese capital during the past fortnight . Situation Serious General Marshall 's peace structure , erected earlier this year , appears to.te on the verge of breakdown . Antipathy , suspicion , and deep-seated distrust seem all too likely to dominate relations between the Central Government and the Communists . And the thin threads of relations , threads which hold Nationalist and Communist troops in abeyance in many parts of China proper , are snapping at an alarming rate . General Marshall has characterized the current crisis trends in China as " serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer , who is in personal touch with conditions in the field , expressed extreme pessimism over the possibility of a settlement . Gen. Chou En-Lai , No. 2 Communist Party leader , told this correspondent that " the crisis is extremely serious . " An Allied diplomat of considerable standing and intimate knowledge of the Government 's inner sanctums stated flatly that he holds no hope for peace in China at this late date . Opinions such as these . while not completely conclusive , are based upon an almost endless flow of reports from various parts of China which point toward an early breakdown in what tenuous relations still exist between the Communists and the National Government . Communist troops now hold nine tenths of Manchuria , and Government troops are ? building up for a massive , all-out attack on the city of Changchun . Troops Seek Positions Sporadic skirmishing in Hupeh Province indicates that both Communist and Government : troops are jockeying for positions , with the expectation that civil war will soon envelop China proper . Fighting has broken out once again in Jehol Province and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And the large-scale Commuhist troop movements reported in north China indicate that the entire situation there is rapidly moving out of hand . Against the backdrop of these alarming signs is the fact that General Marshall 's executive headquarters has virtually come to a standstill . Truce teams are sitting around in hotel rooms twiddling their thumbs . Their movements are restricted . and what work they do is mostly ineffective . In some cases , they are refused permission to visit disputed areas . ' In others , their operation is hampered by the fact that the Chinese members of the teams are unable to go along  --  either because of sudden ill health , or because they are conveniently out of town . In the opinion of some observers at least , every effort on the part of the United States to bolster the Central Government structure appears to have failed . The stationing of American Marines in north China , it is pointed out , has no longer had its original ee'rxt of stabilizing conditions in that area . Plans for the reorganization of the Chinese armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The huge allotments to China have not even scratched . the surface of growing starvation , while the prospects of a new $500,000 , - 000 United States loan has done nothing to check soaring inflation . Internal Scene Two outstanding facts today dominate the Chinese internal scene : 1 . The Communist Pauty , bolstered by its very appreciable military successes in Manchuria , today is regarded as being in almost as strong a position as the Government when it comes to bargaining . 2 . The Central Government , seriously hampered by internal dissension and the nation 's near-chaotic economy , is the butt of growing criticism and popular discontent . Outlook in China If full-scale civil war should engulf China today , It is possible that the Communists Would find i themselves bolstered by sections of the population who , because ofd increased food shOrtages , and the loss of purchasing power , might be willing to turn to the Communists for the time being to satisfy an urge for something new in government . Still another potentiality in the event of a full-scale civil war is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the periphery of China . These include the numerically dominant peoples of the Republic of Korea , who are struggling against the politically dominant rightists . And it includes the powerful Annamite Nationalists in French Indo-China Who at present are showing increasing dissafaction with ' heir new semi-independent role under French tutelage . Any unleashing of revolutiopary forces in China might easily have a direct effect upon other areas , such as India , Burma , and Malaya , where the existing regimes are under increasing attack . MaJoi Dangers Finally , there is the danger of major foreign intervention in the I event of further deterioration of military and economic unity in China . Neither the United States nor Russia have any desire to meet ' head on in China . The fact re- ' mains , however , that two nations are pursuing what is in effect op-1 posing policies in China . And as long as the two nations continue to exert strong influence in China 's political affairs , the ? danger of further involvement is believed to be considerable . This picture of China is painted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or else are observing the developing situation with an experienced eye . Many still retain hope that a major breakdown can be averteeBut few believe that anything short of more comprehensive measures than those yet employed on the part of the United States in conjunction with the Soviet Union can do the job . 