@@708533

txt New England women were called upon today by the United Slates War Department to help solve Army problems , especially those pertaining to the welfare of soldiers , and to explain Army policies to the folks back home . - Approximately 200 State representatives and local leaders of N% omen 's oiganizations met in an all-day conference called by the War Department at the Hotel Shafer . It was the Second Regional Conference called for members of the Advisory Council of the Women 's Interests Section in the War Department . Welcoming the women , Maj. Gen. Sherman Miles , Commanding General of the First Service Command , declared women held key toles in the war effort , and lie said the War Department hoped Iii secure their co-operation in developing a program to spread information throughout their Slate organizations on Weak pt problems of the coming months , VJ-Day Ahead " Mei e soon may be . a VE-Day in Europe , but there is still a VJDay ahead of us , " stated Maj. Alexander Smith , Industrial Services Officer of the First Service Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the jobs in heavy industry Idled by women . " Women work for $7.30 a month In Japanese industry and pay back half for room and board , " he said . Because everyone in Japan is making a direct contribution to the war and because the Japanese have control of millions of slave laborers they are able to obtain a war production out of proportion to their actual number of plants . However , American women , by their free labor , have helped to outproduce Japan . he said . More than 16,000,000 American women are now engaged in nonagricultural jobs , a net gain of 4,000 , - 000 since Pearl Harbor . He added that more women will have to take the place of men in industry by going into war service . In New England at least 1,000 more women are needed . Soldier Morale Soldier morale may be considered by some people to be " gingerbread , " Col. Raymond J. Kelly , of the Information and Education Division of Army Service Forces in Washington , D. C. , said . But actually morale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a soldier does not believe in what he is doing , if he is not aware of what he is fighting for , his chances of being the victor are considerably seduced , " Colonel Kelly stated . The Army believes that soldiers ' morale will be higher and their successes will be more Immediate if they possess at least seven de ' sirable attitudes , he said . They are faith in the cause for which they are fighting , a pride in the men with whom he is fighting , the importance of their mission , a realistic understanding of the job they have to do , confidence in training and equipment , satisfaction with their job assignments , and a belief hr the Army 's concern for their welfare . Face Induction Ln the fourth year of the war , boys aged 16 and 17 face induction after the age of 18 and youth will continue to be inducted until total victory has been won , Maj. Fredcrick A. Zehrer , Chief of the Pre ! induction Training Branch of the First Service Command , declared . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England secondary schools have made tremendous modifications of their courses . For instance , in Boston Latin School students are released from 8 to 11 in the morning to take courses in auto mechanics , radio , and allied subjects , for which they receive credit for high school graduation , he said . More than 92 per cent of the high schools and vocational schools are co-operating fully with the Army in pre-induction training , Major Zehrer continued . More than 110,000 aged 16 to 18 years in New England secondary schools are receiving pre-induction training , he reported . Established courses in English , social studies , science , industrial arts , physical training and mathematics have been modified to meet Army needs . Obstacle courses have been set up , refresher courses in mathematics are offered . Assembly programs for boys are held for orientation to Army life and the . background of the star . Started by Schools The preinduction programs were instituted by the schools not by the Army taking over the schools and dictating how it was to be done but through the educators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Office of Education and N : ? - tional Councils of Teachers the Army stated its needs and left to the educators how they were to do the job . Teachers and educational organizations presentedreports and specific recommendations to assist leachers and admin. istrators . " Women 's organizations atem an excellent position to stimuli t the program through enlightenment of the community . " Major Zehrer commented . " I suggest that the superintendent of schools or high school principal be invited to describe the local preinduction program at meetings of various organizations . Education committees of organizations should investigate to determine if school board  --  support is adequate to enhance the program . Meetings of parents of 16 to 18. years old boys can be held to present the opportunities in the schools . " high School Boys Boys in high school should be preparing to enter military service , the Major asserted , but ton often they are still thinking of entering college . Every person r esponsible for the education of boys should encourage them to stay in school until induction or graduation . He should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him specifically for service , he added . Combat experiences were described by two convalescent soldiers , during the luncheon session , They were Capt . Carlton P. Chandler , a patient at Lovell General Hospital , and Lieut . Arthur Katz , from Cushing General Hospital . Practical ways in which the women can assist the War Department by building club programs about military subjects , by col - rooting idle rumors and by cooperating with War Department programs , were formulated at a discussion in the afternoon session .                     