@@709693

txt Letters to The Times WILLIAM ESSLINGER.FERENC GONDOR.SIDNEY ULLMAN.FRANCIS CHILSON . Letters to The Times Comprehensive Plan Needed United States Is Urged to Prepare an Over-All Proposal for Peace TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One of the reasons for our difficulties in making the peace is the method of piecemeal negotiating . We go ahead building peace without a plan of the complete structure . In this way fatal contradictions are unavoidable . Moreover , piecemeal negotiations tend to induce the participants to stress their particular interests . A general plan , or at least general principles , would bring common interests . and compensatory aspects to the fore . The Congress of Vienna , Guglielmo Ferrero has shown , succeeded in its difficult task by applying the principle of legitimacy . The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 recognized , though not consistently , the principle of self-determination . Both principles have been attacked . But the application of principles in every case is the only way to avoid permanent clashes of interests . The Atlantic Charter was an attempt to state principles for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves soon disregarded the document they had issued . After this disillusionment , principles alone will not he sufficient . We need now a complete plan based on reasonable principles . While immersed in ' the current negotiations , the Administration is not able to produce such an over-all plan . There is time enough for a private but representative committee to deliberate , formulate and publish a comprehensive American plan , which the Government could then adopt . Such a plan would have to start with the Baruch Report , which is basic to future international security , but must be supplemented with respect to dangerous weapons other than the atom bomb . The allimportant point is to achieve disarmament and international police so quickly that the security of individual nations is no longer dependent on border lines or fortifications . Only then the questions concerning the vanquished peoples can be reasonably solved . Only then can economic questions be treated with the significance they deserve . Then only economic cooperation without misgivings  --  a loan to Russia , for example  --  will be possible . It will be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and international police , that the security so created can he considered as existent when the peace treaties are definitely concluded . The answer is that otherwise we shall never have reasonable peace treaties . Power politics can be brought to an end only if the individual peace treaties are based on a firm structure of international security . Such a structure , in turn , presupposes international disarmament and police . The failure of the Geneva Disarmament Conference has shown that disarmament can not be created afterward . It must be an integral part of the whole settlement , not as a purpose but as a fact . Warfare teaches , or should teach , at least one lesson for peace : that everything is feasible in a ' short time if the necessity is recognized . Will Russia agree to such a plan ? Complete international security and full economic cooperation are as desirable for the Russians ? as for any other nation . What have we to lose if we make the effort to prepare a coinI prehensive American plan ? Even if there were not the slightest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show the coming generation that we have tried all in our power to avoid the disasters of a peace from which they will probably suffer if the negotiations continue and finish as they have begun . WILLIAM ESSLINGER . New York , Aug. 1 , 1946 . Purge in Hungary Action Against Journalists and Other Anti-Nazis Is Questioned TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As an American of Hungarian origin , I have felt the deepest gratitude toward the liberating Russian forces . As a newspaper man , who has combated the Horthy-Fascist regime in the country of my origin , I feel deeply concerned over recent developments in Hungary . It has come to my notice that Gyorgy Parragi , distinguished correspondent of the Magyar Nemzet , who openly and courageously opposed nazism , is no longer permitted to write for any publication in Hungary . According to a dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES , the Russian occupation authorities are directly responsible for this measure . They have also barred another outspoken anti-Nazi newspaper man , Gyula Dessewfy . I can find no plausible explanation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazis and their Hungarian confreres that he was finally arrested and despite his Aryan origin transported to Mauthausen concentration camp . His fearlessness and solidarity in attempting to help both Christian and Jewish fellow-sufferers is etoquently described in the moving book , " The Way of Sorrows , " written by the present Hungarian Secretary of State , Sandor Millok . Since the liberation Gyorgy Parragi , too , has kept up the fight for democratic ideals and practices . How then can one explain why Parragi is no longer permitted to speak his mind in Hungary ? Furthermore , I am mystified and grieved to learn that Professor Lajos Ivan , who published his famous antiNazi work , " Why Germany Ca n't Win , " at the very height of Hitlerism , has been arrested . I have no doubt that the Farmers party  --  and the Labor and Peasant party as well  --  still harbor a considerable number of undercover Nazis , Horthyites and other reactionaries . But nothing can persuade me that men like Nagy could be a member of that sinister gang . Surely the true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown into prison on trumped-up charges , while hordes of Nazis are freely disporting themselves , even in public office secretly preparing new pogroms and the revival of nazism . FERENC GONDOR . Editor , Az Ember . New York , July 25 , 1946 . Stabilizing Our EC0110MV No Threat to Free Enterprise Is Seen in Wider Government . Controls TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You recently published a letter front Edna Lonigan in which she attempted to point out some fallacies which exist in the economic thinking of Chester . Bowles . I feel certain that Mr. Bowles is able to defend his position , should he deem it necessary to do so , but Miss Lonigan advances some theories of her own which I can not let pass without a reply , In advocating wider use of govern ' mental controls , Mr. Bowles says . " The purpose of these controls is economic . stabilization . " Your correspondent replies by saying , " No nation wants economic stabilization . It is not possible to have economic progress and stabil ' zation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we did not have oil burners , radios , electric .. ice-boxes , Chevrolets or suburbs housing . " These are astounding words . The antithesis of economic stabilization is economic chaos . Does your correspondent truly believe that chaos is what all nations seek ? Then why the International Bank ; why the Bretton Woods agreement ; why the United Nations Economic Council ? Are these not attempts by civilized nations to establish economic stabilization where only chaos exists ? Does Miss Lonigan believe that more oil burners and radios will come out of Hungary , a perfect example of economic chaos ? I am afraid stabilization has been confused with stagnation . Miss Lonigan fears that wider governmental controls will finally result in a sort of Nazi-Communism in this country . Permit me to point out that . we need fear neither Nazi nor Communistic behavior from our governmental agencies so long as such agencies are established by vote of the Congress ; so long as their life term is set . by the Congress ; so long as the scope of their activities and the limits of thci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important of all , so long as their appropriations are voted by the Congress . Let us also keep in mind the fact that public officials are subject to impeachment and that the United States Supreme Court still has the final word as to constitutionality . Our present form of government includes all these safeguards . Is there any cause for fear in the ideology advanced by Mr. Bowles ? In his book " Tomorrow Without Fear , " comparing the accomplishments of this country with Russia 's , Mr. Bowles writes , " But even if they match our economic achievements , I set so much store by freedom of enterprise , freedom to do or not to do , freedom to come and go , freedom to be one 's self , that I will always prefer our approach . I set enough store by the opportunities for the development of the individual and the challenge to the individual to make the most of his own capacities , which can be assured only under free enterprise , that it would take a lot more persuading than the Russians are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for theirs . " Your correspondent finishes by quoting Hatton Sumners , " Did we send American men to fight and die in Germany in order to introduce a Nazi economy in the United States ? " Of course , the answer is a most emphatic SIDNEY ULLMAN . Crestwood , N. Y. , July 28 , 1946 . Floating Airfield Proposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The proposal of the Port Authority to acquire the Newark Airport focuses public attention on the critical need for more airport space in the metropolitan area . A fantastic scheme was proposed recently to cover a substantial portion of ' the West Side with a " roof " to form a landing field . It would he more to the purpose to convert the Jersey meadows into a vast . airport , because of its proximity to midtown Manhattan . This can be done by floating the field on pontoons or steel saucers . I know that engineers have considered draining the Jersey meadows . This is impossible . I know also that it is impractical to attempt to fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floated on steel pontoons . Engineers have used this method in carrying large pipelines across bottomless swamps and quicksand . There is no reason to doubt that the same engineering technique can be applied to floatireg a large field over the Jersey meadqws . It is suggested further , that sine , e we have thoi'ands of Victory ships to dispose of , that they be cut up and converted into pontoons to support the floating field . FRANCIS CHILSON . New York , Aug. 1 , 1946.                     