@@710360

txt Progress toward an agreement between General Motors and Walter Reuther 's CIO automobile workers follows closely on the completion of a contract between Philip Murray 's steel workers and Big Steel . Mr. Murray not only extols this contract as a model of its kind , but lets it be known not too obliquely that in his opinion it would make an excellent pattern for the other mass-production industries to copy : Undoubtedly there are some things to be said in favor of this agreement . For Zone thing , it obviously is not as serious a threat to inflation as the original demands would have been , had they been met . For another thing , it has been unaccompanied by two of the worst evils associated with the general round of wage demands a year ago . One of these was the widespread work stoppages in the country 's basic industries ; the other was the ill-starred intervention of the Government through its so-called Fact-Finding boards , which purported to say how much these industries could afford to pay in the way of higher wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is reason to hope that in the absence of the Government 's formal blessing Mr. Murray 's settlement with Steel will not be accepted as a Government edict to industry generally to " go thou and do likewise . " Certainly it is to be hoped that this will be the case ; for to say that United States Steel or General Motors can absorb a given wage increase is by no means to say that smaller and less integrated concerns can do the same thing . Of the CIO steel workers , for example , 350,000 are employed in 1,100 companies not included in the basic industry . These companies , which depend for their income on the manufacture of everything from iron beds to locomotives , are much more vulnerable than the big steel companies to changes in production costs . Mr. Murray , in his observations concerning the Steel contract , stresses its two-year term . If , as he says , that is going to " insure peace for two years , " it is an encouraging development in the stabilizing of labor-industry relations . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The time to make a long-term contract is when conditions for ea generous settlement Ire most favorable . ' And those condi:ions currently prevail . Experience shows that industry in the past twenty years has not enjoyed such prosperity For more than two consecutive guar ; ers as it has enjoyed in the last quarter of 1946 and the first quarter of L947 . Much of the explanation for that prosperity is explained by rising prices , which have been reflected in 50-called " inventory profits . " These ire not true earnings , but are essentially a windfall , and it is a sign of astuteness on Mr. Murray 's part that le has taken advantage of this propitious circumstance to enter into a twoyear contract . The last of the arguments that is advanced for the present so-called ' pattern " of wages is that it will involve no increase in prices by the companies . Coming at a time when the President is strongly urging general reductions of industrial prices , that is I negative and bewildering argument . Et becomes all the more bewildering when we find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonableness . How a general : xpansion of purchasing power through wage increases can be regarded as rea5onable and non-inflationary while a reduction of taxes amounting . to subttantially less is held to be inflationary s one of those things that leaves the ion-economic mind more than a little fizzy.                     