@@709740

txt The first major strike against the carriers on the Great Lakes began at 12:01 , Eastern standard time , today , under authorization by the National Council of the National Maritime Union , CIO . The strike had its first full impact at Buffalo , where , according to union sources here , the pert was paralyzed both as to cargo and passenger shipping . As the deadline was reached , preparations which had long been perfected by the National Maritime Union went into effect on the Great Lakes from the St. Lawrence to Duluth , passing through Lake Ontario , Lake Erie , Lake Huron , Lake Michigan and Lake Superior . Crews Quit Ships Early Early yesterday morning , members of crews began vacating their ships in view of the absence of word of an accord in Washington , where Secretary of Labor Schwellenbach had called a conference at the request of Philip Murray with representatives of the NMU and the eleven carriers which are directly affected by the strike . Varying reports from the eleven ports affected indicated that the strike was on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure to bear . In Ashtabula , Ohio , it was reported that the Orlando Poe set sail tonight with only one member of her crew on board . Normally she would have carried a crew of about thirty . At the headquarters of the NMU in Cleveland international officers and members of the international council were in session . On the second floor of the headquarters here a soup kitchen had been established and , according to reports from other ports on the lakes , similar precautions had been taken . At an early hour this morning , however , no reports had been received here concerning disturbances . 44 Ships Are Involved According to reports from both the NMU and the carriers ' association , only about forty-four ships embracing about 1,100 crew mem- , bers were involved . The NMU made it clear that it would seek to spread the strike from one end of the Great Lakes to the other . This wor.lu mean a paralysis of shipping on all the lakes , including about 11,500 seamen , who man about 400 vessels . If this came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The gas , coal , steel and the automotive industries would be crippled , if not brought to a dead halt . The main issue is the establishment of a shorter work week . The union asserts that its members now have to work fifty-six hours a week , without benefit of overtime . Following is the text of a statement released at 1:50 A. M. , New York time , by the National Council of the National Maritime Union : " Despite the attempts of the union to come to terms with the ship owners during the last week of conciliation in Washington , the operators ' attitude continued adamant and arrogant until the deadline , at 12:01 A. M. today . " For the past two days , disregarding the appeals of the Labor Department conciliators to meet jointly with the union , none of the cargo companie ' : have agreed to do so . Only the tanker companies have met jointly but all of them maintain their positions demanding a fifty-six-hour week for Lakes seamen . In addition , operators have refused to consider any protection either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship owners left the union with no alternative but to carry out the directive of the National Council to strike the lakes . Operators have demonstrated utter disregard for the public interest in their refusal to make the slightest concessions to the reasonable demands made by the union , particularly on the basic question of the long work week . " The union modified its position rio less than four times . The opi : erators submitted no counter-pro-I pOsals and continued to say ' no ' to ! every proposal . They must therefore accept full responsibility for ! the strike on the Lakes and its re sultant impact on the public in- ! terest. " - John Rogan , who is co-chairman with Joseph Curran , international ! president of the NMU , of the strike ! strategy committee , said yesterday afternoon : " according to word received f emu our negotiating committee in Washington , we are having difficulty even meeting with the operators in the Labor Department . This a ? conclusive evidence that the ship owners , with the strike deadline ! only hours away , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are det ( tenined to provoke a strike . " The NMU. it was admitted by union leaders , has only about ! 1,100 members on the Lake car- ? riers . This compares with a total , of more than 12,000 , many of whom ate affiliated with units of the American Federation of Labor . : Mr. Curran was expected to leave Washington at 4 A. M. , New York time , and to arrive here about 6 M. He will meet with the National Council of the NMU later today . Demands Drastically Cut WASHINGTON , Thursday , Aug. ( apt  --  Efforts here to head off a ( treat Lakes shipping strike failed , although Federal conciliators and S.ssistant Secretary of Labor John W. Gibson worked up to the midnight strike deadline . Jack Lawrenson , vice president of . he National Maritime Union , disclosed that it had drastically modified its nine original demands , retaining principally a demand for a 41-hour week and maintenance of union membership . Discarded were demands for a ? 0-hour week , wage increases of 10. 15 and 13 cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the won hiring halls . In place of the overtime . deniands for Saturday and Sunday v:ork the union substituted a proposal that a flat overtime rate be paid , to vary with ratings . Auxiliary demands contained in a proposal for a lakes-wide contract likewise were dropped . These included a guaranteed annual wage , sick leave and severance ; k . ' , ? The negotiations covered fortyfour vessels of the seventeen carriers with whom the union has bargaining rights , but Joseph Curran , NMU president , said that close to 5,000 members on the lakes would join in the strike . Mr. Curran arranged to fly to Cleveland to direct the walkout . He said , however , that other members of the negotiating committee would remain here and would be available for further negotiations . He blamed the companies for the strike . " The union has been down here for eight days and has continually worked with the Department of Labor in an attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement on the basic issues such as reduction of the fifty-six-hour work week , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our reconversion program certainly belongs to the operators . The union is still willing to meet with the operators at any time to discuss a satisfactory settlement of the issues . " He insisted that the union had not authorized the walkout of any seamen prior to 12:01 A. M. , local port time , He reported that the union had prevailed on seamen from four or five vessels in the Cleveland area to return to their post to wait for the strike deadline . Workers on boats of unorganized companies quit in large numbers prior to midnight , he declared . The CIO auto workers executive board adopted a resolution pledging " 1,000 per cent " support of the NMU strike , if it materialized , and Mr. Curran indicated he was counting on other CIO unions , like the steel workers , to respect the maritime workers ' picket lines . The NMU and six other unions of the Committee for Maritime Unity settled their dispute with Atlantic shippers and West Coast waterfront employers minutes be'fore the June 15 midnight deadline for a strike on the sea lanes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! who are involved in the negotiations operate forty-four vessels , or about one-tenth of the total lakes fleet . There are four tanker companies and thirteen dry-cargo shippers , including the Ford Motor Company , Bethlehem Steel , International Harvester and the Standard Oil Company of Indiana . Other companies are the Nicholson Transit Company , Johnson Transportation Company , Lake Tankers Corporation , Jupiter Steamship Company , Brown &; Shasta Steamship Company , Interstate Steamship Company , Great Lakes Transport Company , Cleveland Tankers , Inc. , and American Steel and Wire Company . The union made the same demands on all the carriers . The companies opposed industry-wide bargaining and refused to bargain except individually .                     