@@710507

txt The new American foreign policy initiated by the Truman Doctrine and amplified by the Marshall plan for European recovery with American aid has already produced two remarkable results which are daily becoming more evident . The first is the gratifying change in the whole political and moral climate of at least western Europe , wheze the paralyzing fascination evoked by the moves of Russia , as once before by the moves of Hitler , has given , way to a new spurt of energy and hope , and where the cynically violated principles of the Atlantic Charter are beginning to find new honor , as in the speeches of Prime Minister Attlee , Foreign Secretary Bevin and the still somewhat muffled voices from France . The second is the complete shift itn all discussions from the political to the economic field , in which talk of territorial barters and borders , reparations , destruction of industry and deportation of people , which still dominected Potsdam , has been subordinated to talk of reconstruction and producttion , irrespective of territorial or ideological frontiers , as the only road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the elements that separate nations are inevitably being subordinated to those that unite them , and the new recognition , born of common misery , that economics is the handmaiden of destiny appears to provide the . first faint indications that the political deadlock might be broken as well . As a result , the efforts for European unification , which appeared so hopeless with a purely political approach , assume new impetus with an economic approach to the problem . Even Russia , agreeing to attend a three-power conference , now comes out for peaceful and businesslike cooperation with all nations , " regardless of differences in their economic systems . " This still does not answer the question which has overhung all relations between Russia and the West and which now demands a clearer answer than was obtained in the past , namely , cooperation for what ? But it will no longer be a surprise if Russia attempts to share in the economic benefits of what , politically , she denounces as " dollar imperialism . " In any case , the attempts to unify Europe by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made by Napoleon and Hitler and more recently by Russia , have always failed . They have failed mainly because they were based on subjugation , oppression and exploitation of all nations by one " master " nation for its own exclusive benefit . For the Europe which gave birth to the concept of liberty and human rights and which , despite its own fratricidal strife and constant assaults from the East , spread its civilization to all corners of the earth , is poor territory for colonial systems of any kind . This seems to suggest that the economic approach would likewise be doomed to failure if it did not avoid the mistakes that caused the collapse of its political counterparts . But the first step in that direction would appear to be a rectification of the follies of the victors , which not only prolonged the devastation wrought by the war but even intensified it . Ana that would require not only adequate precautions against a continuation of Russia 's more than two-yearlong filibuster against peace and her efforts to exploit the peace efforts of others for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Western Alli es themselves . For the proud proclamaltion that " We come as conquerors , " with which General Eisenhower marched into Germany , ana which still guides even the Western Military Governments , has merely helped to bring a continent to ruin , despite reverse reparations now flowing out of this country at the rate of one billion dollars a month . It is evident that here , too , a new approach has bec-ne necessary . This new approach .1.5 perhaps best exemplified in the declaration of Foreign Secretary Bevin that Russia will not be permitted to hold up the economic recovery of Europe , even if that should lead to an ideological conflict , and in the program now being studied by British experts of giving first aid to the most efficient production areas of Europe , without distinction between victors and vanquished , so that those first helped may help the rest . of the continent . For the European continent is well able to take care of itself . The British , perhaps more than any other people , have lived to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now determined to put an end to it .                     