@@705092

txt Tomorrow , the United States tries something new in its history ? involuntary enlistment of its manpower during peacetime for service with the forces on land , sea or in the air . In Massachusetts , as in every other State , men from 21 to 35 years of age , inclusive , will interrupt their daily activities to spend about 10 minutes answering 11 questions in a designated registration station . The purpose : To sign up for selection of those who will serve one year with the U. S. Army or Navy . Registration places open at 7 a. m. ; close at 9 p. m . One hour after registration begins , the President will give a 7-minute radio address , keynoting conscription . The address will be broadcast over WBZ , WEEI , and all major networks . Highest estimate of the number of men within the age limit is 15 per cent of the Nation 's population , nearly 20,000,000 men . This is based on a Federal reckoning of 1 per cent for every year called . Draft officials , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to register about half a million . Prospects of Call Only the War Department knows how many of those registered will be called for the first draft , and it is doubtful whether they have made any apportionment by states . At any rate , Massachusetts , with its high ratio of men already in service with the regular armed forces and the National Guard , is expected to draw a comparatively low allotment . Estimates today are for about 25,000 to be called in this State . With few exceptions , every man born between Oct. 17 , 1904 , and Oct. 15 , 1919 , must register tomorrow . This includes aliens , despite the alien registration which has been under way since Aug. 27 . Army and Navy reservists , although not compelled to register , are urged to appear at registration stations in order to establish their exemption to prevent further " embarrassment . " " Embarrassment " is expected after Registration Day in the form of a check-up by local and Federal enforcement agencies who will ask every arrested man for his registration certificate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when stopped for traffic violations . And police also are expected to ask an occasional pedestrian to show his certificate , much in the manner of the round-up of draft-dodgers during the World War . Libel 's ! Decisions Another " embarrassment " is already under way . This is directed toward . conscientious objectors whose names will be posted in public places and submitted to newspapers and radio stations fox publication , as disclosed by draft board members who met last night at the State House . Instructions from Washington to draft boards have been to interpret Selective Service regulations liberally , deciding ' every doubt in favor of the draftee . Conscientious objectors , although exempted from military service by the draft boards , wilt be put in some sort of noncombatant work under civilian supervision . Every draftee will receive a certificate when he registers tomorrow . And every draftee who is in line at nine o'clock tomorrow evening will be registered . In most Massachusetts communities , school buildings have been opened for registration , and about 20,000 men and women have volunteered or have been appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying registrars and their assistants on the theory ' that one day 's free services is comparatively little to ask for registering men who may have to give a year to defense training . Boston Divided Boston has divided its 388 precincts into 199 registration centers , all but two of which are schools . These two are in Forest Hills where precincts 14 and 15 of Ward 11 will register at 4 Tower Street , and precincts 12 , 13 and 18 of Ward 11 will register at the Michael J. O'Connell Post , American Legion , 129 South Street . A registration center for non-resident visitors will be set up in historic Faneuil Hall . After his session tomorrow with registration officials , there is not much for the registrant to do but wait . He has to wait for his serial number , for the drawing of the lottery from the glass bowl in Washington , and for publication of his order number  --  the number drawn from the bowl . After that he has to wait until he receives the questionnaire from his local draft board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available the help of advisory boards appointed by the Governor . Close contact with the local draft board at all times is recommended by Selective Service officials . Registrants must notify the Board if they are leaving their county on an extended trip ; if they are leaving the United States , they must obtain a permit from the Board . The case for deferment is first stated by the registrant when he fills out his questionnaire . He can file with the questionnaire any documents he desires , but they must be in the form of affidavits . He can also make a written plea for hearing by the draft board , On the testimony he and his witnesses give and on information in the questionnaire , the draft board will decide whether the registrant Is eligible for deferment . The ' Board may also defer men suspected of seeking service to escape obligations . Conscription of the Nation 's manpower  --  legislated on ground of necessary national defense  --  has not met universal approval . Registration Day will also be the day marking the beginning of a campaign by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . Opponents of the law are requested to register tomorrow at State headquarters of the Party on 318 Tremont Street . The Selective Service and Training Act has teeth . Failure to register is punishable by imprisonment for five years and a $10,000 tine , Boston and other cities today busied themselves fitting out their registration places with equipment , registration literature and supplies . Registration Certificates and cards were delivered by police prowl-cars to Boston headmasters who will act as registrars . A poll of Boston 's City Councilors disclosed that 9 of the 22 must register . And six of Mayor Maurice J. Tobin 's 12 secretaries must reglkter tomorrow . Mayor Tobin ordered flags flown tomorrow irom poles on all public buildings and in city parks . City employees  --  about 1,700 must register  --  get half s day off .                     