@@710534

txt The executive board of the 875,000-member United Steelworkers of Amer , ica , CIO , voted here today to ignore the new labor board set up under I the Taft-Hartley law and seek to work out problems between the union and management through " bona fide collective bargaining . " The union 's board , simultaneously , decided that it would not give up the right to strike should disputes arise that could not be re , solved by peaceful means . Other actions taken by the executive board were as follows : 1 . In future contracts the union " will not commit itself to no-strike obligations enforceable by harassing law suits . " 2 . It will follow the international CIO policy , adopted last Friday in Washington , of refusing to comply with " unconstitutional limitations on political activity which are written into the TaftHartley bill . " The decision to ignore the new labor board came during a daylong session of the executive board of this , the largest affiliate in the CIO . It was not taken until late in the afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of the act read by Lee Pressman , general counsel for the CIO . In a resolution the board stated that " the United Steelworkers of America has determined not to use the facilities of the new labor board , " and added : " We shall in good faith seek to resolve all issues between our union and the employers through bona fide collective bargaining and other peaceful means wherever possible . The right to strike in the event of disputes must be preserved or our freedom shall be lost . " The board stated that " it would be deluding " the union 's members " if it holds out any hope that use of the facilities of the new labor board would provide any protection to workers seeking to organize unions and to exercise their rights to engage in collective bargaining . " Holds New Law Union-Wrecker The resolution denounced the Taft-Hartley law as having " completely destroyed the fundamental protection given to workers by the Wagner Act . " " In its place has been substituted a labor board and act designed to undermine unions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions and its members , facilitate the issuance of injunctions against peaceful , concerted activities of workers " and also " break up industrial unions . " The steel workers ' executive board ' defended its action of ignoring the labor board by stating that the law had brought on " so many new requirements for the holding of elections " and established means for management to use the elections " as an obstruction " that " the entire process will serve simply as a device to hamper and discourage organization and collective bargaining . " David J. , international secretary-treasurer of the union , explained to reporters that several approaches could be made by the union and management in conducting bargaining agency elections . In some communities , he stated , unions and the chambers of commerce had set up machinery that could be used . Also , there were independent groups that did such work . A third approach was through the membership card check , according to Mr. . But in all instances the method used to determine the union that should be the bargaining agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Will " Expose " Bights Denial The union warned that it " will expose any attempt by arrogant employers or the Labor Board to use the Taft-Hartley act to prevent such collective bargaining or interfere with the exercise of fundamental rights by workers . " The subject of " strikes " came up in two resolutions , the first dealing with the new Labor Board and the second in a separate action stating that " it is no longer possible " for the union " to contain itself in future contracts to nostrike obligations enforceable by harassing law suits . " The law , it was stated , would encourage suits against unions " on the basis of acts which are neither authorized nor ratified by the union . " Thus , the resolution continued , " this situation creates a serious danger " that the union 's treasury " may be imperiled as a result of the use by unscrupulous employers of spies , provocateurs and disrupters . " Mr. said ? that thus far this year the steel workers had signed with steel companies 1,050 contracts containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 500 , and in respect to the " no-strike " pledge the union would follow in these pacts the intent of the resolution on that subject . Mr. said his union had never called a strike during the life of any wage agreement , and its policy had not been changed in that respect . Electricians to Bypass Board Member locals of the United Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers ' of America , the third largest union in the Congress of Industrial Organizations , were advised yesterday by the union 's national general executive board " to submit no issue " to the new National Labor Relations Board . The twenty-three-man executive board said the Taft-Hartley act converted the NLRB into an instrument for meddling in the affairs of unions which might come before it , and declared : " Nothing but injury can result to the interests of the membership of any union that takes a seat in this crooked game , where the rules are rigged and the dice are loaded against them . " Accordingly , it shall be UE policy to submit no issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other manner , upon union initiative , to step among the snares and pitfalls that the NAM authors of the law have spread for labor 's feet . " The passage of the Taft-Hartley act , by depriving workers of the effective protection of the law in their relationship with their employers , has thrown the entire burden of maintaining orderly industrial relations upon the achievement of direct union-employer agreements through collective bargaining . " The statement said the UE joined with declared CIO policy of complying , as in the past , with contract provisions and intended to " fight if necessary " to see that employers did the same .                     