@@711238

txt The pattern of disturbances -- as Korea voted in its first democratic general elections  --  showed that the Communist timetable for South Korea once again has been delayed . Yor communist-sponsored violence was sporadic . The Communist boycott was considerably less effective than might have been anticipated . The voting May 10 was marked by instances of sabotage , attacks on the police , and general efforts to scare the citizenry away from the polls . The Associated Press said 73 fatalities resulted from election violence . But estimates show some 80 per cent of Korea 's 80.000.000 eligible voters went to the polls in the voting which ultimately will decide South Korea 's future national government . The voting here in Seoul was as orderly as could be expected in any state where intense police supervision is balanced somewhat by a fiery patriotic population . Long Queues Long queues of men and women stood placidly before the city 's polling places at 7 a.m. , when the voting began . The process was marked by what most observers here considered to be a relatively free atmosphere . Women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying babies slung on their backs were noticeably prominent in the lines which filed into schools , buildings and ward offices . Although they may not have understood all the accouterments of the representative voting system , they were well schooled in the process which was to elect 200 members of the new National Assembly . Outside each polling place , the candidates ' pictures were prominently posted with the names underneath in both Chinese and Korean characters . Hash Marks For those Koreans who still are unable to read or write each candidate 's picture was accompanied by an allocated number of hash marks . The illiterate voter , therefore , could recognize his man on the . poster outside together with his particular number of marks . Within the confines of the secret balloting booth the voter then could identify the candidate 's name on the ballot sheet through a comparative number of hash marks and place his ' cross mark in the corresponding space on the ballot . Outside the polling places , the general atmosphere of the city was marked by a highly controlled tension . High @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly through the streets in trucks and sedans , while another 9,000 deputized vigilantes strolled about or guarded the polling places with improvised night sticks and staves . At . some 18 strategic points  --  largely guarding major police of , fices ? machine-gun nests were manned by regular police dressed in former Japanese Army fatigue uniforms . The pattern for election violence was set early in the day when a pair of self-pronounced Communist Youth Corps operators threw a hand-made bomb I into a gathering of voters at one of the city 's outlying polling places . The crowd was able to 1'olunteers ** Korean Policemen Ry Reuters Seoul , Korea As Korea 's first democratic election began , 60,000 armed police and constabulary and nearly 1,000,000 volunteers took their posts in towns and villages to defend candidates , voters , election officials , and ballot boxes . Parties and associations seeking election are agreed upon the establishment of a Korean Government as the first step . The only opposition aside from minor parties , is that of the Communists , who have boycotted the election , Nine hundred and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Korean Independence is he-believed certain to get a majority . The elected representatives will adopt a constitution to elect a president or prime minister . disperse before the bomb exploded and the only casualty was an elderly election official . By the time this correspondent arrived on the scene a few minutes later , the queue had re-formed and the men and women continued to file into the ward office as though nothing had happened . The police in the area shot and killed one member of the bomb squad as he sought to flee . The other , after considerable pummeling by the police , confessed before this correspondent that he and his companion were members of the now " disbanded " Communist Youth Corps . Close by , another pair attacked a police box with the result that . or. ? was shot and killed and another captured . These and other incidents reported throughout the city pointed to somethi-g of a halfhearted campaign to disrupt the election , which the leftists here were boycotting . Instead of using guns and professional type of explosives , which might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were armed for the most part with homemade improvisations . Most familiar of these was the so-called " Molotov cocktail " made from empty beverage cans filled with gasoline . Arms Cache Found One of the larger caches of arms discovered early today by the police consisted mostly of this type of bomb together with an assortment of pikes , former Japa-nese army swords , and pieces of scrap iron . The nature of the weapons , moreover , was consistent with the inexperience of the wielders , indicating that , if there are any first-team saboteurs among South Korea 's Communist groups , they ' were not operating here . Even the more numerous incidents of terrorism and assassina- ' tion in the outlying parts of South Korea fell short of what might be expected if the Communists here regarded the election with the same importance , for instance , as their counterparts in the Italian election , Whether the indicated delay in the timetable here is entirely due to the efficiency of South Korea 's half a million police and deputized watchers is difficult to determine . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the Government is completed in South Korea and American forces are withdrawn before staging what is expected to be their final coup .                     