@@704526

txt Stirred into militant action by Federal Government reports classifying Boston with smoke-filled Pittsburgh and St. Louis as the dirtiest cities of their size in the United States , the Beacon Hill Association will set the stage tonight for a city-wide drive against smoke-belching chimneys said to drop as much as 2,000,000 pounds of soot upon every square mile of Boston terrain annually . Having scheduled its annual meeting in the Women 's City Club for tonight , just 36 hours after the United States Public Health Service estimated the costs of air poi- ? lution in Boston at $8,000,000 to $24,000,000 a year , the Association will attempt to rally the lagging forces of smoke abatement , backed by residents of Boston who dare not open their windows because of likely serious soot damage to furniture , accompanied by high laundry bills . Beacon Hill Crusade Representative George A. Parker from the Beacon Hill ' district , which suffers from soot-loaded atmosphere so heavy with acid fumes that many types of shrubs can not be grown in the nearby Public Garden , will lead the crusade for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws against the . smoke nuisance . He will speak tonight for residents of Beacon , 11 ? 11 and real estate interests in that district , who charge , perpetrators of the smoke nuisance with bringing about dingy residential districts and with encouraging the exodus of Boston families into cleaner suburban home$ . Other civic organizations , including the Massachusetts Civic League , Federated Women 's Clubs , Massachusetts League of Women Voters , Back Bay Association , Boston Municipal League , Housing A.5. , sociation " of Metropolitan Boston , Boston Real Estate " Exchange , and Tha Women 's City Club , have declared their willingness to mobilize , ' all-available resources in the drive for less smoke and cleaner ing surface's. - Law Loosely Drawn Several of the groups will introduce motion q at their next bust= itcss meetings calling for active support of the campaign , possibly resulting in the appointment of- an all-Boston committee composed of representatives from each group . ' " The report of the United Stales Public Health authorities is nothing new to Bostonians. " observed George A. Davenport , President of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vindicate the opinion of the Association that the smoke control law in Massachusetts is so loosely drawn that it is virtually impossible to obtain prosecutions . " Bearing out the contention of Government health experts that something should be done to give Bostonians a clearer view of blue skies , a view from any high building in the city , particularly during the first part of the day when boilers are being stoked , provides something of a shock to the forces of cleanliness . Black , belching chimneys throw a pall of smoke above the downtown districts , spreading over the Back Bay , Beacon Hill , and South Boston and settling on building fronts like a heavy coat of paint . Sand-blasting companies complain that their work in Boston is far more difficult and expensive than in any other city in the Northeast . Housewives , courageous enough to open the windows for an airing , send their curtains to the laundry every week . Oil paintings on Beacon Hill are sa.d to be in constant danger of damage from acid in the smoke pall . Property values are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And while some authorities state that smoke control is an economic problem that will eventually take care of itself because of the heavy heat and 1 power losses due to poor combustion or careless boiler operations , ih.e smoke pall over the city indicates a need for more effective means of cleaning the atmosphere . Better Inspection Asked The concentrating point for the new drive will be in the State House , where complicated laws are said to be in need of clarification and strengthening . More adequate inspection will also be asked by the co-operating organizations to find out if the trouble lies in faulty chimneys , careless use of fuel , unenforceable restrictions , inefficient boilers , oil-burners , or the increasing use of soft coal . One thing is certain , according to members of the Public Utilities Department which handles smoke complaints , and that is that smoke conditions have changed during the last decade . The old fly ash is one thing , while the oily-greasy soot put into the air by oil burners is another problem upon which research laboratories are busy . An electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the boiler room when the chimney is belching smoke . Water sprays have been perfected to clean the soot from the smoke before it passes ' into the outer air . Electric radid waves are also being tested and used to some degree now for overcoming smoke nuisance . , Much of this modern equipment , however , is quite expensive at this time and hence not inviting to most apartment and business house owners against whom the complaints are recorded in never-ceasing streams .                     