@@712425

txt The bloom is on the Massachusetts " desert . " Acres of golden-yellow squashes and pumpkins glow in the sunlight . Rich , creamy milk flows from dairy farms in almost unending streams . Vegetable and fruit crops generally have shown their greatest volume of production in years : One is inclined to wonder what might have happened had there been a normal rainfall instead of the drought . Probably not for 100 years had Massachusetts looked so much like a desert as it did in spots in August , 1949 , said Louis A. Webster of the State Department of Agriculture today as he ' surveyed the market . However , he added , nobody can remember such a complete and effective rejuvenation of vegetation as has occurred following the September rains . High Crop Output Ever since 1942 , he added , " we have taken it for granted most of the time that we were in a sellers ' market . The year 1949 , however , shows tremendous production of a good many crops nationally , and statewide in Massachusetts . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piled up to a point where there was a 60 per cent surplus some days this summer , " he added . Then , he continued , look what happened to sweet corn . Up to September 10 , 1948 , there were 154,000 boxes of sweet corn which sold at a pretty good price . This year , up to the same period  --  and in spite of the drought  --  there were 189,000 bushels ! Making a general survey of all vegetable crops , Mr. Webster came up with the fact that 28 different varieties showed a greater volume of production in 1949 than in 1948 , despite last summer 's drought . Leafy Vegetables Off The only crops which were not up to the 1948 figures were green beans , carrots , pascal celery , chicory , lettuce , radishes , romaine , spinach , and Swiss chard , These are mostly leafy vegetables , and , with the exception of celery , not often irrigated . Tomatoes , for instance , produced a rosy glow on the Bay State " desert " to the tune of 232 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 160,000 in the same period last year . Right now . Mr. Webster went on , the valley farms are a glowing yellow , with the piles of winter squash and pumpkins that . overflow to a point where a possible dairy market must be found as an outlet for huge surpluses , And then he listed three factors which could reduce the possibility of a glutted market in 1950 . First , a repetition of another record drought ? very unlikely . Second , a flood ? which could be even more ruinous to farmers . Third , the need for more cooperative grading and marketing agreements which would preclude any possible return to a buyers ' market .                     