@@710105

txt ARNALL STEPS OUT ; THOMPSON CLAIMS GOVERNORSHIP POST Retiring Georgia Executive Resigns as Latter Is Sworn as Lieutenant Governor OUSTER SUIT IS PUSHED . Talmadge Announces That if Courts Rule Against Him He Will Abide by Decision The text of the Amon letter and radio address , Page 3 . I Special to ' Mc NEw YORK TIMES . ATLANTA , Jan. ** Armor resigned today as Governor of Georgia in favor of Lieutenant Governor M. E. Thompson , who ' immediately took up the Governor ; ship fight with Herman Talmadge by proclaiming himself acting Governor " until such time as the people themselves may elect . " Mr. Thompson said he would ask ' Mr. Talmadge to vacate the Gov , governor 's office and Executive Mansion " at the earliest possible mo : ment . " Judge Hugh of the Circuit Court of Appeals adminis'tered the oath of office to Mr : I Thompson at 10:50 A. M. in the State Senate chamber . He said the Attorney General had advised him to take office immediately instead of waiting until Monday as had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has challenged the constitutionality of Mr. Talmadge 's election as Governor by the Legislature , announced that his resignation was effective . Mr. Arnall had submitted his conditional resignation to the Secretary of State last week , with the provision that it be made effective as soon as Mr. Thompson , had been sworn in as Lieutenant Governor and qualified to succeed him . Says " Chaos " Must Be Ended Declaring that he would promptly " assume and exercise the responsibilities of the Executive Department in the capacity of Acting Governor , " Mr. Thompson added : " I will assert in every way I know how that i am Governor of Georgia and the people ought to recognize that . Talking is n't the important thing now . It is now time for action . " We must end the confusion and chaos that is existing in our State because of the dispute over the Governorship . I shall proceed as rapidly and effectively as possible to do just that . " My first official act in that direction is an order instructing the Attorney General in my behalf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take every step necessary to see that the people have the benefit of a prompt , final and orderly adjudication by the courts . " I shall at the earliest possible moment ask Herman Talmadge to vacate the Executive Office and the Mansion . I hope to do it Sunday , certainly Monday . " Thompson Makes Appointments The suit Mr. Thompson referred to was filed in Fulton County Superior Court by Attorney General Eugene Cook , at Mr. Arnall 's direction , asking for a declaratory judgment and seeking to restrain Mr. Talmadge from exercising the powers of Governor . Mr. Thompson announced appointment of Stonewall H. Dyer of Coweta County as State Revenue Commissioner and W. R. Neel of Fulton County as Director of the State Highway Department , two positions for which Mr. Talmadge , also has named appointees . Mr. Thompson at the same time said that twelve appointees as members of the State Highway Board had already accepted and would begin serving at once . When newspaper reporters pointed out to Mr. Thompson that Mr. Talmadge would in all probability refuse to yield the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do in that case , he replied : " Just yet I do not have a Strong military force at my back so I alb not in position to answer . " In a statement announcing that his *resignation was effective , Mr. , Arnall said : " The insults and indignities which I have suffered were tolerated solely for the people of Georgia and to insure the constitutional and lawful operation of the will of the people . " He voiced confidence that his // action would " meet with the approval of the people " and that " the courts will uphold the Constitution of Georgia and elections by the people . " " Democracy , law and order will be sustained , " he declared . Attorney General Cook said he would recognize Mr. Thompson as Acting Governor . He will issue a detailed statement in that connection Monday morning , he added . Mr. Talmadge spent three hours this morning in the Executive Offices at the Capitol attending to what he termed " routine matters . " He left the Capitol shortly after noon and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State on the side of Mr. Arnall and Mr. Thompson appeared to be mounting . A group of twenty-five leading citizens , among them two college presidents , announced a public meeting would be held Tuesday night in the Atlanta Woman s Club auditorium and that Mr. Arnall would state the case " for orderly , constitutional government . " deleted 7 lines the Atlanta Christian Council ; Mrs. Roff Sims , Atlanta 's woman of the year in education , and Rabbi Jacob M. Rothchild of the Temple . " This meeting is called by Georgians who are not concerned with political personalities but only with the preservation of orderly , constitutional government , " a statement by the sponsors said . .. " We are acting entirely as citi : : zens independently of any business , professional , fraternal or trade affiliations . We invite all Georgians to attend . " Eighty-five citizens last night held an " indignation meeting " at Barnesville , Ga. , - and formed " The Aroused Citizens of Georgia , Lamar ( County ) Chapter . " They adopted a resolution urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to " recognize the power and authority of the courts to decide this issue . " -A report was circulated today , ' Vast the Talmadge forces in the ' General Assembly would move I Monday to impeach Attorney General Cook , who has ruled that the Legislature had no authority to elect a Governor . Mr. Talmadge said he had " not heard about it . " Today 's events in , the " battle of the Governors " brought to a climax a week of swift developments . The Legislature , after an all-night session , early Wednesday elected Mr. Talmadge in place of his late father , Governor-elect Eugene Talmadge , who died twenty-three days before he was to have been inaugurated . Mr. Talmadge campaigned for election by the Assembly on the basis of write-in votes he received in the November general election and on an interpretation of the Constitution which he said provided for the Legislature to choose one of the two highest candidates in case no person had a majority . He contended his father was no longer a " person " because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Lieutenant Governor was the " legal " successor , that the Legislature 's sole duty was to canvass the November general election returns confirming the election of Eugene Talmadge as Governor and Mr. Thompson as Lieutenant Governor . Mr. Arnall refused to give up his office and Mr. Talmadge. with the support of a small group of State troopers , seized the Executive Offices in the Capitol and the Executive Mansion . Mr. Arnall , barred from the Governor 's quarters , established himself in a makeshift- office in the rotunda of the Capitol and yesterday was refused admission there by a Talmadge lieutenant . He then transferred his deleted 2 lines                     