@@705938

txt Reprinted from this column of April 11. 1937 ) " When the John Dewey Soviet committee in Mexico puts Religious Leon Trotsky on the grill Revival there is one question it must not overlook . Trotsky win no doubt be asked to say whether he really plotted with Hitler and with Japan against the Soviet Union . These charges were the gist of the Moscow trials . But it is also beginning to appear that the former Red Army chief struck up an even more singular partnership . He entered into an alliance with the Orthodox Church . " Mr. Duranty reported on March 2 a state of considerable alarm in government circles over the symptoms of a religious . revival . In the industrial areas north of Moscow new sects and cults were springing up . But according to the Communist organ Pravda it went beyond religion . ' Often they carry on anti-Soviet Trotskyist agitation . ' " Why the government Not papers should want to drag With Trotsky into the religious Trotsky situation is a little hard to understand . It makes him altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow quoting the leaders of the Atheist League . They say that 50 per cent of Russia is still religious . If the new religious cultists are really Trotskyists it would be a dreadful situation . One-half the Russian nation would be with Trotsky . " Disinterested observers will think it much more likely that the newly reported awakening in Soviet Russia is religion and not Trotskyism . They will go on to remark how startling have been the reported vicissitudes of religion in Soviet Russia in less than a twelvemonth . " The new Soviet ConAtheistic stitution adopted last Opera November does away Suppressed with religious disabilities . In the preliminary debates on the Constitution the removal of such disqualification was defended by no less a person than Yaroslaysky , the veteran chief of the Atheist League and editor of its newspaper Bezbozhnik  --  Uodless Man . ' On Sept. 21 Yaroslaysky said that religion is virtually dead in Soviet Russia and the Soviet regime has nothing to fear . It could well afford the risk of lifting the ban on ministers of religion . " The new ' line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities suppressed a satirical anti-religious opera , Bogatyri , ' by the erstwhile proletarian poet laureate Demyan Byedny . , The theme of the opera was the conversion of Russia to Christianity . " As late as Jan. 1 it Sudden would appear that reReligious ligion was still in a very Menace precarious condition in Soviet Russia . The census of the population was taken on the first of the year and one of the questions which everybody had to answer was whether he believed in God . Definite census figures have not yet been made public , so far as we are aware , but preliminary figures suggest that religion was indeed a liquidated problem . A trifling percentage of the Russian people went on record as believers . " That was only last January . By the beginning of March , as we have seen from Mr. Duranty 's dispatch , the authorities were viewing with alarm ' a religious revival . On March 10 the government newspaper Izvestia was calling the Atheist League to account . It seems that the league membership had dropped from five million to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspended . The Commissariat of Education was closing down antireligious museums . " A fortnight ago the late jubilant Yaroslaysky was issuing appeals for a new war against religion . For it appeared that 50 per cent of the Russian people are still believers , and there are still 30,000 churches open . " Startling changes in Figures Soviet domestic policy are Jump a commonplace . So it is About no surprise that in its religious policies , too , the Soviet ' party line ' traces a very erratic course on the chart . More serious are the sudden changes in statistics . Stalin may find it expedient to bear down on religion today and let up next month and come down hard again in June . But it is always upsetting to find that one day the Russian people are 98 per cent atheistic and next day almost they are 50 per cent religious . One day religion is dead in Russia and the next day it is very , very much alive . " The moral is , of course , to use a great deal of salt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 100 per cent demise of this institution or the 100 per cent success of that plan . Religion , especially , is an institution that has always been an unconscionable time in dying . " The drought is taking . on serious proportions , but if the American people were offered some of the rain which is churning up the Russian front it is doubtful if very many would accept .                     