@@710644

txt The United States has agreed to waive approximately 1 billion dollars in war claims against Italy , the state department announced today , as n step to hasten rehabilitation of the Italian economy . The agreement , softening the terms of the Italian peace treaty , was regarded as another step In the Truman program to combat the spread of communism in western Europe . Under the action , the United States cancels all claim to approximately 523 millions for supplies furnished by the American army to Italian civilians , plus 305 millions owed for United States occupation costs . Another 175 millions In n118 ? celianeous claims also were waived . Steps tA " Normal Relations " " The terms of the understanding have the effect of alleviating several of the burdensome clauses of the Italian peace treaty and thereby substantial assistance is rendered to the Italian economy , " said the announcement . " The understandtrigs provide an Important advance in the restoration of normal peace time economic and financial relalions between the two countries . " Robert A. Lovett , acting state secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States . Willard L. Thorp , assistant seer ? ? tary for economic affairs , headed the American delegation during the ' three months ' negotiations . Lovett emphasized that the new understanding with Italy will not set a pattern for similar dealings with Germany and Japan . Ile said Italians are " clearly distinguished " from other enemies of the United States because they overthrew the fascist government and joined the allies as co  --  belligerent &; To Turn Over 28 Ships The new agreement also provides for turning over 28 merchant ships to the Italian government to re ? place vessels lost during the war . Eight will be Italian ships returned by the United States , live are yes ? sets originally purchased from other American republics for war pun poses , and 15 will be American Liberty ships . Provision Is made for unfreezing approximately 60 million dollars ' worth of blocked Italian properties and assets held in tho United States . The concessions granted Italy are within the latitude allowed by the senate approved peace treaty , It was explained . The Mate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not affect the basic clauses of the treaty , which allowed each allied government to impose its own conditions and limitations ? ? deemed necessary in the national interest . " Italy Must Pay 6 511111ons Italy has agreed to return to American owners their property in ' Italy with adequate compensation for damage or deterioration , and to settle as soon as possible pre-war investment claims against Italy and Italian nationals . Before the end of the year , under the agreement , Italy must pay the United States 5 millions toward settlement of war damage claims of American nationals . The agreement also disclosed a decision by the United Slates and Italy to negotiate a treaty of friendship , commerce , and navigation be . tween the two countries in Rome early this fall .                     