@@711382

txt With the collapse of the opposition to the nomination of President Truman because of the refusal of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower to run if nominated and the statement . of Supreme Court Justice William 0 . Douglas that he was not a candidate for the Presidential nomination , the Truman forces today took complete command of the situation . They prepared to dictate the platform to be adopted next week by the Democratic National Convention and to name the candidate for Vice President . Arriving delegates found an atmosphere of gloom and despondency and encountered a spirit of defeatism among the party leaders already here that amounted to confession that President Truman seemed to have little chance of election . In a last-ditch strategy move , a group opposed to the nomination of President Truman , including Senator Claude Pepper of Florida , Leon Henderson , chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action , and William Ritchie , Nebraska state chairman , decided tonight to press for restoration of the twothirds rule for the first three ballots , after which nomination of a Presidential candidate would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on the theory that if an early nomination of Mr. Truman could be prevented the convention ultimately would nominate some other candidate . This proposal , which would seem to have little chance of adoption , would first be made to the rules committee of the convention . James Roosevelt Gives Up James Roosevelt , who arrived in the morning with the California delegation , announced that the anti-Truman caucus , which he , Jacob M. Arvey , Chicago leader , and Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York city had called for tonight , had been abandoned . The caucus was to have been held in the Illinois headquarters in the John Bartram Hotel . Mr. Roosevelt joined Mr. Arvey and Mayor O'Dwyer and said he would vote for the nomination of Mr. Truman . - Mr. Roosevelt 's belated decision to support the President did not save him from criticism at the caucus of the California delegation , which tabled a resolution calling for his resignation as national committeeman by a vote of 40 to 7 . The 54-vote delegation , originally pledged to the President and now containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a motion to Instruct the delegates for the President was withdrawn . The Douglas for President boom , sponsored by Mr. Henderson , as ADA chairman , and the Democrats for Douglas , of which Maurice P. Davidson of New York City is the head , made no ' progress , both because of the disinclination lof Justice Douglas to be a candidate against the President and the refusal of Southern delegates to support a man whose position on civil rights is more objectionable ' to them than that of the President , Justice Douglas , however , became the first choice of the Democratic high command for Vice President presumably with the ap : proval of President Truman , on the theory that he would add strength to the Democratic nation al ticket by attracting liberals and the large number of young men and women who will vote in November for the first time . Justice Douglas , according to a dispatch from La Grande , Ore. , said that he was not a candidate // on the national ticket and would not resign from the Supreme Court to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would take the nomination for Vice President but did not remove him entirely from consideration . Uncertainty of Justice Douglas ' willingness to accept the VicePresidential nomination put Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky in the position of leading candidate at the moment for running mate to President Truman . Those supporting Senator Barkley contended that if the national ticket should be defeated , Senator Barkley would be an ideal man to lead in organizing the Democratic party for the next Presidential election in 1952 . They also asserted that nomination of the Kentucky Senator would help to placate disaffected elements in the South . Leslie L. Biffle ; director of the Senate Minority Policy Committee , Sergeant at Arms of the convention and personal friend of Mr. Truman , said that Senator Barkley was his ( Biffle 's ) personal choice for the nomination . Objection has arisen to the nomination of Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney of Wyoming , for whom ' headquarters have been opened on the mezzanine floor of the BellevueStratford Hotel . The objection is not to Senator O'Mahoney personally but to belief that defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his candidacy , if he should be nominated for Vice President . Leslie L. Riffle , director of the Senate minority policy committee and sergeant-at-arms of the convention , said that Senator Barkley was his personal choice for the nomination . The opposition of the Southern delegates Ur- President Truman seemed to have been lessened considerably . Senator Olin D. Johnson of South Carolina failed to carry out his announced intention of introducing a resolution at the meeting of the National Committee calling upon President Truman to withdraw as a candidate . When called upon by Senator -J . Howard , chairman of the committee , Senator Johnston said he had no resolution to introduce " at this time . " This was a major defeat for the anti-Truman Southern group , most of the members of which seem ready to abandon their efforts to block the nomination of the President if they get a civil rights plank in the platform that is satisfactory to them . That efforts to get such a plank are in progress became evident when Senator at his press conference said that he favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " we believe that racial and religious minorities have the right to live , develop and vote equally with all citizens and share the rights that are guaranteed by our Constitution , " and added that " Congress should exert its full constitional powers to protect those rights . " Asked if he favored adoption of a states ' rights plank , which the Southern delegates demand , Senator-qzmcq#Grath replied : " If it did not nullify the civil rights plank , I would have no objection to it . " In his press conference , attended by more than 300 reporters , Senator repeated that President Truman had not indicated to him any preference for a running mate . He said that several weeks before the convention he had received a message from Justice Douglas saying that he was not a candidate for the Vice Presidential nomination and asking him to use his influence to prevent his name being presented for that nomination . " Do you regard Justice Douglas as eliminated as a candidate for Vice President ? " he was asked . " No , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not ask him to be a candidate but will not seek to prevent anyone else from asking him . I will , not go beyond that . " Senator added that he did not think that Justice Douglas would be nominated as the candidate for Vice President unless it was known in advance that he would accept the nomination . " I do n't believe that anyone in the convention will repeat the mistake that was made about General Eisenhower and put Justice Douglas in nomination unless he knows that he is willing to accept , " he said . " Is there a chance that the convention will end on Wednesday ? " Senator was asked . " That is quite within the range of possibility , but we plan a fourday convention , " he said . " It will depend upon - the time needed for adoption of the platform and the number of , candidates for Vice President placed in nomination . " Asked about the possmility of President Truman coming to Philadelphia to accept the nomination Senator said that it had not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention or revert to the old Democratic custom of accepting the nomination at.his home town . " I think at the moment the President 's preference is for going home , " Senator said . The National Chairman said that President Truman would not-be influenced in the least in making his decision by fear that delegates opposed to his nomination might walk out of the convention if he accepted the nomination here . Complete dominance of the convention by supporters of the President does not mean that his nomination will be unanimous or that no one will be placed in nomination against him . Some of the Southern states are almost certain to place " favorite sons " in nomination for the purpose of obtaining a record vote in accordance with their instructions . 