@@704896

txt The United States ' and British treasuries have reached a working understanding on monetary policies to be pursued for the duration of the war . This understanding followed several months of diplomatic negotiation climaxed by a series of conferences between United States Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau and British Under Secretary of the Treasury Sir Frederick Phillips , which were concluded yesterday . Apparent bases for this understanding were the following : 1 . Assurances by Secretary Morgenthau that barring unforeseen material changes in the foreign situation , the United States ' will not release the " frozen " accounts , involving balances , property and other investments , of the European nations invaded by . or under the political and economic domination of , a foreign power where there is a possibility that the resulting dollar credits ... may accrue to the invading nation . 2 . A pledge by Sir Frederick Phillips , on behalf of Great Britain , that upon conclusion of the war his government will abandon its emergency trading and foreign exchange controls and return to liberal monetary and trade policies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will cooperate in maintaining the stability of the British pound to prevent its depreciation and thus protect the American market . 4 . A mutual agreement by the two treasuries to follow the spirit of the old tripartite agreement  --  originally signed by the United States , Great Britain and France ? and keep each other fully informed of all developments in monetary policy . Foreign Policy Behind this understanding is the avowed foreign policy of the Roosevelt Administration to extend to Great Britain in its war against Germany all ' possible aid " short of war . " Its net effect will be to strengthen the British trading position in this country and prevent Germany and Italy from acquiring free dollar exchange for use in the Western Hemisphere . The British action Thursday suddenly relaxing regulations against sale by its nationals of United States securities , which caught Lowdon observers by surprise , and the continuing effort to withdraw all free sterling from circulation in this country are regarded here as moves to implement the policies discussed by Sir Frederick and Secretary Morgenthau . Similarly . Secretary Morgenthau 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that accounts of foreign nations recently frozen by the Treasury will not be released until the European situation is clarified , is in full accord with the British attitude and dovetails with the general policy outlined by the two officials . The purpose of the British government in withdrawing free sterling and maintaining a registered pound of set value is two-fold . The most important purpose from the American viewpoint , it is maintained here , is that it will protect U. S. export and domestic markets from British exports sold in terms of a depreciated pound . The joint statement issued by Secretary Morgenthau and Sir Frederick yesterday , referring to the recent development of a system of registered sterling accounts in Loncion and New York , ( the method by which the market in free sterling will be eiminated ) said that this move , while temporary , " should tend toward stabilizing the sterling rate and help protect the American market . " Protection Again Depreciation Sir Frederick asserted later yesterday that this referred to protection against possibilities of a depreciated British currency . Should the British pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct disadvantage in world markets in their competition with British exporters who could accept payment in pounds . A Mexican firm purchasing textiles , for example , would need fewer Mexican dollars to pay a British textile exporter in the depreciated pound than it would need to pay an American firm in American dollars . Furthermore , by withdrawing free sterling and maintaining a registered pound of set value , Great Britain expects to increase its dollar balances and the purchasing power of its assets in this country . The free pound has fluctuated widely andoeurrently is valued at about $3.80 in New York , whereas the registered pound is now being exchanged at about $4.03 . The British are endeavoring to withdraw the free pound from the United States as rapidly as possible . Exchange control regulations are designed to prohibit transfer of free sterling from accounts in the reef of the world to accounts in this country . Resumption of private sales of U. S. securities by British holders will not mean any diminu . Lion of dollar resources of the British Government . If British nationals take advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , , the actual dollars paid by the United States purchaser will be credited to the Bank of England and the British seller will receive sterling at , the official rate ; that is , he will receive one pound for each approximate $4.03 , the registered pound rate . Neither Sir Frederick nor Secretary Morgenthau , apparently , displayed any concern over the gold problem and the heavy flow of the metal to the United States , although the subject was discussed , Sir Frederick stated yesterday that there was no question in his mind as to the future of gold ; it will , he said , continue as the medium of international exchange , He added that this problem gave the conferees no concern .                     