@@708152

txt President Roosevelt has declined an invitation to deliver an address closing the annual . forum of The New York Herald Tribune at the Waldorf - Astoria Hotel next Wednesday night , according to an announcement issued from the White House yesterday . On the same evening , his Republican opponent , Governor Dewey , will make at the forum the second speech of his campaign to be devoted exclusively to foreign affairs . It will be entitled " This Must Be the Last War , " and will be broadcast over the Blue Network at 9:30 P. M. , Eastern War Time . Stephen Early , Presidential secretary , said Mr. Roosevelt had declined the invitation to deliver his usual closing forum address in a telegram sent Friday night to Mrs. Ogden Reid , vice president of The Herald Tribune . Mr. Early said the telegram was brief and that to his knowledge the President did not say why he had turned down the invitation . He referred further inquiries as to the reason to Robert E. Hannegan , Democratic National Chairman . Mr. Hannegan , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Democratic National campaign headquarters in the Biltmore Hotel , declined to furnish a speaker because he said the " inquiry " to him was made " after the program of the forum had been arranged and announced , the topics for discussion selected , and the plans for these discussions completed . " He did not mention Mr. Roosevelt in his letter . Of the White House announcement Mrs. Reid said : " It is hoped that on full understanding of the Forum program the President may reconsider his decision . " In the original announcement on Oct. 4 of this year 's Forum on Current Problems . The Herald Tribune said : " It is expected that President Roosevelt , as has been his custom in previous years , will close the forum with an address broadcast from the White House . " Governor Dewey , Republican candidate for President , will be heard at the closing session Wednesday evening on a program devoted to ' A National Election in War Time . ' " This announcement also said : " At the final session , the evening of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fully clis-1 cussed by speakers evenly divided between the two major parties . " Mr. Early 's statement in Washington left the inference that President Roosevelt had declined whatever invitation may have been extended to him for the reasons set forth in Mr. Hannegan 's letter to Mrs. Reid . In his letter . Mr. Hannegan said he did not believe the Democratic National Committee should be requested " to assist in providing speakers on a forum under the conditions and circumstances which you have imposed , " and that he would have been happy to accede to the request if the Democrats had been permitted " to advise in the selection of speakers and topics . " Mr. Hannegan 's Letter Mr. Hannegan 's letter follows : Mrs. Helen Reid , Vice President , The New York Herald Tribune , New York , N. Y. Dear Mrs. Reid : Following our several discussions , I desire to advise you that we are not in a position to suggest speakers to represent the Democratic side at the annual Herald Tribune Forum . You will recall that you made inquiry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the topics for discussion selected , and the plans for these discussions completed . You did not request the participation or assistance of the Democratic National Committee or any of its officers until after you had completed your selection of speakers and subjects . I am reluctant at this late date to make the request , as chairman of the national committee , of recognized 1 spokesmen of the Democratic party whose commitments and schedules may conflict with your program . You will further recall that your paper announced that a. member of the American Labor party would " take the Democratic side . " This was done without notice to the national committee or any consultation with the committee or is officers . The national committee is a devoted exponent of the democratic institution of free and open debate of important issues . However , I do not believe that we should be requested to assist in providing speakers on a forum under conditions and circumstances which you have imposed . Had we been permitted to advise in the selection of speakers and topics we would have been glad to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this late date we can be of service to you in this respect . Sincerely yours , ROBERT E. HANNEGAN . The reference to an ' ALP speaker was to the withdrawal of an acceptance to speak at the forum by Sidney Hillman , chairman of the Political Action Committee of the Congress of Industrial Organi-1 zations . Both Mr. Hannegan and , Mr. Hillman protested against The Herald Tribune 's announcement on the ground it indicated Mr. Hillman would appear as a spokesman ' for the Democrats . The Herald 11 Tribune admitted its fault and urged Mr. Hillman to reconsider his withdrawal , ? which he has not yet done . Mrs. Reid 's Statement In reply to Mr. Hannegan , Mrs. Reid published this statement in The Herald Tribune : " The Herald Tribune Forum has always been nonpartisan . Its objective has been to have the opposing sides of each issue on the program.presented by the best minds available . The subject of the final session this year is ' An Election in War Time . ' The discussion was planned to cover fairly the positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard , two members of the Democratic party and Mr. Sidney Hillman , as an important backer of the President , were invited to speak . Mr. Hillman accepted early in August . A week ago he withdrew from the program . " I promptly called Mr. Hannegan on the telephone and invited him to speak himself or to select any one who could best present the Democratic argument . He agreed to find some one , saying that he had checked and learned that the Forum 's record was good . Now , in the letter which he has made public , he has changed his mind and has declined to cooperate in finding a speaker . I am at a loss to understand his reason and I am extremely sorry . " In pursuance of the nonpartisan policy of the Forum as established for over twelve years , I shall try to find a supporter of the President who will speak in his behalf . " Willkie Dedication on Program The forum will be opened tomorrow with a dedication to the late Wendell L. Willkie , written by Archibald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be in four sessions , tomorrow , Tuesday and Wednesday evenings , and Tuesday afternoon . A large part of the proceedings will be broadcast by WJZ and the Blue Network , and other sections by WABC and the Columbia Broadcasting System , WOR and the Mutual Broadcasting System , and several independent New York stations .                     