@@707398

txt The contest in the Senate over the form of expression of its attitude on post-war collaboration to maintain the peace took a sudden turn today toward possible endorsement of the Allies ' declarations of Moscow . The chamber was confronted with a forty-two word substitute for the pending ' Connally resolution , reading as follows : Resolved , That the Senate approves the findings and declarations of the Moscow conference and recommends that these findings and declarations be made the basis of a treaty or treaties between the United States and such nations as the President may deem advisable . Senator Sheridan Downey . Democrat , of California , is the author of the new measure . In offering it he broke into the seventh day of voteless controversy between sponsors of the general resolution reported to the Senate by Chairman Tom Connally of the Foreign Relations Committee and the group advocating " strengthening " amendments along the lines of the Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill program for a post-war organization akin to the League of Nations . Mr. Downey is a member of the Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill , or B-H2 group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came almost immediately from an unexpected quarter . Senator Carter Glass , 85-year-old Virginia Democrat and a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , proposed from his home in Lynchburg , where he has been ill for eighteen months , specific endorsement by the Senate of Article 4 of the general pact of Moscow . Mr. Glass arranged that he be paired for the Moscow Declaration , or , " if that should not prevail , for the strongest resolution that can be obtained for the principle of an international organization to prevent war and safeguard peace . " Article 4 of the Moscow Declaration reads : " That they ( the Governments of the United States , the United Kingdom , the Soviet Union and China ) recognize the necessity of establishing at the earliest practicable date a general international organization , based on the principle of the sovereignty of all peace-loving States , and open to membership by all such States , large and small , for the maintenance of international peace and security . " Senator Glass ' Statement Mr. Glass in his statement , presented to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Having long been an advocate of the League of Nations and the World Court and having in fact resigned as Secretary of the Treasury in the Cabinet of the late Woodrow Wilson in , order to participate in the fight for this country 's entrance into those two great peace institutions , many of my friends in Virginia and throughout the nation have inquired of me as to my position in connection with the pending resolutions in the United States Senate and my views with reference to international cooperation to prevent war and maintain security after the conclusion of the present conflict . " Because I think these genuine friends of world peace are entitled to know exactly where I stand , I wish to rassure them that I stand now where I have always stood . without quibble or equivocation , behind a league of nations with power to prevent war and enforce peace . " It is my firm conviction that if we entered the League of Nations and , the World Court the horrendous nightmare through which we are now passing might have been averted . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no debate about the fact that our policy of having made a separate peace and withdrawn into selfish isolation did produce just what we and the world are now getting . " Along with lovers of peace throughout the world , I hail the result of the Moscow Conference which , if language means anything , plainly proposes a league to maintain peace after the war . ? " For the reason that not only we , through our representative to the conference , Mr. Hull , but the three great powers with whom we are associated , have subscribed in clearest words to this principle , it would be my opinion that , instead of any one of the pending resolutions now before the Senate , the Senate might well see fit to endorse specifically the language of the Moscow Conference . " Mr. Glass then quoted Article 4 of the Joint Four-Nation Declaration . He went on : " To this end , and although I shall not be able to participate in the debate and may not be strong enough to get to the Senate floor for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first , in favor of the Moscow Declaration , and , if that should not prevail , for the strongest resolution that can be obtained Ilfor the principle of 4 international organization to prevent war and safeguard peace . " Connally Prefers His Measure . Senator Connally was obviously not ready to abandon the resolution that emerged first from a subcommittee that he headed and then from the full committee after nearly twenty-nine weeks of study of post-war proposals . " I do n't feel authorized to abandon the resolution , " he said , " but any proper amendments , of course , will be considered . The Moscow agreement confirms and approves the same things expressed in the pending resolution . " Senator Claude Pepper , Democrat of Florida , who is handling the amendments proposed by the B2112 group , suggested that an informal peace conference be held between opposing Senatorial groups . Immediately upon the ending of the day 's session the B2H2 group held a meeting of its own . A spokesman later predicted that " something may happen tomorrow , " and that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow language . " While Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois , assistant majority whip , and others considered offering a substitute for the Connally meassure in the form of endorsement of the declarations of Moscow , they had drawn away from the idea for fear such a resolution might constitute , or be construed as , a ratification of a treaty . Mr. Downey maintained , however , that the text of his proposed substitute had avoided such interpretations . His measure provided , he pointed out , for approval of the findings and declarations of the Moscow conference as " the basis " or foundation of treaties which themselves would require Senate confirmation . There was a further safeguard against construction of the substitute as a treaty , Mr. Downey held , in the fact that his proposal did not mention the names of any other nation and left the selection of nations with which treaty negotiations would be made to the President . As he introduced his resolution Mr. Downey proposed , as a further post-war peace move , the immediate cancellation of all lend-lease claims against our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    