@@712225

txt President Truman told the Shriners. in his Soldier Field address , about " plans private and public- that must be made " In such a way as to give us more lobs and more output. - This statement brought forth the greatest applause of his entire speech . Mr. Truman did n't elaborate on what sort of plans he has in mind . Had he elaborated . the applause might not have been so great . But some persons surmise he may be planning something on the nature of the pub-lic works program sponsored by the New Deal . It is only natural that people would find the prospect of more jobs and more output appealing . . lob holders with money to spend keep the wheels of industry well greased . Employers with expanding output keep the suppliers of raw materials osperously busy . But if Mr. Truman 's plans ler spending include the kind of extravagant outlays that involve deficit financing , he is headed for strong opposition here in the Midwest . AA A In talks with people in many nudwestern cities . this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied by deficit financing . is definitely not the way out of the present recession . Furthermore , they believe it is dangerous to assume that private spending and investment will , as a matter of course , go along with the present trend of government spending . There is a strong feeling among employers here that one of the best ways to encourage private spending actually would be to have less government spending and investment . Many employers look upon considerable government spending as a natural prelude to in creased taxes . They regard taxes as a major factor in discouraging private spending and investment . Mr. Truman was applauded five other times during his speech to a crowd of 60.000. mostly Shriners . What these persons . from all parts of North America . found roost appealing sect us worth recording . The first enthusiastic response came when the President assured his listeners that public opinion was overwhelmingly in favor of ratification of the North Atlantic Pact . It came again when he said : " We must continue to support and to improve the United Nations as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown strong support for the UN . Most persons interviewed have indicated they consider the pact an instrument for strengthening the UN . A thunder of handclapping swept the audience when the President declared : " We have always been a challenge to tyranny of any kind . We are such a challenge today . " He was interrupted with more applause when he said forcefully : " Our idea of government prevailed against the absolute monarchies of the 19th century . It is prevailing against the new and more terrible dictatorships of the 20th century . " Both cheers and applause greeted his statement that " men *ant the right to think their own thoughts and to have their own convictions . " Mr. Truman seemed buoyed by the crowd 's response . If he was disappointed in the unfilled section of the large stadium , he did n't show it . Considering the time of day , 4 p.m. , it probably was n't a bad turnout . To help get out a capacity crowd , Mayor Martin H. Ken- nelly had given city hall employees who could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political boss . had enlisted support of ward organizations in buying tickets at Si each . As a last resort . the doors of the stadium had been thrown open at 2:30 p.m. to admit the public free . - AAA Shriner Harry S. Truman 's visit to Chicago . to all intents and purposes , was prompted by a desire to share in the celebration of the Shriners ' diamond jubilee . But some of the Shriners professed surprise that the President came . They said he had received an invitation months ago and only recently had accepted . The President landed here in the midst of a potential scrap between Gov . Adlai Stevenson and Mayor Kennelly who have been arguing over legislative matters . notably Chicago 's share of state appropriations . Mr. Truman 's visit . some observers believe . may have been related to helping boost the reelection next year of Senator Scott W. Lucas , whom he brought along . Senator Lucas . backed by Governor Stevenson . may face a Democratic primary fight against Mayor Kennelly 's corporation counsel , Benjamin Adamowski . The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able vote-getter from downstate . Senator Lucas , who is preparing to resign as Democratic majority leader , will need all the help the President can give him if he is to win reelection next year . Mr. Truman may have tipped his hand on his own plans for 1952 in a conversation here . He assured a friend that he would not be free to accept social engagements until 19532 ..                     