@@707331

txt Overwhelming approval by the House of Representatives of a foreign poliCy declaration favoring American participation in postwar World peace machinery was assured today . Guarantee , that the vote would be decisive came with the action of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in unanimously adopting a Republican-sponsored a. - endment to the Fulbright resolution . The amendment on which the Republicans insisted added fhe words , " through constitutional processes ' to the draft which Repiesentative J. IV . Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas originally introduced on June 9 , 1942 . The addition of this phrase brings the resolution closely in line with the foreign policy statement which the Republican Postwar Advisory Council prepared at Mackinac Island earlier this month and assured substantial Republican support for the revised Fulbright declaration . The Changed Resolution The resolution now reads : " Resolved by the House of Representatives ( the Senate concurring ) that the Congress hereby expresses itself as favoring the creation of appropriate international machinery with power adequate to establish and to maintain a just and lasting peace , among thenations of the world , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional processes . " Representative Sol Bloom ( D ) of New  --  york , Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , expressed the hope that the Senate will quickly follow the House in adopting the Fulbright resolution or a decalaration compatible with it , so that both Senate and House could begin joint deliberation soon on more specific proposals . In the course of the House debate this afternoon , Representative John W. McCormack ( D ) , of Massachusetts , majority leader , declared that the resolution " signifies our intention to fight on the side of reason , peace and order against hate , disorder , and war . It signifies our intention to iegulgte and curb imperialism . " Representative Charles A. Eaton ( R ) , of New Jersey , ranking Republican on the Foreign Affairs Committee , told his colleagues that he had a personal reason for wanting to see this resolution passed . Speaks of Seven Sons " I have seven of the finest boys in the world , " he remarked . " One of them died of wounds July 30 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm going to vote for anything I believe will abolish this wholesale murder for good . " Nearly 400 members were on hand when the debate opened , easily the largest attendance since the House reconvened last week . ; The visitors ' galleries were more than half full when Chaplain James S. Montgomery opened the session with a prayer in which he noted that " today we are turning l one of the great bends of history . " So many members wanted to speak on the resolution that the House immediately voted 252 to 23 to extend the 40-minute period to four hours . Representative Clare Hoffman ( H ) of Michigan was the first to rise to oppOse the declaration . He contended that it " repudiates our national policy " and means " nothing less than a military alliance between the United States of America , Great Britain and such other countries as may choose to join . " He asked the House to approve instead the Republican Foreign Policy statement drafted at Mackinac two weeks ago . " There is a declaration of foreign policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a declaration at this time , to which isolationists and interventionists , if love of country comes first , if adherence to our form of government is supreme . can all wholeheartedly subscribe , " he said . Belittling the importance of the Fulbright declartion , Representative Hamilton Fish ( R ) of New York . far from considering it a commitment to an alliance , called it no more than " a pious resolution . " He said nobody could vote against it because " nobody can vote against the Ten Commandments . " Representative Charles L. Gifford ( R ) of Massachusetts observed that the proposed resolution was " right in line with the old political adage ? ' never say nothing unless you 're compelled to , and never say anything you can be held to . ' " Mr. Bloom told the House that the original draft proposed by Mr. Fulbright was re-written by the entire committee , and he agreed that by its adoption Congress " would only express an opinion . " " It 's not a law . " he added . Objections have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is couched in terms so general as to mean little . nent peace with justice in a free world  --  present examination of these aims , so far as consistent with the war effort  --  their achievement by constitutional process and recognition of American responsibilities and American interests . The B2H2 Resolution calls only for Senate approval . The other two resolutions are concurrent ones , calling for action by both houses . The resolution adopted by the Mackinac Island Republican Conference on Sept. 7 calls , among other things , for : ( 1 ) Preserving and protecting national interest ; ( 2 ) helping to restore " order and decent living in a distressed world " ; ( 3 ) " our full share " and " responsible participation " in a program for permanent peace and justice in a free world . if a conflict should develop between national interests and international developments , the United States should preserve its traditional " consti tutionalism . " The Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill Resolution , introduced in the Senate on March 16 , 1943 , is more elaborate and somewhat more specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that the United States take the initiative to form an organization of the United Nations with " specific and limited " authority to : ( 1 ) Win the war ; ( 2 ) govern temporarily and aid Axis-dominated territory as this is occupied ; ( 3 ) give aid to United Nations in need of it ; ( 4 ) set up machinery to settle international disputes peacefully : ( 5 ) set up a United Nations military force to suppress any future attempts at military aggression . The organization thus set up is to be open to other nations , all members pledging themselves to seek no territorial aggrandizement . The Vandenberg-White Resolution introduced in the Senate on July 2 , 1943 , puts Congress on record as favoring conclusive victory in the war ? co-operation by the United States to prevent military aggression " by any necessary means " and to establish perma-                     