@@705646

txt The British Government started today its first wholesale recruiting campaign for noncombatant civilian Americans with an offer of employment to an unlimited number of radio technicians and other types of mechanics needed to service its secret weapon for detecting invading aircraft . The device has been made available to the United States . Air Commodore George C. Pixie , Air Attache to the British Embassy , announced the opening of offices in New York to conduct the recruiting campaign for a Civilian Technical Corps . He asked to be addressed at the British Consulate General , 25 Broadway , New York . The new program offers wages ranging from $24.12 a week to $38.65 a week , plus board and lodging and a uniform to be designed for the American Civilian Corps . All of the Americans to be hired will have contracts for three-year terms , or for the duration of the war , whichever period if shorter , with two-way transportation by ship across the Atlantic . No Military Discipline Except for the wearing of a uniform , the Americans will be exempt from military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they are sent in the United Kingdom . If they become subject to discipline , they will have the right of appeal to an American commandant to be chosen . Commodore Pixie said that the British Government hoped to find a commandant for the Corps who has had experience in the British and American armies , but now has civilian status . The entire program , which was hinted at last night in an international - broadcast ' by Lord Beaverbrook from London , arose from the fact that British production of radiolocators for enemy aircraft is running far ahead of ability to train maintenance men for the locators . It represents a compromise reached after the State Department declined to approve direct recruiting of Americans to do this work as enlisted members of the British armed forces . As a result , the British Government offers rates of pay that are believed to be considerably above the British civilian level , together with disab5-ty and death benefits exactly the same as those given to members of the Canadian Air Corps . These benefits range upward to an annual pension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be killed with supplementary allowances for dependent children . Also , the British Government has relaxed restrictions to permit American employes to send home part of their pay in American dollars . The types of workmen wanted , with the acceptable age limits , were listed as follows : Radio mechanics for special duties , 18 to 50 years ; radio mechanics for communications services , 18 to 50 ; fitters , 18-50 ; metal workers , 18-50 ; electricians , 18-50 ; instrument repairers , 18-50 ; machine tool setters and operators , 18-50 ; electrical artificers ( marine ) , 18-40 ; engine room artificers ( marine ) , 18-40 ; ordnance artificers ( marine ) , 18-40 ; wiremen ( marine ) , 18-40 ; radio mechanics for marine communications , 18-40 , and automobile mechanics ( marine ) , 18-40 . Will Be Trained in Britain Commodore Pirie said that the average workmen in these lines with a background of training and about two years ' experience should qualify easily for the work . All enrollees will receive in Britain special training courses lasting from six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week . During a press conference at the British Embassy devoted to discussion of the program , Commodore Pixie was noncommunicative about a possible conflict between this recruiting and the American selective service but he said conferences had been held . This indicated that an arrangement had been made . He also was positive that no difficulty would arise under the Neutrality Act over taking Americans into the combat zone . The applicants are expected to come from the 70,000 eligible men in the United States and from amateur radio enthusiasts . Commodore Pixie declined to set a limit on the number who could be used . When he was asked if a published figure of 13,000 was accurate , he replied that " probably twice that number " could be used by Britain . He declined to go into details about the radiolocator , but said in response to questions that its principle was being used in submarine detection . He also asserted that it had such wide civilian possibilities that the training to be received by Americans should be valuable later . Must Pass Examination Robert Alexander Watson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced radio plane-locator , which warns of approaching aircraft . Associated Press British Air Commodore George Pirie , who will , open offices in New York to arrange for American volunteers to go to Britain to help operate the new plane detector . Associated Press Applicants who wish to enter this service must produce birth certificates , evidence of education and letters of recommendation , and pass an examination on general fitness 101 ' the work . If accepted , it will be guaranteed that they shall serve only in the United Kingdom unless they volunteer for service elsewhere . Their working hours may range from Iforty-eight to sixty per week but they will have one day off a week . Married members of the Civilian Technical Corps will be permitted to send home one-half of their pay . Unmarried members may send 25 per cent in dollars to dependents . The contracts will provide for annual leave of two weeks for workmen and three weeks for foremen , for freedom from British income tax and for free medical care . Accepted volunteers will be sent to Montreal and then be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the plan included the following descrip-tion : " Radio technicians who are accepted for this work , in addition to playing a direct part in reducing the loss of civilian lives and property , will obtain invaluable training which they could not get elsewhere . " The Civilian Technical Corps is exactly what its name implies . It is a body of civilian technicians which will be separate from the fighting services , although it will work with and for them . Its members , however , will not be subject to military discipline . They will sign a contract for civilian service and will not , on any account , be asked to undertake combatant duties . " The ' British Government wishes to make it clear , however , that while all these technical duties are purely noncombatant , they carry with them the same obvious risks under which the entire British population has been living for more than a year . " If , at any time , the United States Government should require the services of any members of the Civilian Technical Corps , the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "                     