@@704779

txt President Roosevelt yesterday disclosed that national defense activities . which have been temporarily in charge of Secretary of Commerce Hopkins and Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau , have been turned over to members of the new advisory Commission to the council of national defense . Problems relating to airplanes and machine tools will be in charge of William S Knudsen. the Chief Executive said . To devote his time to this work . Mr. Knudsen has obtained a leave of absence from his duties as president of General Motors . Sidney Hillman , president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers will have charge of personnel matters Strategic matenals will be in charge of Edward R Stettinius . Jr .. who resigned yesterday as chairman of the board of U. S. Steel Corp The only thing remaining outside this nongovernmental advisory group . President Roosevelt said , will be the coordination of foreign purchases in this country . This matter will remain under the general coordination work of the Treasury Department he said . because tl'e matter is primarily financial and also the Allied Purchasing Commission has previously been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchases , however . the Treasury will keep Mr. Knudsen and Mr. Stettinius informed at all times . Allied Aircraft Buying As the government 's plan for mobilizing industry behind the armament program was going into full operation , it was learned that the mil- lion-dollar aircraft buying program of the Allies in the United States is virtually completed . The last few contracts made by the Allied purchasing mission , it was said , will push the combined British and French purchases of aircraft and associated items in this country past the billion-dollar mark and make the grand total somewhere in the neighborhood of $1,200.000,000 . Completion of these purposes , it was stated on good authority , does not mean an end to plane buying by the Allies . The program may be reopened at any time to swell the purchase total even more . At the same time , Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau said that the engine purchases , an important part of the Allied aircraft procurement program , had been completed last week . Building Up Personnel The advisory commission , now charged with effecting complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary personnel to carry out the program The commission members and their staffs are beginning already to make surveys of Army and Navy defense needs and the various segments of American industrial life which will be called upon to deliver the supplies . Colonel James H. Burns and Captain Reed of the Navy have been made assistants to Mr. Stettinius . Two men to work with Mr. Knudsen are vet to be named . When it has been determined just where and how the military supplies can be procured most expeditiously , the commission will set up subcommittees under the individual commission members as special national defense committees for separate industries In addition to the Army and Navy officers , staff members are now being recruited from private industry and n d other sources outside the government . Allen Morton of the Koppers Co. was reported last night to be one of Mr. Stettinius ? aides Professor Theodore Yntema of the University of Chicago . who did special work for the United States Steel Corp . in connection with Temporary National Economic Committee hearings , also will work with Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained by an official of the commission , also is arranging for a corps of engine motor , tank . machine tool and other industrial experts to serve with him . Dr. George Jackson Mead , technical expert working with Secretary Morgenthau on aircraft problems , may be added to Mr Knudsen 's staff Meanwhile , the Allies were described as being interested in the possible purchase of supplies of military tanks in this country . However it was admitted that the prospect of such business at least in the near future was not bright because , it was said , deliveries of tanks in quantities by American firms soon could not be assured .                     