@@709504

txt Two announcements last night indicated a netv crisis in the situation of the seized railroads and coal mines . At the White House it was stated that a Presidential proposal for settlement of the railroad dispute had been accepted by the carriers and eighteen unions . The two major unions , however , called the proposals unfavorable . At the same time Secretary Krug said the Government hoped to reach complete agreement with John L. Lewis on the principles of a new contract by Saturday night in an effort to avoid shutdown of the seized coal mines . Back of these negotiations must be raised the question of what Government seizure accomplishes . When a plant was seized during the war because its managers were failing to carry out the war program the justification and purpose of the seizure were clear enough . But how did we get into the practice - of seizing property from its owners even when it was a union that was responsible for the work stoppage ? The theory behind this action was a strange one . It was held that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because " you can not strike against the Government . " But many of the strikes which this action was desigigid to stop were already strikes against the wage decisions of Government agencies . The strikes were therefore already " against the Government . " It did not make them more against the Government because the strike was being conducted also against the Government agency running the seized property . Government exists primarily not to protect itself , but to protect the general welfare . It ought to be just as illegal to throw a brick through the window of a privately owned factory as through that of a Government building . Seizure tends to deflect attention from the realities of a situation . A strike against a privately owned plant working on war contracts or making an essential of life retarded the war effort just as much before as after the same plant was declared to be Government property . In the present case , a nation-wide coal strike or a nation-wide railroad strike is just as disastrous to the nation 's economy whether or not the Government is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The economic disaster brought about by such strikes is a sufficient reason for Government efforts to prevent or end them . Meanwhile , Government seizure tends to raise a series of fictitious issues instead of real ones . The strikers know that the properties have been seized for the purpose of settling the strike , and for no other purpose . They know that the property involved has suddenly become " Government property " only in a very temporary and fictitious sense . Other fictions go along with this . The President seized the coal mines under the terms of the Smith-Connally Act . As this act was intended only for the war period , under its terms the President was obliged to give as his reason for seizure that " the coal produced by such mines is required by the war effort , " and " that the war effort will be unduly impeded or delayed by such interruptions . " In addition to the transparent fiction that the war is still going on , still more fictions are resorted to . Under the terms of the Smith-Connolly Act it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is illegal to encourage anyone else to strike . Therefore Mr. Lewis declares that it is up to the miners as individuals to act as they see fit , though everyone knows that this will not really be a matter of individual decision , but of group decision . In the midst of all these fictions , however , it is clear that Government seizure tends to erode the idea of private property . It accustoms people to the idea of Government " solutions " of other problems by seizure , so that it is now commonplace for officials to urge the seizure of private buildings , the seizure of grain stocks on farms , and the like . And one reality of the present seizure process is that the Government negotiates terms with the union leaders , while the former owners and managers are left to pay whatever wages the Government and the strike leaders negotiate . It is the owners and not the strikers that are penalized by the strike . Yet people are puzzled when they find themselves having more strikes and strike threats . What has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall not know until we see the terms that are finally arrived at .                     