@@705920

txt DEFENSE SUPPLY FACES BIG SHIFT IN NELSON PLAN Specific Allocations of Raw Materials to Be Tried First on Farm Implements PRIORITIES BREAK DOWN Immediate Enactment of Price Control Bill Urged by SPAB Chief at House Hearing By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? A projected major revision of the priorities system , under which defense industries will get specific allocations of raw materials instead of preference ratings , was outlined to the House Banking Committee today by Donald M. Nelson . The executive director of the newly created Supply Priorities and Allocations Board , testifying in behalf of early enactment of the Administration 's price control bill , said the new system still was under study , but asserted that he thought its adoption unavoidable . Mr. Nelson told reporters he was not quite sure exactly how the plan could be carried out , but said he intended to use the agricultural implements industry as " a guinea pig " on which to test his idea . Back Where They Started From Under the existing priorities system , he explained to the committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the order of their importance to the defense program and the civilian population . " But a manufacturer can not operate unless he knows how much material he is going to get and when he will be able to get it , " the former vice president of Sears Roebuck said . " He ca n't get that information from a mere preference rating , - because many other firms in the same business may have the same rating . " Where manufacturers find they can not get materials under their priority ratings , he went on , they come in and ask for a higher rating . " When you get them all up to A-A ratings , " he added , " you are right back where you started . " Discussing the diversion of civilian supplies to the defense program , Mr. Nelson said ways had to be found to keep the civilian economy on a sound basis , but at the same time to eliminate " frills . " " This is no time for brass rails on fire engines , " he said " What we want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do the job properly . " Opposes Morgenthan Proposal He said he was opposed to Secretary Morgenthau 's proposal for 100 per cent taxation of corporations ' profits in excess of 6 per cent . He thought , he explained , that the profit system had to have an incentive to make it work . At the opening of ins remarks , Mr. Nelson said that as a business man he was fundamentally opposed to price-fixing , but declared that in the present emergency he believed that the Administration 's price-control bill should be enacted at once to prevent " an inflationary period that will completely destroy us . " Mr. Nelson said he knew of no other method of solving some of the problems created by the defense program . For that reason , he said , the measure should be enacted " as rapidly as possible . " Questioned as to the relative merits of the universal price ceiling plan advocated by Bernard M. Baruch , World War head of the War Industries Board , and the selective system in the Administration 's bill , the witness said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been politically possible to have put the Baruch plan into effect before prices began to get out of line , " he said , " I would have been in favor of it . I think it is too late , however , to attempt that course now . " When you try anything retroactive with regard to prices you disturb all the contractual relationships created after the date selected for freezing prices and a great deal of injustice is done . " Mr. Nelson supported the position taken by Leon Henderson , Price Control Administrator , on every major issue before the committee . He said he was opposed to including wages in the price-control bill on the ground that " in this country you ca n't have concentration camps for the violators . " He also emphasized the need for // MAPS MAJOR SHIFT IN DEFENSE SUPPLY // one-man control of the price administration , although he said he would favor establishment of an advisory board to work with the administrator . In- that connection he said that Mr. Henderson was using such a board now . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be a ceiling over them , but he did not know just where it should be . Chairman Steagall asked Mr. Nelson about complaints that some small factories had not received much defense business . " It would be a national disaster if in building the , defense program we destrOY- business , " Mr. Nelson said . " Small business has been hurtznore than it should have been . " There has not been enough consideration of the small and medium sized manufacturers in placing contracts . I am sure that the problem is going to be solved . It must be solved . " After stating that the change to a definite system of allocations instead of preference ratings was under study , Mr. Nelson remarked : " We do n't know all the answers , ' but we are going to know them just as quickly as possible . " he estimated that possibly 80 per cent of the nation 's business firms would not be able to participate directly in the defense program , but he emphasized that he did not mean that they would all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them were engaged in production of items essential to the public . He endorsed the idea of negotiating voluntary agreements with labor groups against seeking wage increases once the price-control law is enacted . Legislation to give Congress authority to freeze prices on about 200 commodities , including rent and essential defense materials , was suggested today by Representative Barry . The New Yorker , a member of the Banking Committee , said he would offer his plan to the commkttee as a substitute for proposals supported by Leon Henderson and Mr. Baruch . His measure , he said , would freeze at a date to be fixed in the legislation the prices of 198 commodities and services which have been determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as being an index of the cost of living .                     