@@710787

txt Topics of The Times Consequences of reforms Beyond in morals , manners and the legal arrangements for orHorizon dering our lives are not always clearly foreseen by reformers with their eyes on a limited objective . Our Prohibitionists , responsible for an experiment noble in intention ( as Mr. Hoover put it ) , set out to convert this nation , en masse , to soft drinks , to which many of their fellow citizens were allergic  --  sometimes with regrettable effects . These earnest people had n't the least notion that they were launching an era of lawbreaking which defeated their noble intention and aborted their experiment . When the English , early Of Wine in the reign of Good Queen and Anne , for the benefit of Walnuts home growers of wool , gave an import preference to the heavy wines of Portugal over the light wines of France , they had n't any idea that they were making gout a national institution for the British upper classes  --  though , to be sure , some medical pedants will have it that it was n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the prevalence of that distinguished affliction among the tight little island 's high-livers . And certainly John C. Good Calhoun , when , mindful Republican of the way the War of Doctrine 1812 had shown up our industrial unpreparedness for carrying on military operations , promoted a protective tariff to foster manufacturers was not looking forward to the irrepressible conflict which such tariff laws helped mightily to make just that . For Mr. Calhoun , though later noted as a nullifier of federal law , was then more Federalist than Alexander Hamilton had been when he and Mr. Jefferson stood opposed in the political arena . But is seems that the We Strive reformers of fashions , to aware that women , like Please the Athenians , are always eager for new things , and desirous to please , are not more able to take stock of all the consequences of a change in the pattern of what the well-dressed woman must wear to be recognized as such . We have all become aware of that change . It appeared in what was called a new silhouette , first illustrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I It now expresses itself in the figures of the creatures of flesh and blood . we encounter on the streets and elsewhere . Whether we like the Business new silhouette is not the and question here . Obviously , Pleasure it has required the buying of new clothes , which , I they say , has a tonic effect on every woman ; and it is certainly good for the clothes-making business . Some mere men who had to pay the bills were a bit dismayed . Soiree , perhaps , were so well coptent with the way they 'd got used to see women look that ' they were not entranced by the preview of what women were going to look like . From England , with ration points what they are over there , came intimations of rebellion against the new order . But the new order had been decreed  --  and the decree has been generally obeyed . It Was a decree ostensibly in the interest of that full employment and expansion of ? business which , we are told , will pave the way to continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like that which of as we are told again  --  has Progress kept off the market a lot of improvements in our favorite gadgets ? the amount of money tied up in the gadgets that would have to be scrapped . Hollywood is hit , and Film rises to protest . ' And why Fashion does Hollywood protest ? Note According to Hollywood 's trade paper , pally Variety , it is because there is a backlog of films in which supposedly fashionable actresses move about and emote in the skirts of yesteryear . A change in styles impairs the value of that backlog , Of course we do n't take sides . We just observe and wonder about things .                     