@@710974

txt At a time when the world is crying louder than ever before for American farm products , a platoon of U. S. officials is trekking abroad to find outlets for such staples . It is. of course , long-term outlets they seek The agricultural ambassadors are operating under the projected plan of U. S. " permanent abundance . " A cotton specialist is already in Europe making a three-month study of market difficulties for that commodity . Tobacco , fruit and nut specialists will leave for the continent soon after Christmas . The Agriculture Department wants to probe grain and livestock markets too , but money limitations will prohibit this until the next fiscal year . Rig Problem : Red Tape Immediate problem facing the roving ciop counsellors is cutting the red tape that goes along with dealings between governretnts . During and since the war , foreign nations have established or iigliteried controls over private trading and distribution of goods F-ceeptionally tight reins exist over the shipment of vitally needed foods from other nations The agents will thus he . in effect . representatives of S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy-making level But there are allied problems that worry Washington agriculture officials . In early October , Agriculture Secretary Anderson unveiled before a Congressional committee his plans for a policy of long-range high production ? a policy of " permanent abundance ? ? Since then . he has announced I948 crop production goals seeking planting of a total of 336 million acres , 9 million acres over this year 's requested output The big question mark  - -  not yet resolved- - is wnat to do with such proposed high production when other nations begin to get hack on their feet and begin to fade awey as markets for U S agricultural goods . The surplus bogey . only too familiar to farmers of the 1935's. may then push prices down . cause havoc , some congressmen fear . Speeding the Process The process may be speeded , some fear , by Anderson 's plan to encourage production of certain foreign crops by promising to buy . with Commodity Credit Corporation funds , anything foreign farmers can not sell through normal export channels For that reason , the emissaries will seek guarantees for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton , for instance . While exports are down now , there is no immediate crisis in exports of that commodity since domestic demand is still high . We exported 3 6 million bales of the 1946-47 crop compared with an immediate pre-war average of about 6 million hales The Agriculture Department anticipates exports of still less in the coming season ? about 2 5 million bales . But the department is trying to boost production . They have set a 22-million acre goal for 1948 , substantially above 1947 production of 21 3 million acres The 1337-41 average was 26 3 million acres . When we reach the high level of the 1930 's we will have something to worry about , officials think . " We must not only consider the present world market , but we must give thought to our ability to remain In those world markets -- and a good prices , " says Arthur W. Palmer , chief of the cotton section of the Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations . There has been no commodity promotional work in foreign markets since 1939 when a few agricultural commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign service as agricultural attaches .                     