@@709324

txt Wing insignia were summarily stripped from 168 parachute troopers who refused to jump in a training exercise at Fort Bragg , N. C. , last month , it was disclosed today . The men were transferred to other army units . Reports to the war department said the jump was staged as scheduled , however , on Feb. 16 with the Mexican secretary of war a spectator . Some 700 parachutists took part . Army officials who told about the incident in response to inquiries said no further disciplinary action is planned , altho in war time refusal to jump called for court-martial . There was no formal announcement . Ordered by Gen. Gavin The ' stripping of wings and loss of extra pay was ordered by Alaj . Gen. James M. Gavin , who led members of his 82d air borne division in a Fifth ay . parade in New York upon their return from fighting in Eu rope . The men involved were veterans of numerous jumps , the not in combat . All were members of the 515th parachute regiment , a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Europe where only the 517th regiment saw tfighting . The division was about to be broken up and Gavin commanded its remnants along with other units at Fort Bragg . Approximately 130 of those who refused to jump were said in the reports to have had almost enough points to assure early release from service . Some had not jumped since last summer , but had continued drawing the extra parachute pay which the army gives as compensation for hazardous duty -- -850 a month for enlisted ' men . War Department Order Gavin reported last month 's exercise was ordered by the war department as a training measure , in accord with the parachutists ' contention that " the best way to hurt oneself and kill those in the unit is not to jump and train regularly . Plans for advance practice jumps and the final leap were outlined two weeks ahead and most of the balking group announced then they would not take part , altho they had drawn their special pay only ' two days before . Why the Fort Bragg group refused to jump was not specifically stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men did not care to face the hazards involved in stepping out of a speeding plane and drifting to the ground . " You sweat out your 50th jump just like the first , " is a common observation among paratroopers . Two men were injured in the Feb. 16 exercise . Neither required hospital treatment .                     