@@711782

txt The Soviet Union 's attitude toward the individual will rank high among the reasons why the overwhelming majority of Germans already have rejected Russian overtures for the establishment of a new Germany along eastern totalitarian lines . Evidence of this fact is supplied in conversation with Germans of all political opinions ( except the Communists dare not voice them ) whenever the question arises of German war prisoners still unreturned from Russia . It applies also to the question of thousands of Germans here in Germany who have been two or three years in concentration camps in the Soviet zone , without trial or even charges preferred against them . The Soviet Union signed an-agreement with the three western powers in Moscow April 3 , 1947 , by which all German prisoners of war would be released from their territory by the end of 1948 . Pact Broken This agreement was not honored . The Soviet member of the Repatriation Committee recently declared this was due to international differences in the Allied Control Council ( that organization has not been functioning for months ) and accused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , Belgium , and other countries . ? The Soviet press here also leveled charges that German PWs were fighting in Indonesia , though unfortunately the evidence which was produced really talks about Viet Nam or Indo-China , which are nearly 2,000 miles from there . It is even impossible to establish how many German PWs there are in the Soviet Union today . According to ? reliable calculations , and after deducting less than 300,000 which already have returned to Germany , there still must be about 2,000,000 to . be accounted for . Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov , however , stated more than a year ago that there were only 890,532 and that to March , 1947 , over 2,840,000 had been released . Unfortunately , it is impossible to investigate the position properly as the Soviet Union is not a member of the International Red Cross . Further , the Soviet Union has shown no readiness to accept the latest suggestions that the Red Cross be permitted to investigate Soviet PW camps and the authenticity of letters arriving in Germany , which are attributed to PWs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any news of thousands of relatives and friends who were arrested in the past three years and about whom no information whatsoever is obtainable , except through other arrested persons released from time to time . The majority of these people are in concentration camps inside Germany : in the Russian zone , and have not been told the charges against them or given trials . To these facts might be added some others , which also are making the Germans reject Soviet offers . As early as spring of 1948 , the head of the Soviet military administration , Marshal Vassily Sokolovski. announced officially that all dismantling in the Soviet zone had ceased . Practice Continues Yet dismantling still is continuing . Even toward the end of October , 1948 , the German Economic Commission ( entireely Soviet-controlled ) had prepared a third list of dismantlings . In it 162 Soviet-acquired factories and 43 private concerns were involved . For example , the Singer Sewing Machine Works in Zwickau , Saxony , which the Sbviets " acquired , " now is being demolished as well as the automobile works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the Soviet standpoint , it also is unfortunate that so many Germans from the eastern zone appear daily at the new political refugee office in the British sector of Berlin , applying for transfer to western Germany , They are no advertisement for allegedly good conditions in the Soviet zone  --  nor are the arrests of hundreds of Germans in that zone , which are reported regularly . Finally , the Soviet military government 's promises to supply all Berlin with goods , food , and other needs , provided the Berliners accepted eastern democracy , were not even considered by the latter ? especially when they know that fellow countrymen in the Soviet zone can not obtain many essentials of livelihood .                     