@@708049

txt It can be said without qualification today that General Eisenhower now has accomplished in reverse almost exactly what German arms did in France and the Low Countries in 1940 . France and Belgium have been liberated by a campaign as swift and daring and spectacular as the one which enslaved them . German armies have been segmented and trapped and routed just as Allied armies were . The Nazis have been thrown hack on their basic defense line of the Rhine just as Allied hopes were thrown back on their last-stand line of the English Channel . Variations Slight There are variations on the time schedules of the two operations and variations in the strategy . Yet I the variations are amazingly slight ! Germany has lost western Europe ; almost exactly as it gained it and in almost the same space of time. ! It took the Nazis 36 days from the break-through of the Allied ! defenses at Sedan to the armistice at Compiegne which signalized the ; rout of French armies . This is the 36th day since Gen- , eral Eisenhower sent his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the Normandy peninsula at Avranches and began his campaign of maneuver . The arrival of British forces on the estuary of the Scheldt yesterday was as decisive in this campaign as the military operations registered by the armistice at Compi  --  gne . Preliminaries Differed The preliminaries to the breakouts differed , It took the Germans only three days from the opening move to the penetration at Sedan . It took General Eisenhower two months to get his armies ashore and to build them up to sufficient size for the big drive . Yet in military terms what General Eisenhower did during those two months was straight into France , driving It well beyond the flank of the German armies opposing him . The Germans countered with an attack intended to sever his salient from his main body . The enemy attack was delivered , and delivered in great force in the MortainAvranches sector . It was five of the best SS armored divisions against less than two divisions of American infantry ' : But it failed as disastrously as the French counterattack failed . From that moment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swiftly and surely . The salient was widened into a great triangle . From its untie , . face , Allied armies drove up into the German armies , cutting them into a series of disorganized and unconnected elements which lost their coherence and many of which were surrounded and trapped . ? ? General Eisenhowers task in many respects was more difficult than the original German task . He had no Channel coast at Abbeville on which his advance could come to rest securely . He faced skillful , battle-trained veterans with an army , most of which was entering its first battle . But his campaign already is as complete and as successful as the German campaign of May and June , 1940 . German Citadel The . question remaining is how nearly Germany . in its home fortress behind the Rhine , will be able to duplicate what the Allied last hope achieved in its citadel of Britain behind the English Channel . Germany will not be able to bring back into its fortress as relatively important an element of its forces as Britain was able to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerically . The great question today is whether enough German soldiers and enough German guns will filter back into the Siegfried Line to man that line . The British arrival on the estuary of the Scheldt was a heavy blow to German chances . If 100.000 men have been trapped in the Pas-de-Calais area , it brings very close to 500,000 the number of effectives subtracted from the German rolls sincapD- Day . In terms of divisional units . the total by now must be equivaIlent to 40 . Germany apparently is trying to man and organize the old Siegfried Line today with not much ' more than a third of the forces originally allocated to the ! defenses of the Vest .                     