@@706826

txt HIRING ON U. S. BASIS WMC Group , in Report to President , Calls for More Power to DRAFT BY LAW REJECTED Scheduling Labor Needs , Like Materials , to Be Required ? Employment Office Scored By LOUIS STARK Special to THE NEW YORK T131:E5 . WASHINGTON , Nov. 2 ? Almost at the same time that witnesses before a Senate subcommittee were testifying that the United States Employment Service had virtually broken down as an arm of the national manpower effort , President Roosevelt was called upon today to compel all hiring in the country to be effected through the Federal employment organization and to put the entire Selective Service program under the War Manpower Commission . Proposals for tighter control of the manpower program , and stronger authority for Paul V. MeNutt as director of the WMC were made by a WMC labor-management policy committee in an interim report which was transmitted at once to President Roosevelt . The report stated that proposed national service legislation would not solve the manpower problem , thus rejecting such measures favored by Mr. . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between labor and management on manpower problems , saying that if experience should indicate that President Roosevelt might require more authority the committee would be prepared to study the situation further . Mr. NcNutt revealed that plans were under consideration for importing labor from Puerto Rico and Cuba but were deferred because of transportation difficulties . Ise indicated that within ten days all major war production plants would be required to schedule manpower requirements as they do raw material needs . Declaring that the report of the labor-management policy committee was entirely " satisfactory , " that it was " honest " and the type of document which might be classed as highly as the Baruch rubber report , Mr. declined to reveal its contents . Suggestions of WIIC Report It was learned that the report made these recommendations : In order to insure the proper division of manpower between the armed services and those of the war industries , it would be necessary to place the Selective Service system under the WMC . This , it was indicated , would centralize administrative responsibility within the commission which now has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assure compliance with its directives . As the present system works , a WMC directive to Selective Service , even if issued by that organization to local draft boards , may be and frequently is ignored , since each local draft board is autonomous . In order that there might be a complete understanding between the armed forces and the civilian production forces on problems relating to the production of goods and materials for the services and for essential civilian requirements there should be a centralized organization for supervising these functions . Such supervision should be vested in the chiefs of staff of the Army and Navy , heads of lendlease , the War Production Board and the WMC . The Army and Navy chiefs have not as yet included the other agencies in the " innerorganization " policy so far as their requirements are concerned . Employment Clearance Urged The United States Employment Service should be established as the sole and chief clearing agency for all employment , with proper exceptions made for union hiring halls satisfactory to the WMC . Voluntary enlistment in the armed services should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlling the skilled labor supply which has been drifting into the armed forces at what is held to be an alarming rate . There should be complete coordination of all training programs now effective in organizations preparing persons for work in civilian war production factories as well as in the armed services . These training programs , it was said , should be coordinated under the WMC . The report stressed the need for taking action quickly to end the flow of skilled labor from essential war and munitions plants to the armed forces . It was pointed out that if the program of a force of 62,500,000 persons in industry and the armed forces is to be attained by the end of 1943 it would be necessary to induct 5,000,000 women into industry by that time . Administration sources cognizant with the proposals made in the report said that with the exception of placing selective service under the WMC the authority for the other steps proposed by the labor-management committee was conveyed to Mr. by the Executive Order creating the commission in April . Rail Group Urges Longer Week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executives Association , said to speak for 1,300,000 workers in nineteen standard railway unions , that " critical war industries not presently employing manpower and facilities to maximum should be compelled to increase the number of hours worked each week to at least forty-eight and possibly fifty-six per week . " No mention of possible qvertime arrangements appeared in connection with this phase of the report which listed a series of comprehensive proposals governing manpower selection on the country 's carriers .. One of the chief sections of the report protested against proposals ascribed to the WMC and the Office of Defense Transportation to " freeze " railway track labor in twelve Western States for the duration of the war and to import Mexican labor for this work . The government representatives , it was said , proposed to freeze track labor at about 46 cents an hour because of an alleged shortage in twelve States . " We are opposed to freezing any worker in his job , " the report stated . " It is unnecessary and will destroy production , wipe out free labor and inevitably result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom and democratic processes . " Declaring that the manpower problem " can not be intelligently and effectively solved in piecemeal fashion , " the association recommended a continuing survey of actual and potential manpower , including women , by States , and a proper determination of military and industrial manpower needs by six-months periods . It was proposed in the statement that men over thirty-five in critical war work should be indefinitely deferred from military service , that labor turnover should be eliminated , that absenteeism as a result of accidents should be reduced by labor-management cooperative programs and that war contracts should be distributed in areas where there is no labor shortage . Testifying before the Senate Committee on Education and Labor , Dr. Frank H. Lahey , former president of the American Medical Association and now chief of the Procurement and Assignment Division of the WMC , discussed medical manpower problems . Mgr . John O'Grady , secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Charities , told of the work of the United States Employment Service . Medical Problems Discussed Dr. Lahey said that the effective medical staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an additional 56,000 if those well on in years were included . Of the 120,000 , he said , 40,000 are in the armed forces , leaving 80,000 for civilians . The services , he said , will need an additional 30,000 doctors , for 10,000,000 under arms , leaving 50,000 from the effective list for the rest of the country . Under questioning by committee members , Dr. Lahey admitted that there was unquestionably some failure in the use of doctors at their top skills in the Army and Navy . He also admitted that the wholesale recruiting of doctors for the Army and Navy had been carried on without reference to their use in the armed forces , as compared with civilian life . Replying to a question he said that he agreed with the suggestion of some Senators that *a Federal agency should be empowered to " freeze " doctors in their present civilian status . Mgr . O'Grady , who is considered an expert on employment agencies , described the results of a country-wide tour of investigation of the United States Employment Service . He declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor , that the employment service was merely a " referrel " organization which passed on men to employers who asked for help , and that in certain eases he had observed the employment service had " dumped " farm labor on communities without ascertaining whether they could be sheltered . He said that the employment service in New York City called for 3,000 to 5,000 farm and cannery workers and sent only fifty workers . He said he flew to Rochester from New York City , hunted up the fifty men who had been sent there and was informed by the employers that they had arrived before they were needed . Investigating further , he said he learned that the employment service 's statistical division had been responsible for the estimate that 3,000 to 5,000 would be needed although . n order for only fifty had been sent out . Drafting of farm labor by the WMC , he continued , would create , " chaos " because the commission " has no plan , no machinery for I mobilizing the labor supply . " While he had discovered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said that neither the WMC nor the employment service " have had any real ' knowledge of the situation . "                     