@@706271

txt BRITISH CRIPPLE GERMAN CRUISER Craft Believed Prinz EugenBattleships That Fled Brest Reported Badly Battered By ROBERT P. POST Special Cable to THE NEW Yogis TIMES . LONDON , Feb. 26 ? Both the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau , German 26,000-ton battleships , have been hit , and one of them is in drydock , A. V. Alexander , the FirSt Lord of the Admiralty , told the House of Commons today in a review of the war at sea , which , he said , had now developed from a battle of the Atlantic into a battle of the seven seas . Mr. Alexander also announced what an Admiralty communiqu ? today said  --  that the British submarine Trident had successfully attacked a German cruiser of the 10,000-ton Prinz Eugen type off the Norwegian coast . The attack took place last Monday , the cornmuniqu ? said , and later air reconnaissance showed the cruiser damaged aft and in tow of tugs in Trondheim Fjord . Ship Believed Prinz Eugen The date and place of the attack tended to show that the cruiser was the Prinz Eugen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the case , it would mean that all three big units of the German squadron that escaped from Brest Feb. 12 had now been damaged . On the other hand , it would also tend to show that the Germans were trying to link up some of their big ships to form a major commerceraiding force , operating from Norway . It has been reported for some time  --  and it was so reported again today  --  that the German 35,000-ton battleship Tirpitz and 10,000-ton pocket battleship Admiral Scheer , together with some destroyers , are in Norwegian waters . Whether they are there as a potential raiding force or as defense against renewed British Commando raids is not known . It is also reported that a new German aircraft carrier is in those waters . Pending the report of an inquiry board , Mr. Alexander refused to discuss the escape of the German ships from Brest . But he said that reliable reports were that both the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau had been severely damaged . One of them , Mr. Alexander said , had been photographed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Wilhelmshaven . It is perhaps significant that the Air Ministry announced today that last night the Bomber Command raided Kiel in extremely bad weather . Two bomber aircraft are missing . It was said that the planes had had difficulty because of icing and because the sea had been frozen and could not be distinguished from the shore . Cracks made by ice breakers could be seen , however . Clear weather over Kiel  --  that Was but one objective in the north of Germany  --  made the raid worthwhile , the Air Ministry said . The dockyard was the main objective , and at least one big fire , probably in an oil installation , was reported by several crews . Many heavy highexplosive bombs were dropped in vital areas of the naval base , the Air Ministry added . In his general report the First Lord contrasted the work of the Royal Navy with that of the Axis navies , saying that the British task had been infinitely harder . The British had had to protect ships over all seas on long , hard supply lines , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply lines in the Mediterranean , virtually did not have to move more than a few miles from their own shores or from shores dominated by them , Mr. Alexander said . Nevertheless , the First Lord continued , losses of British and neutral ships in convoy still averaged less than one-half of 1 per cent , while British planes and ships had succeeded during 1941 in sinking 2,500,000 tons of Axis shipping , and that the estimate of imports for 1941 had been , in fact , exceeded and the navy 's program of protection of trade  --  which at one time ' had seemed optimistic  --  had been achieved . However , Mr. Alexander warned , the U-boat campaign was moat serious and U-boat construction was on an unprecedented scale and expanding monthly . Though agreeing that shipping losses had been much increased since Dec. 7 , Mr. Alexander said that , even if the rate of loss should continue , which he did not for a moment believe , losses would be more than offset by the vast building program of the United States and the not inconsiderable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it is of the greatest importance that everything should be done to bridge the most dangerous period of the shipping crisis1942 . " The initial Japanese successes both at Pearl Harbor and over the British battleship Prince of Wales and battle cruiser Repulse had enabled the Japanese " to falsify all the bases on which existing strategical plans had been ' founded , " Mr. Alexander said . Japan made " great , grievous threats , " Mr. Alexander said , but added that the Japanese had suffered heavily and that the British and United States navies had construction plans that eventually would restore sea power to them . The rest of Mr. Alexander 's speech was a recapitulation of the navy 's work , with stress on the navy 's performances in taking British troops from Crete and in supplying and maintaining the garrison at Tobruk . He said that , in general , the navy had been working efficiently in every field . But the navy came in for much criticism in the debate that followed the First Lord 's speech  --  he was introducing a token estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fleet Sir Roger Keyes , who said that the Admiralty was controlling commanders too much by wireless and asked for a big shakeup in the Admiralty itself , saying that the war was being run too much by committees . Some of the bitterest criticism was directed at the shipbuilding situation , several Glasgow members training special fire on Sir , James Lithgow , director of shipbuilding and repairing . Those members said that he was a man largely identified with the closing of many Glasgow shipyards and that he was the wrong man in the job , from the point of view of labor . Perhaps the most significant remarks ' of all were those made by George H. Hall , Financial Secretary : to the Admiralty , who said that there was a disastrous lack of cooperation between the two sides of the shipbuilding industry . If that situation could be rectified shipbuilding would increase 15 to 20 per cent , Mr. Hall said . He declared that lost days in the shipbuilding industry during 1941 were three times those during 1940 and , on the engineering side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given full-time employment to 1,250 men and provided 50,000 additional tons of shipping , Mr. nail said . He added that he had been charging neither side , but declared that conciliation was not being carried out as it should be .                     