@@707800

txt Discovery of a new oil field in Mississippi that may be ? mites as big as any in his:ory and in which wildcat operators are reported to be pi promised alNEW 01111ANS CULP most fabu-MEX/CO OF 1 .. bus fort tunes , was disclosed today at a meeting of the Illinois legislative petroleum commission . The commission met in the senate conference room . Information concerning the new oil field , centering in Heidelberg , Miss. , was brought out by questions asked of Samuel F. Peterson , stale petroleum engineer , by Atty . George E. Arthur of Chicago and Lyle Prescott ER. , Dixon , chairman of the investigating commission . Record of Texas Pool . Peterson said preliminary discovcries indicate the new field will be as great as the East Texas petroleum pool . The Texas pool in 14 years hasproduced a billion 800 million barrels of crude oil , and has Provided at least 40 per cent of all ? oil needed by the allied nations for the war , Peterson said at least one well producing 1,000 barrels a day has come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 barrels ' daily . " I am told fieldmen , the rough and tumble of the oil business , have flocked to the Heidelberg field from every section of the country , " Peterson testified . " I know that you ca n't find an Illinois oil field operator In the state at this moment . Ail of them seem to have rushed down to the new field . " Recall Ickes Statement . . Atty . Arthur asked whether the new discovery offered evidence clashing radically with statements by Petroleum Administrator Ickes that there Is only enough oil underground in the United States to last another 14 years under present and prospective post-war demands . " Certainly , " Peterson responded . " There 's no doubt about that . It throws off all the predictions of the pessimists . On the other hand , a number of authorities have predicted such a thing would hanosn . " Waste of 12 Millions . Atty . Arthur also brought out1 testimony from Peterson concerning the building of 269 wooden barges by the government for oil I transportation  --  a waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Arthur 's questions indicated that each of the barges cost $40,000 or more and that they proved worthless for transporting oil . The oil seeped into the soft . wood of which the craft were constructed . A few , his questions indicated , were used on a tryout trip from the gulf coast of ' Texas to the east coast OVFlofida and salt water seeped in , spoiling the oil . " Is n't it a fact that no oil company will have anything to do with these barges ? " Arthur asked . " So I understand , " Peterson said . " Where are these barges now ? " Prescott asked . " I am not certain , " Peterson replied . " I ' was told they are anchored somewhere along the shore of the Mississippi river. - One barge man told me they are near New Orleans , but when I was in New Orleans recently I went up the river for some 10 miles looking for them and could n't find them . " 