@@704918

txt The Zoning Law Controversy City Planning Commission 's Proposed Changes Engender Dispute To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The editorial " The Zoning Issue , " in THE TIMES of July 31 , stated that in the event of a referendum on the proposed Kinsley-Vogel measure the voter " may ask just what it is that has happened since 1936 which makes zoning by nonpolitical experts less desirable than it was then . " Practical application of any statute frequently reveals faults not apparent at the time of enactment . To me the fundamental idea of zoning and city planning is the safeguarding of the future , in the knowledge that time will correct existing faults . I believe this is the conception which has prompted endorsement of the principle of zoning by the Real Estate Board of New York and by other strong proponents . Powers Held Misused However , wielding the vast power accorded through the new charter , the City Planning Commission sought to violate this principle by retroactive provisions , making illegal certain uses of certain buildings which were entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of occupancy issued . If such a " death sentence " could be applied to one type of building in one district , it could be applied to all types of buildings in all districts . Obviously , under such a condition no one could safely improve property or lend money for construction , for fear that the existing Planning Commission or its successors might at any time decree the improvement illegal . Revelation of the ease with which such a situation might be provoked is what has happened since 1936 . Defeat in the Board of Estimate of the recently attempted death sentences was accomplished only through prodigious expenditure of time and effort by unpaid officers of civic associations throughout the city , a burden which should not be recurrently laid upon their shoulders . It is commonly supposed that decisions of the Planning Commission need only the approval of two members of the Board of Estimate , whereas they really need but the tolerance of two members . As to the requirement for unanimous vote by the board in the event of protest by 20 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Planning Commission recommendations may be . the greater the difficulty in obtaining protests of 20 per cent . In the event of any decision affecting . the entire city , imagine the difficulty , if not impossibility , of obtaining protests from 20 per cent , duly notarized , and within thirty days . Situations might also arise wherein those to be injured might be tenants rather than owners , in which event not even this means of protection would be available to the injured . Still Sole Agency The present proposal would not " restore the old system . " To do that it would be necessary to abolish the Planning Commission entirely . The KinsleyVogel measure would leave the Planning Commission precisely as calm students of the problem of city planning would have it  --  the sole agency for planning and recommendation . Surely there can be no objection to a requirement that , the findings of such an agency be subject to the approval of the elected officials responsible for conduct of the city 's affairs . Incidentally , although bills for raising Federal revenue must originate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Senate and President  --  a condition which provokes no cavil . As to " non-political experts , " it was shown at last Monday 's City Hall hearing that only a minority of the Planning Commission as at present constituted could qualify as experts . Nor may it he assumed that appointment by a chief executive is a perennial guarantee of freedom from taint , for in the event of a corrupt or politically overambitious Mayor the guarantee might be the reverse . Let me commend your statement that the issue will stand full and frank discussion , Such exploration will , I am confident , prove to the electorate the need for approving the Kinsley-Vogel proposal . THURMAN LEE , Vice President , Brokerage Division , Real Estate Board of New York . New York , Aug. 2 , 1940 ; Clarification Wanted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I commend your editorial " The Zoning Issue " in THE TIMES of July 31 . You have helped to clarify the real value of the City Planning Commission , which is being challenged by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn , by a part of the membership of the City Council . It is to be regretted that the Planning Commission , in suggesting amendments to the Zoning Law , made these so comprehensive that it was difficult for the public to understand them , and it is unfortunate indeed that so little effort was made to clarify the position of the commission in this regard . You are correct in saying it would be a catastrophe for the public to become suddenly impatient with the commission and , by supporting the recommendations of Councilmen Kinsley and Vogel , to shear the commission of the powers which it has taken so long to win . The City Planning Commission is a technical body but it is not an elective body . The elective body , which is the Board of Estimate , can properly upset the decisions of a technical body by a three-fourths vote . According to the suggested amendment , nothing that the City Planning Commission did could be approved unless it could win the approval of two-thirds of the Board of Estimate . Property Owners Protected As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of property owners because , upon petition of 20 per cent of those affected , a unanimous vote of the Board of Estimate must be secured . It is my opinion that the Real Estate Board of New York has been very hasty in approving the Kinsley-Vogel amendment . Real estate men can hardly be blamed for impatience , however , for it was agreed that the suggestion of the City Planning Commission put altogether too much responsibility upon the Board of Standards and Appeals with respect to nonconforming usage . The whole dispute , however , has served to show that the charter provisions which exist are ample protection , for even without a petition of 20 per cent of the property owners affected it was not difficult to win a three-fourths vote of the Board of Estimate and send back to the City Planning Commission the paragraphs which concerned nonconforming garage usage in residential districts , as well as those which controlled billboards . Public Discussion Urged What the commission seeks is an Instrumentality which may be exercised by it with due discretion , that will put an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bestows a " right in perpetuity " upon owners in unrestricted districts to continue property uses which jeopardize or depreciate the values of other properties in the district . A great deal of good has been done by bringing to light the fact that provision for reasonable amortization must be made so that nonconforming uses may be written off within reasonable . periods . The commission should stimulate public discussion and try to arrive at a better formula than the one which they originally offered . It is exceedingly important for the orderly growth of great cities that the principle be recognized that the majority of property owners in a neighborhood shall receive official support for the maintenance of accepted standards of neighborhood character . ARTHUR C. HOLDEN , Vice President , New York Building Congress . New York , Aug. 1 , 1940 . Classifying " Professionals " Objection is Made to Redefinition Under the Wage-Hour Law To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : At four recent hearings conducted by the Wage-Hour Administration to consider redefinitions we have opposed any attempt to redefine " bona fide professional " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now covered by the act . All redefinitions proposed to date by employers or employers ' organizations have simply attempted arbitrarily to place hundreds of thousands of technical and other employes beyond the reach of the benefits of the act . If such attempts succeed , the ; precedent will be set for redefinition of ' other terms , ending eventually with the practical amendment of a law enacted by Congress by mere administrative interpretation and without the benefit of Congressional procedure . Our proposal is that a bona fide professional be classed as one who is em-ployed : 1 . In a consulting capacity on a fee basis as distinguished from one employed on a salary or wage basis . 2 . As a specialist engaged on a contract basis for the execution of a specific technical project or projects as distinguished from one contracted for or hired as one of a regular staff to carry on day to day technical work . 3 . Under no supervision by the employer or client as opposed to general supervision or instruction by employer or his agent . We maintain that talent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must , not be penalized by the arbitrary wishes of the employers and their organizations to whom the expense of technical and professional labor is a mere drop in the bucket compared with their general production costs , especially since the profits derived from the labor of these men far exceeds the compensation and treatment enyoloyes themselves receive . MARCEL SCHERER , International Vice President , Federation of Architects , Engineers , Chemists and Technicians . New York , July 31 , 1940.                     