@@709307

txt Letters to The . Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Feb. 23 on the work of Mrs. Juliana Force and her New York committee has no doubt been read with sympathetic attention by many of her colleagues who have followed the progress of her program . It is the first practical post-war step in what , it may be hoped , will become a long-range project , not only for the encouragement of native artistic talent , but also for the building of the broad cultural base by which present-day civilization will eventually be measured . To this latter end it can never be enough to develop the creators of art alone ; beside them must grow the admirers . Properly fostered , the one group stimulates the other . Art in its widest aspect is a social commodity , and as a civilizing influence must be wanted to be valid . To seek governmental assistance by which contemporary art may be readily devoted to the public advantage is but to extend our system of free public education . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistakenly dismissed as a quest for largesse . It is motivated out of regard for the intellectual welfare of citizens everywhere within a field that has been generally neglected . And yet it can only be d beginning ; with this I am sure Mrs. Force will agree . Continuing from there , it will be desirable to provide the means for better understanding these arts . The legislators of tomorrow are now in our schools . An enlightened program of visual education is part of the logical training for these posts . Men and women to whom the arts are no mystery recognize their value to society . Much has been done in certain school systems to promote them , much remains undone . In the coming " eye age " of the television camera , teachers well trained in visual processes will be in demand . It is not too soon for State legislators to realize that art is no longer the educational frill it was once thought to be , but that increased allotments of funds to insure the best kind of visual training and to induce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cultural growth . BARTLETT H. HAYES JR. , Director , Addison Gallery of American Art . Andover , Mass. , Feb. 27 , 1946 . School ' Continuance Sought Nominally they are paid at the rate of 75 cents to 80 cents an hour , which is fair enough if the work is well and honestly , done . Actually they receive nearer $1 an hour , for we who are absent from home , also earning a living , can not check on their . coming and going nor how much they do during the day . Just as there are unreasonable housewives , so there are houseworkers whose aim is to do as little as they can and get as much as the traffic will bear . They do not discriminate between the fair employer arid the unreasonable one . What has brought about this relationship we well know , but the pros-. ent-day attitude of the houseworker is not a solution , and both sides are building up more and more resentment and bad feeling . There must be a fair give and take in this household @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1946 . Physical Examinations Urged Periodical Check-Up Advised as Means of Forestalling Disease To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : " Is it asking too much of people to present themselves periodically for a physical examination , either at the family doctor 's office or at some public clinic ? " Thus Waldemar Kaempffert in his Science Column article " What Is Socialized Medicine ' ? " makes an obvious point for prevention and control of disabling illnesses . Certainly there is no dearth of facilities for such check-ups . Even the economic bar can be mitigated when we consider the many services provided by our excellent public and private health organizations , working in concord with the private physician . Witness the modern chest X-ray examination for possible evidences of tuberculosis . Here is a weapon which costs little or nothing and yet unearths more than gold . While it may never be too late , how much better it is to begin early , even from an economic viewpoint , as Mr. Kaempffert emphasizes , . " for it is far cheaper to treat a patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is forced to give up work and take to his bed . " It is surprising to find that many people go along year after year without pausing to stop by for a simple chest X-ray , which takes even less time than sitting for a portrait photographer , and is just as painless . Surely we have reached the stage when with all our material ' resources and comforts we should utilize , at least the intelligence that is constantly laboring to promote healthier and longer lives . The best new world resolution one can make is to visit his physician , the Health Department or a health-association and become . armed for peace in happier lives . ROY M. HART , Chairman , Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Health Association . Brooklyn , Feb. 26 , 1946 . New Yorkers Thoughtful TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Let us talk of something pleasant : New Yorkers are kind . Today I was lost in Rockefeller Center . I found myself in Rockefeller 50 when I should have gone to Rockefeller ? 0 . As I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I was very much discouraged . The young woman of the wrong office asked me to wait until she could put on her coat , escorted me to the elevator , walked with me the three blocks from Fifty-first to Fortyeighth Street , supporting me by one arm , took me up to the tenth floor in  - -  the correct building , took me to the door of the correct office where the secretary was awaiting me , and left . An hour and a half later when I had finished my business the secretary had a young man escort me down the elevator and get a taxi for me . Neither young woman had ever seen me before . I might add  --  to make the picture complete  --  that as I went to cross Fiftyfirst Street I asked a young man who was passing by if he would help me over a hump of frozen snow . He not only did so but helped me clear across the street . I feel grateful almost every day for some kindness shown me by a stranger . ANNIE . NATHAN MEYER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One Alternative Seen TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Paul Porter , speaking to the American Institute of Banking , pledged that the present price line will be held until expanded production eliminates the danger of inflation . How can we expand production of butter when the price set is so low that it can not be profitably made ? How can we expand housing facilities , so desperately needed , in the face of rent ceilings which preclude the possibility of reconditioning and improving present buildings ? Mr. Porter 's assertion is , at once , paradoxical and untenable . If we are to check inflation , we must either expand all production or hold all prices and earnings down . We can not do both at the same time . GEORGE D. TAYLOR . Stamford , N. Y. , Feb. 27 , 1946 . Great Opportunity Seen for Horace Mann-Lincoln With Coming of UNO TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The question of the discontinuance of the Horace Mann-Lincoln School transcends a local disagreement between Teachers College and the parents of the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment . We are entering an era in which progressive education can make its greatest contribution . With the UNO moving to New York , there will be a large number of foreign students of elementary and secondary school age seeking admission to our schools . These students are not immigrants who wish to become Americanized but vigorous representatives of their nations ' cultures with deep roots in their native lands . These are the people with whom we will have to learn to get along in the world of tomorrow . Living with people of different nationalities , religions , , ideologies and races is a subject that can not be learned from textbooks . It must be learned through actual experience . " Learning by doing " is one of the basic principles of progressive education . In accordance with these principles , Lincoln has always extended a special welcome to foreign students . The closing of Lincoln School would deprive us of one of the few if not the only progressive-experimental school of international standing in New York . It should not be the exclusive property of Teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come under direct UNO patronage . The work that Lincoln can do in the years to come is of national importance , and as such deserves national leadership and attention . Leadership is what Is wanted . Funds are not of primary importance . In America , if an ideal of merit is combined with strong leadership , funds are always forthcoming . Senator Fulbright has proposed that proceeds from our overseas war goods , estimated at around six billion dollars , be used for international universities and student exchanges . A minute fraction of this money would suffice to further the work of Lincoln School and schools like it . BERT FAINBERG , Former President of Student Body . New York , Feb. 26 , 1946.                     