@@712005

txt Cuba proposed today the creation of a special fifteen-member United Nations committee to conduct on-the-spot investigations whether human rights and fundamental freedoms had been violated in a series of prosecutions of religious leaders by the Communist Governments of Hungary , Bulgaria and Yugoslavia . Urging action instead of mere talk , the Cuban resolution asked that the United Nations inquiry should be carried behind the bars of the Eastern European prisons , if possible . It urged too that a study should be made of the actual court records as a basis for obtaining the first-hand information essential to a final decision by the next General Assembly as a whole . Offered by Dr. Gustavo Gutierrez Sanchez , Cuba 's chief delegate , the inquiry would apply equally to the trials of Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty , Catholic Primate of Hungary ; the fifteen Protestant clergymen in Bulgaria ; Bishop Lajos Ordass , Lutheran leader of Hungary , and Archbishop Aloysius Stepinatz of Yugoslavia . The Cuban resolution was presented just as the Ad Hoc Political and Security Committee had reached the point where it was ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Assembly last , week . This committee , which also deals with general political questions , had spent the morning debating proposals for studying means of expediting action by the General Assembly , including establishment of a possible debate limitation . With the Soviet bloc of six nations  --  the Soviet Union , Byelorussia , the Ukraine , Yugoslavia , Poland and Czechoslovakia  --  abstaining , the Committee voted , 43 to 0 , to set up a fifteen-member committee to study the question and report back , if possible , to the current Assembly session . Members of this committee , in addition to the Big Five powers , are Belgium , Brazil , Canada , Czechoslovakia , Egypt , India , Iran , Mexico , Sweden and Uruguay . Having just taken a vote on new means to speed its work , Brig . Gen. Ott'los P. Romulo of the Philippines , committee chairman , was all for pressing on at once to a discussion of the religious trials . However , Pierre Ordonneau of France asked for delay in order to give time for study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bolivia , Haiti , . Cuba and the Soviet Union . Australia will propose tomorrow that representatives of Hungary and Bulgaria , who are not members of the United Nations , be invited to join the discussions affecting them , as is permitted under the Charter . But this is likely to stir up a new controversy as the Soviet bloc , which contends that the issue is illegally before the committee , probably will oppose any invitation as a further intervention into the internal affairs of sovereign states . While there has been as yet no debate on the Cuban proposal , it seems unlikely that it would be adopted , at least in its present form . The Australians also will propose establishment of a smaller and special committee , but it more likely would sit in New York to sift the evidence for submission to the Ad Hoc Committee . U. S. Position Not , Defined The United States position has not been defined fully . It was believed , though , that the Americans , at this point , were not desirous of much more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of the peace treaty machinery , with the possibility later of United Nations action if the conversations undertaken by the Big Three under the Hungarian and Bulgarian treaties did not lead , to conclusive results . The Cuban resolution specifically provides that establishment of the special committee , with headquarters at Geneva , would not prejudice the rights , duties and responsibilities of the peace treaty signatories . It also would bar both Hungary and Bulgaria from admission to the United Nations until reports had been rendered upon the trials of the religious leaders . Both countries would be asked to cooperate by giving to committee members and representatives " access to prisons and court records and by stating the facts and arguments from the points of view " of their Governments . The resolution would declare that " ay measure or act carried out by the official organs of any state , the purpose of which is compulsorily to subject to the will of the Government the dogmas and practices of any religion not contrary to morality and public order , constitutes a violation of the principle of religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would condemn " the carrying out of acts either by the authorities and the civil servants or by private individuals , which prevent a natural or juridical persons from living his life in freedom under the same conditions as other citizens , without distinction of race , sex , language , or religion , particularly acts prejudicial to the guarantees of the right of self-defense and the development and encouragement of human rights and the fundamental freedoms of the individual . "                     