@@704681

txt " British military and naval strategy in Norway is much better than it looks . Through it the British may hand the Nazis their first major defeat . " No , that is n't the opinion of an American general . It 's the way a hard-headed diplomat in the State Department summed up the Department 's analysis of events in Scandinavia . State Department opinion holds that British concentration upon the far-northern port of Narvik may have an important part in turning initial defeat into ultimate victory . Through seizure of Narvik and the surrounding countryside the British cleaned out a German naval nest , bottled up a port important to German iron supplies , placed British bombers within striking distance of the main Swedish iron ore deposits , and command the railhead through which Allied troops can flow if needed to aid Sweden against a German invasion . Explaining British Strategy In discussing British strategy in Norway , officials of both State and Navy Departments have little patience with those who criticize the Allies for not immediately using their command or the sea to pour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fjords and harbors , they just do n't go any place . The ports of Bergen and Stavanger , both - held by the Germans , are pointed out by Washington strategistsas a good example of this . Bergen is connected with the important southeastern portion of Norway by a single railroad , cutting through a ring of mountains . Stavanger is even less advantageously situated , having the mountains but not the through railroad . Once landed in these ports , Allied troops would have few places to go and a very long distance to do it in . Better Suited for Germans In the hands of the Germans , however , both Stavanger and Bergen are extremely useful positions as bases for submarine and airplane raids upon the British Isles . Thus , while the Allies would gain little from holding these places , United States experts feel they can gain a great deal from ' preventing German use of them . This explains , if we follow the State Department 's line of reasoning , the heavy British fleet concentration off both ports and the ceaseless bombing of Stavanger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts , there is strong opinion here that a British occupation of Narvik , supplemented by an immobilization of German air and submarine forces along the western and southwestern Norwegian coast , will constitute an Allied victory . It would leave Germany with an extended front and with the source of its vital iron ore imports seriously threatened . J. G. H.                     