@@708127

txt Two passengers arriving by plane in Paris yesterday were the Army Chief of Staff , Gen. George C. Marshall , and War Mobilization Director James F. Byrnes . Their projected tour of the front will bring them face to face with some stern realities . No doubt General Marshall and General Eisenhower see beyond those realities to something better than the fighting in the mud , among pillboxes , in front of " community diggings " hastily excavated by German civilian labor , and in the upper works of forts whose basements are still held by the Nazis . The strategy of attrition , which General Joffre in the First World War called nibbling , does not commend itself to the American mind , military or civil . The Germans may well be right when they drop the hint that a great British-American offensive is being prepared . Meanwhile all along the line , from the Leopold Canal to the Belfort approaches , the Allies are making some gains against ferocious resistance and occasionally being dislodged from some previous gains . The Germans now have the advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atrocious weather which prevented or limited the tactical use of airplanes . Their artillery is good and well served . This is hard , slugging , dirty work , with the infantry taking the brunt of it after planes , guns and tanks have done all they could . Those who are tempted to regard this campaign as a World Series in which our side is sure to win would do well to reflect on the kind of job this is for the soldier . Veterans of the First World War may be able to imagine it , for it is not too different from the kind of war they fought . It is the kind of war in which the front-line soldier is never permitted the luxury of complete safety , never gets enough sleep , ca n't wash or change his wet clothes , eats cold food , and may count himself lucky if the wound that sends him to the rear is not permanently serious . It is the kind of war in which the breaching of a line , such as the Siegfried , does n't lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a map . And when the soldier has been through some weeks of it he may not be sure that he is much farther along than when he started . Of course , he actually is farther along . His outfit may have been hard hit , but in the process it has destroyed Nazi units . Whatever the strength the Nazis can put into their line , it is less than the strength the Allies can bring against them . We have large reserves and they have not . When the wearingdown process has reached a certain point , a bold Allied stroke may be expected and again a war of movement , and in time the end of Nazi resistance . It will take time , and the process will not be pretty . Let us look closely and frankly at these operations and not with rose-hued spectacles : this is what we are fighting to abolish .                     