@@705515

txt The Greek forces , recovering and reorganizing their lines at the cost lof surrendering their hard-won conquests in Albania , were said early today to be standing side by side with the British along a new solid defense line that was holding like a stone wall . On Thursday , it was declared officially , the German tide of armor , unleashed without regard for loss of life , made only a " slight advance " and yesterday the new Allied line running across Greece was said to have repulsed waves of German assaults . In the Grevena sector , sixty or seventy miles into Greece below the Vistritza River , the German armored forces were said officially to have been hurled hack , while the British ' positions around Mount Olympus on the eastern hinge of the line likewise held firm . Greek officials were cheered by news of the rugged Greek stand around Grevena  --  key point of the Battle of Greece , whose fury is mounting hour by hour  --  and the word that an unwavering wall of resistance had been thrown up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Greek headquarters communique said that in Macedonia all enemy pressure in the Grevena region and the middle Vistritza Valley , as well as the Olympus Region , was successfully held . On the Albanian front movements in Albanian territory were executed calmly , it was said . At British headquarters in Cairo the shortened defense line was described as extending from the Mount Olympus area on the Aegean coast to the region southwest of Konitza near the Albanian border . It was indicated that a triangular section of Albania south of Argyrokastron still was held by the Greeks . The telephone exchange at Kalabaka , railroad terminus thirty miles south of Grevena , which the Nazis are trying to reach in a great drive toward Larissa aimed at trapping the British at Mount Olympus , said that on Thursday night and early Friday the Germans had " not been seen anywhere in the vicinity of Grevena . " The Battle of Greece , the official spokesman said early today , was raging with " increasing intensity " along the new Allied front , as Germany 's tanks , infantry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then at another in an effort to crash through . Official quarters said the Greeks , aided by the British Imperial Army and the outnumbered but savagely battling Royal Air Force , were exacting " tremendous casualties " from the waves of German attackers at the front . Some estimates placed the German dead in Greece as high as 50,000 , according to The Associated Press . I " The military situation has substantially improved in recent hours and the Greeks have greatly stiffened their resistance after evacuating the greater part of Albania , " the spokesman said . " A solid Greek-British defense line now exists . " Savage Battle Raging Latest dispatches from the front told of a battle of terrible savagery raging across mountains and valleys , with British , Australian , New Zealand and Greek troops standing stubbornly against the rush of steel and fire and numerically superior forces . " The violence is increasing hourly , but the Germans have not yet been able to reach their objectives , " the spokesman said . " The German High Command is throwing away the lives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pass . " About thirty-five miles east of Sarandaporon Pass in the GrevenaKalabaka region , Greek mountain troops were said to be battling to stem the Nazi sweep in the same mountain passes where in 1897 their fathers slaughtered the Turks , There was no reliable estimate as to the number of fighter , bombing and Stuka and du-88 dive-bombing planes being thrown into the Battle of Greece by the Luftwaffe , but it was reported that perhaps as many as 1,500 to 1,700 planes were in action , as well as swarms of tanks , some of them of tremendous size and power . It is the Australians , veterans of the desert war in North Africa , who are battling the Germans around Mount Olympus with the same savagery with which they shattered Italy 's Army of North Africa , front line dispatches said . Greek spokesmen warned against undue optimism and said the situation " still is serious , " even though the establishment of a solid BritishGreek line bad improved it . The official announcement was a marked improvement over an earlier one that said the Greeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a continuing German advance . The government spokesman , describing the orderly Greek withdrawal from positions in Southern Albania , said that south of the Viola River above Argyrokastron the Italians had attacked in force , but were repulsed and that the Greeks in a strong counter-attack drove the enemy " back beyond his starting point . "                     