@@712416

txt With industrial layoffs mounting , top Federal mediators will renew their efforts today to find a key to settlement of the nineteen-day-old strike of 500,000 steel Mill workers . The mediators also will complete plans for grappling with the month-old strike of 380,000 soft coal miners . Negotiators representing the operators and the United Mine Workers made no progress toward an accord in conferences yesterday at White Sulphur Springs and Bluefield , W. Va . Cyrus S. Ching , director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , will come to New York this afternoon with two of his principal aides to meet with John A. Stephens , vice president in charge of industrial relations for the United States Steel Corporation , traditional pattern-setter for the steel industry . Little hope was held that the conference would be more successful than a series of similar meetings Mr. Ching has conducted in the last week with officials of the United Steelworkers of America , CIO , and such large producers as Bethlehem Steel and Youngstown Sheet &; Tube . The sessions have brought no hint of a break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speculation turned on how soon President Truman would take a direct hand in the controversy . He has emphasized to his associates that he does not want to step in until an industrial crisis is at hand . Under the timetable being kept by Government economists , this would mean a maximum delay of a week to ten days before the President intervened . The increasing pressure being exerted by the steel walkout was reflected in an announcement yesterday that the General Electric Company had begun to lay off 7,500 workers at Erie , Pa. , for lack of steel . The lay-offs will be spread over a two-week period . If the steel strike continues into November , an additional 1,500 employes will be made idle , the company reported . The lack of any hope for a direct settlement was emphasized when it became known that Benjamin F. Fairless , president of United States Steel , and Edward L. Ryerson , chairman of the board of the Inland Steel Corporation , were planning to take to the radio this week to . reply to attacks made on the industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First Industry Talk Tonight Mr.'Ryerson 's talk will originate in Chicago and will be heard at 8 P. M. tonight over Station WJZ and 259 other outlets of the American Broadcasting Company . Mr. Fairless will talk Friday night over the National Broadcasting Company 's network . Mr. Murray carried his own series of " grass roots " reports to the strikers at Gary , Ind. , last night . In a talk with reporters before the rally the CIO and Steelworkers ' chief blamed the strike on " a conspiracy by financial interests , spearheaded by the House of Morgan , to destroy the United Steelworkers and the trade union movement . " He reiterated his assertion that the recommendations of President Truman 's steel fact-finding board that employers contribute 6 cents an hour for pensions and 4 cents an hour for social insurance , without insisting that workers make a supplementary contribution , represented the " rock-bottom " settlement that the union would consider . United States Steel and other large companies have offered to meet the cost figures proposed by the panel , but they have made their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute . Mr. Murray emphasized that the union had not been wholly pleased with the board 's report , particularly its rejection of any fourth-round wage increase , but had accepted the recommenda.i  - -  as " in the public interest . " He denounced the industry for its refusal to follow suit . Murray Scores Newspapers The CIO head berated the press for acclaiming the Truman panel 's report when it was released on Sept. 10 , and then criticizing the union for insisting on its acceptance after the industry had challenged the idea that employers should pay the full cost of pensions and social insurance . " Maybe the press of the nation is simply following the party line , " Mr. Murray said . " I have never seen such a somersault in my life as I have seen on the part of the ' press in this case . " An echo of John L. Lewis 's proposal that ten large unions , including his own United Mine Workers , ' subscribe $2,500,000 a week to aid the steel strikers was heard here yesterday . Ben Gold , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an avowed Communist , hailed the proposal , which already has been turned down by William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor . The Commerce and Industry Association of New . York sent a telegram to the Secretary of . Commerce , Charles Sawyer , recommending an immediate sixty-day blanket extension of export licenses for steel and steel products . The association asserted that precedence being given to domestic steel requirements because of the strike , as well as the time needed to move export shipments to ports , made the extension necessary . Mr. Sawyer announced early in the strike that the Government was surveying the need for controls on steel exports , but these have not been imposed . Youngstown Projects Hit Youngstown , Ohio , which holds that it makes more tons of steel per capita or square mile than any other steel district , reported last night that it did not have enough steel available to maintain scheduled construction on two new city schools . Union officials reported that Mr. Murray and other leaders of the United Steelworkers would transfer their headquarters over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO executive board is scheduled to hold a week-long meeting in preparation for the CIO 's convention , to open on Oct. 31 . The union stressed that Mr. Murray would be available if summoned to the White House in connection with the strike during the convention period .                     