@@704785

txt Mont significant development to date in accelerated defense plans . Washington obseners feel , is that It is now clear the nation 's armament has been put entirely in the hand% of the National Advisors Commission . headed 113 Industrialists Knudsen and Stettinius , and that this group is musing along the lines of the pre-conceived Industrial Mobilisation Plan . worked out under an act of 1920 and repeatedly revised since then . The comission does , not have war-time powers but is confident they will not be needed . Meanwhile , It was expected the House will and Rend to the Senate this week the new $1,004,000,000 tax bill which also authorizes a special four billion debt limit rise to coaer defense obligations . Democratic efforts in limit amendments Include a now e to head air ' " war profits- proposals 113 asking that a separate hill be prepared for consideration next January , its levies to he retroactive . WASHINGTON  --  The National Defense Advisory Commission . responsible only to President Roosevelt , is in complete charge of the nation a armament program . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions and the authority of the group named by Mr Roosevelt to advise on defense plans . The commission is heading straight toward complete industrial mobilization  --  without actual war-time powers but confident they will not be needed , and if it turns out that greater powers are needed , it is a good guess they will be acquired . This development , far more than the actual steps already taken by the commission to carry out its assignment , is the significant thing about the defense program that has come to light in the past 10 days , Council Makes Way Not only has the National Defense Council ? a group of sue cabinet officers who are supposed theoretically to coordinate the armament program been pushed to the side to make way for the " Advisory " Commission , but Army and Navy officers are now working with the commission instead of the commission working with Army and Navy officers . There is a sign.hcant difference between these two relationsh.ps . Although the personal feelings of a few service department officiaLs may have been hurt by this evolution of authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the War and Navy Departments in their planning over the past 20 years . With a few important modifications . the present set-up of the defense commission is fundamentally the one envisaged 111 the so-called industrial mobilization plan . This plan , ordered to be worked out by Congress in the National Defense Act of 1920 , has been drawn up and repeatedly revised for many years under the direction of the Army and Navy mumtions boards . The plan was conceived for use in war-time but the principles and procedures recommended are applicable , of course , to any attempt at industrial mobilization , for any successful plan along these lines admittedly requires the establishment of systems of priorities , allocation of raw materials and finished products and at least a surveillance or-prices . Super-Agencies The mobilization plan for war envisages the establishment of a group of super-agencies , manned by experts called In from outside the government . to run the country with the President . This is exactly what is happening  --  though still without the arbitrary powers that would obtain in war-time  --  on the industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of organization are ( 1 ) that the problems of war are chiefly industrial problems and should be handled by industralists and ( 21 that , by calling in outside administrators , the danger of developing vested interests in permanent government jobs would be obviated . It appeared at first that President Roosevelt was attempting to effect a compromise between this line of approach and the one advocated by certain other government officials who favored the handling of mobilization problems by existing government departments , bureaus and agencies . To an extent this may stall be true , but the developments of the past 10 days have shown quite clearly that Mr. Roosevelt is leaning strongly in the direction of the industrial mobilization plan . This does not mean , of course , that the commission is not utilizing the data already gathered by the War and Navy Departments . On the contrary it appears that the first job of the commission is to review all the work that has been done by officials of these departments over a period of years and proceed from that point with the advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , in some cases , has been considerable . A Study of Capacity For instance , one of the main jobs of the commission  --  particularly of William S. Knudsen ? is to find out what factories are able to build a specific type of war product or can be adapted to war production and to allocate War and Navy orders to those plants . But the War Department already has surveyed some 20,000 factories with a view of determining their war potential . Secret orders have been placed with approximately 12.000 of them for immediate execution in the event of war . Educational orders have been placed with mnay plants  --  though not nearly as many as the War Department would have liked -- under which the necessary machinery was built and labor given preliminary training . All this work has been under the direction of Assistant Secretary of War Louis Johnson . Thus the defense commission will have s good start in this respect and will be able to place many orders immediately without having to conduct preliminary surveys . Another example of the type of preparation that already has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ munitions board has been consulting for years with advisory committees made up of representatives of a number of key industries Apparently these committees will be placed on a more active footing and continue to function . And the members of Army and Navy munitions board sub-committees broken down by individual industries , will simply carry on the work they have been doing for years , but under the Advisory Commission instead of under their superior officers in the War Department . Principle Is the Same It should be made perfectly clear that the industrial mobilization plan is not being put into effect at the present time What the defense commission is doing now falls far short of what the War Resources Administration , key superagency under the mobilization plan , would do in event of war The point is that the principle involved  --  the fundamental approach  --  is the same . The matter of prices will serve as an illustration . Under war-tame powers the price control administration would fix prices for raw materials and finished products and the war labor administration would fix wages for labor . Under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed to set up a statistical bureau and keep tabs on raw material prices . He has no authority to fix prices . But , in this connection , it may be pointed out that the industrial mobilization plan states that the necessity for price-fixing and the time at which price-fixing should be instituted should depend upon the trends and general price conditions obtaining after the plan is put into operation . On the finished product side of the picture , there is again no authority for the defense commission to fix prices . It is understood . hoa - ever . that the commisison will arrive at price schedules with manufacturers and suppliers in the armaments industries by negotiation before contracts are placed . Ths is reported to be under way already in respect to the machine tool industry . Labor for Ni ar Industries Another example of the difference between war-time powers and present powers is in the matter of providing labor for war industries Not only could wages and hours be established during war-time but labor could be requisitioned . Thus , in attempting to meet the skilleu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hillman must rely upon training new labor plus whatever shift occurs between industries on a voluntary basis This is not likely to be great because an effort is being made to prevent labor from " profiteering " in the defense industries , thus avoiding any likelihood of large-scale migrations from one industry to another , In war-time , however , the government could requisition skilled workers in one industry and assign them to jobs in defense industries . Apparently it is the hope of the Administration that the defense program can be carried out without the exercise of arbitrary power Actually the defense commission Is empowered under the law . only to advise . But since President Roosevelt is , to all intents and purposes . the chairman of the Advisory Commission . the group has direct access to all the power lodged in him and all other cabinet members who. by the way , retain their positions only at the pleasure of the President . Furthermore , Mr. Roosevelt has very wide powers , first in his constitutional capacity as commander-in-chief of the armed forces And secondly under the declaration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While these powers are 3 , , th defined , due to the complexity and profusion Or various statutes dealing with emergencies , it it reported reliably that the chief executive will not exercise any drastic new authority without issuing a new proclamation which , to give him complete power , would have to announce the existence of a state of war or the " imminence of war " . Naturally , he Is represented as being unprepared to take this step . Free Hand and Authority But there are a number of indications , both apparent and implied , that the commission not only has taken over completely the direction of the armament program but that it has peen soured it will be given a free hand and the necessary authority to carry it out . Among the obvious indications are the fact that within the past week the supervision of the aircraft and machine tool industries , including the job of standardizing aircraft engines , has been transferred from Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau to Mr. Knudsen . Among the less obvious but none-the-less significant indications is the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his position as chairman of the board of U. S. Steel Corp . to devote his entire time to the defense commission and Mr. Knudsen has obtained a leave of absence from General Motors Corp for the same purpose . All hands are agreed that this would not have happened without full assurances that they were to serve as a great deal more than " window dressing " for a political handling of the defense program . One more indication is the fact that the commission is rapidly asembling large staffs of aides , including big names in the industrial world and well-known economsts and technicians . These men , it is equally clear , would not be much more disposed than Messrs . Stettinius and Knudsen to drop their busy and frequently profitable careers unless they were to be given a free hand in the work they are now undertaking .                     