@@707584

txt The Senate today was heading for apparent passage of the Bankhead bill killing existing food subsidies with a resultant estimated cost-1 Of-living increase of 3.5 per cent in food prices . as estimated by its author , or 7 per cent , as estimated by the Mee of Price Administration . The Senate paved the way for approval of the Bankhead bill when it killed an Administration compromise substitute yesterday , 49 to 20 , offered by Senator Francis Maloney ( I ) ) or Connecticut . The Administration defeat came from the same coalition of Republicans and Farm Bloc South ! erners which has given President Roosevelt most of his recent ? trouble with Congress . The Bankhead bill would kill subsidies paid for the benefit of ! retail grocers ' and butchers ' customers , but %could leave in effect transportation subsidies and sub ; sidles paid to tanners . House Passed Similar Rill The House passed a bill substantially similar to the Bankhead bill Nov. 23 by a large majority , 278 to 117 . The Administration has attempted to stall off similiar action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from consumer groups . In an effort to reach a compromise , the Maloney proposal was offered yesterday . This would permit continuance of roll-back subsidies and their expansion , if deemed necessary , but not to exceed expenditure of more than $1,500,000,000 within any year . Defeat of the Maloney Bill and passage of the Bankhead bill do not really settle the issue . In fact , the controversial matter is just one more of those recent problems in dispute between Presi- dent3ankhead bill is passed In itt present form , Mr , Roosevelt undoubtedly would veto it , as he did a similar bill last year . Then the fight would start all over again to see if Congress could override his veto . Exactly the same situation arose before when Congress tried to override a Presidential veto on the subsidy issue . The effort failed and subsidies were continued on the present temporary basis .. Senator Robert A. Taft all of Ohio , significantly , warned his colleagues of this possibility , and urged them to accept some compromise . Senator Taft argued that the Administration would otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidies without specific authority from Congress , with a cost that might run to as much as $5,000 , - 000.000 instead of the limit proposed in the Malone compromise . Vote Line-lip The Maloney bill was defeated by a political line-up as follows : Democrats : For the bill , 24 : against , 19 , Republicans : For the bill , 2 ; against , 29 . In addition , one Progressive voted against the bill . The Democrats voting against The two views in yesterday 's debate were expressed by Majority Leader Alben W. Barkley ( D ) of Kentucky and Senator Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia . Mr , Barkley merely predicted that with the defeat of the compromise and passage of the Bank-head Bill , a veto would come that could not be overridden , and that the result would be a continuation of the Commodity Credit Corporation , which rims the subsidies , with no compromise at all . Unless extended by Congress the life of the Ct . ' C expires Feb. 17 . Senator George charged approval of the Maloney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie charged the Administration was attempt ink to placate labor by " breaking the farmer 's back . " It was Senator George who. paradoxically , fathered the first of the roll-back subsidies two years ago reducing the price of gasoline a cent a gallon by having the Government absorb the additional cost of transportation resulting from tanker sinkings . Senator John H , Bankhead ( 1 " ) 1 of Alabama . asserted the OPA , estimates of increased food costs , if subsidies end , were excessive , Instead of 7 per cent , it would be only half that figure , he slid . Ile charged the more than a billion dollars covered by the present subsidy program would be inflationary by adding purchasing power to consumers . Senator Maloney argued living costs would rise 10 per cent with the end of subsidies , and declared it would bring a general breakthrough of the wage ceilings , from labor 's demand for commensurate higher pay . The big majority against the Maloney proposal came as a surprise to many senators and administration leaders . 