@@706037

txt By ordering United States marines to withdraw from China and through remarks made at a press conference , President Roosevelt today made clear his belief that the situation in the Far East contains elements of danger that might lead to war between the0 United States and Japan . He expressed hope , however , that peace would be maintained . The President postponed his plans to depart Saturday night for Warm Springs , Ga . This step , precipitated in part by the domestic labor situation , will permit him to be in Washington to learn what new proposal , if any , is being brought by Saburo Kurusu , Japan 's special envoy , who is scheduled to arrive in Washington tomorrow by air after a transpacific flight . Mr. Kurusu , arriving in San Francisco after a 10,000 - mile plane trip from Tokyo , told reporters that he realized the difficulty of his task but that he hoped to " go through the line for a touchdown " in Washington The President told reporters in his press conference that no interpreter of the international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced that it had been definitely decided to withdraw at once all American marines from China . Because they number only 970 , the marines at Shanghai , Tientsin and Peiping would be in peril of seizure as hostages if hostilities developed . Although he indicated strong doubt as to how the situation in the Far East would be resolved. ? Mr. Roosevelt would make no statement in his press conference , despite constant prodding , that might tie this government 's hands in the discussions of American officials with Mr. Kurusu . Asked whether the United States was prepared to make certain that the Burma Road would be kept open , the President said this problem was related to too many others to be answered . Questioned thereafter as to whether he cared to comment upon widely credited reports that Japanese insistence on concessions in China had hampered American-Japanese negotiations , the President indicated that he thought the question and any answer ill-advised at this time . This was not taken by most of his auditors to indicate that this government was prepared to make any concessions , but rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might disturb negotiations . Smartly dressed in a dark blue suit and smoking his inevitable cigarette , the President chatted with correspondents with the utmost calm , though with some difficulty because of a slight head cold . He was willing to give an answer of sorts to blunt questions that he sometimes cuts off . Mr. Roosevelt answered in the affirmative a question as to whether he believed that " the American people realized the seriousness of the Far Eastern situation . " He raised his voice to emphasize that he sincerely trusted not , when asked " whether there will be war right away in the Far East . " " Can war with Japan be avoided ? " a reporter bluntly inquired . The Executive answered that question slowly after a moment 's pause . If he replied no , he said , the answer would be subject to widespread interpretation . If he answered yes , that would be a pure guess . No interpreter of the international scene knows the answer , he continued . The President indicated that the withdrawal of Marines , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was considering this step , would not affect continuance of the Yangtze gunboat patrol , which he asserted was an American naval affair . He re , marked that American missionary and other interests were widely dispersed in China and that Marines located in three Chinese cities offered only a modicum of armed protection for them . Secretary of State Cordell Hull subsequently said in his , press conference that American consular and diplomatic officers would continue to serve in all areas of China . The President said he did not believe the United States had any treaty rights in the International WHERE MARINES LEAVE President Roosevelt announced yesterday that the United States forces stationed at Shanghai , Peiping and Tientsin , numbering 970 men , had been ordered withdrawn , but said that the American gunboat patrol on the Yangtze would continue operating . Settlement at Shanghai in the sense of a separate zone as had the British , French and Japanese , and did not think that any problem in this connection was created , therefore , by the withdrawal of Marines . Although the President cautioned against interpretations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , voiced the general view when he gave as " personal " the opinion that " in view of the critical situation with Japan , the President no doubt did not desire to leave our small detachments of Marines in isolated and dangerous sections of China . " He interpreted the withdrawal order as a reflection of the critical Far Eastern situation . Mr. Roosevelt referred questioners to the Protocol Division , State Department , when asked whether he expected to see Mr. Kurusu . The special envoy will be received upon landing here at 1:05 P. M. tomorrow by the staff of the Japanese Embassy and will remain at the embassy during his conferences in Washington . Mr. Kurusu plans to hold no press conference tomorrow or later . It is understood he will confer over the week-end with Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura , Japanese Ambassador , on the procedure for his conversations and then consult with the State Department for an understanding on procedure . Secretary Hull will receive Mr. Kurusu and Admiral Nomura at 10:30 A. M. Monday .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        