@@706026

txt These same sources are categorical in their assertion that President Roosevelt and his Cabinet are decided irrevocably that there can be no further western retreat before either the Japanese Army or Navy and that , if Japan continues its course of aggression , an armed clash is inevitable . At fhe same time , the Administration is convinced that the full gravity of the present crisis has j not struck home to most Americans . At a recent Cabinet meeting the President is known to have taken a poll , asking each member At turn if he thought the country was adequately aware of the danger . From each member he received a negative reply . Defensive Strength Raised Asked at his press conference Friday if he thought the nation was awake to the extent of the Far Eastern crisis , President Roosevelt answered yes . While this might , at first blush , seem to be at variance with the Cabinet 's reaction , it is held that the President was using his press conference as a further means of brthging the public up to date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trembles in the balance , both the United States and Great Britain have measurably increased their offensive and defensive power in the Western Pacific/ . Whereas a year ago the British Admiralty was still withdrawing ships from this area for use in waters nearer home , the British ale not only sending ships back but are also transferring new ones . As an example , it is learned that practically every British warship that has come to American ports for repairs has gone to the Far East upon leaving this country . This has meant a formidable accretion of British naval strength , to say nothing of the new land defenses organized for Singapore and Malaya . Air Power at Manila The increase in strength of Amelimn Far Eastern forces has centered about the Philippine Islands , with one high official declaring that " Manila has the latest of everything . " This is believed to be particularly true as regards bon'Thers and pursuit planes . Furthermore , naval officials deny that the Navy 's new anti-Axis role in the Atlantic has weakened its Pacific strength to any extent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world and is a completely rounded and integrated flotilla , they say . " The biggest secret of the present Ivar is the size and strength of the American , British . and Dutch forces in the Far East . " one high official stated . In discussing a Far Eastern naval campaign , these same officials assert that it is utterly incorrect to assume that just because the Pacific Ocean is large , it would therefore be difficult for the American fleet to come to 1 grips with the Japanese Navy . i They point out that Japanese trade routes are limited in width and length , that the Japanese Navy would be obliged to stay in the vicinity of these routes to protect the commerce without which Japan can not survive and that , consequently , the American and British fleets , operating from Manila , Singapore and Netherlands Indies , would have little difficulty in meeting their adversary . Little stock is also placed in the popular theory that the Japanese , operating from home bases , would be difficult to beat . In describing the outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a high Government official asserted that the destruction of Japanese vessels might be compared with " shooting fish in a barrel . " Arming Popular NEW YORK , Nov. 15 ( EP )  - -  The National Maritime Union ( Congress of Industrial Organizations ) , through Vice-President Howard yesterday hailed congressional repeal of Neutrality Ac : provisions to permit the arming of merchant ships and said the union was ready to man American ships sailing to any port . Mr. said the N. M. U. policy had always favored repeal of provisions restricting movements of American ships , adding that a resolution for an outright declaration of war against Germany was adopted at a union meeting Wednesday .                     