@@705366

txt The Senate by unanimous vote passed today and sent to the Governor the first defense measure adopted at this session , the Ostertag bill establishing the New York State Defense Council and authorizing cities and counties to set up and appropriate fund for local defense councils . The measure , drafted after a series of conferences between legislative leaders and the Governor 's office , legalizes the State Defense Council , which was set up last Fall by Executive office . By permitting cities and counties to appropriate moneys for their local councils , eighty-five of which are already established in the State , the measure is intended to speed up defense plans , permit the local groups to go ahead with their surveys of defense facilities and cooperate more fully with the State 's present survey of machine tool facilities . Under the provisions of the measure the State Defense Council is comprised of the Governor as chairman , the Lieutenant Governor , the majority leader of the Senate , the Assembly Speaker and the minority leaders of both houses and " such other members as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate . Desmond Bill Also Passed The Senate also passed and sent to the Assembly the Desmond bill , which permits cities and counties to set up local defense councils nd appropriate funds for their work . The Desmond measure , introduced separately by Senator Desmond , Republican , of Orange County , is similar in purpose to part of the Ostertag bill , but it was passed by the Senate to emphasize the need for speed in adopting defense measures . In recommending the passage of both bills Senator . Joe R. Hanley , Republican majority leader , pointed out that the Ostertag bill was ' drawn up after consultation of the legislative leaders with the Governor 's office . " Any one who reads the daily newspapers must be aware that the international situation is rapidly coming to a head , " Senator Hanley asserted . " It is of utmost importance , therefore , that we in New York State act promptly on measures designed to strengthen our ' State and national defenses . I urge the immediate passage of both these bills . " In the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Parsons , Republican , of Syracuse , was passed and sent to the Senate by a vote of 76 to 64 , with five Republicans joining with a solid Demberatic minority in the negative . The measure eliminates an election in primary contests where a candidate is unop- posed . Republicans voting with the i Democrats were Assemblymen Ehrlich , Kreinheder , Shaw , Pillion and Morgan . Bill Bars Special Elections A measure eliminating special elections to fill vacancies in the Legislature caused by the death of members was introduced in the Assembly by Robert J. Crews , Republican , of Brooklyn . Under the provisions of the measure , such vas cancies would be filled by the majority vote of the party members of either house in which the vacancy occurred . Assemblyman Davidson , Democrat of Manhattan , submitted a bill which calls for the abolition of " blue ribbon " juries in Manhattan , Brooklyn . Queens , the Bronx and Westchester , the only counties in the State where such special juries are now used . A bill which would permit men called into Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the cost of license plates for the time they were in service was introduced in the Assembly by Leo P. Noonan , Republican , of Cattaraugus County . Upon induction into Federal service , a trainee would return his license plates and registration certificate to the State Motor Vehicle Bureau and would be reimbursed on the basis of the number of full months remaining in the year . Assemblyman , Democrat , of the Bronx , sponsored a bill providing for military drill in the public schools for all boys over 12 years old in lieu of physical training classes : Senator Perry , Democrat of Manhattan , reintroduced the bill he sponsored last year which Makes it petit larceny for any person to sell , lease or license any recording of a radio broadcast without the consent in writing of the performer or the sponsor of the broadcast . The measure is designed to stop small , " fly-by-night " stations from rebroadcasting programs without paying the performers . For Jobless Aid to Trainees Assemblyman Ralph Schwartz . Democrat of Brooklyn , introduced a bill which provides that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to obtain employment , shall be entitled immediately to unemployment insurance benefits without the necessity of waiting the usual three-week period required by law . The benefits , according to the measure , would be computed on the trainee 's earnings for the year prior to his induction into service . Assemblyman Stanley Shaw , Republican of Tompkins County , and Senator Daniel Gutman , Democrat of Brooklyn , sponsored a bill per1 mitting recommendation of life imprisonment by juries in all murder cases . At the present time this recommendation is permitted only in cases of " felony murders , " that is , murders committed during the 1 course of another crime . The sponsors of the bill termed the distinction unfair . A similar bill passed the Assembly last year , but was defeated in the Senate .                     