@@706871

txt For some time it has been apparent that the two great problems of manpower and food could not much longer be left to the overlapping and conflicting jurisdictions of different agencies and branches of the Government . Strong , centralized control of each is needed . Now , just a year after our entry into the war , the necessary steps have been taken . An swift succession President Roosevelt has given Paul V. , as chairman of the War Manpower Commission , virtually dictatorial powers over both Selective Service and civilian employment , and has given Secretary of Agriculture Wickard large powers over the production and distribution of food . The necessity of firm action is unquestioned . We could not longer continue to permit the military forces , by voluntary enlistment and by draft , to drain needed labor from the farms and industry , nor permit the various branches of industry to drain needed manpower from each other and from agriculture without any over-all direction to assure that the nation 's war needs were served first . On the vital question of food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production has been the concern of the Department of Agriculture ; harvesting the problem of the War Manpower Commission ; manufacturing and processing came under the War Production Board ; transportation under the Office of Defense Transportation , and distribution , including rationing and pricing , under the Office of Price Administration . The President has moved in the right direction in these two executive orders . Whether he has picked the ideal men for the jobs remains to be seen . Our own view has been that the chief of manpower , because of the enormous powers he will exercise , ought to have been a figure wholly outside the field of active politics and in no way vulnerable to the slightest suspicion of political ambition . We thought , for this reason , that Mr. was not the right choice . We think now that he will be under handicaps that would not have existed for a man of different background . To a lesser extent Mr. Wickard will also be handicapped by his background . He is one of the group of Government officials who have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It might have been better to have brought in an administrator from outside this group who could coordinate and direct all their efforts , rather than to raise one of them above the others . Moreover , the order elevating Secretary Wickard seemed to contain in it the seeds of possible dispute . It delegates to him large powers , yet does not in all cases give him clear authority . For example , he is authorized to exercise certain powers , authority and discretion hitherto conferred upon the Price Administrator , yet nothing in the order is to ' be construed to limit the power now exercised by the Price Administrator . In the case of the executive order relating to manpower a different type of reservation occurs . There has been conferred on Mr. more power over more men and women than any one has ever before exercised in this country . Such sweeping power ought to have a clear-cut justification in law . For example , Section 6 in the order declares that " no employer shall retain in his employ any worker whose services are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , occupation or area designated as more essential by the chairman . " This is a pretty strong interpretation of the President 's authority under the War Powers Act . We question whether so extraordinary a control over the lives of American citizens ought not to have had the sanction of more specific legislation . These reservations over the methods followed do not alter the basic fact that centralized authority over food and manpower is urgently needed . In establishing such authorities the President has moved in the right direction .                     