@@708541

txt Congress was urged today to go on record now in favor of United States retaining post-war possession of all Pacific islands needed for future national defense . Rep. Ilebert D. , La. , member of the house naval committee , offered a resolution stating it is the " sense of congress " that this country keep permanent possession of all Pacific islands taken from Japan , including the mandates and those previously held outright by Japan . Hebert told reporters the United States should , moreover , acquire , by negotiation , bases in any non  --  Japanese Pacific areas where defense needs require it , including prewar British , French , and Dutch possessions . Opposed to Trusteeship The congressman declared he is opposed to reportedly New Deal sponsored plans for placing Pacific islands , liberated by American arms , under an international " trusteeship . " Rep. Mahon ID. , Tex. , in a sop. arate resolution proposed that we retain possession of any former Nipponese isles designated by the chiefs of staff as necessary for de . fense or the " maintenance of world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' retention of American liberated Islands belonging to friendly nations until the original owner can occupy them or until their mutual occupation is arranged by the allied rations . Neither resolution would have the force of law , but they would serve as an expression from congress to guide the administration in diploma . tic dealings . Wants Action Now Hebert declared it is " vital " that such a measure be adopted in advance of the San Francisco security conference April 25 , as a warning to our diplomatic chiefs that " we do not propose to give away bases won with American blood to any other nation or any super-trusteeship . " The congressman said he agreed with the statement by Adm . King , chief of naval operations , who last week in New York proposed Amerlean retention of Pacific bases need . ed for , military security . " I have been filing to accept Adm . King 's recommendations las well as other members of the joint chiefs of staff for the conduct of the war , " Hebert said . " I am equally willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of preparedness in order to prevent as long as possible another war . Asks Realistic Thinking " It and when that war does conic , however , 1 want America to be as ready for the figh ? before the at . tack as America is now ready , but tragically ready , too many months after the attack . " Let us be realistic about this whole business , Stalin wanted part of Poland to he took it . We need Pacific bases and we must not be cajoled into giving them up , when we have won.them in our own right with American lives . " 