@@705570

txt President Roosevelt received an oral report today on the British position in the war and requirements for American aid . It was made to him by James V. Forrestal , Under-Secretary of the Navy , the highest ranking American official , except for Sumner Welles , who has been sent to Britain on a mission since the war started . Mr. Forrestal had luncheon with the President in his private quarters at the White House , and neither the Under-Secretary nor executive sources made any statement to the press . It was understood in Administration circles , however , that the Navy official told Mr. Roosevelt Britain 's prime immediate needs were enough heavy bombers to eliminate the convoy problem , heavy tanks to meet the assault of any mechanized forces which Germany may succeed in landing in Britain , and ships . Mr. Forrestal also was represented in these quarters as having advised the President that the morale of the British people was so high , despite persistent bombings , that there would be a revolution if any British Government tried to negotiate a peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than at any time . ? , Talk of 200 Heavy Bombers Administration circles believed that if the United States could soon send to Britain about 200 heavy bombers , capable of flying up to 3,000 miles , these planes could practically eliminate the threat to vital British shipping from Axis surface raiders and submarines . It was believed here that at least that many bombers could be sent by the end of the Summer . With the danger from surface raiders to shipping carrying American war supplies greatly reduced by the extension of American naval patrol activities , there was a growing belief in Administration circles that American naval convoys ' , ould not be necessary , at least for the present . It was believed that the British need for heavy tanks , which Mr. Forrestal was reported to have emphasized , indicated that the British still expect an attempt at invasion at any time . Britain is pro : ducing few heavy bombers and few of the larger tanks . Progress Against Night Attacks The Under-Secretary of . the Navy was said to have told Mr. Roosevelt that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new techniques , in combating German night attacks . The British believe , he is represented as having informed his chief , that if they can bring down 10 per cent of the planes coming over they can smash the effectiveness of these raids as they virtually eliminated daylight raiding soon after the collapse of France . In some quarters here it was said that a difference of opinion about the value of convoys is developing in Britain . Some British circles were reported to have made . a study of the success of fast ships traveling alone , and to be inclined to believe that , for much of the way across the ocean , it is safer for the faster ships to do . so . The Admiralty and the Prime Minister are understood , however , to be staying , for the present at least , with the convoy system . These circles reported that while one British port has been put out of commission and another has been badly damaged , German air raids , on the whole , have not disabled ports , and that British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raids without serious damage . Britain 's officials were said in these sources to be convinced that Germany has been employing its maximum air strength in recent attacks . One sign was said to be that the instruments of planes shot down indicated that they had made two or more consecutive bombing trips . It was believed unlikely that this would be the case if the Nazis had a surplus of planes .                     