@@704654

txt ? A proclamation reaffirming Norway 's determination to resist the German invasion and rejecting a German demand for recognition of a Nazi puppet government under Major Vikdun Quisling has been issued by Premier Johan Nygaards- ' void , Reuters British news agency reported today . The Reuters report was based on a Norwegian News Agency dispatch from Elverum , present seat of the refugee government . The proclamation , Reuters said , was followed by this statement from King Haakon : " I fully adhere to the government 's appeal , and . I am convinced that the whole people is with me in the decisions taken . " Rejects German Demand AMSTERDAM , the Netherlands , April 10 ( UP ) ? The German Ambassador visited King Haakon of Norway at Elversum today and demanded . that ? Vidkun Quisling , a Nazi sympathizer , be nominated ' as chief of the Norwegian Cabinet , the Stockholm Sweden radio stated tonight . The King , the broadcast said , rejected the demand after calling a State Council , at which he was assured that the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King accepted the decision of the Council , and his answer was communicated to the German Ambassador by Foreign Minister Halvdan Koht . " Thus Norway continues the struggle against Germany , as there is no reason for further negotiations , " the broadcast said . Radio Urges Yielding LONDON , April 10 ( UP ) ? The Oslo radio today urged the Norwegian population and local authorities to cease resistance to the German invaders . The station , now under . German control , defended the German action . It announced . new . internsContinued on rage . Five NORWAY DECIDES TO CONTINUE FIGHT // tional currency rates affecting the two countries . Situation Puzzles Berlin Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BERLIN , April ** Norwegian situation is the principal thing remaining obscure here . The Reich Government professes some , difficulty in finding a government authorized to act for the Norwegian people . According to the impression in Berlin official circles , there are now two governments in Norway . One , in Oslo , is friendly to Germany . The other is described as " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has taken refuge in the town of Tlamar . " Latest reports state Hamar has been occupied by the Germans . Therefore , it is believed , that government must have fled further inland on the chance Allied aid will arrive to give it authority . Responsible political circles in Berlin say they have , in line with yesterday 's memorandum , no intention to mix in Norwegian domestic affairs and desire only to find spokesmen empowered to act for the Norwegian people . The problem , it is stated here , is that no Cabinet legally exists until it is approved by Parliament and King Haakon . Even late tonight it was not possible here to obtain any answer to the question whether the Reich 's Minister in Oslo , Dr. Dreuer , or the commander of the German expeditionary forces had seen King Haakon and , if so , with what result . This lack of news of the domestic political situation in Norway followed reports yesterday that the Storting had chosen three members as a committee to deal with the German envoy and military leaders . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with King Haakon at his residence near Oslo . OSLO ENTRY DESCRIBED Witness Says Germans Bristled With Guns Ready for Instant Use ? Wireless to Tan NEW YORK TIMES . STOCKHOLM , Sweden , April 10 ? In an eyewitness account of the entry of a German column a thousand strong into the center of Oslo at 3 P. M. yesterday , a Reuters British news agency reporter who escaped over the frontier to Sweden writes that every man was armed with a formidable-looking rifle or machine gun and carried a bandolier , uncovered and glistening with bronzed machine-gun bullets , ready for immediate action . But they met no resistance . The inhabitants , bewildered by the swift sequence of events and the incredible experience of the preceding eight hours , lined the streets to watch the invaders ' entry . The city had capitulated about an hour earlier , after a night and morning of terror during which German airplanes bombed all military objectives in the neighborhood and machine-gunned districts around the harbor defenses . Already the Germans had taken over control of all military air fields , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landed . With these they had threatened to blow the populace of the city out of existence if any resistance was shown . By noon the main railroad station in Oslo was packed with evacuees , hurriedly leaving the city . Women , children and elderly men carried all the possessions they could muster . All seemed dazed , but there was no outward sign of fear or panic . Planes Roar Overhead The air was filled with the roar of airplane engines as German fliers circled ceaselessly , hoping thereby to strike terror into the people . The streets were deserted . All offices and banks were closed . From a hotel window a German fighting plane was seen power-diving over the harbor , its machine guns spitting amid desultory antiaircraft fire . Toward late afternoon from the United States Legation , some distance from the city , the roar of airplane engines was heard again , and three bombers were seen circling at a great height . While the people v:atched , unconcerned , there was a terrific roar as an explosion blew up a house only 200 yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five more bombs landed near by in quick succession . Persons in the United States Legation were at first dumfounded , failing to understand why the Germans should continue their raids after the city had fallen to them . Then it was realized that counteraction had begun . Careful scrutiny of the high-flying planes showed they resembled British Blenheims rather than German bombers . Neither these nor another bomber that later flew swiftly eastward met with any opposition . Meanwhile , the city was full of German troops , which converged upon it in commandeered buses and cars and afoot from all directions . It was impossible to leave , since the Germans already were seizing communications . The railroad station was heavily guarded and the streets were thronged with Germans . Kristiansand Raid Pictured STOCKHOLM , Sweden , April 10 CIO  --  Eyewitness accounts of the attack by planes and warships on Kristiansand fortress , on the south coast of Norway , said the streets were filled with granite splinters and the spire of the cathedral was shot down . Crying women and children filled the air raid shelters for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings were set on fire . As many as 150 planes took part in the Oslo occupation , other eyewitnesses reported . Some of them ferried 400 German soldiers armed with machine guns and grenades . About 120 Norwegian soldiers were reported killed in this operation .                     