@@711538

txt Ln a final effort to reach agreement on the Berlin situation before submit -- ting that problem to public debate in the United Nations , the United States , Britain and France have dispatched identical notes to the Kremlin requesting an early and clear-cut answer to the- question whether Russia is or is not willing to solve the issues involved and to ' - end the blockade of the German capital . These notes , whose firm tenor is indicated by Foreign Secretary Bevin 's report yesterday on Germany , were agreed upon at meetings of the Foreign Ministers of the three Powers in Paris ' after consultation with their Military Governors in Germany . They mark the climax of nearly two months of secret negotiations , which have produied not only a complete deadlock but also the growing conviction . that Russia is merely stalling and does not want agreement , in the expectation of still being able to drive the Western PoWers from Berlin . But the notes were sent , nevertheless , partly to clarify the record and partly in the hope , nurtured especially in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may still execute one of its sudden shifts of policy . The importance of the notes is suggested by the fact that they demonstrate that the Western Powers have reached Mist Mr. Bevin characterizes as " absolute agreement not only over the Berlin policy but also as to the policy to be pursued jointly if that policy fails . " Being identical notes , they eliminate those divergencies in emphasis which marked the original separate notes sent to Moscow , merely handicapping their chance of success . Moreover , as the French spokesman emphasizes , the new notes are not addressed to Foreign MbLister Molotov but to the Kremlin , with the implication that they are intended for - Premier Stalin himself . And the French spokesman likewise suggests that Russia will have about a week to make up its mind before the Western Powers embark on the further steps decided upon . These steps , as Mr. Sevin stressed , do not involve any commitment to war , for there is still the United Nations to appeal to . But , as Mr. Sevin also made clear , the lifting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberately planned to make the Western position in Berlin untenable , is the essential condition on which any settlement must bebased . To facilitate it , the Western Powers are ready to accept the Soviet Mark as the sole Berlin currency , provided that the Berlin share of this cur= rency is put under Four-Power authority ' Any other procedure would enable the Russians to paralyze the Western administration and exert pressure just as bad as the blockade itself . On that point , Mr. Sevin declared , the Western position is firm and clear . " Berlin stands out now as a symbol of resistance . The choice has been made . We must either stand firm there or turn south and go to another Munich . " Mr. Bevin made it unmistakably plain that he for one will not go south . And since he made his report after the Paris consultation , it . may be assumed that he also spoke for the United States and France , and for that matter for the entire West . He spoke , technically , before the BritishParliament , but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice that the United States and Britain are ready and able to maintain the airlift , and through it their position in Berlin , through the winter ? on which th4 Russians may be counting to defeat the West . As Mr. Sevin said , we still believe that East and West can life together . But we will not yield to pressure . And if Russia decides to contintie that pressure , time is now on the Sitrt3 of the West , and the period of risk ' Awn Russta might have lisped to over- come an unprepared and divided West by af " cold war " is over . It-must be hoped that Tfoscsow will face the-realities of the situation .                     