@@709979

txt American mediation in China 's civil war is suspended . It now has assumed the character of a potential liaison proposition between the Government and the Communists . The latter 's chief negotiator , Gen. Chou En-lai flew to Yenan yesterday from here in Gen. George C. Marshal 's own American aircraft , while more than a thousand delegates at the National Assembly , which the Communists are boycotting , registered their first formal vote since opening Nov. 15 . This vote determined the procedure to be adopted in electing a presidium . To register a vote in favor of any resolution , each delegate sitting on one of the tip-up seats presses a button below the little collapsible desk attached to the back of the seat in front of him or her . This operation lights one of two small electric bulbs in two frames set on each side of the proscenium . The number of globes illuminated shows the total vote in favor of a resolution . Button Frames the Future Subtraction of this number from that of the delegates present shows whether a resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or abstaining , just keep their hands off the button . It was jokingly remarked that this contraption is a great encouragement to vote in favor of resolutions  --  for the fun of seeing what unpredictable pattern shows up in the frame . This is as unpredictable a pattern as China 's political future , now that negotiations between the Government and the Communists are broken off and General Chou has returned to Yenan . Before he left , he told me the existing basis for discussions  --  resolutions reached at an All-Party Political Consultative Conference at Chungking last January and plans evolved under General Marshall 's guidance for merging Communist forces with those of the Government in one national army  --  had been shattered by the Government 's unilateral convocation of what he terms the " nation-splitting " National Assembly , being so long as such a course appears useful and practicable . This means that , while the Communists insist the Assembly has brought about a national split they also are making provisions for future joining up . Wang Ping-nan , Communist spokesman left behind here , said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total split , it will throw us out . Liaison is needed , ' because what we are fighting for is peace , democracy , and unity . " That is exactly the aim which the Go.vernment proclaims it is approaching by way of the National Assembly which is charged with adopting China 's first permanent constitution , League Looks Ahead It is also the avowed goal of the Democratic League  --  the third largest political force after the Kuomintang Party . Like the Communists , the League is not participating in the National Assembly . But it is not in alliance with the Communists , although it shares their view that agreements Of the past do not apply any longer and fresh means must be sought to bring about a " genuine democratic coalition government . " This is a phrase that can be interpreted in at least three ways . The fact that General Marshall 's mission has not succeeded in this respect , although it may be said to have slowed up the spread of civil war and furthered the United States ' foreign policy in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon seem logical . But a senior official of the United States Embassy here said that " General Marshall has not yet made any plans to return to the United States . Reports to the effect that he is going back as soon as possible are without foundation . " Tripartite Setup Intact This phase of the discussions has ended , he declared , and at party headquarters at Yenan there will be conferences as to what is going to happen next . Meanwhile the liaison team is to remain at Communist headquarters here , and the tripartite executive headquarters set up7-cornprised of representatives of Government , Communist , and United States mediators  --  is to remain in                     