@@710349

txt LAKE SUCCESS , N. Y. , April 18 ? The United Nations Security Council rejected today a Soviet proposal that it send a supervisory corrunissien to Greece to insure that the proposed $150,000,000 in economic help front the United States was used " only in the interests of the Greek people . " The vote was 4-2 . The United States , China , Colombia , France and Syria abstained . Australia , Britain , Belgium and Brazil voted against the Soviet resolution and the Soviet Union and Poland for it . Although the French and Colombian representatives expressed veiled misgivings about the effect of President Truman 's proposals on international relations , the United States won a sweeping victory . Before defeating the Soviet proposals , the Council rejected a Polish amendment declaring that such aid to Greece should not be used as a political weapon and should be distributed without discrimination on the ground " of race , creed or political belief . " The Council approved a United States resolution directing the Balkan Investigating Commission to maintain a subsidiary group in the trouble zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union and Poland cast the only votes in favor of the Polish amendment . The nine other members abstained from voting on the amendment , which restated a resolution adopted by the General Assembly on Dec. 11 . It lost because it lacked the required seven affirmative votes . The United States resolution was carried , 9-0 . Warren R. Austin . United States representative , had announced in advance that he would // From Page 1 abstain from voting on the Soviet resolution . His abstention , together with that of Andrei A. Gromyko the Soviet representative , from voting on the United States resolution , thus helped confirm the informal understanding that abstention by a great power does not amount to a veto . The United States representative said after the six-hour meeting that he believed this was a useful development in United Nations practice . Vassili Dendramis , the Greek representative , observed that he was " satisfied " with the Council 's decision and that there was no question that the United States proposed aid would be used for the benefit of the Greek people . Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gromyko clashed sharply . It was generally believed that today 's was only the first round of the Security Council fight . Even longer debate is expected when the Balkan investigating commission reports on Greek charges that Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria are fomenting incidents on the frontier of Greece . Doctrine Previously Ignored Until today Mr. Gromyko had charged that the Truman proposals constituted " interference " in the affairs of Greece and Turkey , but he had given only passing notice to the " political significance " of the general anti-Communist program announced by President Truman on March 12 . Mr. Austin , for his part , had been even more moderate and had not actually opposed the Soviet resolution for a United Nations commission to supervise the economic program . The atmosphere grew tense during the long debate . Mr. Austin struck back sharply at taunts by Mr. Gromyko and by Dr. Julius Katz-Suchy , the Polish representative , that if the United States program were intended solely for the Greek people the United States obviously should support th Soviet resolution . The United States representative replied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States project was to be used for political purposes . He said the Soviet resolution would place the United Nations in " an absurd position . " " If this should occur  --  which God forbid  --  we would n't need police agents , " said Mr. Austin , who declared heatedly that the press and radio of America would announce it to the world the day such use was disclosed . Foresees Political Pressure Mr. Gromyko remarked calmly that " according to proclaimed plans , " the United States aid " not only can , but will , be used for political pressure on the Greek people . " " It is needless to cite the officials and documents , " Mr. Gromyko continued , declaring that these had shown that " an important part " of the aid for Greece was intended for this purpose . He expressed confidence that " the existence of the Soviet proposal will become known to the Greek people , " and demanded that Mr. Austin " take a definite stand with regard to the Soviet proposal , " despite his announced intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions though they could not vote . Alexandre Parodi , the French representative , who was the first speaker , began by declaring it would not be right to " hide the fears " United States policy had " created in respect of the authority and the future of the United Na-tions , " He pointed out that support by the United States was " most necessary " to the United Nations but that the Truman proposals were announced before the Balkan investigating committee submitted its report . The decision to ' ye military aid to Greece and Turkey was disclosed , he added , " when another commission created by the Security Council was about to take up fhe study of the reduction of armaments . " " We felt grateful to the people and to the Government of the United States that they have understood these fears before anybody had occasion to voice them , " M. Parodi said , adding that the explanation given by Mr. Austin on March 28 a .. id subsequently constituted " important facts in the development of the United Nations . " M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paid tribute to the Greek resistance and asked the United States to take into account " the quite natural impatience felt by these men who have given so much of themselves " and of the difficulty they felt in " accepting certain disillusionments " and becoming accustomed to peacetime resistance . The French representative emphasized , however , that he could not support United Nations super- ' vision of the United States eco-1 nomic program , since the United States would assume the whole responsibility and no other country was ready to assist . But he suggested that the United States , in addition to filing with the United Nations the agreements it might reach with Greece , as promised by Mr. Austin , should keep the United Nations continuouslyi informed . Moreover , he suggested that as " a counterpart " the United States might ask for a " truly democratic " regime in Greece . M. Parodi said military aid to Greece was " of a more delicate na-1 ture " than economic assistance . He thought the Security Council should not dicsuss it before the Balkan commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations has no military force of its own . Even though it might be small , he declared , " no country could possibly think of attacking without , by that very fact , designating itself as the aggressor against all the United Nations . " Complete support of the United States proposals was expressed by Dr. Oswaldo Aranha of Brazil , who left his sickbed to speak . He endorsed Mr. Austin 's statement that the Truman plan was intended to strengthen the United Nations and said " democratic order " was necessary to remedy " chaos " in Greece . " The emergency aid requested by Greece and by Turl ' ey is intended precisely for such maintenance of order , " said Dr. Aranha . " No one can accuse these Governments of being undemocratic or of concealing aggressive purposes . Dr. Aranha insisted the United Nations Charter did not forbid such bilateral agreements and that Mr. Austin 's declaration , together with the Vandenberg amendment to the aid measure , involved " an auto-limitation of national sover eignty on the part of a great power , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthening of the prestige of international collaboration and , consequently , of that of the United Nations . " He congratulated the Council on the United Nations ' action , but said he did not wish it to be considered a precedent because " normal and bilateral actions " did not call " either for the consent of the other nations or the interference of the United Nations or its agencies . " Dr. Alfonso Lopez , former President of Colombia , said he viewed " with anxiety " the state of world opinion following the announcement that the British were withdrawing military and financial assistance to Greece . The British decision and President Truman 's plan " took the world by surprise , " he said , " and I think it is not too much to say , in the words of a well-known political commenator , that the real case on which American intervention is based ' has been defended by disclaimers , denials , apologies and assurances which have done little but confuse the issue . " Dr. Lopez said , however , that " no sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been said in explanation of the Truman Doctrine . " He proposed that the Council ask Britain , the United States , Russia and France to consider a Balkan agreement to settle all pending questions between Greece and her northern neighbors . Faris el Khoury , the Syrian representative , urged the Council to wait until the Balkan investigating committee reported . Sir Alexander Cadogan of Britain warmly supported the United States proposal . He remarked acidly that no one had proposed a United Nations mission to investigate Soviet help to Yugoslavia and Poland . Dr. Katz-Suchy replied heatedly that Soviet aid to Poland was for the Polish people against the " common enemy , " Germany . After his amendment had been rejected , he said he wanted the record to show that there were nine abstentions the first time the General Assembly resolution forbidding the use of food as a political weapon was considered by the Security Council . 