@@705773

txt Frank S. Hogan , administrative assistant to District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey , accepted yesterday the Democratic designation for the District Attorneyship of New York County with the " complete consent and approval " of Mr. Dewey . In agreeing to become Tammany Hall 's candidate in the Fall elections , Mr. Hogan asserted that he had made no commitments or bargains of " any kind , shape or manner " with any political parties or groups and expressed the desire to retain Mr. Dewey 's present prosecuting staff intact if elected . His acceptance , made in a press interview in his offices in the new Criminal Courts Building at u . A. M. , further complicated the local political picture , which had received a shock Friday when the Tammany executive committee named him in a surprise move , and left the Republicans and the Fusion groups temporarily at sea over their choice of a candidate for District Attorney . Fusion Backing Likely Throughout the day , Republican and Fusion leaders , most of whom were out of town for the week-end , conducted lengthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their next move . Spokesmen for these two groups declared ' at night that no action would be taken until tomorrow at least . It was learned last night from a reliable political source close to the Republican-Fusion leadership that it was not unlikely that Mr. Hogan might get the Fusion endorsement for District Attorney . This source said Mr. Hogan was one of the four assistant district attorneys recommended by Mr. Dewey to succeed him in office and keep the district attorneyship out of political control . The acceptance by Mr. Hogan of the Democratic nomination , it was said , has reduced the probability that Paul E. Lockwood , executive assistant to Mr. Dewey , and another of the assistants suggested by Mr. Dewey for the RepublicanFusion nomination , would agree to oppose Mr. Hogan , his close personal friend , even if the Fusion and Republican nomination were tendered him . Until the surprise designation of Mr. Hogan by the Democrats , Mr. Lockwood was a leading candidate for the Republican-Fusion nomination , and still remains so . But the contention that he would not accept the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day by Mr. Lockwood , who , in a press interview soon after Mr. Hogan accepted the designation , declared that he would not " campaign against Frank Hogan . " Mr , Lockwood declined to discuss any possibilities of his nomination , on the ground that he was not going to " speculate on something I have n't got " Another indication that a Fusion endorsement of Mr. Hogan was not improbable was seen when it became known that Samuel Seabury , Fusion leader , and David Dubinsky , president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , a strong factor in the right-wing of the American Labor party , were not opposed to Mr. Hogan . It was learned also that before Mr. Hogan 's designation by the Democrats , Mr. Seabury and Mr. Dubinsky had viewed him with favor . It was said that this favorable consideration had not been lessened to any degree by the Democratic designation . Pressure on Lockwood This does not mean , however , that Mr. Lockwood has been eliminated as a possible RepublicanFusion candidate . It was learned last night that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure was being exerted by the La Guardia forces to get him to accept the nomination . Mayor La Guardia , who spent ale day at his Summer home at Northport , L. I. , kept in constant touch with Mr. Seabury at the Tatter 's home in Southampton and was understood to have urged the Fusion leader to appeal to Mr. Lockwood to make the race . On Friday the Mayor called the designation of Mr. Hogan a " search of respectability " on Tammany 's part , and friends said yesterday that the Mayor - 'as still of the same opinion and viewed the move as a trick of Tammany 's to weaken his chances . While the first reaction to the Hogan designation on Friday among. - the Fusionists had been that it considerably weakened the La Guardia third-term candidacy as it virtually had the effect of destroying a strong anti-Tammany issue , many Fusion leaders seemed to feel yesterday that it merely served to center the attention of the voters on the main issues . They contended that the Republicans , under Mr. Dewey 's leadership , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorneyship of political control and that the Tammany action had merely helped them to achieve this end . The main issue , that of electing the La Guardia-Morris , ' city-wide ticket , they contended , had not been affected . With the District Attorney reI moved from political control , which 1 the Fusionists and Republicans alike believed will be the case even if Mr. Hogan is elected , they think they can center their attack more fully against the return of the municipal government to the Democratic machines . In addition , it is hoped , now that he has succeeded in assuring the continuance of his administration in the District Attorney 's office , Mr. Dewey will take an active part in the campaign to re-elect the La Guardia ticket . While the Republicans and Fusionists were attempting to solve their problems over the week-end and iron out their slates in the five I boroughs , open revolt against the designation by the Tammany executive committee of Mr. Hogan and Dr. Nathan Ratnoff , medical director of Beth Israel , as candidate for Manhattan Borough President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York County . The Affiliated Young Democrats , through their president , Harold R. Moskovit , announced during the afternoon that they were circulating opposition petitions to the two designees and planned to enter candidates against them in the September primaries . In addition , John P. Morrisey , Tammany leader in the Sixteenth Assembly Dia ' trict , also made it known that he was planning to oppose Dr. RatI noff in the primaries . Mr. Moskovit admitted that the two candidates named in the petitions  --  S. Arthur Glixton for Borough President and Charles E. for District Attorney  --  were merely " stand in " designees who would be withdrawn in favor of stronger candidates at a later date . " We are going to fight the Tammany leadership over the Ratnoff and Hogan designations , " he declared . " What sort of democratic rule is it when the Tammany county leader makes the selections and forces them down the throats of the executive committee . We have enough ability in our own ranks to select a good District Attorney wihout having to take some one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that for district attorney his organization was considering William C. Chanler , the corporation counsel ; Robert V. Santangelo , former assistant district attorney ; Bernard Botein , State insurance investigation counsel ; Lloyd Paul Striker . and John Harlen Amen , the Brooklyn investigator , who lives in New York . For Borough President , he said , Young Democrats were considering the name 's of Assemblyman Robert F. Wagner Jr. ; Robert K. Straus , Fusion Councilman from Manhattan , and Henry Epstein , State Solicitor General . Mr. Morrissey , in announcing his ir tention to oppose Dr. Ratnoff , contended the Tammany Executive Committee had failed t " give " sufficient consideration " to himself and Assemblyman Wagner for the position . Declaring that Dr. Ratnoff was " a very fine gentleman " , Mr. Morrissey held that as a doctor he was not qualified to be borough president , as the borough president needed a thorough knowledge of engineering to fill the position adequately . Mr. Morrissey is a registered engineer . Mr. Hogan , asked if he would like to campaign against Mr. Lockwood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that such a procedure would be " very tough for me and for Paul . " " There is n't anybody I have a higher regard for , " he declared . " I have known Paul for twenty years now . He is a dear friend of mine and we have hundreds of friends in common all of whom speak very highly of him . " Asked if he would retain Mr. Lockwood if he were elected , Mr. Hogan replied without hesitation that he would be " delighted to have Paul in the same capacity he has now in my office . " Questioned as to the possibility of any primary fight , Mr. Hogan said that in accepting the designation he was prepared to face any such fight , but added that he " had n't given any thought " to such a move . Mr. Lockwood parried all questions concerning his political future with the remark that " I am not going to speculate on something I have n't got . " Later , however , Mr. Lockwood told reporters that he had no intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to run against Mr. Hogan , he said : " I certainly will not campaign against Frank Hogan . As I said before , he is one of my personal intimate friends of many years standing . " During the day , it was announced by Ben Howe , chairman of the City Fusion Party , that Stanley M. Isaacs , Borough President of Manhattan , who was rejected recently by the New York County Republican executive committee for renomination because of the " Gerson incident , " would make an appeal for the City Fusion nomination at a general meeting of the party 's Manhattan organization to be held tomorrow night at the Park Central Hotel .                     