@@707067

txt President Roosevelt today vetoed the Bankhead bill to exclude government benefit payments from calculation of parity prices for ceiling purposes . It would give farmers " an unwarranted bonus at the expense of the consumers , " he said , and thus set off " an inflationary tornado . " In a strong message to the Senate explaining his veto , the President put squarely in the lap of Congress the decision whether the country is to have uncontrolled inflation . He warned that inflation would prove a disastrous boomerang to the farmers themselves . Officials in the front line of the battle against inflation were virtually unanimous in agreeing that the country has reached " the crisis . " What Congress does on farm prices will prove decisive for the whole program , in their opinion . Barkley for Sustaining Veto Senator Barkley , majority leader of the Senate , said the bill would be reconsidered in the Senate Tuesday . Although he voted for the measure , as ' did all but two of the Senators who voted on the Bankhead bill . Senator Barkley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complied with . " The President 's message puts squarely before Congress the situation affecting inflation , and the effort to curb it on all fronts , " the Senator asserted . " It seems to me the veto ought to be sustained . " The Congress of Industrial Organizations and the American Federation of Labor , which have not been getting together on many things , were quick to present a united front in support of the President 's action . In an unusual joint statement , Philip Murray , C. L 0 . president , and William Green , president of the A. F. of L. , declared that their organizations " express complete support of President Roosevelt 's veto of the Bankhead bill . " The President made it clear that the whole inflation problem depended upon whether Congress was going to adhere to its " declared policy to stabilize all wages and prices . " " If by this bill you force an increase in the cost of the basic foodstuffs . and as a result the National War Labor Board increases wages , " the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start or what those increased wages will ultimately cost the farmers and all the people of the nation . " Says Price of Bread Would Rise Mr. Roosevelt predicted that the cost of living might be forced upward as much as 5 per cent by the Bankhead bill , add more than $1,000,000,000 to the consumers ' food budget and several hundred million dollars to the cost of feeding the armed forces and supplying our Allies . The Office of Price Administration had made even higher estimates . By pointing out that bread prices might go up a cent a loaf if the bill became law , Mr. Roosevelt emphasized the breadth of its effect . Bread prices , considered vitally important because of their extensive effect on anybody 's food budget , have varied less than any of the basic cost-of-living food items , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . The price of white bread as a national average remained unchanged from at least as far back as Feb. 17 , 1942 , according to the bureau . The President also predicted that the bill would force sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of corn by 10 per cent , with a resultant effect upon the prices of hogs , livestock and milk . Approval of Method Recalled The Congressional farm group has maintained that the same issues are involved in the Bankhead bill as in the fight over the . Executive Order controlling salaries , but the President pointed out in his message that there could be no question in this case that his interpretation of the Anti-Inflation Act of last October was " novel " because the method he used for the calculation of parity " had received the previous approval of Congress . " He referred to letters received from Congressional farm leaders before he signed an amendment to the Agricultural Adjustment Act on May 26 , 1941 , in which they agreed that " for the 1941 crop the broad intention is that parity payments should , if necessary , be so curtailed as to avoid a price above parity if added to the loan and the soil conservation payments . " Parity is a term written into farm legislation which is supposed to represent a relationship between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay , for nonagricultural products similar to that which prevailed in the years 1909 to 1914 . The Bankhead bill would exclude benefit payments , including soil conservation and parity payments , from the " prices received " side of the farm price ledger for purposes of calculating parity prices for ceiling purposes . Thinks House May Sustain Senator Barkley predicted that the Senate might override the veto , but that the House , with a larger " city vote , " might sustain it . Both houses must muster a two-thirds majority to override the veto . Senator Bankhead , author of the bill in the Senate , refused to predict the outcome , but conceded that the argument that additional farm prices would force the War Labor Board to grant wage increases , which proved persuasive in the recent reconimital of the Pace bill , might prove an important factor again . The Pace bill would provide for inclusion of all farm labor costs , including members of a farmer 's household in the parity computation . The Alabaman said he did not see how his bill could add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated , since the total of soil conservation and parity payments available is only about $660,000,000 . He expressed confidence that in view of the high level of farm prices , a great part of the $212,000,000 called for by parity payments would not be paid out . " If you let prices go up to parity by approving my bill , " he said , " the consumers pay the difference . If you make up the difference between present and parity prices by making parity payments , the taxpayer pays . Somebody pays in any event . " Senator Bankhead said he could not see the equity of the recent acta dition of about $600,000,000 to the pay of civil service employes " without any one batting an eyelash " when " all of this fuss is made over giving the same amount to the farmers . " Serious Situation Pictured The message , which was unusually long for such an occasion , minced no words as to the seriousness of the situation confronting the country if Congress decides to let farm prices rise further . The President called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was " dangerous alike to our constructive farm policy and to our whole war effort , " and warned that it breaks down barriers erected to avert the disasters of inflation . After reviewing the legislative history of the bill , Mr. Roosevelt credited the sincerity of members of Congress who differed with his interpretation of the law . He only asked , he added , that they " credit me with equal sincerity . " " It is impossible to control the cost of living unless all of its vital elements are stabilized , " the President declared . He called for a Spartan wartime standard of living , saying that " the time has . come for all of us ? farmers , workers , managers and investors " ? to realize that " we can not improve our living standards in a period of total war . " After the war , he continued , 1 " our objective will be not only to restore , but to raise our standards of living . " Other Prices Involved Farmers should not forget , he added , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm income is higher than it has ever been before . For one thing , unit costs increased only one-fourth as much as unit prices in the period 1939 to 1942 . Inflation , he said , would destroy all that the farmer has gained . He recognized that farmers are encountering increasing difficulty in obtaining labor and equipment , but added that " higher prices can not , when steel is scarce , create new machinery " ; nor could labor be created by higher prices if labor is not available . The additional costs imposed by ' uncontrolled inflation , the President warned , would have to be borne by all the people , including those now in uniform . He pleaded with Congress to reject the bill , warned against quarreling " among ourselves in a vain effort to better or even hold our position at the expense of the other fellow , " and concluded that the bill in hand would , if passed , " make the winning of the war more diffi-. cult and gravely imperil our chances of winning the peace . " 