@@712033

txt State Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein started action in Supreme Court yesterday to enjoin the six trustees of Sailors Snug Harbor from charging 375 aged and disabled seamen for their maintenance at . the charitable institution 's Staten Island home . The action , filed as the result of a three-month investigation based on complaints of residents at the sailors ' retreat , was accompanied by a request for a temporary injunction to restrain the institution from expelling inmates who refused to sign a " property agreement . " Under the terms of such an agreement , the Attorney General alleged , retired seamen at the 100-acre estate would be required to surrender their savings and pensions to the institution in return for room and board at rates up to 34 a day . The motion is to be argued on May 9 , notice having been served on the trustees on Friday . The charitable corporation , with , real estate holdings " conservatively " estimated by Mr. Goldstein at $30,000,000 , was set up under the terms of a will made in 1801 by Capt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attorContinued ney , ALxeander Hamilton , Captain Randall , the son of a privateer , left the bulk of his estate and farm in the Washington Square area of Manhattan for the establishment of " an asylum " to support " aged , decrepit and worn-out sailors . " Originally it was intended to erect the home on the Randall farm . But with Manhattan real estate increasing in value , it was considered more practical to buy land on Staten Island and use the original site for the production of income . Captain Randall 's will named eight trustees : the Chancellor of New York State , the Recorder of New York City , the Mayor of the city , the president of the city Chamber of Commerce , the president and vice president of theMarine Society of the City of New , York , the senior minister of the ) Protestant Episcopal Church and the senior minister of the Presbyterian Church in the city . At present the trustees , whose headquarters are at 262 Green Street , are Mayor O'Dwyer ; Dr. Frederic S. Fleming , rector of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , minister of the First Presbyterian Church ; James G. Blaine , president of the Chamber of Commerce ; Elliott K. Service , president of the Marine Society and Charles C. Baldwin , 1 first vice president of the organization . Mr. Goldstein told reporters he understood the Mayor had not been present at the meetings at which . the property agreement plan was voted . There was no comment at the Mayor 's office yesterday . Court Test Welcomed However , Nicholas Kelley , a senior partner of the law firm of Rathbone , Perry , Kelley &; Drye , legal representatives of Sailors Snug Harbor , declared that the , trustees welcomed the opportunity to have a court review their policies and practices . Mr. Kelley said the measures taken by the trustees were " in order " and that he expected the court to uphold the property agreement plan . He added that he did not know how the Attorney General arrived at the $30,000,000 figure . " Perhaps he 'd like to buy it I for that price , " he remarked facetiously . He did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were worth at present . " The trustees believe . that their action is for the good of the Harbor , " he declared . " Tremendously increased costs have necessitated such provisions , and all unexpended funds from the property agreement are to be returned to any who leave the home . The property agreement was drawn up after a careful study of similar agreements in more than seventy homes for the aged . There have been , similar court cases in the past , where such agreements have been ' sustained . " The Attorney General asserted that a statute enacted by the State Legislature in 1806 provided that five of the trustees should constitute a quorum to transact any of the business of the charity . Mr. Goldstein said a number of decisions had been made at meetings in recent months that were not attended by the quorum of five. , He asked the court to declare that the trustees had no right to take any actions without the presence of such quorums . Mr. Goldstein said he also was seeking a complete accounting of the charity 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the trustees are required to ' submit annually to the State Leg- , islature , had been " incomplete and ' unsatisfactory . " In addition , he raised the question of the right of the organization to accumulate surplus income , which , he asserted , was $4,144 , - 288.08 as of Dec. 31 , 1947 , the date of the last report filed with thestate . The income , Mr. Goldstein said , is derived from the real estate left by Captain Randall . This twenty acres of land is bounded roughly by Fourth and Fifth Avenues and Sixth and Tenth Streets . New York University recently leased from the Harbor for 203 years most of the block bounded by Washington Square North , Eighth Street , Fifth Avenue and University Place . The rental was not disclosed . Mr. Goldstein further asked the court to direct the use of the institution 's accumulated income " to better accomplish the charitable purposes of Captain Randall . " In announcing the action against the charity yesterday morning , the ' , Attorney General declared : " I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the Harbor , showing an accumulation of surplus income and having been specifically set up for the purpose of maintaining aged sailors , was finding it necessary to seek payments from the mariners . Such fees have never been levied on inmates in the long history of the Harbor . " In discussing the property agreement , which the Harbor said had been signed already by 320 inmates , Mr. Goldstein declared that a mariner seeking " the benefits and comforts envisioned for him by Captain Randall " would have to turn over to the institution even a small war service or Social Security pension toward payment of his maintenance and that the Harbor would return to the inmate $15 a month as " an allowance . " The Attorney General added that the agreement also specified that payment for " an amount equal to the cost , as determined by the trustees in accordance with its usual accounting practice , of maintaining the mariner at the home during the total period of his residence " and another amount to cover his burial would be charged against the balance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says a mariner , except when excused by the physician at the home ; " will readily and cheerfully " perform such labor and services in and about the estate as may be required of him without claiming any remuneration . According to P. Hodges Combier , assistant attorney general in charge of the case , the Harbor began circulating copies of the agreement among the inmates several months ago . It was noted in the court complaint that this paper was accompanied by a questionnaire requiring . a complete statement of all properties and income the mariner might have , as well as the names of relatives who might be called upon to contribute to the inmate 's support . Use of Duress Charged Mr. Combier said testimony he took from some inmates showed that the men were asked to sign the agreement under threat of expulsion . " A number refused , " Mr. Combier added , " and at least one man , 79 years old , a resident of the Harbor since 1934 , who had been at sea for more than fifty years , left ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he is being paid by the United States Government for service with the Navy during World War I. " The ex-sailor was identified as William E. Sholes , now living in a furnished room at 363 Westfeld Avenue , St. George , S. I. An affidavit by Mr. Sholes was submitted with the Attorney General 's court papers . Mr. Kelley said , however , that mariners " with no income at all are received in Sailors ' Snug Harbur and get exactly the same care as those who have private income , and no one has been forced to leave th- home as a result of the property agreement . " More than fifty buildings now stand on the Staten Island grounds of Sailors Snug Harbor , including a hospital , theatre , powerhouse , dormitories and workshops . Although 375 men now live there , the home is capable of housing 1,000 , the Attorney General said .                     