@@705819

txt The outstanding points of Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's eagerly awaited interpretation of his Atlantic meeting with President Roosevelt made over the radio yesterday Al'e ' 1 . The most open appeal yet made to the United States to enter the war and halt once and for all Hitler 's " one by one " method of enslaving nations . 2 . A warning to Japan that its aggression must end , coupled with indication that an Anglo-American plan has already been drawn up for this purpose . 3 . A new message of hope for conquered Europe . 4 . An elucidation of what Anglo-American long-range partnership as pledged in the Atlantic means for the world 's future . The Role of Americans Hailed here today as one of Mr. Churchill 's greatest and most far-reaching pronouncements , the speech is also welcomed as a symbol of the Premier 's new vigor and clear-sightedness derived from the personal meeting with the President of the United States . Mr. Churchill s warning to America was no blunt telling Americans what to do , for it still clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no American , it is felt here , can fail to read between the lines that there is no longer any attempt to conceal the fact that Britain fervently wants the United States as a full ally in the desperate struggle against Naziism . The Churchill speech , the British feel , should silence the suggestion that the United States can play a more important role out of the war . Recalling how Hitler 's one-by- one method had subjugated nation after nation , he asked , " Why is Hitler striking at Russia ? It is with the declared object of turning his whole force upon British lands . " And if he could succeed . . . then is the moment when he will settle his account  --  and it is already a long one  --  with the people of the United States and generally with the Western Hemisphere . " He continued : " It needs but one final successful application to make him master of the world . I am devoutly thankful that some eyes at least are fully opened to it while time remains . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light and proportion the extreme dangers by which the American people as well as the British people are now beset . " New Warning to Japan The most significant aspect of the Premier 's warning to Japan was the manner in which he appeared to switch responsibility for ' action onto American shoulders . It is even interpreted as a suggestion that the United States has already assumed responsibility on its own initiative . Some broad deductions are felt here to be justified in view of Mr. Churchill 's obvious necessity for discretion in making a unilateral speech on a bilateral agreement . Such discretion has become doubly necessary in view of the unfortunate mishandling that there has already been from the American point of view of the publicity side of the Atlantic meeting , Certain it is that the Premier roused lively interest here by his assertion that if the United States failed in its present task of finding a peaceful settlement with Japan then " we the British shall , of course , range ourselves unhesitatingly at the side of the United States . " German Cruelties in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's revelation of frightful German cruelties to civilians . " Scores of thousands  --  literally scores of thousands ? of executions in cold blood are being perpetrated by German police troops upon Russian patriots who defend their native soil . " But what criticism there was of Mr. Churchill 's broadcast has been directed at the absence in it of fresh evidence that British and American aid to the Soviet Union is more substantial than words . But this morning 's joint AngloSoviet march into Iran shows the public that Mr. Churchill 's silence on this vital move was strategic . The fact is that Britain is desperately anxious to see the Soviets substantially helped and it was felt that although Mr. Churchill gave new assurance that no barrier must stand in the way of such aid , his repetition of the announcement , " we have arranged for a conference in Moscow " had a suspicious ring of the old " too little , too late " story . Way Found for Aid But this morning 's news of the action in Iran has given the British public new hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet stand . Britain 's leaders are being urged by most of its press to realize that Russia must have war materials first even at British expense . The press calls on the public to end its complacency and clay dreams about the Nazi-Russian campaign . Says the Daily Express : " Let us see our danger every moment in the attack on Russia just as we expect Americans to see their danger in the attack on us . " Perhaps Mr. Churchill 's significant contribution to public evaluation of the Atlantic Charter was the passage in his speech which contrasted the present declaration as regards the treatment of aggressors after the war with the Allied attitude toward the end of the World War . Britain and America , he pointed out , would disarm guilty nations but not try to ruin them economically , while Britain and America would be partners in arms to maintain peace . By Joseph G. Harrison Staff Corte.spondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , Aug. 25 ? The United States Government stood adamant today against any agreement with Japan which did not insure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western democracies , the independence of the Chinese people , and the restoration of free trade in East Asia . Fortified by the public promise of Prime Minister Winston Churchill that Britain would range itself by the United States in the event of hostilities with Japan , State Department officials recalled the recent warning of Secretary of State Cordell Hull that an American-Japanese agreement must be premised on the American note of July , 1937 . This note , which set forth the official American policy as regards the Far East , refused to recognize conquest by force and insisted upon a maintenance of the " open door " trade policy in China . In explaining the American stand , Secretary Hull reiterated that a superficial American-Japanese settlement was impossible and that any agreement must include all the fundamental Far Eastern questions . Strong Warning to Tokyo Prime Minister Churchill 's unequivocal statement that the Japanese menace to Singapore and the Philippine Islands " has got to stop " is viewed here as the strongest verbal warning yet given Tokyo . Since the Churchill radio address was devoted to an explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered as having full American indorsement and to express the position of Washington as fully as it does that of London . At the same time , the American Government is known to be equally in accord with the Prime Minister 's statement that " every efL fort will be made to secure a ' peaceful settlement . " Just how far the State Department has gotten with its attempts to arrive at the " fair and amicable settlement " with . Japan referred to by the Prime Minister is not . known . Official sources here have declared that . American-Japanese relations are hanging fire at the moment and that the real clarification will come through Japanese acts and not through negotiations here or in Tokyo . Some Improvement Seen Evidence that the Far Eastern situation had improved slightly it read into the week-end statement of Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura , the Japanese Ambassador to the United States , that he was strongly convinced that a solution for the difficulties would be found . Emerging from a conference with Secretary Hull , the Ambassador declared that it would be utter folly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very strong conviction that it will be done . but I do n't know just how , " he said . Neither the State Department nor the Japanese Embassy has revealed whether the Ambassador 's conviction arose merely from an earnest desire to prevent American-Japanese hostilities or from word that , Tokyo WAS more inclined to see the American point of view than has been true in the past . It is axiomatic , however , that some radical development in the Far East . either through an agreement between Japan and the western powers or through further Japanese aggression , can not be postponed for long . It is pointed out that Japanese trade with the United States , the British Empire , and the Netherlands Indies has almost ceased and that this fact alone would make it difficult for Japan to permit the present . situation to continue for long , Tokyo Watches Russia Officials here admit that it is as difficult today to foresee the course of Japanese militarists as it has been at any time during history , . although there is a strong belief that Tokyo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have ve reached a more decisive stage . The hope has not been abandoned here , although it is agreed to be a slim one , that a German checkmate by Russia might per- ; suade the Japanese to withdraw from the Axis , thereby creating a situation which would be psychologically niece favorable for an American-Japanese settlement . It is recognized , however , that the situation in the Far East mar be further disturbed by an American attempt to send large-scale aid to the Soviet Union by way or the Siberian port of Vladivostok . Ships for Vladivostok pass through Japanese waters and Tokyo has already shown budding hostility to the idea . Tokyo is reported worried that part of the American war male- , vial , particularly airplanes , might remain in Eastern Siberia . thereby strengthening the already for-I midable Russian forces facing Japan on the Siberian-Manchukuan border .                     