@@710730

txt The Administration has just Initiated a full-scale , , cation-wide attack on high prices through the Justice Department , matching the Republican-directed probe now under way through joint congressional investigation subcommittees . The Government probe will be conducted through United States district attorneys whom Attorney General Torn Clark has directed to launch drives in their own districts against collusive pricing agreements tending to boost living Costs . The Antitrust Division already is engaged in an high-level attack on price conspiracies among producers of the main cost of living items , and the new drive opens the way for the attack to fan out on a broad local scale . Invitation Thus anyone in the country who has evidence indicating that prices are being jacked up illegally being invited to go to his local district attorney instead of having to come all the way to Washington to present his appeal to the Antitrust Division . The Attorney General 's announcement came at the opening of a two-day conference of United States district attorneys and also , on the opening of the first joint congressional subcommittee hearing into high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vermont at Providence , R. I. Senator Flanders ' subcommittee is one of three which will make the rounds of the country to probe into prices from the consumer angle . While these hearings in themselves are expected to have little effect on prices , they are seen as a timely avenue for public expression . Ouicker Result More immediate results are considered possible , as far as prices are concerned , from consumer resistance in the form of restrained buying  --  if such restraint should become sufficiently organized and widespread . Demands for the return of Federal price control have been heard from a few consumer and labor groups , but so far the cry has not been taken up in any general appeal . The Democrats have sent up one or two trial balloons to test out public reaction . and are watching closely to see whether the growing rebellion against prices will result . in increasing receptivity to the return of price control in some form . The underlying reasons behind the recent upsurge in prices are already becoming beclouded in the issues of next year 's Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem  --  to eat less meat and eat less expensively lines up with the party viewpoint as expressed in a report prepared for the Republican-controlled joint congressional committee on the economic report . The report blamed food costs on the higher American incomes rather than on the higher demand for food abroad . Meanwhile , the Administration 's angle of attack is underlined again in the launching of another probe into the price-fixing policies of big business  --  this time the meatpacking houses . Aside from political probing and blaming , economists see food prices as carried along the wave of a tremendous world demand for grain . They are ready to agree that the fact that Americans are eating more meat today and have more money to buy better cuts of meat has its influence in the price structure . Foreign Sales But they also point to the huge foreign market abroad  --  a market which appears assured for some time to come under the Marshall plan . The direct part which demand and supply plays in relation to prices was sharply illustrated in the recent upsurge in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department , after a stock-taking survey , has just reported that there now is absolutely no hope of filling the gap between world food requirements and . available supplies this winter and next spring . The Department 's report foreshadowed severe hunger in many deficit food areas abroad during coming months . In some countries , food rations , already desperately small will have to ? bts cut even further , the Department said . A coun6y-by-country survey of food prospects has indicated that world production of wheat and rye this year will total about 7 , - 425,000.000 bushels , compared with 7.285,000,000 bushels last year , But the need will be much greater .                     