@@706163

txt Important as censorship is in wartime , there is one point where there is no case whatever for applying it . The people of a country should be told at least as much about the state of their defenses as the enemy already knows . The Administration is entirely justified in withholding the exact number of planes destroyed on the ground at Hawaii and the Philippines so long as it has reason to believe that the Japanese are in real doubt concerning the extent of the damage they did . But it can not be justified in withholding information that the Japanese are sure to possess . This means , for one thing , that the American public should now be given more information than it has concerning the original state of our defenses at Guam and Wake Islands . The vital link of Guam was captured in six days  --  an achievement which would seem impossible if Guam had had even a small number of planes on airfields properly prepared in advance . But we still do not know the full facts about Guam . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but we have not been clearly told whether the island contained a single landplane or seaplane . Could seaplanes or flying boats have been used there temporarily until the airfield was completed ? Were there any anti-aircraft guns at Guam ? About Wake Island we have been told considerably more . Here a heroic garrison of fewer than 400 Marines held off Japanese attacks by sea , air and land for fourteen days . This garrison appears to have had among its weapons twelve fighter planes and no bombers ( though the planes were apparently capable of light bombings ) . In the first attack , which came from twenty or thirty Japanese bombers , seven of the eight grounded planes were put out of action and the other damaged . But with four other planes and the help of batteries and light weapons , the garrison shot down at least a dozen Japanese planes , destroyed one cruiser , one destroyer and a submarine and damaged two other destroyers . One can only speculate upon how long Wake Island could have held out , and how much damage it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a dozen fighters it had had a dozen torpedo planes , and had been better prepared to meet the first surprise attack . We should now be told in detail what the defenses of Wake were . If the Japanese 911811y succeed in taking Luzon , the country should be told what the state of our defenses there originally was . Why , for example , were we so quickly knocked out of the air ? Did we fail to have enough planes there in the first place ? Was there lack of a proper balance between bombers and fighters ? Were the airfields insufficiently scattered , or inadequately protected by anti-aircraft guns ? Did our greatest losses come from being caught off guard in the first day of the Japanese attack ? It is only when the country kno . rs what our past shortcomings or errors were that it can make sure that they will not recur .                     