@@707257

txt BADOGLIO BLAMED Allied Radio in Algiers Tells Italians They Are Again Betrayed PEACE MOVES REPORTED King , Senators and the Vatican Said to Be Discussing Ways to Escape Allied Push By The Associated Press . LONDON , Aug. ** Allies warned Italians today that their " breathing spell " was over and that the Allied onslaught on their mainland was imminent . Italian Senators urged Marshal Badoglio yesterday to speed peace , according to a Reuter report . Catholics were said to be trying to get southern Italy placed under the Vatican , leaving the Po River valley to the Germans . An Algiers radio broadcast told Italians that Marshal Pietro Badoglio had temporized too long , that land forces soon would invade and that " you will inevitably suffer all the horrors of war  --  a war on the Italian peninsula . " ' We warn you again : our air force will strike at you from the air and soon our land forces will be fighting on the Italian mainland , " the broadcast said . The Allied offer of peace had remained unanswered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted . " Our attitude is clear , " it added . " Regimes based on violence and on slavery must be eradicated and destroyed . " TEXT OF THE BROADCAST The text of the Algiers broadcast , as recorded by The Associated Press follows : Eight days have passed and still the Badoglio government temporizes . We warn you again : Our air force will strike at you from the air and soon our land forces will be fighting on the Italian mainland . We have warned you . Italians , eight days have passed . During these eight days Italy 's destiny has been in your hands . For eight days our offer of peace has remained unanswered . Our attitude is clear . Regimes based on violence and on slavery must be eradicated and destroyed . On this point we are adamant . We insist  --  we insist on unconditional surrender of these evil forces . You have been betrayed by Mussolini . Now Pietro Badoglio is betraying you . We have bided our time awaiting your decision . We have awaited the decision of the Italian people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the move . Our forces are irresistible . We are at your gates . You will be made to feel the grim realities of war by our future operations . Italians , Mussolini 's dismissal is not enough . Badoglio goes on with the war . Two hundred thousand of your soldiers are isolated . By trickery , your soldiers are being disarmed by the Germans . Badoglio has kept from you messages addressed to you by General Eisenhower . Badoglio has done nothing for peace . Soon the Germans , in a last attempt to delay their inevitable defeat , will try to fight throughout the length and breadth of Italy . Our air strength will darken the skies over your cities . Your blood will be split in vain to keep the promises of Mussolini  --  promises that now are being kept by Badoglio . If you do not make your voices heard  --  if Badoglio does not obey your will  --  we shall bombard your ports and your industries by day and night . Our land forces will soon begin an offensive on the Italian mainland . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer all the horrors of war  --  a war on the Italian peninsula . Chiefs of the Allied Governments , our generals and the United Nations radio have repeatedly stated : " We do not want this to happen . We do not want to make war on the Italian people . " But eight days have passed and Badoglio has done nothing but continue Mussolini 's and Hitler 's war . Eight days have passed and you Italians have not imposed your will on your Government to force it to conclude peace . We have waited . We have warned you . We have no choice . More Italians in Flight By the hundreds of thousands Italian civilians were reported flee-1 ing metropolitan areas of Italy ; even before United States Flying Fortresses headed for Naples yesterday to pick up where they had left off in attacks upon its many ; military objectives . A Rome radio commentator declared in an afternoon broadcast that Marshal Badoglio would bring the war to a conclusion with honor and dignity . Civil war , with its blind and aimless fury , will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to be accomplished . A Berlin-broadcast DNB dispatch said that Dr. Augusto Rosso , Italian diplomat who has an American wife , had been appointed Secretary General of the Italian Foreign Office . The broadcast was recorded by The Associated Press . Reuter reported confirmation of the appointment by-a . Rome broadcast . ) A dispatch from Ankara , Turkey , last Dec. 1 quoted an authoritative source there as saying that Dr. Rosso 's appointment as Italian Ambassador to Turkey was canceled because of German protests . Among the grounds listed for the Nazi protests at that time were the fact that he had married an American in 1937 ? she was Mrs. F. Wilkinson Bunker of Washington  --  and that he was a long-time friend of Laurence A. Steinhardt , United States Ambassador to Turkey .                     