@@707228

txt A young American reconnaissance pilot came back with the first eyewitness account of the Allied invasion of Sicily today , describing in awed detail a sea black with ships of all sizes and a thunderous bombardment that set leaping flames far inland to protect the landing forces . " Someone was definitely catching hell down there  --  and I can give you one guess who it was , " said Second Lieut . Robert S. Bleile of Seaford , Del . Allied warships ? battleships , cruisers and destroyers  --  steamed close to shore , let loose with thundering salvos and then darted back out of range of enemy shore batteries , Lieutenant Bleile reported . By the time he went over  --  about 6:30 A. M. , Lieutenant Bleile said he could see a chain of smoke and flames extending ten miles inland . When he climbed down in fur coat and goggles from his twinmotored Lightning pursuit plane he had completed only his second operation over enemy territory and was almost breathless from excitement as he told the story of what he had seen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other pilots waiting to go out on similar missions . As he removed the cameras with which he took the first invasion pictures  --  and also one for his own personal album , Lieutenant Bleile said : " I could see a chain of smoke and flame ten miles inland . At sea I could see Allied warships shelling without interruption . Some warships dashed in close to shore , fired their salvos and then swooped out again . Boy , what a battle picture ! I never expect to see anything like it again . " I never saw so many ships in My life . I could distinguish destroyers , like cigars weaving in the cobalt water . I saw bigger ships that looked like battlewagons with wreaths of smoke rising from their turrets . They looked as if they were letting loose with everything they had . " The landing barges looked like squirming black fish . They made a big wake and they seemed to be everywhere  --  waves of their dash . ing toward Sicily in relays and others piling in upon the beaches . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sea , over the horizon there seemed to be a never-ending stream of them coming over to help the first waves . " Smoke Billows From Island He was quite a few miles from Sicily when he spied the first signs of a great battle  --  puffs of grayish-white smoke billowing up from the island . " It was 6:30 A. M. , " he continued . " The sun still was at the far end of the island , casting shadows on the beaches . But I soon began to appreciate the tremendous battle raging below as I flew over for thirty minutes . I watched a curtain of our fire searing the coast and inland . " Roaring over the coastline I found no enemy air opposition whatever . I saw what looked like two planes far below , but their attention was being given to the invading forces . " What fascinated me as I coasted along were the antics of the attacking warships . They ran toward shore , pumped shells into the land defenses and then swung away . It was a damned good show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke which he first saw some miles off shore looked as if it might have come from oil dumps but when he got close to the area he saw great white columns and said he then realized that " everything that could burn was alight . " At one time he saw a " big blob of warships . " " That 's when I took one for myself  --  a picture for my own album , " he said . " I guess that 's something that will interest the folks back home . " Both Lieutenant Bleile and Lieut . David Fletcher , American pilot , of Muskegon , Mich. , who came back a short time later , saw Montt Etna , between Messina and Catania on the east coast , belching smoke , but , said Lieutenant Fletcher , " the real blast furnace was around the landing beaches . " The pictures which both men took were developed and shortly afterward the correspondent had an opportunity to study them . They showed smoke encircling bombarded Sicily with fire spreading as flames licked the parched countryside adjoining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke screens and firing their big guns against shore batteries and defense works . The dramatic pictures showed the struggle ranging on the sandy beaches under Sicily 's rocky headlands . Mount Etna Adds to Show Landing barges were scattered along the shores while others , having stormed through a red curtain of fire from coastal batteries , could be seen turning back to sea . Groups of destroyers were shown escorting troop transports . Masses of barges were visible pounding through the sea toward the beaches , surrounded by puffs of shell bursts . The sea was churned up like a millrace . One picture Showed a pall of smoke from Mount Etna visible over the battlefield ? but nature 's caldron paled to a faint glow alongside the furnace stoked by the Allied assault weapons .                     