@@705430

txt Nearly 100,000 British soldiers were said by neutral diplomats arriving from Athens today to have disembarked with mechanized equipment in a- southern Greek port . At the same time it was learned an official denial of such disembarkations would be put out within the next 12 hours by both the British and the Greeks . These reports coincided with increased activity at Bulgarian airports , where hundreds of Nazi fighters , bombers and transport planes were wheeled out  --  ready for instant action ? as German circles serted the Balkan crisis was " reaching a critical stage . " One diplomat declared he would take oath and sign a sworn statement that his facts were correct with reference to the landing of British troops in Greece , although for ' strategic reasons the British and Greeks are anxious to keep these movements secret . Same Story Told Diplomatic mail arriving from Athens told the same story . Both sources told of five British ships daily arriving from Africa loaded with men and war mate : rials . Already , they said , British troops have moved north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Aegean port of Volos across to the island of Corfu . Diplomatic sources said mechanized equipment and armaments already were on hand for five divisions . A neutral diplomat told the As sociated Press immediately on leaving his train that he had seen the disembarkation of British troops with his own eyes . He described cheering British soldiers marching down the gangplank and off to billets . " All hotels in Southern Greece have been requisitioned , " he said , " for British staff headquarters and to house officers . " He said British equipment in Greece included a vast number of anti-aircraft guns . anti-tank guns , and many hundred tanks , both light and heavy , together with numbers of flame-throwing machines such as the Germans used last year on the Western Front . Shiploads of Monitions In addition . he added . many shiploads of munitions and other war materials already hale been landed . He said more and more ships were arriving daily at five principal mainland ports which he declined to name specifically . Few airplanes , the diplomat continued , hale been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Greek forces in Albania have been based mainly on the island of Crete . Because of the difficulty of communication between Greece and other Balkan countries , and also because rigid censorship exists in Greece , it is impossible to obtain confirmation of this diplomat 's story . The German Legation in Belgrade declined any comment . Persistent ' courts that some British land troops have disembarked in Greece lacked official confirmation ? es en from German diplomatic sources here  --  but warnings began to come from Berlin that Germany would act it such landings actually were made . These v. arnings said " no authentic confirmation " of reports of British troop movements toward Greece had been received in Berlin . They added . however , that " When British help to Greece becomes of set sous character . . . military intervention of the Reich " would follow Quickly . Reports Believed Erroneous The fact that neither Berlin nor German diplomatic quarters anywhere in the Balkans have confirmed almost daily rerrts , of British landings was interpreted by sonic neutral observers as giving good reason to believe such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German expeditionary force in Bulgaria as well as developments in Greece combined with the distortion of news for propaganda purposes to make the military situation increasingly difficult to ascertain here . British sources said that even when or if British troops actually landed in Greece , no official British or Greek confirmation was likely to be forthcoming immediately . Germans control communication lines throughout Bulgaria and have forbidden travel in zones they occupy across from the Greek frontier . 