@@709528

txt The Italian people today successfully passed their first test in the practice of democracy since the Fascist revolution of 1922 by participating with perfect discipline in ' the national referendum to decide whether their country ' shall in future be a monarchy or a republic . They also chose 560 Deputies to the Constituent Asgembly that will frame a new Italian constitution . Despite the gravity of the issues involved , which have been discussed and fought over during the past few weeks with a heat unusual even in a temperamental country like Italy , no incidents worthy of particular note were reported up to a late hour this evening . In all the principal Italian cities voting took place in complete peace and the extraordinary police precautions proved unnecessary . As expected , ' both the republican and monarchist sides continued to declare themselves sure of victory tonight . This seems to confirm forecasts that the result of the referendum will in any case be extremely close . Some persons foresee that the controversy between monarchy and republic will be settled by only a few hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20,000,000 . That monarchists and republicans are about evenly balanced is indicated also by the fact that it Momento of Rome , which supports a republic , admitted this morning that the monarchists had grown in strength most surprisingly during the past few weeks and predicted that the republicans would poll only about 60 per cent of the total vote . Despite some deficiency in arrangements , a considerable proportion of the voters had cast their ballots by the time the polls closed this evening . The polls will reopen tomorrow morning at 6 o'clock and remain open till midday , when counting of votes will begin . By that time , it is calculated that more than 70 per cent and perhaps 80 per cent of the registered voters will have performed their electoral duty . This percentage would have been considered poor in Fascist days , when it was claimed that almost the totality of Italians had awned out to vote for fascism , but it is good in a country like Italy , where many voters , especially in country districts , have great difficulty in getting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly faulty in Rome , where most polls had such difficulty in getting started that they were authorized to remain open two additional ihours tonight , closing at 10 instead of 8 as in the rest of Italy . This I was explained in part by the fact that Rome for a quarter of a century had had no experience in free elections , whereas the remainder of the country held a kind of dress rehearsal in the municipal elections earlier this year . Be that as it may , no effort was made to make the voters form into line , and they were allowed to crowd tightly round the doors of the polling stations , where scenes of unutterable confusion occurred . It was necessary to stand for an average of three hours before voting , and many persons , especially women , fainted owing to the heat and , it may be suspected , to undernourishment also . The women , who had a voice in national affairs for the first time today in Italian history , participated in the referendum and election in great numbers and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be in the majority , and it was they who appeared most eager to register their votes . The men looked listless and almost apathetic in comparison . A considerable sprinkling of priests and members of religious orders was also seen in ' the crowds waiting to vote . It is calculated that about 200,000 priests , monks and nuns were among today 's voters . In Rome , none of the Cardinals voted because they are all , except the Cardinal Vicar , citizens of Vatican City and as such excluded from participating in Italian elections . The Vicar of Rome , Cardinal Marghetti Selvaggiani , was unable to vote owing to ill health . In the provinces , most Cardinals at the head of Italian sees exercised their right to vote . King Humbert last night returned from a visit to Milan and Venice , where his presence gave rise to both friendly and hostile demonstrations , and there was considerable curiosity to see whether he would vote . He apparently thought it best not to vote , following the example of his father and grandfather , who never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , it was pointed out to him that voting is compulsory under the new electoral law , and he therefore deferred final decision till some authority on constitutional law could be consulted . It is possible he may vote tomorrow . Queen Maria Jose disregarded Humbert 's example and voted early this afternoon . She was fortunate enough to wait only half an hour , having gone at a time , when most persons were still at lunch . Humbert 's cousin , the Duke of Aosta and onetime King of Croatia , was less lucky ; he was jostled unceremoniously by the thick crowd for more than three hours . Leftist newspapers today featured reports that Humbert and his family were preparing to leave Italy in expectation that the referendum would be unfavorable to him . One serious episode of pre-electoral violence occurred at 2 o'clock this morning in Milan , where a high explosive bomb was thrown into the building where Avanti and Unita are printed . Three workmen were wounded and a dangerous fire was narrowly averted by the prompt intervention of firemen . Leftist newspapers attribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a second referendum should be held at some future unspecified date has , on the whole , been favorably received by Italian public opinion . Most persons think that Italians should have an opportunity at least to express their opinion of the new Constitution that the Constituent Assembly will frame .                     