@@711000

txt Both the State Department and the Italian Embassy here today treated with unconcern the request from Rome for clarification of the Jan. 2 announcement that the United States Navy is dispatching marine reinforcements to its Mediterranean squadron . It is appreciated in both quarters that been requests , while formal . has been forced on Rome by outbursts. in the left-wing Italian press , and that the implication in the request that the reinforcement may affect Italy is wide of the mark . The official explanation of the move is that it is a routine action to bring the strength of ships in Mediterranean waters up to the normal complement of men . Unofficially , the importance of the move lies not in that it has been , made , but in that it was announced . Quiet Reminder This sort of thing happens all ' the time both in the Navy and Army overseas establishments . Normally such transfers of men are not announced . In this case they were announced by the Navy Department three days after Undersecretary of State Robert Lovett had issued a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Greek guerrilla government would have " serious implications . " The net effect of the two moves is regarded in diplomatic . quarters as a quiet reminder to any country concerned that the United States does maintain a naval force in the Mediterranean and that it is interested " seriously " in any possible change on the southeastern European political chessboard which would upset , or threaten to upset , the established order of things in that part of the world . The Mediterranean Squadron now consists of the aircraft carrier Midway , the light cruisers Little Rock , Portsmouth and Providence and 10 destroyers . Sea-Borne Planes It will be recalled that while United States naval units have been maintained in the Mediterranean since the end of the war , the inclusion of a big aircraft carrier occurred first in the postwar period a little less than a year ago when the situation in Greece first became critical . Since that time the United States has maintained a regular squadron . Russia , of course , is particularly sensitive to seaborne air power in the eastern Mediterranean area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are within less than 500 miles of Greek-Turkish waters . The presence of such an American force in that area serves as a reminder that while the Red Army bears on Greece from the land side , western sea power also bears on southern Russia .                     