@@708728

txt " Ike 's " home town on the broad Kansas wheatlands has prepared a welcome for Gen. Dwight Di Eisenhower that wo n't approach in magnitude those accorded him in world capitals but it will warm his heart more than the acclaim of the millions , for it will be from his home folks . General Eisenhower returns to his own people June 22 and Kansas will honor him in its own way ? in purely civilian fashion . A special train will take General Eisenhower and members of his party to Abilene tomorrow evening from Kansas City where a four-hour program and great parade is scheduled for the afternoon . Relatives of the General will come from all parts of the country for the occasion . Among them will be his mother , Mrs. Ida Eisenhower . of Abilene . Eisenhower Day Governor Andrew Schoeppel of Kansas has proclaimed June 27 as Eisenhower Day and called on all citizens to observe it " in such a manner as is fitting to honor so great and illustrious a service to the cause of human freedom . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crowd of 50 , - 000 , and as one of the reception officials put it : " No matter how many presidents come from Abilene in the future , this will be the biggest day in the history of the town . " The procession , which will be actually a series of pageants depicting the growth of the city from pioneer days , and the story of General Eisenhower 's own life , will include a car carrying seven members of the Abilene High School football team of which " Ike " was a member . General Eisenhower 's last visit to his home State met with no such reception . It was shrouded in secrecy . Few . now remember that only 18 months ago the story was widely printed , and widely believed , that General Eisenhower , fresh from victory in Africa and Italy , would- come home to succeed Gen. George C. ? Marshall , who would go to , Europe to open the second front . It persisted for weeks before announcement in a historic Christmas Eve message , in 1943 , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander to attack Fortress Europe . Ten days later , General Eisenhower was home , or almost home , for a day . It was his only Kansas visit since he went to England in 1942 to head American troops preparing for the invasion of North Africa . The General flew to Manhattan , Kan. , where his mother awaited him at the home of another son , Milton Eisenhower , President of Kansas State University , and they had a quiet supper and evening together with other close members of the family . The next morning General Eisenhower flew to Washington for momentuous conferences , his Kansas visit a deep military secret . A few days later he was back in London and in less than five months he uttered his historic " Let 1 ' er ' rip , " sending the Allies into D-Day which ended in VE-day after 11 months of struggle . Abilene will lay aside everything Friday to roar a homecoming victory salute for " Ike " that will flatten the golden harvest for miles around . Rank Forgotten KANSAS CITY , June 20 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebration arranged for Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower tomorroWfrom private to top-ranking Officers who fought under him , all shall receive equal recognition . This is the way " Ike " desires it , the reception committee explained . The general and his party of 43 soldiers will arrive at the municipal airport in three planes , the first of which is scheduled to arrive at 12:30 p. in . The Army ordered the field kept clear of spectators and the public will not be permitted to see this phase of the program . WEST POINT , N. Y. , . Lune 20 ( W ) ? Wave after wave of steel-helmeted , khaki-clad cadets passed smartly in review today for General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower on the sun-drenched parade ground of the United States Military Academy . The review was a high point of the Supreme Allied Commander 's visit here and he watched with the same broad smile with which he acknowledged yesterday 's frenzied greeting by 4,000 , G00 persons in New York City . Some 700 cadets , members of the Academy 's Third Class , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straighter.or their chins held higher . The 5,000 spectators , most of a them wives and children of military personnel at the post , surged around the General when the review ended : . Kiss for an Autograph Mrs. Charles Forester , wife of a retired staff sergeant , surprised General Eisenhower by kissing him maternally as she was asking for ah autograph . Earlier , the General presented to the Academy a ceremonial sword once used by Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul of rance . He said Gen. Charles de Gaulle had given it to him in Paris . General Eisenhower was welcomed to the Academy with a 17- , gun salute and the flourishes and ruffles due a five-star general . It was 30 years ago this month that the General-to-be left the Academy , a second lieutenant who might have become quite a fullback if he had n't injured a knee in the fall of 1912 in a game against Tufts . " Ike " Remembered Old timers at the post remember " Ike " , as he was known even then , as a yellow-haired , good-natured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but managed to graduate 61st in a class of 164 . Young " Ike , " who originally intended to " go Navy , " but found himself eight months too old for Annapolis , . had more than his share of " skins " ? demerits  --  for violating regulations . Room in disorder , questionable language , sleeping at breakfast time  --  these were his principal offenses . Only yesterday , President Truman jovially " needled " the General about late sleeping . 