@@706922

txt Are President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill planning firm unified action to clear up the North African political situation ? That is the question being asked here today with new hope of an affirmative answer . Indications of a fresh approach to the critical problem 01 the leadership of the pro-Allied Frenchmen are seen here in : Settlement Seen 1 . The statement by Harold ' , Britain 's newly appointed Minister in Algiers , that a settlement is in sight which will remove many objectionable features in the present North African Administration . 2 . Confidence expressed by Brendan Bracken , Minister of Information , that a settlement is just around the corner , though basis of this confidence is not yet given . Mr. Bracken yesterday evening called together American newspapermen to assure them that Lieut . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower has the fullest backing of the British Government and that neither the United States nor Britain is attempting to back rival French candidates for leadership in North Africa . 3 . Some British correspondents in Washington have cabled today expressing confidence the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Need Urgent Just how urgent is the clarification of the French political situation in North Africa is shown as the North African pot starts to boil over , threatening serious differences between Britain and the United States . Furthermore , the " stupefaction of the French people in France " has just been vividly described here by Fernand Grenier , Communist Deputy of Paris , who was in the French Capital 10 days ago and now has escaped to London . M. Grenier declared : " To practically all France , the men of Vichy are the same as the Germans . These men have all served the Germans . They now are in the service of British and Americans  --  or should we say Americans ? " It is in an attempt to clear up this growing suggestion of fundamental differences between London and Washington on the French political tangle which is tending here to put most of blame on the United States , that Mr. Bracken yesterday saw the American correspondents . Confidence in Eisenhower He denied emphatically that the British were backing Gen. Charles de Gaulle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Vichyites . He reaffirmed that the British Government gave power of attorney to the American Command in North Africa , that Britain has a very great responsibility for the North African campaign . and that the British government maintains its confidence in General Eisenhower . Furthermore , he declared that neither Government is endeavoring to obstruct a meeting between Generals Giraud and de Gaulle . Both , he said , are doing their best to promote it . The Royalist Comte de Paris has no support Irons Britain and . though Mr. Bracken could not speak for the United States State Department , in his opinion the Pretender had no backing in Washington , either . Similarly , from North A frica , Mr. declared he " felt absolutely convinced that General Eisenhower was right in dealing with Darlan . " British Government spokesmen are thus showing that at this mo ment their paramount concern is to discount stories of sharp Anglo-American differences over North Africa . Yet it would be foolish to try to deny the strong criticism the British feel for much that has happened in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity is not intended to imply that the United States State Depart . ment and the British Foreign Office always see eye to eye on all matters . On the contrary , they are two democratic institutions attempting in a democratic way to iron out their differences in ? the interest of common policy . Damaging Propaganda Messrs . Bracken , , and others on this side of the Atlantic are making determined efforts to counter some high-powered stories about Anglo-American differences which have been appearing . Their task is specially important in view of the extent to which the Axis is making damaging propaganda from the situation . American reports of a widespread demand in Britain for the ceplacement of General Eisenhower can certainly be described as grossly exaggerated . British opinion on General Eisenhower can best be described as uncrystallized or open . Some periodicals with small circulations have suggested his replacement , but the bulk of the newspapers and public opinion generally have voiced no such suggestion . The British people , however , are certainly seriously concerned over both the political and military developments in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blanket of secrecy over the proceedings . Developments Awaited The British Government has had a hard job to keep Parliament quiet over North Africa . The British are by no means convinced yet that General Eisenhower is to blame . Eagerly.awaited , therefore , are developments in North Africa itself as well as the reopening of Parliament , when questions can be put to the Government , The British people are not enthusiastic about statements that " it is justifiable to negotiate with the devil if you can gain an advantage and save lives . " Such a policy is felt to he even less attractive to the Russians and the peoples of conquered Europe . Most people here recognize that short cuts are unlikely in the tough and costly task ahead . In general , British opinion has no confidence in half measures to win the war . Meanwhile , the British derive some contort from such passages in Mr. 's speech declaring that in North Africa the " attitude toward . Jews must be changed because the present attitude will never be acceptable to the British and Arne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the profesed ideals of the United Nations than much that has come out of Africa lately .                     