@@706238

txt Rationing of gasoline in the East moved a long step nearer yesterday when the oil industry was officially directed to turn over additional transportation facilities to carrying heavy fuel oil . Such a demand was made at Washington by Ralph Davies . deputy petroleum coordinator A shortage of heavy fuel oil , vital to industrial operations . has been the most pressing petroleum problem along the Atlantic seaboard . Rationing of this product has been predicted . There has been , on the other hand , a plentiful supply of gasoline . Mr. Davies request would increase the supply of fuel oil at the expense of gasoline stocks . Such a move would put the shoe on the other foot , so to speak , and probably bring about a rationing of gasoline . Industrial Use Large Heavy fuel oil is consumed in substantial quantities by war industries , railroads and ships . It is used by factorifs to heat boilers and to some extent for annealing and hardening metals . It is also used by some large office buildings and apartment houses , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million barrels of heavy fuel nil were used in the East . This equals 70 , : , of the total gasoline consumed in the same area . These two items and light fuel oil make up the principal products of the oil industry . Fear Proposal VCo n't Kork Some people in this industry feel that Mr. Davies ' proposal wo n't work . They say that specially heated tankers are needed to haul this heavy oil which freezes easily and that all such tankers are already in use . Present inventories of gasoline on the Atlantic seaboard are about at the level of a year ago . In recent weeks deliveries have been slowed by the diversion of tankers to other areas . as well as by submarine sankings . The East Coast accounts for approximately 40 , , of the country 's gasoline consumption . Because of its urgent need by war industry plants , heavy fuel oil may have to be rationed . Supplies of heavy fuel oil in strategic areas , such as the east coast for example . are small and . in trade parlance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this highly industrialized area some users may be forced to convert to other fuels . Transportation difficulties have been the chief problem in heavy fuel oil . Supplies of thi , oil are adequate , both in the United States and South America , to meet all demands Submarine hazards , together with the diversion of many tankers to the Pacific coast , and plowingup of remaining vessels , however , are curtailing deliveries to heavy consuming areas Some Washington officials who have been giving consideration to the supply question are reluctant to discuss " rationing " because of repercussions from last summer 's East Coast gasoline " shortage - The Price Question They are thinking in terms of price , too . as an incentive to assure supplies , although only a few weeks ago the 0 P A. rejected an application of East Coast companies , to lift quotations on this grade . Since then submarine sinkings and diversions of tankers have changed the picture . An increase is being considered to stimulate production domestically and to encourage movements by railroad tank car At no time in its history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of fuel oil . This oil has always been considered a residual product , corollary to the manufacture of gasoline . Because of this economy in the Industry it has been necessary to import sizable quantities to meet rapidly increasing demands During 1941 the domestic demand for this particular grade of heavy fuel oil approximated 380 million barrels Production In the United States amounted to only 343 million barrels while imports , largely from Venezuela . added another 34 million barrels The remainder was made up from stocks or was direct crude oil suitable for fuel oil purposes For the-industry to revamp its refineries materially to step up the output of fuel oil of necessit ? . would Cause serious repercussions in other refined products , especially gasoline This is evident when it is considered that it takes about four barrels of crude oil to make one barrel of heavy fuel oil Simultaneously two barrels of gasoline are produced . A sharp stepping up on production of fuel oil would , in turn . build tip unwieldy gasoline stocks which could exert pressure on prices for this major product of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be avoided by reducing the yield of gasoline . nr by using only heavy , or suitable . grades of crude oil for processing into fuel nil Industries Rig Lsers Of the total domestic consumption of heavy fuel oil east of California about 21 , , is used by industries other than railroads and gas and electric power plants 19 , , by ships 15 , , - by railroads 15 ' , for heating the oil industry . itself , uses shout 15 ' , and gas and electric power plants about 11 , , the remainder is for miscellaneous purposes , including the Army . Nays and Coast Guard . It is estimated that about halt of the amount used for heating , the larger portion of the amount used in the oil industry . much of the 19 , , used by ships and the greater part of that used by the railroads , or about 50 , ; , , of the total is inflexible , and could not he converted to other fuels This leaves a substantial part which might he considered flexible , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some other industries The " tightness- of the inventory position on the east coast currently is evidenced by the fact that stocks on January 24 approximated 9.8 million barrels against 9 8 million barrels a year ago . this . in the face of an increased demand and ti ansportation problems Moreover . the total includes oil in transit and also some " sludge " in tank bottoms which would not be available Of the light ... r fuel oils  --  gas oil and distillate  --  used la.rgely for heating purposes and by industry stocks on the eastern seaboard are considered adequate , but not comfortable . Demand for this grade tuncevei , will decline fairly sharply in two months when temperatures rise Current storks are about the same as a year ago , although drains on this grade in the first three weeks of January , incident to low temperature weather were at a record in that month  --  about 5 million barrels . It is not entirely immune from rationing . 