@@706516

txt CHICAGO BEGINS TREASURE HUNT FOR OLD RUBBER At 12:01 o'clock this morning Chicago and the rest of the nation began the biggest treasure hunt In American history -- a search for rubber to erase the axis nations . For 1G days ending at midnight June 30 , more than 130 million Americans will search thru closets , attics , basements , storerooms , and refuse heaps , looking for anything made of rubber which no longer is useful or necessary . ( For details of the role Illinois women will play in the rabbcr scrap drive , turn to ** in War Work on page 17 . The campaign was proclaimed by President Roosevelt last Friday . In it lies the hope of tile country 's 23 million motorists , the gasoline industry , and the rubber manufacturers . The success of the collection campaign probably will determine whether gasoline rationing as a rubber saving measure is clamped down on midwestern and western states plentifully supplied with oil and gasoline . Flint of Gasoline Rationing . Government officials first had hinted of possible universal gasoline rationing by July 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scrap drive will be apparent by July 1 . Rubber industry officials have said that if the drive brings in a million or more tons of rubber , enough reclaimed rubber will be available to permit the Office of Price Administration to allow larger allotments for retreading and recapping of civilian tires . The rubber industry now has reclaiming equipment which can process 350,000 tons a year if operated 24 hours daily . A million tons would keep these plants busy for three years . Pay 1 Cent a Pound . Collection of the rubber scrap will be handled by 400,000 gasoline filling stations , which will act as agents of the Rubber Recovery corporation , a new unit of the Reconstruction Finance corporation . The stations will pay 1 cent a pound for old rubber , or $22.40 a long toh of 2,240 pounds . The RRC will pay $25 a long ton . Any profit , it was said , will be contributed to war relief and service agencies . The rubber scrap drive in Illinois will be directed by Nathaniel Levcrone , state salvage director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Old ice bags , rubber combs , stretched out girdles , plumbers ' suction cups , leaky garden hose , tires off the rusting baby carriage , worn rubber cushions , broken rubber bands , pencil erasers , old golf balls , baby nipples , facings on table tennis rackets , tennis balls , shoes , baby pants , crib pads , teething rings and pactfiers , rubber fly swatters , galoshes , rubber shoes , work gloves , dish scrapers , faucet sprays , jar rings , bath mats , balls and toys , rubber bathing suits that are too revealing or wo n't stretch , and what have you ?                     