@@711590

txt Federal Judge Luther M. Swygert held the International Typographical Union , AFL , and its four top officials in contempt of court today for insisting on maintaining closedshop conditions in contracts with newspaper publishers despite an injunction banning such practices issued by the court on March 27 . In a twenty-seven-page opinion handed down here , Judge Swygert ruled that " despite the respondents ' . ( the ITU and four officials ) protestations of good-faith efforts to comply with the decree , a consideration of all the evidence convinces the court that the respondents have deliberately attempted since the issuance of the injunction to accomplish the objective against which the injunction was directed , namely , the continuance lof closed-shop conditions in the newspaper industry . " The court did not penalize the union or officers , but ordered that they make a , sworn statement within five days to the Government " showing in detail the steps taken by them to comply with the decree . " They also were directed to appear in person before the court within ten days " and , show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have complied " with the order . Robert N. Denham , General Counsel of the National . Labor Re- I lations Board , asked for the con- I tempt citation , charging that the union had continued to insist on a closed shop , had discriminated against non-union men in hiring and had supported strikes against newspapers in violation of the inIjunction . The judge 's decree ordered the ITU and the four officials , Woodruff ' Randolph , president ; Larry Taylor , and Elmer Brown , vice presidents , and Don Hurd , secreltary-treasurer , " to purge themselves of their contempt of the court " . by taking the following action : Cease instructing the ITU to give effect to contract clauses which would cause or attempt to cause employers to discriminate against non-union ' employes by requiring them to pass tests of competency not required of union members , or " in any manner vesting in the ITU , its subordinate local unions , or its members control over the selection and advancement of apprentices , including the absence of a procedure to break tie votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cease and desist from instructing local unions to demand adherence to a " form contract " of the ITU , which causes or attempts to cause employers to ' discriminate against the hiring of non-union employes . Cease supporting strikes of locals in furtherance of demands enjoined by the court 's March 27 injunction . Notify all locals by bulletin and through the ITU Journal that the union and officers have been held in contempt , and " that they have withdrawn the unlawful clauses and provisions of the ITU form contract " and , hereafter , " will not approve any contract entered into containing such clauses or provisions . " The court also ruled , as the NLRB General Counsel had asked , that the Government be reimbursed " for all costs of this litigation . " ITU Upheld on Foremen Issue Judge Swygert ruled with the union and against the Government 's argument that the requirement in the ITU 's " form contract " that foremen be union members " is a part of the general device in their hiring as between union and non-union applicants for employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ITU 's laws " bind all union members to use all honorable means to procure employment for members in preference to all others " union foremen would be . prone to give preference in hiring to ITU members . The court noted that ITU officers had stated that union foremen were exempt from this clause in the ITU laws , and that these statements were formally approved by the union 's recent convention in Milwaukee . " While it may be that union foremen , " the court added , " have strong prejudices against nonunion printers , it can not be assumed that such prejudices would result invariably in discriminatory practices . Furthermore , the fact should not be overlooked that the foreman is selected by the employer , and is the latter 's subordinate . " Judge Swygert held as unwarranted the Government 's argument that clauses covering competency of nonunion job applicants and apprentices in a contract between New York publishers and ITU Local 6 , which are determined by a third party , namely , disinterested examiners designated by the New York City Board of Education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apprentices of New York , were legal on their face , but " in fact discriminatory if given the interpretation given it by Respondent Randolph in his testimony . " In effect , the Court held the terms of the New York agreement to be legal on its face " since it has not been shown by clear and con , vincing evidence that the New York City publishers ' contract is I in violation of any terms of the decree . " The Court said that it referred to the New York agreement only " to determine the present legal status of the Chicago situation , " where the Typographical Union Local 16 , which has been on strike against Chicago 's five daily newspapers since Nov. 24 , had offered on Aug. 23 clauses of the New York agreement to be incorporated into a Chicago agreement . Since there is no proof that the Judge Luther AL Serygert Assoc ... tea Press New York contract is illegal , Judge Swygert ruled , " the Court can not conclude that the conduct of the respondent ITU in relation ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in violation of the decree . " " Of course , " the Court added , " such a determination is not to be considered a conclusion that the respondents ' conduct in relation to the Chicago negotiations before Aug .. 23 was not in violation of the decree . Nor does it affect the question of whether the New York City publishers ' contract was drafted in an unique situation not approximated or possible in Chicago . " There is no printers ' school run by the Chicago Board of Education .                     