@@708428

txt The Dominion of Canada , traditionally a stronghold of economic and political conservatism , faces the chaotic possibility of government by blocs , none commanding the voting support to elect a Parliamentary majority . That is the situation as Canada moves toward her first national election since 1940 . Life of the present Parliament expires April 17 . Some time before that date W. L. Mackenzie King , Prime Minister of the Dominion for 18 of the past 25 years , will set a date for a new national election . Even though he postpones the voting for as long as he dares  --  and there are indications that he may follow this strategy to allow war developments and time to dull voters ' tempers  --  Canadians expect to go to the polls some time in June or early July . If the election were to be held tomorrow there appears no doubt but that three major parties and an independent Quebec nationalist party would contend for seats in the new Parliament  --  and , quite possibly , split them to such an extent that no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada 's Party System The most certain thing in the Canadian political picture today is that both old-line parties , the Liberals , now in power by virture of Mackenzie King 's sweeping victory in 1940 , and the Progressive Conservatives are badly frayed . The . Conservatives are traditionally the party of British imperialism and have been in power only twice since the turn of the century . Privately , this party 's spokesmen concede that it has n't a chance to do more than remain the " biggest minority " in Canada 's Federal Parliament . Historically , the Liberals have been able to hold power by making themselves acceptable to the low-tariff western prairie provinces and French-speaking Quebec 's big and solid Parliamentary delegation . Now , Mackenzie King and his Liberals are in bad with both segments of their voting support . The trouble is the question of conscripting Canadians for overseas military service . Prime Minister King 's compromise ? limited conscription ? antagonized the French-speaking Quebecois because they regard any conscription as a betrayal of a promiie . The rest of Canada is bitter because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quebec ' and did n't go whole hog for a draft . Main beneficiary of this Dominion-wide dissatisfaction is a fast-growing and frankly Socialist party , . the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation , that same C.C.F. which had been giving the shudders to the Do-. minion 's businessmen and bankers . Quebec 's Attitude ? Adding to the pre-election confusion is the fact that ' cohesive Quebec , most important single factor in Canadian politics , may decide to boycott all three national parties and return to Parliament a nationalist ( raciql ) bloc which would take no real governmental responsibility but be content to trade its votes for special legislative favors to the French-speaking population . Canadian political leaders ' catite frankly uo n't know what will come ? of these economic and ' racial cross currents . They are generally agreed that an election held today , with war-weariness and the emotionalism of the conscription issue dominant , would most likely result in the ' collapse of Canida 's traditional two-party system of government A private . survey by - The Wall Street Journal of more than 100 influential Canadians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an average forecast that an immediate election Would result in no one party gaining a clear majority . The present Parliament contains 177 Liberal followers of Mackenzie King out of a House composed of 245 members . The Pro . gressive Conservatives hold 39 seats ; the C.C.F. , 12 ; Social Credit , 10 ; and seven inoependents . Guesses on the new Parliamentary party line-up work out roughly like this : Liberals ( without Quebec ) 65 to 75 ; Cooperative Commonwealth Federation 60 to 70 ; Conservatives 35 to 45 ; Social Credit 10 . This leaves the answer up to Quebec . If this rampant , province decides to forgive Mackenzie King and return to the Liberal fold . the present Prime Minister stands a good chance of forming a government with a working majority . If not , Canada is committed to the bloc system , with unknowable consequences . C.C.F. - Stands to Gain Most Biggest poteneal gainer from new national electicins would be the C.C.F. Both its friends and foes agree on that . Few think it can win a majority in Parliament . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large body of Canadians appears unafraid of socialiSm and , in fact , is ready to try that brand promised by the C.C.F. The Federation came into being in 1932 at the depth of the depression and owed Its original support to the low ebb of economic conditions in the agricultural west , as well as widespread industrial unemployment . To a considerable degree its voting support has continued to be based in the grain-growing west . but it has been attracting increasing support from the labor unions . However , its leadership is determined not tio allow the party to become a trade union organization . as is the British Labor Party . C.C.F. leaders describe it as a democratic socialist party , committed to realizing an ever-widening measure of state and cooperative control of economic life by constitutional ( nonrevolutionary ) methods . The party platform calls for socialization of what it considers key industries and enterprises  --  banking , transportation , electric power and " large monopolies . " In its election manifesto adopted several months ago the C.C.F. included a paragraph designed to reassure private enterprise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very little or a great deal . This stated : " The socialization of large-scale enterprise , however , does not mean taking over every , private business . Where private business shows no sign of becoming a monopoly , operates efficiently under decent working conditions , and does not operate to the detriment of the Canadian people , it will be given every opportunity to function , to earn a fair rate of return and to make its contribution to the nation 's wealth . Rise of the C.C.F. The importance and challenge of the C.C.F. were emphasized at the polls in Ontario in the summer of 1943 when the party won nearly half the seats in the legislature of ' that province , and in Saskatchewan last year , where the C.C.F. came close to a clean sweep and Is now the government . These are highlights of an upsurge in strength which has been in the making for more than a decade . In the legislatures of British Columbia and Manitoba the C.C.F. is a sizable minority . The only section of the West where the C.C.FJ has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Social Credit group got in earlier . In conservative-minded Quebec , the party appears to have little chance with the possible exception of a few industrial districts . Political observers see little chance for important gains by the Federation In the Maritime provinces . other than in the coal mining area of Cape Breton in Nova Scotia .                     