@@711897

txt Seventy per cent of this city 's I daily supply of packaged bread and cake will be cut off beginning tomorrow if 200 bakery drivers strike against one large baking company and 1,300 others are simultaneously locked out by five other companies as threatened . At City Hall yesterday Joseph O'Grady , director of the Labor Rslations Division , declared that negotiations between Local 550 of the International Brotherhood of r Teamsters , AFL , and the New York Bakery Employers Labor Council had collapsed . No further ( meetings have been scheduled for the week-end , although Mr. O'Grady said , after the two-hour conference with union and management representatives , that he would be available to both sides . Also affected will be 4,500 production men , members of Local 50 of the Bakery and Confectionary Workers International Union , AFL . The baking companies involved in tise dispute ? the " Big Six " ? inelude Continental , Ward , General , Drake , Grennan , and Purity . 10,000,000 Loaves a Day If the combination strike and lockout goes into effect at 12:01 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced to seek out small independent bakers ; for their bread supplies . Retail shelves will be comparatively bare . ' The daily production of the six large baking concerns is about 10 000 000 loaves of bread . In City Hall it was pointed out that the strike would curtail the bread supply for 80,000 school lunches each day in the metropolitan high schools ' and vocational institutions . Louis Cook , a member of the School Lunch Program Committee of the Board of Education , made arrangements with independent baking companies to ease the expected shortage . Lunches in elementary schools will not be affected since the bread used for them is produced in the city bakery on . Bikers Island . Friday the teamsters sent a 48-hour strike notice to the Continental Baking Company , which employs 200 drivers and 500 production workers . Although wage negotiations had been going on with all six of the companies , Continental was singled out for the walkout because , according to a union spokesman , it had been " leading the resistance by employers to union demands . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that after receiving the strike notice the employer group sent this telegram yesterday morning to the union : " In view of your actions in thi ? regard , and the confusion and uncertainty in connection therewith , please be advised that in the event Continental Baking Company or any of the other companies which are members of the council holding Local 550 contracts are struck by your union , such other member companies will cease operations . " The message was signed by C. Clifford Jessop , secretary of the employer council . After negotiations broke down yesterday , Mr. Jessop said : " The council feels that the union has taken an unreasonable position . What we have offered gives them one of the best contracts in the country in this industry . Generally the driver-salesmen average over $100 a week . " Union demands include a $65 weekly wage guarantee for driv-1 ers now receiving $55 , welfare arid pension plans , and improved vaca- , tions . Mr. Jessop added that the six companies had sent out telegrams to their employes instructing them not to report for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York owned by the six companies . Most of the inside production workers customarily begin their week on a Sunday to bake Monday 's bread . This move brought warning of reprisals in the form of court action by the union . Herman E. Cooper , counsel for both Local 550 and Local 50 , said that the men not directly involved in the strike against Continental had been told to appear at the plants as usual . " We are not striking against any of the other companies , " he asserted . He declared that " if any of these people are locked out " the unions will sue in either the New York Supreme Court or , if he decides the case comes under the TaftHartley law , in Federal court . In addition , he said , the unions will file unfair labor complaints with the National Labor Relations Board against the companies that close their doors tomorrow . At , the conferences yesterday ? the union and the employer groups did not meet jointly  --  the union did not modify its wage demands , Mr. O'Grady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiators indicated that they would take a proposal for a $7.50 weekly increase back to the Continental employes . Previously the union rejected an offer of a $3 weekly wage increase from the employers because , according to Mr. Cooper , " there were strings attached . " Late yesterday afternoon Local 550 officials met with shop Stewards to discuss the strike plans of the Continental men . Mr. Clark said that picketing would be confined to the Continental plant . Tomorrow afternoon a general membership meeting of Local 550 will be held in Manhattan Center , at which time , Mr. Clark said , the members will be apprised of the entire strike and lockout situation .                     