@@712566

txt Some interesting ideas , including tapping the Hudson , were advanced at Governor Dewey 's conference yesterday on the water emergency , but New Yorkers might as well face the fact that water-saving rather than water-finding is the only immediate salvation . No divining rod is equal to this situation , and any rabbits that are pulled out of the hat are bound to be small rabbits . We welcome help ; but officials would be doing the people of the city a disservice if they distracted their attention from what is still desperately and most needed . That is , unflagging and conscientious attention to every avenue for saving water , every day . It is natural to try to find a whipping boy when a crisis like this develops , and it is easy to be wise after the event . We can look back to last summer 's drought and deplore the fact that city officials did not at once clamp down restrictive measures , based on an assumption that rainfall would continue scanty . We wish they had . At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support they would have had for drastic measures then , when empty reservoirs were so far away on the calendar and nature 's bounty was still a plausible hope for the not too distant future . We have a feeling that most people would have said the city was crying wolf too soon . For even now , after city officials have for several weeks been making the most frantic appeals , with reservoir supply hovering just above onethird of capacity , the public 's response in water economy is only moderately satisfactory . We should judge that the city 's official laxity lies in failing to curb the industrial and business waste of water , in such uses especially as air-conditioning , rather than in any failure to press for completion of new resources . Work on the Delaware project began in 1937 , but came to an almost complete stop during the war . Work was resumed in March , 1946 . It is done under contract , and on vital parts goes on twenty-four hours a day . On shafts and tunnels , where that is possible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is no question of waiting for funds . The water supply is self-sustaining financially , and does not have to take its turn in the capital budget . In a city whose appetite for water runs to more than a billion gallons a day no shortcut is going to help much in the next few months . But we believe , with freezing weather imminent that would delay the benefit of such precipitation as did arrive , the people of this city are ready to accept drastic conservation measures to be laid down by official edict . These will , we know , put men out of work , lay a hardship on certain lines of business , and put all of us to some measure of inconvenience . Voluntary savings and the mild prohibitions thus far do not suffice . It is time for the city to give some orders where they will do the most good .                     