@@709301

txt This is home sweet home week in Congress . The Patman housing bill , embodying provisions considered vital to the success of the veterans ' emergency program is under debate in the House . Two key amendments to that itieattife. - Provide. 0 ) . bor establighment of-price Ceilings on existing housing , and ( 2 ) for $600,000 , - 000 in premium payments by the Government to the housing industry to stimulate production of essential building materials . Wilson Wyatt , Housing Administrator , has warned that without the authority contained in these provisions he can not fulfill his promise for 2,700,00 homes by Dec. 31 , 1947 . Fight Over Ceilings Comparatively little . argument is expected over the request for subsidy funds . But the amendment which is expected to touch off plenty of fireworks is that providing for extension of price ceilings to cover existing housing . The bill now provides for price ' ceilings on new homes and originally included existing homes , as well . Bitter and determined opposition in committee to any ' price control over present housing resulted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to precipitate another spirited controversy , with Representative Jesse Wolcott of Michigan , ranking Republican member of the House Banking and Currency Committee , leading the opposition . National Code Sought Under the proposed legislation , a price ceiling would be placed on existing homes after the first sale . In other words , there Would be no ceiling on the first sale , but that sale would establish the . ceiling price for the next sale , thus pre-'venting the purchase and sale of present construction for purpose of speculation . Meanwhile , as Congress battles it out on the legislative front , the Commerce Department is mobilizing its forces to blast a straight path through the present nationwide maze of conflicting and antiquated building codes . Such a path . is essential , ft has been pointed out , if the homes-for-veterans program is to move along with speed , as it must in order to meet the growing emergency . Restrictive codes and practices not only have slowed down home building in the past , but have added considerably to the cost of construction . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thUs prevent the use of new methods and new materials which have been developed in the meantime . A recent survey of about 50 per cent of the communities where codes exist show that 48 per cent of the . building codes in question have Rot been completely overhauled for 20 years or longer . Indeed . fewer than 40 per cent have undergone a thorough revision , according to a survey referred to in the trade publication Building Supply News . Chicago Press Active Chicago newspapers , in the wake of a 12-month survey of the city 's building code by the Chicago Association of Commerce , are demanding liberalized regulations that will set up performance standards for the use of materials instead of specifying a particular material for a particular purpose , or sometimes listing one of several alternatives . In all , there are some 2.000 , varying state and city building codes throughout the nation . It will be the Government 's purpose , through the Commerce Department , to streamline these in a simplified national building code which may be adapted to the varying needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts , it is planned to " work out a code pattern than can be used all over the country , with local variations for climatic and other factors  --  and one that will combine building safety with the use of new materials , time-saving methods , and a minimum of waste , " according to Undersecretary of Commerce Alfred Schindler . Bureau Ready to Act Another Government agency which is standing by for action in the housing program is the Civilian Production Administration which is planning for a large increase in personnel to cope with Ale many problems of reconversion which must , be solved to smooth the way for building of those contemplated 2,700,000 home-sweet-homes . Some 1,000 additional persons will be added to the staff of the CPA for this purpose . Most of these will be field workers cooperating with regional housing men working for Mr. Wyatt . Others , will help in the handling of problems connected with the increasing productic ? of steel . lumber , construction material , and textiles . Thus the great mobilization is under way , with action already begun on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive with all fronts operating in unison imminent .                     