@@706684

txt The refusal of an effective majority of the New York Stare Democratic Convention last week to forsake its pledge to nominate Attorney General John J. Bennett for Governor , and select instead Senator James A. Mead or some other candidate acceptable to the President , was a declaration of political independence as well as a tribute to the character of Mr. Bennett 's sponsor , James A. Farley . Except for the national convention delegates of 1932 who attempted to prevent Mr. Farley from accomplishing the first Presidential nomination of Mr. Roosevelt , and the Democratic primary voters who declined to purge certain Senators whom the President sought to defeat in 1938 , the party has bowed to Mr. Roosevelt 's will , even to his whim , for nearly ten years . In deference to that will Governor Herbert H. Lehman once , and perhaps twice , abandoned his desire to quit Albany and sought re-election , narrowly escaping defeat on the most recent occasion . In deference to that will Paul V. took down his name from a National Convention  --  that of 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential nominee and urged acceptance of Mr. Roosevelt 's thoroughly unpopular choice , Henry A. Wallace . Without protest a Democratic majority in Congress , which once broke all legislative records to pass in one day a resolution to permit Joseph P. Kennedy to qualify as chairman of the Maritime Commission , allows Mr. Kennedy to remain inactive on a White House blacklist at a time when his services could be valuably used to strengthen vital areas of the war administration . The Chicago " Draft " Time and again , during the ten years , the Congressional majority or a party organization has subordinated its will to that of the President on matters traditionally within its province , even to the point of subservience . Though there were many delegates at the Chicago Convention of 1940 who knew that their third term " draft " was only a piece of political stage management , and who believed that the ticket of Cordell Hull and Mr. Farley could carry the election of that year , they went through with the performance with little public protest . But there was one man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " prevented the third-term nomination from being made by acclamation  --  despite a doctored record which asserts that it was ? and made a public protest according to the strong list of his conscience . That man is Mr. Farley , then and for eight years previously the National and New York State Chairman of the party , who declined to manage the third-term campaign because he opposed three consecutive terms in the White House as a matter of principle . The rift between the President and him , which had come some time before , entered the open record at this point , to be most importantly registered in the proceedings of the State Democratic Convention last week in Brooklyn . Mr. Farley in the campaign of 1940 had confined his protest to his act of resignation . He informed all who inquired that he would , as always , support the party ticket . His intention was to concentrate his efforts on the New York State candidates of the party . But on the verge of election day he yielded to a request from the President , whose re-election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a public appearance with Mr. Roosevelt and specifically endorsed his candidature for the Presidency . Enters the Silences Like the pre-election speech of Ambassador Kennedy , urging the President 's choice for a third term , this act by Mr. Farley was conceded to have had much influence with disaffected Democratic voters . Nevertheless , after Mr. Farley had stretched his conscience to do what he did in October , 1940 , he eIJtered the silences , so far as the Ihrhitc House is concerned , and , despite his acknowledged administrative abilities , was passed over for war jobs he could admirably have filled ? notably the directorship of civilian defense . He kept a level temper and a friendly tongue for the President despite these provocations to bitterness , the most aggravating of which was in connection with Mr. Farley 's own aspirations for the 1940 Presidential or Vice Presidential nomination . This concerned the vote of the Massachusetts delegation at the convention . In the Spring of 1940 , when the President 's silence concerning his intentions had induced many Democrats to believe he would not seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's permission to enter him in the State Presidential preference primaries . He sought out Mr. Roosevelt to determine whether this was agreeable . The President said it was . Mr. Farley remarked that , once his name went before the convention , it would not be taken down without a record vote . The President still expressed no opposition to the plans of Mr. Farley 's friends . Manoeuvv at Chicago But , after the Massachusetts delegation had come to Chicago instructed for the national chairman , the President 's spokesmen on the ground , Harry Hopkins , Majority Leader John McCormack of the House , and Senator James E. Byrnes  --  now an Associate Supreme Court Justice  --  sought to break its pledges to Mr. Farley so that the third-term nomination could be made by acclamation , thus carrying out the semblance of a " draft . " The National Chairman would not release them , and most of them stood firm for Mr. Farley 's candidature through the first and only ballot , agreeing to make the nomination unanimous , but not by acclamation . This experience would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went genially about his business . When he decided to support Mr. Bennett for Governor in New York this year , Ihe proceeded to pledge a majority of the county leaders in support of the Attorney General without any suggestion of disapproval from the White House . This done , he visited the President to learn his views as leader of the party in the nation and the State . The President expressed no preference over Mr. Bennett , and the State Chairman returned to complete the nomination . The Call on Mead It was then , under the urging of those New Deal advisers who were the authors of the Supreme Court enlargement bill of 1937 and the purge of 1938 , that the President moved to defeat Mr. Bennett . On the argument that the Commander in Chief of the country in war must be obeyed in all things , even in the details of domestic provincial politics , Governor Lehman , Senator Robert F. Wagner and others engineered what was a real draft of Senator Mead and declared that the President 's preference , however belated and however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patriotism for the county leaders and the majority of delegates to forsake their pledges to vote for the nomination of Mr. Bennett . Mr. Farley resisted , as he always has resisted any attempt at a breach of faith . He resisted also as a matter of self-defense , because a plain objective of the President 's pressure for Mr. Mead was to eliminate Mr. Farley from the high councils of the party in New York . He resisted for the further reason that he does not think a party should be the creature of one man in every particular . His extraordinary triumph was on all three points , but especially it was a tribute to his character .                     