@@710933

txt ATHENS , Dec. ** Q. American , who has put up the money , may be wondering why , ' with all the expenditure in Greece , a mere twenty thousand guerrillas have not been cleaned up and the country put back on its feet ; why , on the contrary , guerrilla warfare keeps expanding , and why , as winter approaches , there are urgent cries for more money . The most acute problem of the moment is the steady rise in prices ? 30 to 50 per cent in the past six months  --  and the wild clamor for gold which it has precipitated . Because , for reasons peculiar to Greece , Greeks think of prices in terms of gold sovereigns , they believe that increase in the number of gold sovereigns , sold by the Bank of Greece , would bring prices down . Paregoric is nad for the baby , but when it hollers too loud the nurse may weaken and give it some , and the American mission with State Department approval is now believed to have worked out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gold pains . Basic Reforms A more realistic solution is on the way in tile form of a substantial influx of imports this month and next . The American mission has provided the initiative for several basic long-term economic reforms which now are becoming effective . They are : ( 1 ) Higher taxes almost to balance the budget and thus fight runaway inflation ; ( 2 ) foreign trade administration which , if re , ected , should prevent wasteful imports , and ( 3 ) the certificate plan , which is begining to foster exports at the expense of imports . This has been accomplished not without resort to the authority vested in the mission by Greece 's agreement with the United States , and not without arousing considerable ill-feeling among business circles . While not minimizing in the least Greece 's heroic war record or the present-heroism of her peasants and soldiers , an objective observer is forced to the conclusion that among Greece 's obstacles is certain feeling that whatever happens the tiny group of wealthy Greeks must not suffer , that there must be some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be best to " let the Americans do it . " ? Politics , too , is an obstacle . Some elements of the Populist party are now toying with the idea of breaking up the Coalition Government under the Liberal Themistocles Sophoulis . They are pressing charges in Parliament that Sophoulis used his recent trip to northern Greece for political purposes . Since , however , a new governmental crisis with its paralyzation of governmental functions at the onset of winter would be a major disaster , responsible Americans are of the opinion that the crisis-mongers will in the end think better of it . Position Improved The Sophoulis experiment of appeasement and amnesty has come and gone . It failed to draw any appreciable number of guerrillas from the mountains but it may be said that it vastly improved the moral position of both the Greek Government and Americans in Greece . They may now say : ' We offered you the opportunity to return to a peaceful life with every possible guarantee and you did not come . Now we will destroy you . " Orders have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as can show they were recruited by force and were prevented by Communist leaders from getting away sooner . But it now appears that the much-heralded general autumn and winter offensive that was to follow the amnesty will not take place . The higher leadership of the Greek Army recently has been fraught with internal politics . A general and gendarmerie commander at Edessa have been relieved of command for failure to put up a proper fight against raiding guerrillas . Several other generals have threatened to resign rather than accept active commands that they considered demotions . Aid Little and Late Probably the army has a justified complaint in that it has not received mountain guns and machine guns which it has long been begging for , and in that Americans have been too slow in authorizing and providing equipment for the new national guard which is to take the burden of defensive duty off the army 's hands in many villages and towns . But the army 's most serious excuse is that the British military mission has not organized or trained it for guerrilla warfare . Members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will point out , first , that when they undertook the job of training the Greek Army very few people would have predicted that guerrilla warfare would ever assume such proportions . Secondly , they say that an army 's primary duty is to defend the frontiers of the country against attack by foreign powers , that they and the Greek Army would look pretty foolish if Yugoslavia or Bulgaria invaded Greece and the Greek Army was organized and trained only to fight guerrillas . The explanation has validity but is not very helpful as long as guerrillas are Greece 's primary enemy. - American officers , the first of Whom arrived in the past week to be attached to the general staff and units down to divisional level , will not be authorized , as matters stand now , to modify the army 's training organization . Their importance will lie not in any advice they may give but in their presence . The Greeks have an enormous sense of personal pride . They like to show off . Americans may render enormous service merely by breathing down the necks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show what can be done even with present equipment , training and organization . The British have never fulfilled this function because their orders are to stick to training and keep clear of operational matters . If presented with a battle problem , they are supposed to illustrate it not on a map of Greece but on a map of Ethiopia ! The answer to John Q. Amencan 's question is that American aid in Greece has been little and late in proportion to the need and urgency . After the aid bill was passed in the last week of May , consultations and Congressional hearings delayed Dwight P. Griswold , head of the mission , in Washington till July 14 . FBI investigations and administrative matters delayed the departure of much of his staff for another two months . Balanced Budget Finally the mission 's fight for a balanced budget in Greece held up work on many other matters for some two months . If the aid program had not been designed to cut so close to the margin it would probably not have been so necessary to insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nearly six months before the aid program got into full-scale operation as it is now . Now the State Department has finally recognized , if not the need , at least the need to study the need , for additional funds this year , for the army and the frightening efflux of refugees in Greek towns . A move is afoot to obtain credit for the purchase of more United , States Army surplus for Greece . The time has also come to begin considering next year 's program , beginning July 1 , which will probably be dovetailed into the European Recovery Program . Now that the foundations have been laid and past shortcomings are being recognized , it would seem that a larger , more considered , less breathless program for the next twelve-month period holds great promise .                     