@@711024

txt Warning that the economic boom might spin away with its good features , leaving only grave consequences , President Truman today again requested Congressional action on all points of his anti-inflation program and on his plan for a $40 income-tax credit . In his annual economic report to Congress , the Chief Executive made the anti-inflation proposal the cornerstone for economic stability in 1948 . He also assigned it number one place among three objectives in the fight to overcome immediate economic dangers in the march to a long and prosperous future . Prices , wages and profits rose up and up in 1947 , Mr. Truman said , feeding upon and unbalancing each other , threatening a recession . " We can not be sure that such a recession would not be severe and recovery slow and painful , " President Truman said . Objectives Are Listed His three " objectives for 1948 , " in brief , are as follows : 1 ? Enact the seven points of his ten-point program which Congress failed to approve during its recent special session . These Seven points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation ; allocation of scarce commodities ; authority for rationing and price controls , and extension and strengthening of rent control . The three points passed by Congress authorized the Administration to extend certain export and allocation controls , and industry to make voluntary allocation and inventory agreements and arrangements for limiting speculative commodity trading . 2 ? Maintain maximum employment , achieve maximum produce tion , and adjust the price-income structure " so as to stop the inflationary spiral without production cutbacks or extensive unemployment . " 3 ? " Establish firmer foundations for the long-range growth and prosperity of our economy in the years ahead . " Balanced Economy Sought In one of several warnings of a possible crash , Mr. Truman argued his program would require fewer Government controls than a depression would . " When an inflation is in progress , " he said , " there is no way of predicting when it will break of its own accord . One can only be certain that , if permitted to run its own course , it will break with destructive force . " Whatever its character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more costly in human welfare and will involve the Government in far more pervasive intervention in the economic life of the country than the measures which are necessary to prevent it . " I therefore urge that the Congress consider with the utmost speed the nature of the problem which we have to meet and adopt the measures that are appropriate its solution . " The report indicated , however , that the President might later seek permanent Federal controls to keep the economy in balance . He explained that the Employment Act of 1946 , which required him to make the economic report , contemplated the use of the resources of business , labor , agriculture and Government " to do ' away with violent business fluctuations . " Mr. Truman disclosed that tie as instructed the Council of Economic Advisers , which furnished the material for his report , to study this problem . He added the results " should contribute to the development of sound legislative proposals . " In an analysis of trends in the 136-page report , Mr. Truman said that a large part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1947 merely compensated for changes in prices . He added , however , that " profits on the whole were above the levels necessary to furnish incentives and funds for the expansion of business and to promote the sustained health of the economy . " " Business corporations , " the report stated , " while paying out a record amount in dividends , retained the remarkably high proportion of five-eighths of their profits after taxes in 1947 . " Consequently , reinvested corporate earnings were a much more important source of business funds in 1947 than ever before , providing 10.3 billion dollars . compared with 6.9 billion the previous year . Retained corporate earnings in 1947 were about double the annual retention during the war years and four times those of 1929 . " As for wages , the Chief Executive said increases generally kept up with the cost of living , although the ground lost when price increases surpassed wage rises in 1946 was not regained . He also Said " worker had lost ground steadily in terms of real income during the last half of 1946 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of 1947 . This condition was now partly responsible for a movement for further wage advances , Mr. Truman added . Consumers , Mr. Truman said , had spent $3,500,000,000 more than their earnings had increased last year . If such a relationship continued , he went on , consumers would be unable to absorb the output of a maximum employment economy . " Consumers who are drawing upon accumulated assets , " the report said , " are now using these substantially for general living expenses and medical care , rather than for durable goods and housing . Such use of savings for current living expenses is an ominous sign for the economy as a whole . " The President presented his taxcut proposal , which has already been pigeon-holed by Republican leaders , as a form of first aid for the " casualties " of inflation . He said the credit of $40 for each taxpayer and each of his dependents would help millions of families . Mr. Truman has proposed that the $3,200,000,000 loss in revenue resulting from the plan should be offset by raising corporation taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by prewar standards , and had permitted high business activity and unexampled addition to capital investment . " An increase in corporate taxes , " the report continued , " would not cause production to fall below the highest output that available materials , capacity and labor will permit . It would , however , have an anti-inflationary effect which would wholly or in large degree offset the inflationary influence of the reduction in individual income . " Mr. Truman said that the prospective Treasury surplus of $7,500 , - 000,000 should be used to lower the national debt , and not for tax reduction , as Republicans have proposed . 