@@708806

txt The rambunctiousness of about 300 western steers , imported from Chicago recently and sold to western Masachusetts city folks with a taste for fresh beef they could n't get , has got the neophyte cattle owners wondering if they have n't bitten off more than they can chew . Accustomed only to docile eastern dairy cows , they are dismayed by the rugged individualism of the wild Herefords off the western ranges . Some are losing their enthusiasm for the clever method they thought would beat the meat shortage but they are getting plenty of excitement for their money . Steers Wo n't Stay Put The steers are continually getting out of pastures . They race up and down village streets , to the trepidation of townsfolk with no desire to become cowboys . Occasionally they get out by jumping over fences , but mbre often they break thru them . It 's not enough that they leave by themselves , they take with them peaceful stock which never would have thought of such escapades . In addition to breaking the fences , they destroy crops and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of here in Hampshire county , the police used shotguns to bring down one fugitive . Police Chief Arthur Brear , called by the helpless owner , rushed to the scene with two men he qualified as " cow hands . " Beast Shot , Clubbed . When they finally caught up with the steer , it turned and charged one of the chasers . He decided to shoot , but his gun jammed . A companion fired three shots and stunned the steer , but did n't stop it . The two men clubbed it away with their guns and later shot it again before they could down it , At Leeds , a suburb of Northamp. ton , a steer which a business man had been graining for two weeks , got- out of its pasture . He set a trap for it by laying a lasso around a pail of grain . When the steer put Its head in the pail , he and two companions pulled the noose up and prepared to lead the captured animal away . Instead , it ran up the village street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were jerked along by the cavorting steer before their combined weight finally stopped him . The steers were shipped here from the Chicago stock yards by a cattle dealer who has been selling them to business men and other townsfolk hopeful of insuring themselves of meat , Under OPA regulations , the new owners must keep and care for them 60 days before they can be slaughtered . It was estimated that some 300 western steers had been sold within the last few weeks in four western Massachusetts counties . These easterners are n't certain whether they can stand the cattle business long enough to get their teeth into the juicy steaks for which they bartered their money and equanimity . 