@@705335

txt Drastic administrative changes which had been Previously shelved by the .1 . Warren MaddenEdwin S. Smith majority on the Nat ional Labor Relations hoard have been made effective , it w s announced today . Under Dr. Harry A. Millis , tile n e w chair- ? r. moos. ninn , and will ) the concurrence of Dr. W. M. Leiserson , anti finally Smith , changes in administrative organization and procedures designed to improve and speed the board 's operntions were recently adopted and tire being handled by the newly appointed Personnel . The ? Ince of the executive secretary , recently vacated by Nathan Witt and which long'had been the " bottleneck " of the board , now performs the routine duties of an office manager . Its other duties have been dispersed and decentralized . Review Lawyers Criticized . The review attorneys , ninny of them young , inexperienced law school graduates , will no longer report orally to the board under the new program nor will they have as much latitude as they had heretofore In preparing board opinions . They will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board will compare with the data furnished by the trial examiners and their associates . Much criticism had been directed at the board 's practice in building up a review division of more than 100 lawyers , most of them young men and women , and having them pass on the work of the older and more experienced trial examiners . This division has been reduced more than 50 per cent In recent months . Greater responsibility is now placed on the trial examiners . The board has also set up a new administrative division to direct the work of its 22 regional offices and to oversee the Issuance of complaints and authorization of proceedings In labor representation cases . Responsible to Board . The new administrative division will report and be responsible direct . ly to the board . More than a year ago a committee of regional directors had made recommendations for setting up such a division . This recommendation was set aside for months and then the majority of the board , over the protest of Dr. Leiserson , gave some of the duties suggested by tile regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter 's office , however , was placed directly under Secretary Witt , prot ? g ? of Madden and Smith . Madden 's term expired last August , hut President Roosevelt kept him on the board until after the November election , when he appointed Dr. Millis , University of Chicago economist , chairman . Garnett L. Patterson , ' former regional director In Chicago and a board " veteran " has been brought to Washington and placed in charge of the new administrative division with greater authority than the previous administrative examiner . Creates New Post . The new plan creates under Patterson the post of regional coordinator and three or four such coordinators will be responsible for supervising ' tile work of the regional organizations . Under the previous organization of the board two men working out of Witt 's office had visited the regional offices to help coordinate the activities of the branch organizations . The regional directors complained of this met hod of coiirdlontIon.                     