@@708929

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 14 ? The modernized Veterans Administration ordered by President Truman took shape today when Gen. Omar N. Bradley , new administrator , announced a decentralization program for the organization together with innovations in medical service designed to meet criticisms . General Bradley made public his reorganization program less than twenty-four hours after it was reduced to tabular form , cautioning reporters that for the most part it existed aF yet only on paper . But he said he hoped to be able to show accomplishment soon . " Do n't get the idea , " he said at a news conference , " that we think this plan will perform a miracle , or get things done right now . But we hope it will show definite improvement in the work of the Veterans Administration . " General Bradley plans to : 1 . Decentralize supervision and control over veterans ' facilities into thirteen branch offices that will have absolute control over the facilities and offices in their areas . 2 . Raise the medical establishment to rank equal to other departments , add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance . 3 . Separate vocational training from other activities and make it a specialized project equal in importance to medical care . 4 . Reform veterans ' hospitals to // ally them with the teaching institutions and , where and when possible , incorporate residencies and interneship in these hospitals . 5 . Make each branch office a miniature duplicate of the central office in Washington . 6 . Remove administration of insurance claims from the central office in New York and death claims from the single office here that handles them , giving the branch offices full authority to handle these claims . No Branch Official Chosen General Bradley said that no official had been chosen for any branch office and not even sites for these offices had been obtained . He added that personnel and space were the greatest problems in putting the program into effect . The branch offices are scheduled for Atlanta , Boston , Chicago , Cin ? cinnati , Dallas , Denver , Minneapolis , New York , Philadelphia , St Louis , San Francisco , Seattle and Washington . General Bradley created a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a " chief of staff , " to be filled by Elden L. Bailey , for seventeen years . an official of the old Veterans Administration and more recently a colonel in the Army . Mr. Bailey will be superior to all assistant administrators and act as General Bradley 's right-hand man . The Veterans Administrator plans to strip his office of every detail and to hand it over to assistants , organized much along the lines of an Army General Staff with smaller but similar staffs serving in various corps areas . At the same time the executive headquarters here will deputize the proposed branch offices to handle every detail of supervision , operation and organization instead of , as at present , the central office having some degree of responsibility in the running of every one of the 150 regional and local facilities and offices . Thus in the new set-up in Washington there are to be eleven offices headed by assistant administrators deleted 25 lines For example , branch office No. 1 will handle New England 's veterans ' facilities , No. 2 will supervise all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for New Jersey , Pennsylvania and Delaware . The branch offices will havt direct responsibility for the operation of hospitals in their areas , instead of the central office controlling them . These branch offices will control policy and speed ur all operations on claims filed with the regional offices . General Bradley named as his assistant administrator for medicine and surgery , Maj. Gen. Paul R. Hawley , former chief surgeon of the European theatre , whom he borrowed when he took this office to be his medical adviser . Genera Hawley 's appointment is temporary , since he , like all other Army officers except General Bradley , may be borrowed by the Veterans ' Administration only , until six months after the official end of the war . Dr. Charles M. Griffith , heretofore administrator of the Administration 's medical service , will serve as an assistant to General Hawley . Incidentally , General Bradley is retaining most of the former Veterans Administration official staff , and in many instances is providing them with promotions by up-grading the jobs they have held for long periods in subsidiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and General Hawley described reforms that ranged the gamut from changing medical practice to abolition of concessionaires in the hospitals . General Hawley said that he proposed to tie every veteran 's hospital , where possible , to a teaching institution . General Bradley added that " we have to do that because of the extreme shortage of doctors in prospect for several years . " " If we can arrange it , " General Bradley said , " there will be interneships and residences in the facilities . " " The best hospitals in the United States , " General Hawley observed , " are teaching hospitals . We want the veterans ' hospitals to be teachdeleted 27 lines 