@@708945

txt Nearly 6,000 troops from Wales . England , and France arrived in Boston aboard five transports , the S. S. Nathan Towson , Francis G. Harrington , Lake Charles Victory , Kingston Victory and William and Mary Victory . The homecoming veterans included 578 New Englanders . Page 5 . Guaranteed annual wage insuring pay for 45 weeks of the year egardless of layoffs for employees of five years ' service has been introduced by a Worcester manufacturer . Page 5 . Massachusetts savings banks deposits have risen to ** a gain of 10 per cent , in the past year , Charles J. Bateman , Jr .. President of the Savings Bank Association of Massachusetts , told members at Swampscott . Page 5.1 Workers at the Boston Navy Yard are " victims of favoritism and abuse " under the efficiency rating system used there . Representative Lane ( D ) of Massachusetts told the House in asking for a congressional investigation of the system which he said should be abolished . Page 21 In Eurone : Economic Curb Placed on Reich An export-import policy which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon by the Allied Control Council in Berlin . The agreement is designed to hold German imports to a minimum while ensuring adequate distribution of commodities throughout the four occupied zones . German-Polish frontier has been revised by the Russians to give Poland several hundred additional square miles West of Stettin on the Oder River , Marshal Zhukov announced in Berlin . Regent Archbishop Damaskinos of Greece said in Paris today Greece wishes to hold elections " as soon as possible , " but that disrupted communications will delay the voting . A joint statement by the United States . Britain , and France yesterday asked that elections be held this year . Washington : INWLB Head Offers Resignation Dr. George W. Taylor offered his resignation as Chairman of the National War Labor Board as Secretary of Labor Schwellenbach sought to hold the Board together by continuing it as a virtually independent agency . Mr. Taylor declined to comment on his offered resignation . It is estimated by the Civil Aeronautics Administration that 441,000 Army Air Force officers and enlisted men will seek civilian aviation jobs . This is about one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 87,000 plan to buy and fly their own planes . President Truman will meet several hundred Democrats in and out of Congress in an outdoor party this week end at Jefferson Island Club in Chesapeake Bay near Annapolis . Md . Senate Secretary Leslie Biffie said there would be 200 or 300 guests . Senator Harold H. Burton ( R ) of Ohio said after a White House call that he would resign his Senate seat Sept. 30 to take oath as a member of the Supreme Court Oct. 1 ,                     