@@704534

txt Better weather conditions and reporting are given by the Pan American Airways as reasons for flying directly to the Portuguese-owned Azores omitting any stop at Bermuda , thus easing complications that have arisen between the American and British Governments over the censoring of mail which has previously been held up at that point . In Washington , however , it was emphasized that while the decision had been made entirely by Pan American , without dictation by the Department of State , it would enable persons in the United States to elude the allied censorship on mail to Germany , since the flying boats would hop from American to Portuguese soil , where the German mail could be transferred to planes of the Italian Ala Littoria line . Pan American headquarters here said the curtailment of Atlantic weather reports by the war had made it advisable hitherto to stop at Bermuda , but that the Coast Guard had assigned the cutters Bibb and Duane to mid-Atlantic , ffoating weather station duty . It also was recalled that the hop from the Port Washington airport here to Horta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Clipper ships have a 3,600 mile range when full loaded . The Port Washington-Horta jump was made frequently last summer . Pan American flying boats now leave from Baltimore , but will leave from , Port Washington as soon as weather permits . After March 15 its Clippers will also take off in mid-afternoon instead of in the early morning , the five-hour saving in transit time still permitting arrival in Europe at the same hour the next afternoon . At the same time , Pan American will continue its regular service between Bermuda and Port Washington to Baltimore , headquarters added . The United States and Great Britain have been in disagreement for several weeks over the British practice of seizing mail aboard Pan American- boats when they landed at Bermuda in an effort to tighten the blockade against Germany . The question reached a high point recently with reports , denied by the Marquis of Lothian , Brit ish Ambassador to - the United States , that on the Jan. 18th run the mail had been taken at bayonet point . Meanwhile , it was reported from London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's action was taken at the instance of the United States Government , although it is recognized the omission of the Bermuda stop will greatly complicate the British problem of censoring German mail . No Great Concern ' LONDON , Feb. 26 ( IP ) ? The British Foreign Office said today that it had " no great measure of concern " over Pan American Airways ' decision to eliminate Bermuda on eastbound trans-Atlantic flights and thereby ' avoid British censorship of United States mail at the island . The decision , to take effect March 15 , concerned only the airways company itself , it was said , and " not the United States Government . " A Foreign Office spokesman said : " We understand that the decision has to do with the weather conditions and not with the search o States mails . " The air mails will now avoid search entirely as there will be no effort to study their contents anywhere else . " ( At Lisbon , Portugal , Pan American connects only with French and Italian air lines . The British have not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed the relations between the Bermuda Government and the air line were " most friendly . " Pan American will continue to operate a twice-a-week shuttle to the island colony . 