@@707041

txt CHURCHMEN DETAIL PILLARS OF PEACE ' SixU Political Principles Aimed at Meeting Post-War Needs Outlined to Leaders A statement of " political principles , " resting upon six " pillars of peace , " which has been formulated by the Commission to Study the Bases of a Just and Durable Peace , instituted two years ago by the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America , was outlined yesterday by John Foster Dulles , chairman of the commission . The statement has been officially endorsed by the council . Speaking at a meeting of financial , labor , religious and educational leaders at the Rockefeller Center Luncheon Club on the sixtyfifth floor of the R. C. A. Building , Mr. Dulles warned that the war may be greatly lengthened and its outcome " thrown in doubt " unless this country decides on its future role in world affairs and accepts the principle of international cooperation without delay . He said the commission 's program would include political collaboration among the United Nations and finally among all countries , economic and financial cooperation in world affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , organization to lead subject peoples toward ultimate autonomy , control of armaments and religious and intellectual liberty for all peoples . John D. Rockefeller Jr . spoke warmly in support of the proposals , which he characterized as timely and as wisely dealing with fundamentals rather than with means which might lead to differences . He said this nation is now at the crossroads . Recalling // CHURCHMEN DETAIL PILLARS OF PEACE ' // that we had decided to travel the old road after the last war , he added : " God forbid that we should ever follow that road again ! " The commission 's program , he said , is a " signpost pointing the new road to a just and durable peace . " He urged " direction , education and publicity " to make that signpost plain to the American people . Dr. William Ernest Hocking , Professor of Philosophy at Harvard , advocated that efforts be made to obtain support for the program in England . An organization known as the Commission of the Churches for International Friendship and Social Responsibility has been discussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Archbishop of Canterbury . He urged that the American and British groups " join hands . " Mr. Dulles replied that he and his associates have been sounding out British opinion , especially church opinion , and that - that part of the program which deals with colonies was drafted after such discussion . General Frank B. McCoy , president of the Foreign Policy Association ; Leon Fraser , president of the First National Bank ; and Mrs. Ogden Reid , vice president of The New York Herald Tribune , also took part in the discussion . According to Mr. Dulles , the commission 's statement is being sent to 60,000 Protestant ministers throughout the country , with a view to getting it before more than 15,000,000 lay members of their churches for discussion . Six " Pillars " Listed Mr. Dulles asserted that the commission intends to try to persuade the American people to " make clear their intention to work for organized international collaboration within the critical areas of national interdependence , " and had drawn up its proposals in a way " both simple and significant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as follows : " 1 . The peace must provide the political framework for a continuing collaboration of the United Nations and , in due course , of neutral and enemy nations . " 2 . The peace must make provision for bringing within the scope of international agreement those economic and financial acts of national governments which have widespread international repercussions .. " 3 . The peace must make provision for an organization to adapt the treaty structure of the world to changing underlying - conditions. " 4 . The peace must proclaim the goal of autonomy for subject peoples , and it must establish international organization to assure and to supervise the realization of that end . " 5 . The peace must establish procedures for controling military establishments everywhere . " 6 . The peace must establish in principle , and seek to achieve in practice , the right of individuals everywhere to religious and intellectual liberty . " " Our ' six pilars of peace ' deal . " he went on , " with the areas within which world organization is indispensable . We do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , be premature and certainly it is riot within the competence of our commission . But what we propose is sufficient to force an intelligent and significant decision on the part of the American people . Sees Aid to Solution " If they are firmly resolved to move in the direction and on the fronts proposed by our statement , then it will be the duty and the right of government to implement that mandate . Under such conditions it may be possible to solve , in amity with our allies , the grave issues which from now on will increasingly be forced upon us . If so , we will have made a momentous advance toward victory and done that which will give us a reasonable chance for a durable peace . " These ' six pillars of peace ' are derived from moral beliefs common to all religions and can equally be espoused by Protestants , Catholics and Jews  --  indeed , by all men who have an enlightened view of self-interest . " Mr. Dulles said the American people must decide promptly on how they will answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves to a future of organized international collaboration within the areas of demonstrated world interdependence ? " " It is that decision , " he continued , " which our proposals are designed to force , and it must be made now or the opportunity for such collaboration will inevitably . disappear and the world will be doomed to continuance of the war system . " Mr. Dulles declared that the Soviet Union and decisions affecting the future of Finland , the Baltic States and Poland were among the greatest post-war problems which the United States must face . " I see no hope , " he added , " that such decisions will be generally acceptable if they crush human beings and human aspirations between the millstones of power politics . The only hope lies in building a world order under which such treatment may not seem a permanent harsh necessity . " Fears Danger-in Conflicts Referring to the conflict between the " Red Army " faction and the Kuomintang in China , he said that as Japan weakens that struggle may be renewed . If power politics prevail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves opposed , China may again become the victim of Western politics and peace in the Far East may be indefinitely delayed . Saying that he was In Great Britain last Summer " and clearly sensed the dilemma in which she is placed , " Mr. Dulles . continued : " She would , I am sure , prefer a post-war system permitting close collaboration with the United States . But she does not and can not know whether the United States will elect that role . Thus she must keep open the possibility of seeking , through Russian alliance , a balance of power in Europe and the Far East . Such a policy may lead to a deterioration in Anglo-American relations . " Declaring that the problems now faced by the United Nations are " infinitely more serious " than those with which the peace conference was confronted after the last war , he went on : " Tremendously difficult and controversial problems will require decision while the war is still on and while we are still faced by formidable arid resourceful enemies . Only the ignorant or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends . " If the United Nations of this war are to continue to be united , the time to cement that unity is now and the only cement that may work is organized world collaboration . The United States can not safely postpone showing its hand in that matter . It is basic to the solution of all the grave problems that will increasingly be thrust uRon us . If the United Nations must deal with each other on the assumption that the future is to be a repetition of the past , with a world of anarchy and of power politics , then I doubt that even a unity of expediency can be preserved until victory and I know that any ' peace ' that ensues will be no more than a time for recuperating strength for another war . Latitudes Pointed Out A pamphlet issued by the commission and distributed at the meeting said there was much latitude as to the form and content of the " six pillars . " " These matters are important , " it went on , " and their determination will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be reconciled . But the propositions , as stated by us , serve to force an initial and vital decision on the direction in which this nation will move . " If the six propositions we enunciate become an olicial program of this nation we will be committed to - move , by definitive steps , ? to bring ourselves into an ordered relationship with others . Only if the nations join to do this can we escape chaos - and recurrent war : Only if the United States assumes a leadership . can it be done now . "                     