@@706856

txt A few extra trains and sections may turn up quietly later this week , to help carry holiday travelers . There wo n't be enough of them to prevent a passenger traffic jam . There probably wo n't be any publicity for them either , because both the Government and the railroads are striving to cut down on civilian travel . The Office of Defense Transportation in Washington imposed a strict ban on extra trains and sections at the end of September . So far as could be learned last night , this ban has not been relaxed . Railroad officials were reluctant to discuss the possibility of adjustment , but at the same time it was fairly evident in railroad quarters that permission to meet traffic emergency conditions over the holiday might be expected . The railroads. along with federal agencies . have tried to discourage unnecessary civilian travel . And , if in the face of public warnings , traffic is larger than present schedules . it is reasoned that the railroads will be permitted to put on extra sections , if only to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than necessary . Moreover . the problem of getting furloughed soldiers back to camps and workers back to their jobs is of as much , or more , concern to the Government as to the railroads . Eastman Has No Ration Plan Last night in New York City , Joseph B. Eastman . director of the Office of Defense Transportation , said the O.D.T. is studying " all manner of plans " for rationing railroad and bus travel , but as yet these proposed cures appear worse than the disease . Speaking before the National Industrial Conference Board at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , Mr. Eastman expressed the hope that cooperation of the public in the O.D.T. 's " do n't travel " campaign will obviate the need for putting " such drastic expedients " to the test . The O.D.T. , he said , is endeavoring to mobilize all available equipment and use it to best advantage . to curb train movements which are primarily for pleasure travel , and to discourage unnecessary travel . The railroads arc joining in a campaign of publicity to discourage such travel , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to talk about , b . involves extraordinary administrative difficulties , particularly ? in view of the manpower situation , " he asserted . Mr. Eastman gave no indication as whether the O.D.T. would relax its rules so to permit the railroads to run extra sections trains to cope with the holiday traffic . Indicate Rates Train Ban May Lift Other O.D.T. officials have indicated , however , that some exceptions would be made over the holidays to the general order forbidding the running of extra sections unless they were run 20% of the time for 90 days prior to September 26 . It was emphasized , though , that this would be an emergency measure and that the O.D.T. wishes to discourage all unnecessary travel . Mr ; Eastman appeared confident that the nation 's transportation system would continue to function efficiently and would be able to dandle all traffic without a breakdown such as characterized World War One .                     