@@711778

txt The Britishli Cabinet Defense Committee met in the Prime Minister 's office this morning to discuss the grave Palestinian conflict and to decide on the next measures to be taken . It is understood no drastic immediate action is planned , but it seems certain that Britain is strengthening her military position in the Middle East and especially in TransJordan . Naval vessels , troops and planes are on the move , not to the Arab countries or Arab forces as such but to British installations . Many , perhaps most , of these reinforcements will be needed to strengthen communication lines to the Middle East rather than for garrisoning positions there . In this connection it is important to register the fact that the story from Tel Aviv asserting that Britain has sent ? 50,000,000 worth of arms to Egypt in the last few months is denied in most emphatic and resentful terms here today . An official source close to the Prime Minister described the story as " an outrageous lie . " The Foreign Office spokesman issued a categorical official denial that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they had received no information to bear out , the story . Embargo Stressed by Britons British officials have made an important point for many months that Britain has strictly observed the embargo on arms to all parties to the Palestine dispute . It is claimed that this is ascertainable and has been ascertained by United Nations observers . On the other hand , the British Government has issued statements charging a flow of arms from Czechoslovakia to Israel . It is asserted that neither Prague nor Tel Aviv has denied these allegations . In any event , there is still no indication that Britain intends or desires to see the arms embargo lifted . It would seem as if the Israeli victory over the Arabs within Palestine was accepted because it had already taken place . What is not accepted is the incursions by Israelis into Egypt , Trans-Jordan and Lebanon . The information here is that , despite statements in Tel Aviv , Israeli forces were still in Egypt at two points a day or two ago , although they may be out today . All Israeli troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday night in Tel Aviv by an Israeli military spokesman . At the time of the cease-fire Israeli troops were about three miles inside Egypt just south of Rafah , he said . Sources close to the Israeli Government said Britain would be accused in the United Nations Security Council of being an accessory to truce violations . The United States urged the British to regard the plane clash as " a regrettable incident only , " while Trygve Lie , United Nations Secretary General , interceded with the British in an effort to keep the dispute out of the world organization . Difficulties of Delivery Britain 's interest in the Security Council at the moment seems to be as much to keep the Israelis out of Egypt as to quarrel over the shooting down of Royal Air Force planes . It is most unlikely that Britain , as the State Department spokesman , Michael , urged today , would consider this loss as a regrettable but closed incident . Even if the Government took that line Parliament and pulrlie opinion would certainly insist on some satisfaction , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still reserves all her rights to claims for compensation or other subsequent action , as was stated in the text of the protest that the Israelis have thus far refused to accept The question of acceptance or rejection of the note is considered here as a matter of diplomatic form that can not affect the sub-1 stance of the protest . There is talk , of addressing a note to the " Provi. atonal Government of Israel , " but in any event it would not mean recognitign ? by 13ritain of the State of Israel . That recognition is fur ' they away than aver tonight . The point is that the British would like to get the note delivered and they do not care much how it is done . There is an Office of the Representative of the Provisional Government of Israel in Lon ? don , but it has no official contacts with the Foreign Office . It informs Tel Aviv of developments here , and that was one way in which the Israeli Government could have received the text of the British note in the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most stress- is laid on the dispatch of British forces to Aqaba , on the Red Sea at the southern tip of Trans-Jordan . It is claimed that this increased the danger of incidents . Israel , it was stated , does not claim the port of Aqaba , but the part is only three miles from " our territory "  - -  the Negeb . British officials tonight said there would be no incidents unless the Israelis provoked them . Britons believe that the reinforcement of Aqaba and the order to RAF planes to consider any foreign planes met over Egyptian territory as hostile will do far more to calm down the whole area than anything the Security Council can do . That is why this morning 's meeting at 10 Downing Street was one of the Cabinet Defense Committee . Tbd committee is presided over by Prime Minister Attlee . It is composed of the chiefs . of staff of all three serillbes , the Minister of Defense and the Ministers for War , Air and Navy . In addition ( the Foreign Secretary always takes part , and indeed it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the developments in Palestine . The Ministers of Supply and of Fuel and Power were also- present , for obvious reasons . One of the purposes of tip meeting was to ' permit Secretary Bevin to-send further instructfons to Sir Alexander Cadogan at Lake Success . It is taken for granted that Britain will have to explain why her planes flew up to , if not over , the ** frontier at the time a battle was being fought . The answer will be that ) 3ritain has a treaty of alliance with Egypt and that that treaty is valid unless denounced by both sides . Under that treaty she has obligations and interests . When the Israeli forces violated the Egyptian frontier , Britons say , it was necessary to find out what had happened and to keep an eye on developments . - It was recognized that these reconnaissance planes might run into trouble , but this was a " calculated risk . " One finds today willingness to concede the possibility that ' in dodging about sortie of the planes may have zoomed over the Egyptian frontier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have known these were RAP ' and not Egyptian planes . Bevin Criticized on Issue The Manchester Guardian this morning joined other critics in scoring Secretary Bevin 's handling of the Palestine issue . " Mr. Bevin is taking perilous ' and needless risks in the Middle East , " it says , adding that his policy " is making fools of us and is in danger of doing worse . " Certainly there is goiag to be some fireworks on this issue when Parliament reassembles after its Christmas recess , which will be on Jan. 18 . However , there is another side to the issue that Was brought out today in a speech at Lowestoft by Sir David Maxwell Fyfe , Conservative Member of Parliament , who led the British prosecution at Nuremburg . " I was proud that in my country Jews had always been welcomed and that careers in every sphere had been thrown open to them , " he , said , " I have therefore a personal right to ask the Jews not only in Palestine but in the United States to pause before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J ' - IA people would suffer if this country were to cease to be an asylum or if there were to be a change in the feelings of kindliness and toleration toward them which have marked English civilization and the English character . " It is not too late for leaders in Tel Aviv and their backers in the United States and Czechoslovakia to stop the present selfish and aggressive courses and make a sincere bid for peace in the Middle East . Refusal may leave psychological sores which may not heal for a generation . " Fawz1 Bey Issues a Denial Mahmoud Fawzi Bey , Egyptian representative on the Security Council , took exception yesterday to a dispatch from Tel Aviv , Israel , published in yesterday 's NEW YORK TIMES , stating that Britain had delivered $200,000,000 worth of arms to Egypt in the last few months . " These allegations have no foundation , " Fawzi Bey said . " Such arms did not appear and could not have appeared on the field since they were not supplied at all . In this connection I refer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and until recently , in which I voiced the complaint of Egypt of the situation wherewith , while arms and fighting personnel were flowing abundantly and increasingly to the Zionist side , any supply of arms to Egypt and the other Arab states was most strictly denied . " Nobody could or can now deny the existence of such a situation , which besides being most unfair is tending increasingly to upset the balance of things ' in the Middle East . "                     