@@712249

txt Fear of Polio Worse Than Disease So much fear and hysteria are engendered by epidemics of infantile paralysis , we are informed by a spokesman for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis , that " the panic is worse than the disease itself . " For polio is a widespread general infection , especially during the summer months , and the case that reveals paralysis is a rare one . Certain field studies estimate that for every case of clinical polio there may be as many as fifty to one hundred other persons harboring the virus either with such mild symptoms as to defy diagnosis , or with no symptoms whatsoever . Of the diagnosed cases , recent surveya indicate that at least 50 to 60 per cent will recover completely ; about 20 per cent will be left with very minor handicaps ; 15 to 20 per cent will suffer permanent severe paralysis , and 5 to 10 per cent may die . These l'ecovery rates are predicated on early diagnosis and hospitalization and proper medical care . Viruses Identified There are encouraging ports from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been aiding scientists in their fight against the disease . Scientists are now certain that there are at least three major families of polio virus that cause the human disease . There may be others . Such information is essential to effect methods for controlling the disease , or to prevent it by such means as a vaccine or antibiotics . Four . universities  --  Southern California , Utah , Kansas , Pittsburgh  --  have recently been awarded a 41,870,000 grunt from the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis to determine as rapidly as possible exactly how many of these viruses exist and how they are related . The three families of viruses already determined are immunologically independent  --  infection against one will not protect against infection with the others . Signal Achievement From the laboratories of Harvard University have come reports of success in growing human polio virus in a test tube , using for the first time a medium that does not contain nerve tissue . This is regarded as a signal achievement and a step toward the search for a. possible vaccine . In the past it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in neural ( nerve ) tissue . The use of virus intimately associated with nerve tissue would make any vaccine dangerous to use because of severe reactions it might induce . If a polio vaccine for humans is to be achieved , the virus must be free of nerve cell tissue . This , now seems possible as a result of the work at Harvard . At Johns Hopkins University edamtists have already established that a safe vaccine can be made that will immunize laboratory animals against the disease . But before this accomplishment can be translated into a vaccine for humans there are still many obstacles to be overcome . Meantime there are certain simple precautions that parents can take . Avoid crowds , over-fatigue and chilling . Keep clean . Be certain that all objects entering the mouth are clean . Wash hands after going to toilet and before eating . Avoid using another 's pencil , handkerchief or utensils .                     