@@710785

txt In The Nation Some Expert Reservations to the Paris Plan By ARTHUR KROCK - WASHINGTON , Oct. ** the conferences began in Washington today , industrial technicians both inside arid outside the United States government already had noted flaws in the response of the Sixteen-Nations Committee to the Marshall proposal . It may be that Sir Oliver Franks , chairman of the drafting committee ? tat Paris , will be able during these conferences to explain away the flaws or cure them . But since the technicians found so many , after analyzing the response for only a few days , it is probable that Sir Oliver and his associates will return to Paris with more homework than they found on their arrival . This gives weight to the suggestion that the drafters of the Paris document may find it necessary to write a supplement basically amending the original , and much longer . Until the questions raised by the experts are answered to their satisfaction , they can not make the estimate of United States capacity to meet the Paris requirements without which the administration can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take time , which may explain why Congress can not be summoned at once to approprifte for a four-year plan to restore European economy , as many are impatiently demanding . The questions of the technicians could , of course , be thrust aside by the President and by Congress and the first annual appropriation of a few billions be made without any real attempt to- discover whether the objective can be attained or is within our resources . But that would not be the procedure of a responsible government anywhere that was dealing with a professedly economic program . Preliminary List of Exceptions Some understanding of the problems raised for the United States by the Paris text can be gained from the following list of expert observations on its contents that have been made here : The Sixteen-Nation response implicitly sets up highly centralized government controls in Western Europe , independent rather than interdependent . Yet the objective of our program is to minimize government authority over economic activity everywhere . It assumes that the proposed export drive in Europe will not encohnter market outlet difficulties ; that sometime before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that the only required dollar-payment areas will be North and South America . The experts see fallacies in all three . It shrinks from advocating the unpopular measures that would shift European food production and consumption to more economical types ; it seems to underestimate its four-year food production capacity in view of the huge fertilizer program outlined ; and it ignores the effect of world shortages on the requirement schedules , though shortages may reduce these by onethird . Also , it implies the feeding of too much grain in Europe to livestock . The Paris text proposes the importation in 1948 of 2 million tons of meat , whereas imports of only 1.8 million tons are feasible . Over four years this amendment , relating needs to possibilities , could reduce the demand by 2.1 million tons , with a value of $1 billion . In calculating resources of fats and oils the drafters at Paris appear to have disregarded 500 thousand tons available from their colonies . On sugar , however , it is probable we could send more from the Western Hemisphere than they mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The proposal that phosphate to the value of $329 millions he provided Western Europe , and a quantity of nitrogen , overlooks the principle of self-help . These should come from the resources of the Sixteen Nations . Goods and Raw Materials A ninefold increase in the imports of farm machinery from the United States is proposed over that sent to Europe in 1946 . This is too much to ask , and it would overburden the United States industry as well as cripple our own food production . The Paris report fails to develop a fuel production program to attain its steel production goals . Its import schedules for semi-finished steel suggest the possibility that the American industry would be expected to build up the British trade in finished steel goods , which could then undercut those of the United States in the world market . If the objective is relief for Britain in foreign exchange , that would be another story , but the report does not say so . The coal schedules are more moderate , but they are based on revolutionary changes in European mining that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the claims of large increases in other sources of power , why are the coal schedules as high as they are ? The freight car requirements of Western Germany are overestimated , and standing orders in the United States fill our producing capacity for at least a year . The oil import schedules arouse skepticism that European refining capacity can be that much increased , and the request for this import is beyond the concept of a MarsAall Plan , since to fill it would interfe with the foreign expansion of our ovkh industry -- a national security messure . This import should be privately'financed . These are only a few of the first eapert impressions of the Paris document .                     