@@711033

txt The first . green signal to go ahead to negotiate a settlement of the Boston truck drivers ' strike now has been given to the State Board of Conciliation and Arbitration , Brig . Gen. Charles H. Cole , Chairman of the Board , said today . " While we have had both sides before us several times before , we had to conciliate in a detached sort of way because of . the hearings of the Moderator named by the Governor to seek arbitration , " General Cole said . " We could n't get down to real work . Hope springs eternal in the human breast , and we now hope to reach an end of the , dispute . " General Cole has summoned representatives of Local 25 of the Teamsters ' Union and the employers to meet with the Board tomorrow morning . Seizure Sidestepped The basic reason tar the Governor 's determining not to seize trucks at this time was that he would have been required to issue an additional proclamation of an emergency , a State official explained today . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warrant such a proclamation . The emergency proclamation the Governor signed on Jan. 1 expired last night when his moderator reported the inacceptability of arbitration . The Slichter law then made necessary a second proclamation before state intervention . The Governor has not lost jurisdiction over the dispute , it is said , but has simply held up at this time taking the final steps , and will be guided by whatever the facts and circumstances turn out to be . No legislation giving the Governor further powers in the strike is now being considered , it is added , that also depending on how the situation goes . Slicker Law Blamed " Governor Bradford 's decision not to take possession of trucks practically rules out the Slichter law as applying to the trucking industry , " Lester M. Hunt , Editor of the International Teamster , official magazine of the Teamsters ' Union , declared today . " We believe that the Slichter law is completely inoperative in this dispute , because the strike has brought no menace to the public health or safety , as the Governor said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be no interruption , nor will there be violence . " We feel that if the State had kept out of this strike we mighl. have had it settled by this time . When the employers were encouraged by the State to think the Slichter law would be invoked and all trucks seized , they naturally made very little effort to negotiate . The result was that the Slicter law as initially used by the Governor kept the parties to the dispute apart for nearly three weeks . It impeded negotiations . " In announcing his decision not to seize trucks , Governor Bradford said that no c ? nergency existed containing the threat to the public health and safety giving him the power to seize under the Slichter law . He said that food , fuel and other essentials had been kept moving . Accordingly he saw I no justification for the State 's taking possession of properties .                     