@@707977

txt Joseph Goebbels , New German Plenipotentiary for Total Mobilization , promised the German people tonight that the situation on the war fronts , especially the Russian front , would change soon as a result of emergency measures to be The text of Goebbels ' radio address is on Page 4. taken . Goebbels promised in his speech , which was broadcast from Berlin , that every resource of Germany and occupied terri- tories would be utilized to fight the war to a finish , that new troops and weapons would be sent to the fronts , that addi- tional labor would be mobilized to increase production and that all public institutions would be adapted to total warfare . He warned that the German people must face further hardships , but expressed his conviction that the result would be victory . Goebbels confessed he could not yet announce his tOtalization program , which he said as yet existed in rough outline only , and he added : " I know the difficulties of this task . But I do not shrink back . I know that the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said the V-1 robot bomb was only a prelude . " Some new weapons are in a state of trial , " he said . " When recently I saw some modern German weapons my heart did not beat faster , but stood still for a moment . I am not boasting or bluffing . " Goebbels asserted that Col. staff officers who allegedly planted the bomb intended tto kill Adolf Hitler last Thursday , managed to reach Berlin by courier plane afterward and announced that Hitler had been killed . On the basis of this announcement , Goebbles said , the conspirators  --  centered at the High Command headquarters in the Bendierstrasse  --  tried to seize the government area with the aid of the Berlin garrison . But the troops proved loyal , he said , and the revolt was crushed . He said that the explosive material in the bomb was British and that von Stauffenberg " has relatives it the British aristocracy . " Conspirators Shot at Once Goebbels said the conspirators were rounded up in Berlin without a shot being fired and that those sentenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shot in the courtyard of their I headquarters . He said a general " who up to then had been prominent only for sabotaging all decisions in the war " was to have headed a rebel government . Another conspirator , he said , was " a colonel general who often had hysterical breakdowns . " A third conspirator , a colonel general , was denounced by Goebbels as a man long ago expelled from the army for a " cowardly retreat " on the Eastern Front . It was believed this might be Georg von Kuechler , who commanded the Leningrad front for a time , though von Kuechler was a field marshal , not a general . The " nervous breakdown " victim was believed to have been Colonel-General Ludwig . " For months past , " Goebbels said , " Moscow , London and Washington have said that opposition existed in the ranks of German generals and time and again mentioned certain names . These very names appeared in fact July 20 . It has been an enemy attempt after all . " Pleads for Army Loyalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , Goebbels said the army had no reason to be ashamed . He reminded the troops that Hitler had opened the possibility of an officer 's career to all . Goebbels said he was giving a full account of the bomb plot . " I have nothing to hush up , " he said . Much of Goebbels ' review was stale news , but h. told dramatically how he had just ended a conference with other Cabinet Ministers when the news broke . He said the Berlin troops , ordered out by the conspirators , reported to him . " They had forgotten , however , that the Berlin Guard Battalion consists of fanatical National Socialists , " Goebbels said . " The whole plot was practically finished within an hour . " He told how the battalion assembled in the garden of his villa adjoining the gardens of the American Embassy , now occupied by the Swiss and Hitler 's Chancellery . " I addressed them and explained the situation , " Goebbels said . " At once they took tommy guns and machine guns to settle accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a room at their , headquarters and then taken way , some to be shot in the courtyard , others to be put under arrest . He added , significantly , that guilty men not yet called to account would be punished  --  an admission that some suspects remained at large six days after the attempt .                     