@@704881

txt The long-drawn suspense which has hovered these years over the Democratic Party 's next presidential nominee has entered its tortured last minutes . That is to say , while most people here believe President Roosevelt can not avoid accepting the third-term nomination , they are waiting with impatience all the greater for the years of waiting behind it , to see exactly how he will take the plunge , who his running-mate will be , whether isolationists within the Party can make a foreign-affairs plank uncomfortably stiff for the President . It is still possible for the President 's opponents in his party to make some things hard for him during these five days . Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana , ably aided by Senators Bennett Champ Clark of Missouri , D. Worth Clark of Idaho , Pat McCarran of Nevada , David I. Walsh of Massachusetts , and a number of others , are seeking to make the foreign affairs commitment awkwardly specific . They are proposing not simply to pour the sauce of no-expeditionary-force over an interventionist plank , but rather to bind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They would commit the Party against conscription . They would condemn participation in foreign wars and controversies . They will doubtless be voted down in most particulars , but what is left may well be rather distasteful to the President and Secretary Hull . The Farley nominating speech now doubtless , will be made by Raymond . M. Fisher of Nanuet , N. Y. It had been expected that Senator Carter Glass of Virginia , still an unreconstructed New Deal rebel , would make it . But Senator Glass may not attend the Convention . Farley Wants One Full Ballot Mr. Farley does not expect to get many votes , but he is going to insist that the first ballot be regular , that all delegations must record themselves and all possible candidates get their fill meed of votes , before the ballot is declared unanimous for Mr. Roosevelt . There had been talk of Roosevelt 's nomination by acclamation , but Mr. Farley is rigidly opposed , for that process would prevent the registration of scattered independent votes . However , if the anti-Roosevelt forces have their way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - announces its complete total for Roosevelt , hoping thereby to expose ' considerable rank-andfile defections . This would be another way for the opponents to irritate the mighty steam-roller . And finally , the Convention just might nominate its vely own vice-presidential candidate . The New Dealers could doubtless block the nomination of a particularly obnoxious candidate , but they might not be able to secure their own first choice . There are , therefore , something like three lists of the vice-presidential . possibilities : the New Deal , acceptables , the intermediates , and the New Deal objectionables . Here they are : New Deal Acceptables Secretary of State Cordell Hull . Supreme Court Justice William 0 . Douglas . Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace . Senator James A. Byrnes of South Carolina . Intermediates Gov . Lloyd Stark of Missouri . Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas . Speaker William D. Bankhead of Alabama . And several others ( the dark horses here are so dark that they pass through- the hotel lobbies unnoticed ) . New Deal Objectionables Vice-President Garner . Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry may be challenged , and perhaps it should be left open to doubt . But it is the way the most earnest New Dealers talk , and their talk often reflects the White House . Hull Still Under Pressure It seems tliat pressure is still being brought on Secretary Hull to take the vice-presidential place , on the ground that Roosevelt-Hull would be an eminent ticket , with conservatism and character added by the Tennessean , a ticket taking its place squarely on international issues . But it remains very doubtful whether Mr. Hull would accept the second place , and if he did - it would certainly only be as an obedient party soldier . Yesterday talk sprung up an effort to persuade Mr. Garner to take- renomination as Vice-President . New Dealers repudiated it . They did not deny , however , that they are seeking to ' keep Mr. Farley as Natiofial Chairman . Some close to Mr. Farley said.that lie , too , might , bow to ' party discipline and conduct-the campaign . It seemed an entire possibility . Two eminent presidential aspirants are ruled out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Attorney-General , because both come from New York and neither could share the ticket with Mr. Roosevelt , since a State 's electoral votes can not be cast for two men from the same state. - - Altogether , the Chicago atmosphere is shot with suspensive heat-lightning . Everybody will be glad when it 's over . ? "                     