@@710700

txt BRITISH LABOR SUPPORTS AUSTERITY ) TUC Stand ing trade union leadership here through the week . The first is the certain knowledge that the direction of labor which the Council recommended and the Congress endorsed will work out much more strictly in practice than the average worker realizes . Despite statements to the contrary , it is conceded that the Government will become progressively more insistent upon diversion of workers from less essential to critically important industries . Orders which conceivably may close a factory in London and send Illingworth in The Daily Mail ( London ) A British view of Chancellor of the Exchequer Hugh Dalton . A Desire to Assist Attlee Government Based on By CHARLES E. EGAN Special to Tax Diriv Yeas ' Timms . SOUTHPORT , England , Sept. 6 ? Britain 's Labor Government this week-end has an assurance that the labor unions will stand solidly behind it in the fight the nation faces for economic survival . The great Trades Union Congress in its annual gathering of delegates , representative of 7,500,000 organized workers in Britain , has held a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Government 's achievements . Despite minor rows raised by the Leftist fringe of the labor movement , the convention applauded the Government 's achievements in both domestic and foreign affairs , and proffered continued loyalty in the difficult days to come . Pronouncements of the TUC gatherings can not be minimized , since the Labor party looks to trade unionists for its cue on both national and international affairs . The labor organization 's General Council is in constant consultation with Government Ministers , and its advice is sought on all matters of major importance . The unions represented here are proud of the fact that many of their former officers now hold Cabinet posts under the Socialist Government . They are determined that the Government shall succeed , and through its success demonstrate to the world that the Labor approach to world problems is better than that of the Conservative opposition . For this reason the Congress this week has gone even further than the Government in calling upon its members for sacrifices for the national welfare . Influence of Bevin Ernest Bevin , Foreign Secretary and idol of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday and told of the difficult financial straits into which the country had fallen . He told the delegates that by sweat and toil they must salvage the country 's international position . He asked and received their endorsement of a program under which continued austerity , longer working hours and the direction of labor by the Government will be the rule of life here for a minimum of two years . In a debate which was long and bitter , delegates pointed out that it was the first time that Government direction of labor was considered necessary in peacetime . They asked that the General Council , give them the assurance that the Government 's use of such unusual powers would be moderate and that each step in the program under which the Government will be able to order a worker from one job to another and possibly from one town to another , be taken only after consultation with the TUC Council . As an indication of union labor 's willingness to go along with the Government , this year 's Congress not only endorsed the plan for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calling for the establishment of a forty-hour week throughout industry . It was agreed that under the present critical conditions the nation can not afford to adopt a shorter working week . The Congress went one step further and volunteered to take up with the Government the subject of the possibility of lengthening the hours of labor in various industries . Arrangements are to be made through the coming months for discussions between the Government and the appropriate trade unions on the subject of a longer working week . Economic Deterioration In a special report on the cou ? try 's economic plight , the Genera Council of the Trade Union Con congress explained that " a consider able deterioration of the interns tional economic situation " ha ( occurred in recent months . Th4 report , which touched upon till necessity for Government contro of labor , extended working weel and continued austerity , won al but unanimous approval from th delegates . The report concluded with th statement that : " The General Council have al ready assured the Government o the determination of the trad union movement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thi time of crisis . Immediately upot the close of the Congress contac will be made with the Governmen to get the clearest possible pictur of the situation and sit down wit the appropriate ministers to con Sider the plans of the Governmen for meeting , . the immediate posi tion . " Two factors have been worry portant plant in Glasgow or Soutl Wales are looked for . Such thing ; happened during the war and la bor leaders feel that they will occur again in the present emergency . The second problem is the wild cat strike of miners in a Yorkshir ( area . Leaders here would not ad mit publicly that they feared th ( Yorkshire strikers were in revolt against their leadership , but off th ( record they expressed such fears Many mine workers ' delegates took the view that the strike waf symptomatic of a general uneasi. ness among laboring people . The3 said that unless some means of getting the worker back into th ( pit was found in the coming feet days , the strike might well spreac to coal fields in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are based upon a greater and greater output of coal . On the Dollar Crisis In its assessment of the nation 's dollar crisis and in suggested moves by which it feels that the nation can solve its problem , the TUC does not differ in any major respect from solutions advanced by the Government , industry in general and the Conservative party opposition . All concede that the country must produce more for sale abroad and import less . All accept the necessity for closing the current gar between the volume of exports ark imports . At present , the deficit is running at the rate of ? 600,000 , . 000 ( about $2.4 billion ) a year . Recent edicts by the Government have resulted in an estimated saving of ? 228 million . Although there has been tall over recent weeks of a Coalitior . Government and also of major Cabinet changes , including the resignation of Prime Minister Attlee , no one attending the current week 's session of labor delegates . could presume that the Labor Government has lost the confidence ? of the rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more im- unions .                     