@@707918

txt Is Boston , historically one of the most friendly , supporters of the 1Negro cause before and after the ' Civil War . allowing a Negro racial problem to develop in its own front yard ? The answer to that question seems to be hanging precariously in the balance . In the opinion of civic agencies , Boston Negro leaders and the Negro man in the street , it is a matter of half yes and half no , and there are honest differences of opinion as to the degree of seriousness of the actual or potential problem . It is quite apparent that the ingredients of racial disturbance are present  --  latent and incipient , and some very far from dormant  --  while on the other hand there is an encouraging record of friendliness between whites and Negroes in the City which continues . Police and groups interested in mainttining and fostering amicable race relations are making careful inquiries into the nature of the question . Some Aggravation In the thought of the Negro community , something has aggravated racial - unrest , and to such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the periphery of Boston 's civic conscience . According to an opinion survey made by the writer in Negro and police circles , the following were forwarded as the most obvious of contributing causes of racial tension in the Negro community : I. The influx of civilians and servicemen from other sections of the country , and among Negro servicemen , those from the South , in particular . Policemen agreed that it was usually " the outsider " who caused or was involved in disturbances among servicemen , and added that Boston Negroes on the whole are an exemplary , friendly group . The latter number 25,000 in Boston proper . It was stated that there seemed to be no larger proportion of disturbances among Negro servicemen than among White . Physical Violence 2 . The twin , and often related , matters of alleged physicall violence and brutality between police and Negroes , with police claiming injuries serious enough for hospitalization from Negroes , and Negroes claiming unnecessary brutality from policemen who were quelling - minor disturbances or making arrests . 3 . Lack of employment oppor- ' tunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' where transit " companies-and public utilities and large concerns are beginning to employ Negroes in more than token numbers . 4 . Lack of housing facilities , and ' segregation . Negroes have found some landlords , both Negro and white , unwilling or unable to make urgent repairs , and in other cases Negroes have been- unable to obtain housing because of color distinctions . First Two Serious Of these four sources of disturbance , the last two are more fundamental but immediately less aggravating , but both police and Negroes agreed that the first two areas of grievances were the more serious and in need of immediate attention . There have been several affrays recently between police and servicemen , among whites as well as Negroes . A typical case , perhaps , is the incident , recorded in The Christian Science Monitor of July 3 , in which 29 Negro soldiers and sailors were arrested for allegedly taking part in a disturbance last Saturday night . After 21 were released , eight were ' arraigned in the Roxbury District Court on various charges of loitering , disturbing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentences of six months each , and were turned over to Military police . . Seven of the eight were arraigned were from Southern States and only one from Roxbury . Neither police nor the servicemen received any serious injuries , according to available information ; but the incident has not by any means strengthened relations betVeeen local police and the Negro community . Police claim that several of the men would not move along when requested to do so , and that after an exchange of language , disturbance , in which police said 200 men eventually ' took part , began . Not Wholly Racial It is fairly clear that incidents involving Negro servicemen are not wholly racial in character , that is , they do not always begin because of a difference in color , but Negroes claim that police are unnecessarily tactless or unfriendly in making . requests , while police claim that Negro servicemen often resent being asked to stop loitering or obstructing free foot traffic by a local policeman , rather than by military police . ' Judge Frankland W. L. Miles , before whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department 's concerns over the serviceman problem when he recommended that the number of military pblice ? be increased in some Boston sections so that Boston police " would not be embarrassed by having to arrest men in the service . " The First Service Command ? announeed ? today that several ? mili tary police were assigned Monday night to the district near the Negro U. S. 0 . in Roxbury where the clash occurred over the week end . ( This is the first of two articles on-the Boston Negro-police question .. A second will appear tomorrow . ) Race Relation Plans A five-point program for the preiervation of amicable and constructive relationships among all groups of Americans in the Greater Boston area was recommended today by the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts , in the wake . of a Negro-police disturbance which occurred ? over ? the week end in Roxbury . " There is no reason why we . in Massachusetts should let tensions increase until we are confronted with a Detroit riot , " Miss Mary E. Sanger , Executive Secretary of the ' Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the civic agency . " Positive steps can and must be taken now . " The five-point program calls for : 1 . The effective and prompt attention to duty by all officers and officials . 2 . Familiarization by all police officers With the recommendation issued some months ' ago by the Governor 's Committee for Racial and Religious Understanding . 3 . The immediate institution by our Police Department of an effective training program for police officers . Duty of Officers 4 . The insistence that all officers perform their duties without regard to the race , religion , or economic status of the person involved . 5 . The quick , sure disciplining of any public official who fails to perform faithfully and impartially all tasks connected with maintaining the public peace . The Union statement said , " The disgraceful and highly - perilous clash- last week end between policemen and servicemen ? in Rdxbury calls dramatic attention again to the existence of a - Situation in the Greater Boston ' area Which , in these times , can very quickly be whipped Into a frenzy of interracial @ @ 