@@707236

txt CAPITAL TACKLES OIL NEEDS FOR WAR AND DOMESTIC USE President Talks With Hull and Other Cabinet Aides Over Global Requirements INQUIRY BEGUN BY BYRNES He Gets Plea From Congress Group to Help the East ? Supply Here Gaining By JOHN H. CRIDER Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , July 14 ? The White House turned its attention to the critical petroleum situation today . President Roosevelt conferred with several Cabinet members on the global resources and requirements of the country 's far-flung fighting forces , while James F. Byrnes , Director of War Mobilization , opened a thorough investigation of the domestic gasoline and fuel-oil situations . Mr. Byrnes met with an Eastern Congressional group headed by Representative Fred A. Hartley Jr . of New Jersey to hear its proposals for relieving the acute gasoline supply situation on the Eastern Seaboard . Several encouraging reports on the improved transportation of petroleum products to the East were topped by a statement of Ralph K. Davies , Deputy Petroleum Administrator , that " incoming supplies of petroleum on the East Coast are now at levels equaling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were below normal and " enormous " military requirements remained to be met . The Petroleum Industry 's War Council said that if transportation facilities continued to improve it should be possible soon to give East Coast drivers about as much gasoline as other parts of the country were receiving . Eastern drivers receive about one ' and onehalf gallons a week for their " A " coupons compared with four gallons elsewhere . Inquiry Will Be Widespread Mr. Byrnes ' investigation was so broad that it might be many days or weeks before he decided upon a final course , his aides said . The inquiry was undertaken at the request of the Office of Price Administration and in the light of " new developments . " Bernard M. Baruch , head of the War Industries Board of the last war , and an adviser of Mr. Byrnes , is expected to take part in weighing the oil problem . His report on rubber led to vast improvement in what had been a problem as confused as the petroleum situation is today . The Hartley committee 's program presented to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rubber committee to investigate the gasoline situation , the adoption of the Canadian gasoline rationing system under which each driver receives a yearly allotment of the fuel to use as he pleases , the extension of the pleasure-driving ban from the Eastern States to the Midwest so that reserve gasoline stocks may be built up there for later shipment to this coast , an increase of 35 cents a barrel in the price of crude oil to encourage drilling for new oil reserves , which lattPr move has been strongly urged oy Harold L. Ickes , Petroleum Administrator for War , and an intensive use of barge canals , the Great Lakes and pipe lines to move oil and gasoline eastward . Mr. Byrnes then called in representatives of the major Government agencies dealing with petroleum to discuss the proposals of the Hartley group and to explore the supply and transportation situations . These . officials from the Office of Price Administration , Office of Defense Transportation , War Production Board and Petroleum and Administration for War , whose names were not announced , spent about two nours with the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mobilization director intended to determine the facts regarding the domestic gasoline and fuel-oil situation . In his own statement , Mr. Byrnes said that he would inquire into " the demands at this time and the prospective demands , the available supply , the possibility of additional sources of supply and the question of rationing the available supply for the civilian population . " President Roosevelt 's conference , the deliberations of which were kept secret because of their probable bearing on present and future military operations , was described by Stephen T. Early , White House secretary , as concerning " petrolleum reserves in relation to the I war and petroleum demands for the duration of the war . " The conferees were Secretaries Hull and Knox , Secretary Ickes , who also is Petroleum Administrator for War , Robert P. Patterson , acting secretary of war , and Herbert Feis , economic adviser to the Secretary of State . The presence of Secretary Hull and Mr. Feis suggested the global aspects of the President 's petroleum conference and raised the question whether there might be under consideration some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon British and other United Nations oil resources which were nearer to various theatres of war so as to save transportation through a better geographical distribution of United Nations oil reserves . Those with Representative Hartley in the conference with Mr. Byrnes were Senator Aiken of Vermont , representing Senator Brewster of Maine , and Representatives Margaret C. Smith of Maine , Schuyler 0 . Bland and Dave E. Satterfield Jr . of Virginia , Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts , Leon H. Gavin of Pennsylvania , Aime J. Forand of Rhode Island , Lansdale G. Sasscer of Maryland , William J. Miller of Connecticut and Earle D. Willey of Delaware . Representative Elmer H. Wene of New Jersey , also a member of the group , was unable to be present but sent a statement . There was considerable speculation as to whether the Byrnes inquiry would lead to a centralization of responsibility for petroleum in a single office , as Mr. Ickes has long urged , but it was pointed out that as recently as July 1 the administrators of OPA , WPB , ODT and PAW signed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said merely to have rationalized the differences without giving Mr. Ickes full control . With regard to the current developments , the OWM statement said : " Justice Byrnes concluded that the whole problem of gasoline as well as fuel oil should be restudied by the OWM in the light of new developments . " He intends to fully inform the public as to his finding in so far as this can be done without disclosing information which would be of aid to the enemy . The investigation will cover all phases of the problem , including production , supplies , transportation , essential military supplies and rationing of civilian supply . " The statement by Mr. Davies on the improved East Coast supply situation said that the steadily increasing flow of oil to the East had resulted in lifting the index of stocks of principal petroleum products available to civilian consumers by 2% points to 34 per cent . of normal . It stood at 25.7 per cent as recently as June 5 . In the week ended July 10 tank ' car loadings broke all records , topping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,017,029 barrels a day . Mr. Davies ended his statement with the cautioning note that " civilian prospects now depend entirely upon the military demands ahead . " In another statement he said that , through PAW efforts , an additional 300 tank cars had been obtained for the West-to-East hauling of petroleum . This resulted , he said , from a cooperative **28;1430;TOOLONG fueloil distribution program in the Southwest . At the same time , the ODT stated that the first of 100 new ' tugboats for petroleum transportation was on the way to the Gulf Coast to take its first load . The tug , which is the first in the Government 's $75,000,000 bargetowboat-tugboat construction program , will haul three barges from a Gulf refinery to Panama City , Fla. , from which point the petroleum will be moved across Florida by rail for East Coast distribution by barge . Meanwhile the PAW stated that farmers in all States had received first call on available gasoline supplies to aid them in getting out the ' record crop production called for by the war food program . Harvesting is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farmers in the eastern shortage zone had previously received a priority on gasoline for their nonhighway requirements , and this has now been extended to all States , suppliers being directed to treat non-highway demands of farmers on the same basis as military needs . The PAW also took steps to correct some of " the developing serious unbalance in crude-oil and petroleum-products supply , " pointing out that in PAW District No. 2 ( midwestern ) refineries the allowable crude runs for July had been set at a total of 1,125,000 barrels a day , " the maximum that can be made available to these plants as a result of the declining crude-oil production in that area . " 