@@711895

txt Governor Dewey will tell the people of the state in a radio broadcast tomorrow night that any reductions made by the Legislature in his $936,200,000 budget and $168,200 , - ' 000 program of tax increases " must be in terms of service-cutting . " This was disclosed today by Paul E. Lockwood , secretary to the Gov governor , who issued a statement outlining what Mr. Dewey intended to say in explaining his side of the controversy over the budget , sharp cuts in which are demanded by a i bloc of Republicans from Westchester and Erie Counties . The Governor will interrupt his regular Sunday night conference at the Executive Mansion with Republican legislative leaders to deliver the broadcast , which will be carried by seven NBC stations , including WNBC , New York , and some independent stations , between 8:30 and 9 o'clock . Mr. Lockwood said the Governor would outline " the vitally important services which the people would receive from the requested appropriations in the 1949-50 budget " and would describe " the other services which had to be cut drastically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dual Budget He added : " It is easy for all to agree on tax cuts . It is not as easy to agree on cuts in services which are necessary in order to cut . axes . The difficulty is that budget-cutting and tax-cutting must be in terms of service-cutting . " The Governor will show what these services mean to each person in the state . He will compare the new proposed taxes to carry these services into effect with the tax rates in operation during 1941 , the last pre-war budget year . He will point out that the average of the proposed taxes is lower than in 1941 . " The Governor also will point out that there is not one budget but two budgets  --  one for state operations , which takes 45 cents out of every dollar , and one for local assistance , which taxes 55 cents out of every state tax dollar . " The Governor will discuss both budgets , recognizing that the Legislature has the sole right to determine what services will be rendered and what services should be cut if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Dewey say he does not intend to attack the Republican insurgents and that he has ' no illusions about the possibility of preventing a reduction in his budget and tax program by his broadcast . The purpose of the talk , it was said , is to make clear that he recommended the higher taxes because he believed them necessary . He has taken the position publicly that he performed his constitutional duty in preparing the fiscal program and that the responsi- bility for reductions in services rests with the Legislature . He will not suggest any cuts in the budget or the taxes to the Legislature , it was said . Westchester and Erie Republicans are expected to bring to the Capitol on Monday specific recommendations for elimination or reduction . of budget items. , Their objective is said to be a lowering of the budget total to a point where it will be unnecessary to impose the additional 1-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax or the full 100 per cent of normal personal ? income tax rates recommended by the Governor . ? A suggestion has been made that the budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it taken from capital - construction appropriations . That would permit the gasoline tax to remain where if is and allow collection of income taxes at 90 per cent of normal rates . Income taxes were collected last year at 60 per cent of such rates . James C. Hagerty , Mr. Dewey 's press secretary , said the radio time would be given free by the stations as a public service . The Westchester and Erie Republican delegations can block passage of Gov . Dewey 's fiscal program in the Senate , where they hold a total of five seats and where twenty-nine votes would be required to carry it . The Republicans hold a 31-25 margin over the Demcats in the Senate .                     