@@711337

txt Gov . ThoMas E. Dewey of New York has a firm , finger-tip grip on the Republican presidential nomination in the opinion of Republican governors attending the Govetmors ' Conference here . This was learned today in an informal . off-the-record poll made by the Associated Press and The Christian Science Monitor . The New York Governor 's closest competitor , the poll results indicated , will be Senator Arthur H , Vandenberg of Michiga n , Governors were asked this question : " Whom do you think your Party will nominate for the Presidency ? " Dewey Polls 7 The response was : Governor Dewey , 7 ; Senator Vandenberg , 2 : Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio . 1 ; and Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota , 1 . When informed of the outcome of the survey , Governor Dewey said he was " happy over the confidence expressed in me by my fellow governors . " One Republican governor sidestepped the question , asserting that the Republican National Convention will be deadlocked . Three others refused to comment , and Governor Dewey and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were not asked to participate . Still another handful of Republican governors was not present at the Conference sessions when the poll was taken . Queried in the same manner , Democratic governors somewhat reluctantly conceded the Democratic nomination to President Truman . One governor professed to be doubtful of the outcome and another declined to comment . In selecting Governor Dewey as their Party 's most likely nominee , the Republican governors emphasized that the race is not over until the last ballot is counted . However , if they had to make a prediction today , Governor Dewey is the man . For the most part . they came to this conclusion in recent weeks , they said . A slight swing toward the New York Chief Executive is evident , according to several governors . One said that three weeks ago he would have guessed Senator Vandenberg would be the Republican choice . The situation may be reversed again . he believed . Despite the selection of Governor Dewey as the most likely Republican candidate , the Republican governors indicated that Senator Vandenberg could overtake the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tabulation of second guesses was made , but the Michigan Senator was rated by the majority as a contender equal in ultimate strength to Senator Taft and Mr. Stassen . Senator Taft and Mr. Stassen appeared all but forgotten by the governors . Their names were mentioned only infrequently in off-the-record discussions . ' The outcome of the poll is not regarded as a reflection on the candidacy of Governor Warren , an active and highly respected participant in Conference proceedings . Governor Warren 's availability was noted by several governors . Watch Vandenberg While predicting President Truman 's nomination , one governor gave Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower an outside chance . Others were openly hopeful that President Truman somehow could be eliminated , thus making way for a draft-Eisenhower movement . A typical comment by the Democrats was : " President Truman will he nominated . but he wo n't make anyone happy by it . " Two Democrats were interested in the Republican presidential race to the extent of predicting that Senator Vandenberg would be the Republican nominee . No Democratic governor who ventured an opinion on the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governors , in round-table discussion , agreed that town and city governments can be revitalized effectively if they are granted new local taxation powers . Thus united decision , according to the governors , will have widespread influence on the - future relationship of states with towns and cities . Gov . James H. Duff ( R ) of Pennsylvania keynoted the Cont . ference 's busiest session by citing the tremendous increase in interest in local government , in Pennsylvania resulting from the power granted local committees to frame their own tax legislation . Contrast Cited It contrasts with customary state grants of funds to the cities which made " parasites " of the communities , he explained . The Pennsylvania program brought warm praise from every governor speaking at the round table on " The States and Their Localities . " In turn , each governor told how his state was working out a similar program and predicted further trends in this direction , If local-state relationships can he solved in this manner , Governor Duff continued , the way will he paved for a more equitable relationship between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centralization . In Pennsylvania , he explained , local communities now lave the power to tap almost every source not taxed by the State , Included as possibilities are taxes on wages , amusements , hotel rooms , and merchandise ,                     