@@710955

txt The Soviet Union announced tonight it would begin the issuance of new currency on Tuesday and simultaneously would abandon all food . rationing in a program to combat inflation . The ? announceinent was made to the nation by the Moscow radio in a decree of the Council of Ministers and the Communist party . It was signed by Premier Stalin . and CoI . Gen. Andrei A. Zhdanov , secretary of the Communist party Central Committee and a member of tile Politburo . The action was the first admission that post-war inflation had affected the controlled Russian economy . It followed by ten days the statement in Washington by Acting SecretaIy of State Robert A. Lovett , that something " in the nature ' of panic buying ' had hit Russia aver rumors of devaluation of the ruble .. The decree for currency reform provides that rubles brought to banks for conversion will be exchanged at the rate of ten old rubles for one new one . Bank deposits and bonds will be converted at rates ranging from one for one to one for three old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dec. 16-22 . Throngs Gather to Listen Rationing was ordered abolished on all " food and industrial goods , " and consumer goods were brought under unified price controL The price of bread under the new program will be 12 per cent lower than the ration price and beer 10 per cent lower , the announcement said , but vodka and wine will be unchanged . The object of the new program is to combat inflation and speculation which had increased the market prices of some commodities to ten or fifteen times their pre-war levels , the announcement added . The abolition of rationing was received with expressions of joy by the citizens of Moscow . Yurl Levitan , the announcer who broadcast all the nation 's important war communiqu ? s , read the decree affecting every one of the Soviet ' Union 's 200,000,000 inhabitants . In Moscow , hundreds gathered at loudspeakers in public places to listen . When the import of the news dawned upon them , they pounded each other on the back , shook hands and met in groups to discuss the developments . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flour , a 10 per cent cut will take place for cereals and macaroni from tits , present ration price . Meat , fish ; fats , sugar , confectionery goods , , salt , potatoes and vegetables will remain at the present level . Effect of the Reform Tea , milk and certain other items . were increased over their present . " too low " ration price , but reduced well below the prices charged . in the unrationed " commercial " , stores . The dispatch gave no specific prices for any item . Wages and salaries were untouched by the currency reform . All institutions were ordered to pay their employes wages and salaries for the first half of DeCem-. her between Dec. 16 and 20 , thus assuring that everyone would have. , enough currency to make alt adjustment from the old system to , the new . The currency reform affects those with bonds , savings accounts and cash . Those who present cash for exchange will receive one new ruble for ten old ones , regardless of the size of the sum they exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a one-for-one basis ; accounts up to 10,000 rubles will be exchanged at a rate of oneto-one for the first 3,000 rubles and the remainder on a basis of two new rubles for three old ; deposits of more than 10,000 rubles will be exchanged at the foregoing rates for the first 10,000 rubles and the remainder on a basis of one new ruble for two old . The holders of ordinary state bonds will receive new bonds with a face value of one ruble for each three rubles of face value of the old bonds . Holders of the 1938 issue of state bonds , which were fully redeemable at any time , will receive one new ruble for each five of face value Thus , savings bank depositors with moderate deposits will fare the best under the reform and those who kept their cash in their pockets are the chief losers . The Moscow radio announcement was the first official mention of inflation and speculation in the Soviet Union . Although a hint that rationing would be abolished was made Dec. 9 by Deputy Premier Georgi M. Malenkov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under the decree , the Soviet Union will become the first of the larger European countries to take ) ff rationing completely all foodstuffs and consumer goods . The Russian nation was told by the Government that any monetary losses suffered by individuals under the currency reform were " the last sacrifices " that would be demanded of them as a result of World War II . The decree said currency reform was necessary to allow the end of rationing and to put the Russian economy on a sound basis . It said too much money was circulating throughout the Soviet . Union as compared with goods to be bought , adding that the excess money was coming from two sources ? immense military expenditures , which required putting large sums into circulation , and also from " counterfeit money in rubles " left by the German Army when it was occupying part of Russia .                     