@@712558

txt Plans for a hard hitting drive against crime in Chicago were formulated by Mayor Kennelly and leaders of the Chicago Crime commission at a secret meeting in the mayor 's office , THE TRIBUNE learned last night . In addition to the mayor ana commission members , the council for an intensified war on crime was attended by Police Commissioner Prendergast and his chief deputies , Captains Timothy J. O'Connor and Charles O'Regan . The police executives were called in by the mayor to hear his own and crime commission recommendations for revamping law enforcement methods and revitalizing the entire department . Action Follows Investigation The meeting culminated months of investigation , carried on separately by the mayor , Col. Franklin M. Kreml , author of a police reorganization plan effected last September , and by the crime commission 's staff of investigators , several of them former FBI men . The beginning of a new era of efficient and modern police administration was the sole purpose underlying the plans approved by the mayor and the commissioner . For months rumors that the Chicago Crime commission had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gambling and vice , bungling in crime detection , and an increase in major crimes have troubled the mayor and some palice executives . Mayor Presses for Results Reports of crime conditions in various districts were publicized without apparent effect . In the background , Mayor Kennelly was pushing for results under the September reorganization , recommended by Kreml , director of the Traffic division of the International Association of Police Chiefs , and director of the traffic institute of Northwestern universitY . In the reorganization , Chief of Detectives O'Connor and Capt . O'Regan of the traffic division were moved nearer to the top of the Chicago command by promotion to deputy commissioners . Mayor Kennelly disclosed that he had met with the crime commission leaders , and said the conference was " most friendly . "                     