@@711143

txt Three New York exporters and a customs clerk were arraigned in Federal Court last night on charges of fraudulently using export licenses and export declarations . Collector of the Port Harry M. Durning , who announced arrest of the men several hours before they were taken before Federal Judge Henry W. Goddard , said it was " the first break " in an investigation indicating widespread manipulations that may involve millions of dollars . Senatorial investigators have been on the trail of illegal use of licensing and export declarations , and Mr. Durning expressed his appreciation of the willingness of the investigators to hold off until his case was completed . Members of the Senate Small Business Committee agreed to this procedure early in March , he said . Since Jan. 30 , specialists working under Charles Wyatt , supervising special customs agent , have been trailing men involved in the scheme , watching their alleged irregular use of official papers and the destruction of papers used to send unlicensed shipments abroad . They took the first of the men into custody on Thursday and the others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40 years old , a clerk in the marine division of the Customs House , who received and passed on Government declarations listing merchandise being exported . An employe of the customs for eighteen years , be lives at 632 Ocean Parkway , Brooklyn . Arthur Blumenfeld , 38 , of 35-36 Seventy - sixth Street , Jackson Heights , an independent exporter , charged with fraudulently arranging for shipments to Italy of materials subject to license . Charles Rizzotti , 48 , of 97-11 1Thirty-eighth Avenue , Corona , 1Queens , an employe of American Relief for Italy , 29 Broadway , charged with permitting Blumenfeld to use official relief licenses for private shipments . Rubin Leviton , 36 , of 329 Reap Street , Brooklyn , a former traffic employe of the Barr Shipping Company , freight brokers and forwarders , who is accused of conspiring in the fraudulent use of the official papers in furtherance of the shipments . Spokesmen for the relief society , which has shipped some 70,000,000 pounds of materials to Italy , and for the Barr concein were amazed by the disclosures , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal manipulations . The Barr company has been the official shipping agent for the relief society . Agencies Seen Uninvolved According to Mr. Durning , the actions of the four men are believed to have involved other concerns and are known to have included shipments not connected with either of the two named agencies . The Barr Shipping Company spokesman said that Leviton had been discharged on March 1 after it was discovered that he was connected with another company , but that nothing indicating an illegal activity was known by the company at the time he was released . Judge Goddard held the four men for the grand jury after they waived examination . Markowitz was held in $2,500 bail and the others in $3,500 bail . The men were represented in the bail hearing by Sidney Feldshuh . In a colloquy on the bail amounts Judge Goddard remarked : " This is a serious charge , particularly at this time . " John Buchal , customs agent , signed the complaint , charging violation of Sec. 88 , Title 18 , of the United States Code , in conspiracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patrick Galvin , Mr. Buchal had been engaged on the case since Jan. 30 when a customs official first suspected the men and witnessed the passing of money along with the withdrawal of a false declaration from Custom House records . In presenting the cases , Irving H. Saypol , chief assistant to United . States Attorney John F. X. , and Assistant United States Attorney Amedeo L. Lauritano , explained the workings of the export procedure . " We have no idea as yet how widespread the ramifications of this conspiracy are , " Mr. Saypol said . Mr. Durning , explaining the coinplicated documenting procedure , at the Custom House , said there were many variations of the methods used by illegal operators and that the nature of the shipping business made detection very difficult . One system was the use of the Italy relief ageney 's official and legal license for shipping food , clothing and other materials overseas . An export declaration for a cargo of flour , fats , wire nails or other commodities requiring licensing would be filed at the Custom House along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shipment would be a private one , Mr. Darning said . Conspirators then arranged for the Custom House records in these cases to be destroyed , it was charged . During the weeks of investigation agents and other official employes " worked with " the accused men , with his knowledge , Mr. Durning said . " This is the first break on the working level in what we believe is a huge conspiracy to export illegally , " he declared . " These manipulations have seriously handicapped the legitimate small exporter in his business . These business men were complaining that they could n't get licenses , and yet the licenses were appearing out of the black market " We believe that there have been many cases of forged licenses , of licenses obtained legally but later used improperly , and of licenses being altered . We hope we are on the right track and that we can wipe out the whole illegitimate business . " Wide Misuse Indicated One of the Congressional groups that has been studying records in New York in connection with the license control is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public some of its findings , indicating wide misuse of licensing for exports . Daniel Callaghan , solicitor of the customs division , said the accused men may also face charges of violating other sections in the code , including embezzling Government records , concealing and removing records , bribery of Government officers and receiving bribes . Much of the cargo involved in the conspiracy went to Italy , Custom House agents said . Some of it was shipped to South America . They said the licensing prior to March 1 covered commodities in short supply in this country , explaining that after that date the license control was expanded to cover the full range of materials and products moving out as national exports .                     