@@709088

txt The Senate Kilgore Committee made public today German correspondence that proved , according to Senator Harley M. Kilgore , that the Swiss had violated a newly made agreement with an Allied mission not to permit financial transactions with Germany that might help the Nazis dispose of their loot . The correspondence was between Emil Puhl , former vice president of the Reichsbank , and Dr. Walther Funk , former president of the bank . The Allied commission referred to was headed by Lauchlin Currie , an assistant to the - late President Roosevelt . " Despite the efforts of the Currie mission and the assurances of the Swiss Government that German accounts would be blocked , the Germans maneuvered themselves back into a position where they could utilize their assets in Switzerland to support their war effort , could acquire desperately needed foreign exchange by the sale of looted gold and could conceal economic reserves for another war , " Senator Kilgore said . " These moves were made possible by the willingness of the Swiss Government and banking officials , in violation of their agreement with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazis . " The documents involved were made available to the committee by the War Department , which obtained them in the search by American investigators of Nazi files . A Treasury official said that evidence also had been definitely obtained that the Germans had succeeded in getting wealth into third countries through Switzerland . There was a clue to this in the letter from Puhl to Funk from Zurich dated March 30 , 1945 , which said : " Above all I have insisted on our receiving Swiss francs in return for Reichsmarks which the Reichsbank might release for any reason . That is important as it will enable us to use these francs to transfer funds into a third country . " Reichsbank Linked to SS I In addition to making public the Puhl-Funk correspondence , Senator Kilgore disclosed that American investigators had discovered " that the Reichsbank had entered into an alliance with the SS whereby the bank received and disposed of the I loot which this ' elite guard ' accumulated from victim nations ? including even gold dentures from concentration camp inmates . " Puhl went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I clear , to offset the effects of the Currie mission , which came away ' satisfied that the Swiss would cooperate fully to block German accounts . The letters set forth in detail how he was able to get the Swiss to permit German technicians to work out a scheme whereby the Reichsbank would pay current accounts , such as those of the Red Cross and German Embassy expenses , in Swiss francs . The Americans had agreed that some gold might be used for such payments as embassy expenses , etc. , which were deemed proper , so Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . that the result of the Puhl negotiations was to cause the Swiss actually to buy the German gold . The letters said that there were six tons , or approximately $6,000 , - 000 worth of gold , at Constance , and described how Puhl had prevailed upon the Swiss to take three tons of it . A curious angle was a postscript on Puhl 's letter of March 23 to Funk in which he said that he had discussed with a Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He asked us to supply him with gold , but I refused his request , " this Puhl letter said . " Perhaps it is possible to employ our large credits in yen for that purpose . " In a statement reviewing the content of the letters , Senator Kilgore pointed out that some of the same Swiss officials who were extremely hospitable to our delegation only a month before were I said by Puhl to have been hos'pitable and helpful to him . He also stressed the eye-to-thefuture relations of Germany and Switzerland , which both Puhl and his Swiss collaborators seemed to have had in mind , as illustrated by the following passage from Puhl 's letter of April 6 , 1945 , to Funk : " All in all , I believe that we can be satisfied that we succeeded in obtaining the above described arrangements for German-Swiss payments . Whatever form events will take , such connections will always exist between our countries , and the fact that there exists a contract agreement may be of considerable importance in the future . " Anyway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would have been a rubble pile which would have presented immense difficulties . But now it can be hoped that even in the future conditions between the Reichsbank and the Nationalbank will continue somewhat satisfactorily . "                     