@@705674

txt A current of black paganism stronger than that of the Mississippi River is undermining the foundations of Christian culture , Pope Pius XII warned today in an address broadcast by short wave from Vatican City to the closing session of the ninth National Eucharistic Congress here . Only heroic men and women will be able to withstand this flood , the Pope said as he called upon all Catholics to hold fast to the teaching of Christ to love their fellowmen . He reminded the vast throng that heard him that Christ sacrificed his life for all mankind . Pope Pius told his auditors here that they were fortunate that they lived in a country where they were allowed freedom to practice their religion , but he reminded them that they belonged to a church which is being sorely persecuted in some places today . He said that no one could foresee the end of this bitter tragedy . The voice of the Pope , who spoke in English from his private library in the Vatican , was carried by loudspeakers to thousands of the pilgrims who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apostolic blessing on all those present as well as on those whose Bishops had come here for the congress . Thousands " n Procession As he spoke 80,000 men , women ' and children were being marshaled in their places for the solemn liturgical procession that brought the congress to a close . Thousands more of the faithful lined the streets or gathered in the national Eucharistic center here to witness Dennis Cardinal Dougherty of Philadelphia , the Papal Legate , bear aloft the blessed sacrament to the eucharistic temple . Pope Pius recalled in his address that he had visited the twin cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis during his visit to the United States several years ago , when he was Cardinal Pacelli , the Papal Secretary of State . He said that his mind often turned to the Catholics here . He spoke of how great and wonderful the works of the Almighty are as he observed that his voice was traveling over a great expanse of sea and land to the congress . He reminded his hearers that all loyal Catholic fathers and mothers have a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loved at every moment , in all the tabernacles of the world , " even to the end of time , " he said . There is a great need today to spread God 's word through acts , he declared . Listeners Are Warned " You must not forget that your children and your children 's children may be deprived of the heritage that we had hoped to safeguard for them , " he warned . Pope Pius said that there was no people of Europe who have not their children in this country . Even Africa , Asia and Australia were represented here by their children , he said . Contrasting the peace and happiness that exists in the United States with the strife disrupting other parts of the world , the Pope warned his hearers that they must combat through sacrifice the paganism that he said was responsible for so much misery . While the Pope was speaking the sun was shining down on the assembling thousands of marchers with a relentless fury that sent eighty of them to first-aid stations along the two-mile line of march . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drenched the waiting marchers and the thousands who had gathered to watch them . Through the rest of the afternoon intermittent showers fell on the liturgical procession and on the grounds within the national Eucharistic center , turning the fields about the Eucharistic temple into a sea of mud that sadly bedraggled the brilliant costumes of the marchers . Despite this the scene was one of awe-inspiring beauty as the great river of marchers poured hour after hour into the national Eucharistic center . Through all the storm the thousands who had assembled early in the morning for seats in the grandstand held fast to their places and there was hardly an empty spot in the long expanse of stands . The Eucharistic procession formed in the streets near the Church of St. Andrew on Cross Avenue , St. Paul . The Blessed Sacrament was carried from the church through Como and Oxford Avenues to a flower-covered throne of exposition that had been erected in beautiful Como Park near by . Streets Bedecked With Colors There a reviewing stand had been built . From this Cardinal Dougherty. the Most Rev. Amleto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the-Most Rev. John Gregory Murray , Archbishop of St. Paul and host to the congress , and more than 100 other members of the hierarchy watched the long array of faithful march past . Through two miles of streets bedecked with the papal colors of gold and white and ornamented with 25,000 pennants bearing the emblems of the congress , the long procession continued to the national Eucharistic center in the State fair grounds , midway between St. Paul and Minneapolis . A choir of school children was singing the " Ave Maria " as the vanguard of the parade , a color guard of Boy Scouts bearing the American and Scout flags , entered the arena . They were followed by several hundred service men from near-by Fort Snelling who had chosen to devote part of their leave to this demonstration of their faith . An elaborate pageant devoted to figures of Old Testament and church history came next . There were bearded patriarchs in the robes of nomad peoples : there were girls and men in brilliant robes of red and green and turquoise and yellow , bearing placards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the catacombs ; there were pike-men in the uniforms of the Swiss Guards of the Vatican , and helmeted knights in brilliantly colored regalia . Scouts Sing Congress Hymn Several thousand Boy Scouts and Sea Scouts , carrying red , white and blue staves , formed a section of the procession . As they marched into the Eucharistic center the throng there was singing the hymn written by Pietro Yon for the congress , " Our Eucharistic Lord . " Graduate nurses ' in starched white uniforms , against which their red-lined blue caps stood out vividly , marched unflinchingly through the morass of mud . They were followed by several thousand members of the Catholic Daughters of America , who wore costumes resembling academic caps and gowns , but bright-hued in many colors . Five thousand members of sodalities of dioceses within the province of St. Paul formed a division of the parade . They wore spotless white dresses with sky-blue capes , and at the head of each of their units they carried banners identifying the groups to which they belonged . Girl Scouts clad in cool looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was followed by Catholic Youth organizations of girls and boys , some of them wearing uniforms of bright colors and others in white with gay head dress . Delegates of the laity from the suffragan diocese of the province of St. Paul and from the deaneries of the Archdiocese of St. Paul marched to the music of bands until they came to the arena , where they joined in singing the hymns of the occasion . Procession Comes Into View As the last delegations of the laity found their seats in the infield of the track , the liturgical procession , headed by a cross bearer and acolytes , came into view . Religious communities of Brothers marched in the order of their foundation , the youngest first . Youthful seminarians , several hundred strong , marched in cassock and cotta , followed by the religious clergy . There were Dominicans , their cream-colored habits covered with black capes ; bearded Franciscans in their coarse brown wool garments ; Jesuits dressed like members of the secular clergy , and many more . The diocesan clergy marched in black cassocks and white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marching in the order of their foundation , with the youngest first . They were followed by the very reverend and right reverend monsignori in their choir dress , with purple pompoms atop their black birettas . More than 100 members of the hierarchy , magnificent in capes and white mitres , came immediately before the crosier bearer of Cardinal Dougherty . The Papal Legate , attired in the scarlet robes of a prince of the church , bore aloft the Blessed Sacrament in a silver monstrance brought here I from France in 1865 . Pilgrims from the ecclesiastical provinces of the United States brought the long procession to a close as the Papal Legate reverently bore the blessed sacrament to the altar . The benediction and the final acclamations were followed by I the singing of the Te Deum . Mass Celebrated for Pilgrims The Eucharistic procession was preceded this morning by the celebration before a vast throng at the ! national Eucharistic center here of a pontifical mass for all pilgrims . The mass was sung by the Most Rev. John J. Glennon , Archbishop of St. Louis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph F. Rummel , Archbishop of New Orleans . Four thousand pilgrims gathered this morning in the St. Paul Cathedral for the solemn pontifical mass according to the Maronite rite , which was sung in the language Christ Himself spoke , and which followed the ancient Lebanese liturgy used by St. James the Apostle . Mass was celebrated according to the Byzantine-Slavonic rite meanwhile for 3,500 more pilgrims in the Basilica of St. Mary in Minneapolis . The language of this liturgy is church Slavonic , and it differs greatly from the ceremonial of the Latin church . The mass was celebrated by the Most Rev. Basil Takach , Bishop of the Pittsburgh Greek Rite Diocese . Although the Eucharistic Congress came to its close today , the papal legate and many members of the hierarchy are remaining here until tomorrow in order to take part in the solemn consecration of the basilica of St. Mary in Minneapolis .                     