@@706749

txt Declaring Japan to be our most formidale enemy , " far tougher than Germany , " former Ambassador Joseph C. Grew told a War Council luncheon here today that the Germans cracked in 1918 and that they would crack again , but that the Japanese would fight until they were completely crushed . Mr. Grew indicated that he was shocked to hear people in this country talk as if Germany in time would be defeated " and then we 'll mop up the Taps . " He agreed with those who believe that German morale would not survive a series of setbacks , but he added : " The Japanese will not crack . They will not crack morally or psychologically or economically even when eventual defeat stares them in the face  --  only by utter physical destruction or utter exhaustion of their men and materials can they be defeated . " " That , " he said , " is the difference between the Germans and the Japanese . That is what we are up against in fighting Japan . " About 1,000 persons attended the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the speakers ' table in the Hotel Syracuse as guests of honor with Mr. Grew were Mrs. Jonathan Wainwright , wife of Lieut . Gen. Wainwright , the defender of Corregidor , now a prisoner of the Japanese , and Lieutenant W. Snowdon Smith 3d , Syracuse Army flier , who lost a leg in the Japanese attack on Hawaii . Mrs. Wainwright Gives Pledge Mrs. Wainwright , responding to a request for a few words to the luncheon guests , said : " I am sure you will realize it is very difficult for me to speak at any gathering at this time . You are eagerly awaiting the message of Ambassador Grew , who has rendered such distinguished service to the nation . I feel I may speak for the families of the American men in the Philippines and in the Far East . I hope they may be able to hear this broadcast . " Every one of the families separated by 10,000 miles of ocean join me in sending to them hope , affection and patience until that day when they may have the freedom we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , our pledge that America will fight until that day is come when victory is won . " Lieutenant Smith said that he wanted to corroborate the talk of Mr. Grew . " Those little brown men are tough , " he said . " Do n't underestimate them . It will take an allout effort on every front to lick them , and by every front I mean the home front , the bond-selling and all the other fronts . " " Let 's Get Down to Brass Tacks " In his address Mr. Grew said : " The other day a friend , an intelligent American , said to me : ' Of course there must he ups and downs in this war ; we ca n't expect victories every day ; but it 's merely 1 a question of time before Hitler will go down to defeat before the ' steadily growing power of the combined air and naval and military forces of the United Nations ? and then , we 'll mop up the Japs . ' Mark well those words , please , ' And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My friends , let 's get down to brass tacks . I know Germany ; I lived there for nearly ten years . I came out on the last train with my chief , Ambassador Gerard , when , in 1917 , we broke relations with Germany and shortly . afterward were forced to declare war on that aggressor . " I know the Germans well ; , truculent and bullying and domineering when on the crest of the wave , demoralized in defeat . The Germans cracked in 1918 . I have steadfastly believed and I uelieve today that when the tide of battle turns again4 them , as it assuredly will turn , they will crack again . " I know Japan ; I lived there for ten years . I know the Japanese intimately . The Japanese will not crack . They will not crack morally or psychologically or economically , even when eventual defeat stares them in the face . They will pull in their belts another notch , reduce their rations from a bowl to a half-bowl of rice , and fight to the bitter end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical destruction or utter exhaustion of their men and materials can they be defeated . That is the difference between the Germans and the Japanese . That is what we az e up against in fighting Japan . " That gives food for thought , does n't it ? You who have never lived in Japan can have no conception of the overweening confidence of the Japanese Army and Navy , their overweening ambition , and their determination to conquer and subjugate portions of the Occident just as they already have temporarily possessed themselves of large sections of the Orient . " You realize that the Japanese already are in . Aleutian Islands , do n't you ? Not far from Alaska . Not so far from other-parts of our country . Our own armed forces are dealing with that situation . I mention it merely as a concrete indication of what the armed forces of Japan hope to do , and what they intend to do  --  and what they will do if they can . First to bomb important American centers , and then , eventually , invade America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deluded into thinking that these hopes are merely pipe dreams , impossible of fulfillinent . The Japanese , may seem to us fanatics and , at times , barbarians . But . in building their army . they have been extremely practical . and level-headed , forging a military nation which today must be recognized as one of the most formidable in the world . Learned Lessons Fighting China " The Japanese Army has one great advantage over her enemies in the Far East  --  the advantage of five years of hard fighting in , the China war . They have paid dearly for it . Estimates of their casualties run as high as a million men . But for this grim price in blood they obtained a praying ground where they . could build a tough , veteran army trained in that greatest of all military schools  --  war itself . " But the Japanese were not content with this . They gave their men further training in special areas where the terrain and climatic conditions approximate those in the regions where they were to fight . The units and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and put to work . " The people of Japan are wholly united in their support of their armed forces and of this war simply because it is declared to be the will of the Emperor . To oppose the will of the throne , the will of the Son of Heaven , is unthinkable in Japan . Disloyalty to the Emperor , too , would shame their own ancestors ; and ancestor worship , the patriotic faith called Shintoism , is the fundamental faith of the entire country . " Not , I hasten to add , that the , Japanese Government has ever succeeded in obtaining universal conformity among its subjects . Even among the Japanese there are a few bold spirits who ate unwilling to accept dictation from above and who insist on thinking for themselves . " Nevertheless , despite its strength , Japan 's new empire should certainly not be considered invulnerable . It has definite weaknesses which , if we take full advantage of them , will lead ultimately to the collapse of her whole position . " Japan , despite an unparalleled expansion over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigns of the past Winter , has not succeeded in removing strong Allied positions on the flanks of her . defensive chain . It is , of course , an axiom of conquest that each time you advance you are creating a future need for a further advance to protect your new position . Nevertheless , Japan hoped that by her concerted campaigns ? she could driveler enemies back to such . a distance that she would be able to halt her - forces on natural defensive lines . Transport a Japanese Weakness " This she has not been . able to do . The : United Nations still hold bases on and from which it is poesible for them to organize and launch striking forces to attack the Japanese positions , both new and old . These will be used ? amply and effectively ? as the war progresses . " And finally , it must be considered a weakness of the - Japanese defensive ring that communica-1 tions and transport must be carried on very largely by water . As we have seen only too clearly here at home , sea-borne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be cut , at best they compel the defensive country to divert much of her naval strength to convoy and anti-submarine patrol . Japan is not a country which can replace her shipping losses easily and it may well turn out that the steady attrition of her shipping , both mercantile and naval , may play a considerable part m her ultimate defeat . " But let me emphasize once again that these weaknesses will certainly not of themselves cause Japan to be defeated . They must be exploited  --  taken advantage of ? by determined aggressive action by the United Nations . And that in turn can come about only if our government has the determined and aggressive support of every one of us here at home . "                     