@@711868

txt On several key points , United States Far East policy has been clarified as a result of the intense controversy which has followed the recent visit here of Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Rovall . First of these clarifications is that the United States has no intention of reducing its military establishment in Japan at this time , Second is that while the occupation may continue for some time , United States military planners do not regard Japan as an indispensable component of its Far East defense establishments . The latter point , which was the primary topic in the recent flood of obviously inspired news stories here on Feb .. 11 , is the point which caused the greatest flurry  --  not only among the Japanese , but among other interested powers in the Far East . Nippon ' Expendable ' ? Actually , even a well-trained Japanese militarist could only admit that in the event of war the United States probably could not defend Japan . It should be noted , however , that as the American occupation here has continued , the feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war the United States would remain in Japan and use it as a military base . This feeling actually is regarded by the Japanese as having been the topic of one of Gen. Douglas 's interviews with Emperor Hirohito , in which the Supreme CoMmander , Allied Powers , is said to have assured the Emperor that he would " defend Japan the same as he would defend the United States . " Meanwhile , intelligent Japanese , including Premier Shigeru Yoshida himself , do not believe there will be war in the Far East at this time . They do , however , believe that the United States feels it necessary as a normal defense measure to prepare for any eventuality . Wedge to Obtain Aid They have felt that the United States regards Japan as an integral part of its defense mechanism .. And they feel that because of this perhaps they can obtain at this time any sort of concession or aid they desire from America . The line of reasoning behind the inspired stories here which started the controversy therefore seems obvious . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief that the United States now will do everything and permit anything in Japan because of the priority of future defense considerations . And this shaking-loose process apparently applies not only to the Japanese but to certain Ameticans here who have encouraged the notion , to certain other foreign powers that have based their calculations on this notion , and possibly to Chinese Nationalists who still show signs of believing the United States will come to their aid despite actions to the contrary , Sinister Aspect The intense Japanese efforts to discredit the inspired news stories here take on a somewhat sinister aspect . There is no Japanese news editor , in the first place , who does not know the source of the inspired stories on United States military policy which were published here Feb. 11 . But because American newspapermen here are committed not to reveal the source , the Japanese feel they can attack the implied policy without fear of reprisal from occupation authorities . The same applies to the " high ranking occupation official " whom the Japanese press here quote as saying the Japanese need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese feel they now are in a good position to try to play off local occupation authorities against a policy which they know originates in Washington . Another aspect of the situation , meanwhile , is the effect which these inspired stories have had upon China . The Chinese Government 's Central News Agency reporter here cabled in his dispatch that the stories on United States ? military policy originated in a secret press conference given to select American newspapermen by Mr. Royall , If Chinese Nationalist officials consider this to be true  --  and the Chinese Embassy here so indicates  --  the effect of the stories may be crucial in convincing Nationalist China that the United States has written it off . As one local Chinese Government official here pointed out , " If the United States has written China off , it is only natural . that Japan would not be defensible in case of war . "                     