@@710724

txt Politics continued to play hide and seek with agriculture and industry here today as the Chief Executives and their representatives from ten North Atlantic states toured spacious grounds and buildings of the 26th annual Eastern States Exposition . The big fair is now on its second day of record-breaking attendance after being closed for six years . Politics were definitely in hiding as industry and agriculture played a most important onthe-sceen role with Young America whooping it tip and sharing the day with the governors . Keen Interest Yelling like only 50,000 youngsters can yell , boys and girls of Western Massachusetts stormed the exposition today in droves. - The more agriculturally-minded youngsters took keen interest in the Boys ' Clubs and Future Farmers exhibits of livestock , vegetables and fruit . But , like all youngsters , there was still keener interest in hot-dogs , soda pop , ice cream , spun sugar candy and souvenirs . Almost every one was loaded with the usual collection of circulars and folders picked up at exhibition booths . At the Massachusetts State Building this noon , Governor Bradford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their representatives and to 350 agricultural and political leaders of the Northeast Atlantic states . Governor Present Besides Governor Bradford , there were present Governors Thomas E. Dewey of New York , Horace A. Hildreth of Maine , Charles M. Dale of New Hampshire , Ernest W. Gibson of Vermont , James I .. ( ? c 0 ? Connecticut and Walter W. Bacon of Delaware . In addition , there were Lieutenant Governors John N. of Rhode Island and Daniel B. Strickler of Pennsylvania , and Willard Allen , Commissioner of Agriculture of New Jersey . Governor McConaughy of Connecticut spoke briefly for the other New England Governors and Governor Dewey represented the four " foreign " states . in addition , surprise visits from Senators Charles M. Tobey . ( R ) of New Hampshire and Leverett Salton-stall ( R ) of Massachusetts , occasioned brief remarks from these two dignitaries . In each instance , the agriculture and industry of the respective States was highlighted by the Chief Executive . Governor Hildreth of Maine had plenty to boast about in the humble spuds , just now coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject of maple sugar to that of the State 's extensive dairy industry . Governor Dale of New Hampshire stressed the " made in New Hampshire products " of that State which vied with its fruit and horticulture . Picture : Page 2 . Top State Officials Visit Exposition . By a Staff Phntozranher Agriculturally-inclined Chief Executives and other officials from 10 North Atlantic States are attending the mammoth Eastern States Exposition at Springfield , Mass . Shown at the fair are , front row . left to right : Governors James L. McConaughy of Connecticut : Thomas E. Dewey of New York : Robert F. Bradford of Massachusetts ; Charles M. Dale of New Hampshire ; Ernest W. Gibson of Vermont . and Walter W. Baconsof Delaware . Rack row . left in right , are : Lieut . Gov . John S. of Rhode Island and Daniel B Strickler of Pennsylvania ; A. K. Gardner , Maine Commissioner of Agriculture , and Willard Allen , New jersey Commissioner of Agriculture . They shared today 's honors at the Exposition with about 50,000 children as the fair resumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            