@@708239

txt After a week of praising President Roosevelt , the Congress of Industrial Organizations convention wound up here by condemning ? four members of his Administration , thereby illustrating the difficulties of eating your political cake ano having ' it too . It is a major difficulty that has dogged this impressive , and probably historically important , ' C : I. 0 . convention from the beginning . The C. I. 0 . has just emerged from a ' victorious election contest in which its new adjunct , the Political Action Committee , played a big part in re-electing Mr. Roosevelt . Two Problems Arise But this convention has illustrated two problems that arise as sequels : I. Although the big international C. I. 0 . unions are proud and elated over P. A. C. , they are a little concerned over its future influence in Washington . The independent leaders want to control matters themselves . And , also2 . Although they approve President Roosevelt in the big generalities of his position , international co-operation abroad and " full employment " at home , they differ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific , intimate subject of their own wage increases . The Roosevelt Administration is trying to keep wages where they are , the C. I. 0 . wants them advanced . It was on this second subject that a burst of opposition " arose here yesterday , as the convention wound ' up . R. J. Thomas , head of the United Automobile Workers , himself , a labor member of the National War Labor Board , attacked William H. Davis , Chairman of the NWLB as " a weak , worn-out , old man . " . Philip Murray , newly re-elected as head of the C. I. 0 . for his fifth term , attacking frozen . ! wages " while prices soar , " attacked James F.:Byrnes , War MobilizatiOn.Director , Fred . M. Vinson , Director of Economic Stabilization , and public members of NWLB . He called upon George W. Taylor , NWLB Vice-Chairman , to " resign from your , job . " And Congress , he charged , had violated a pledge to stabilize wages and prices . Citizens Group Meets This afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens " organization  --  holds its convention here . Sidney Hillman is the head of both groups , but as the citizens ' unit is not specifically connected with trade unionism , it is expected to go along with the Hillman parent group , now preparing for the 1946 congressional elections . Summing up the convention , the C. I. 0 . is expected to go along with President Roosevelt for the most part in the months to come . It will oppose wartime strikes , will fight isolationism , will demand full postwar employment . But it opposes the " Little Steel " formula that holds down its OM wages , and it is obvious here that there are seeds of discontent . The P. A. C. is by no means irrevocably committed to the Democratic Party .                     