@@709249

txt The . 13-member United Nations Interim Committee today approved a recommendation to put the organization 's permanent home in the **29;247;TOOLONG area of Connecticut and New York . Australia protested , still urging San Francisco for the site . Col. W. R. Hodgson , the Australian delegate , said after the closed meeting that he would ask rejection of the recommendation tomorrow when it is presented to the full 51-member committee on headquarters . He added that he would put up a fight for San Francisco . By Stafford Derby Staff Writer of The Christian Science Monitor Selection of the site for the permanent home of the United Nations revolved around London , New York , and Boston today . London saw the report of the Site Inspection Committee , which recommended the North Stamford-Greenwich area , go before the 1 Headquarters Committee for final ' action . New York , picked for the interim headquarters , echoed with protests from the North Stamford-Greenwich commuters , who kept the cables hot to London . Boston Reaction Boston was pleased to learn from the official group repsmade public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Russian representative , who urged , that Massachusetts be banned from consideration , was not upheld in this position by his fellow-members , Official reaction in London , where Boston and New York sites had been picked to win , was ternperate ? " Wait and see what the Headquarters ' Committee says . " Londoners are looking for more light on the site group 's recommendation after the Headqu:rters Committee meeting today . Protests Color View Reports from the British Capital indicate that reactions are being colored by the protests of the residents of the selected area . Sober judgment , however , points to one outstanding fact . Al-through the group made perfectly clear-cut recommendations , the With the British , a now familiar problem presents itself . What to do when Russia objects ? It is known that the British delegation had taken a strong line against New York throughout the debates . Prof. Charles K. Webster , British delegate on the full site committee , told the subcommittee before it left for the United States that " UNO would be completely lost in New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he explained " would be so exposed to the magnetic attractions of all the diversions a great city offers that the tendency would be to pull the delegates away from their work . " It would be impossible , " he stated , " to establish that really international atmosphere set aside from the teeming national life of the United States which the British delegation considers vitally important . " Statements opposing Russia and UNO made by Judge John E. Swift of the Massachusetts Superior Court and Supreme Knight of the Knights of ColumbuS at a dinner in Boston on Jan. 20 are con. , tained in the report at the request of Mr. Saksin . Soviet Bans Bay State Interpretation of this incident by the Russian representative led to his statement at a private meeting on Jan. 23 that " we could not in any case consider any part of the State of Massachusetts as a possible site " for the UNO capital . Other members dissented and the report states that they " were not prepared to draw Prom this single incident  --  which in their opinion could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inference that the State of Massachusetts did not comply " with stipulated qualifications . They said they " could not overlook the numerous proofs of good will toward the United Nations as manifested by the exceptionally cordial reception that was accorded us in Boston . " A strikingly similar note was sounded by Governor Tobin , who today issued a formal statement , which follows : " I disagree with Mr. Saksin that Massachusetts has an atmosphere . and an attitude toward the UNO that fails to meet the essential criteria of the interim committee . ' " The resolution enacted by the Great and General Court of Massachusetts , representing all the people of the Commonwealth , expressing welcome to the United Nations Organization and expressing appreciation for giving consideration to Massachusetts as a possible site , demonstrates unquestionably an attitude of friendliness and welcome . " The earnestness and warmth of support given by our citizens from all walks of life  --  of every race , color , and creed  --  to the Massachusetts committee and to the committee or the UNO are overwhelming evidence of the fmriendly attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made secure . " ' One Man 's View ' lie interest in . Boston found other points in the report which were significant . On both the votes for the permanent and interim sites Francois Briere of France took an individual stand . When only one site was recommended for the permanent home , M. Briere abstained from voting . He considered , states the report , that the group " had authority to report on several sites only and not to recommend one particular site . " Evacuation Problem When New York City was named as interim headquarters , M. Briere recommended that the committee limit itself to recommending three sites . One of the thorniest problems the group encountered was the question of displacing those living in the area finally approved . On page 14 of the 89-page report , the group points out that such " evacuation " wohid be avoided " as far as possible . " Taking a practical view , the group realized that many Americans would be operating the services required in the great new world capital . Such residents would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The four sites recommended are analyzed for their advantages and drawbacks : 1 . Blue Hills area is " admirably adapted for the building end , " and its school facilities are " excellent . " Near the sea , the district is " rather hemmed in on the west , south , and east by villages and small towns . " 2 . Hyde Park , N. Y. , draws few favorable comments . " The area does not lend itself very easily to the building of a city , " the report states . " A material factor is the close association of this area with President Roosevelt . " This , however , is found " greatly welcome in .. , certain Anierican quarters , " with " strong opposition " in others . 3 . The North Shore is within an hour of Boston . It has the coolest summer climate of any areas visited and " adequate building sites are available . " 4 . The North Stamford-Greenwich region is near New York City , which is 50-60 minutes by train from Stamford . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commenting on the situation , Orson Adams , Jr. , Chairman df the Massachusetts UNO Committee , calls Judge Swift 's remarks " the views of one individual . " " The statement of Mr. Saksin , referring to the speech made by Judge Swift , has been called to my attention , " said Mr. Adams . " May I say that this speech by Judge Swift represented the views of one individual , and that he was not speaking for the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Massachusetts , which has been extremely co-operative in the efforts of the Massachusetts UNO Committee to bring the UNO to Massachusetts . Briere Dissents                     