@@711498

txt President Truman 's speeches in Michigan and Ohio yesterday formally opened the 1948 campaign and presumably identified the issues which the Democratic leadership counts as most hopeful to its cause . To win the election in the face of the present odds against him , Mr. Truman must hold the great bulk of the " labor vote " against possible inroads by both Mr. Dewey and Mr. Wallace . And he must ' find , for the great mass of middle-ofthe-road people , an issue sufficiently personal and near at hand to offset the normal and evident disposition to change command in Washington after so long a period in power for one party as sixteen years . These considerations adequately explain Mr. Truman 's heavy emphasis yesterday on repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act , a matter of special interest to organized labor , and on the rising cost of living , which has made its effect felt in every American home . Mr. Truman continues to picture the Taft-Hartley Act as the result of a Republican conspiracy to enslave labor and as a statute so harmful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeal . But there are three points in the record which must be taken into account in any assessment of this kind : 1 . The Taft-Hartley Act is a bipartisan measure . It was enacted in response to a widespread popular sentiment which had already made itself evident in the enactment of similar legislation by various State Legislatures and it would not be law today if a majority of the President 's own party in the House of Representatives had not voted to override his veto of it . 2 . Mr. Truman himself turned to the Taft-Hartley Act and put it to good use when John L. Lewis , with his customary arrogance and disregard of the public welfare , defied all peaceful efforts at a settlement of a threatened coal strike and called his miners off their jobs last March 12 . Had Mr. Truman won out on his fight to defeat the Taft-Hartley Act , the Government would have found itself without an effective weapon to deal with a strike which was rapidly paralyzing tile whole nation . 3 . It is obvious that the Government must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of nation-wide strikes in basic industries which actually do threaten such paralysis , and for this purpose the Taft-Hartley Act is clearly a betterbalanced , more judicial and less punitive instrument than the method of drafting strikers into the Army , which Mr. Truman himself once proposed in a moment of crisis . Plainly , by ignoring these considerations , Mr. Truman is vastly oversimplifying the story of the enactment of the Taft-Hartley Act , its purposes and powers , and the consequences it has had . He is also vastly oversimplifying another story when he speaks as he did yesterday of the second major issue on which he has chosen to put chief emphasis  --  the problem of rising prices and the soaring cost of living . His confident remark to a Grand Rapids audience that " we could control prices easily if a price-control law were available " reveals either a disheartening unawareness of the profound influences now at work in this situation or a blithe willingness to ignore them . Rising prices in the United States are the consequence of forces too powerful to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy ) merely by forbidding them to rise . The necessity of fighting a great war in self-defense , and the vast purchasing power created by government borrowing to finance that war , are the primary factors in the situation . On top of this came the effect of the Truman Administration 's fear of a post-war deflation and depression un- less industry granted wage increases sufficient to maintain labor 's wartime level of take-home pay , and the pressure exerted by the Administration to achieve this end . A Republican Congress has added additional impetus through an ill-timed tax cut . Both parties have vied for leadership in supporting measures to keep farm prices artificially high . And both parties , while calling for increased production as a preventive of inflation , have been unwilling to face the fact that this can be achieved only if increased production is unaccompanied by a corresponding rise in costs . The Republicans have been as quick to avoid the implications of that fact as the Democrats , turning a deaf ear to such realistic suggestions as an increase in the basic work week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party has been willing thus far to talk in terms of the lower farm - income , the smaller take-home wages and the reduced business profits which are the only effective answer to in flation . From Mr. Truman 's remarks on the subject yesterday and from the tone and temper of the Republican platform adopted at Philadelphia , it seems pose Bible that both parties , talking much in the campaign about the dangers of inflation , will-continue to select from the record for the attention of the voters those errors of policy and judgment made by the opposition and to ignore any contributions of their own . In this case we shall have plenty of campaign fireworks , but scarcely a well-rounded understanding of the basic problems .                     