@@708376

txt In the buildings and the streets of St. Vith and other little towns and villages where the Germans have tried to stand firm . there is similar grim evidence of American and British superiority in one of the most difficult and most awesome phases of warfare  --  house , to-house fighting . In brief , the Germans are being ? mastered on this frontjust as surely , though less speedily , as they are being overcome by the ! Russians in the East . Indeed . in isome sectors , the tempo of Nazi withdrawal tempts one to apply ! the word " rout , " though expeIrience has taught it is not wise to generalize . ' The biggest puncture of the German forces is in the St. Vith of writing . But some divisions are believed to have gone , and the movement of others away from the western battle line has congested German transport and presented Allied airmen with targets of which they have taken fullest advantage . Enemy Transport Hit Airmen who have been ranging on missions of destruction behind Nazi positions here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the highways and heavily loaded rolling stock on the railroads . When those were moving in the other direction previously . they had the advantage of air cover and bad sky conditions that kept our aircraft grounded most of the time . In recent days the weather has ? not been on their side . A consid ? erable proportion of the large amount of transport that was brought safely into the battle areas here has not managed to get away , Whether the Germans intended it for use in the east or not , it certainly is not going to get there . This emphasizes the interrelation of the Western and the Eastern Fronts as the war enters its conclusive stage . How long this stage will last is i a matter of conjecture . But in it the Russians are benefiting from Allied pressure on the Nazis in the west just as American and British troops have been profiting by the German necessity to direct main military efforts to the east . Field Marshal ' Gen. Gerd von Rundstedt 's counter offensive would have been a very serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had been able to put greater weight into it by the switching over of Nazi divisions tied down in the east . As it is , the Germans can hold the Siegfried Line , which they are retreating to , only so long as supplies and reinforcements keep flowing into it ? as they failed to do into several of the forward positions the Nazis now have lost . Headquarters vehicles had to be drained of fuel in some cases in order to keep fighting units mobile a little longer . Many hungry prisoners have told a ' doleful tale of a breakdown in the rations supply system . " Something seems to have gone radically wrong in the rear , " said one . That just about sums up the position as the German High Command ponders whether to commit the remaining strategic or even tactical . reserves on this front to the west or to the east . It note is regarded certain the Nazis can not do anything more on this front than stand on the defensive with the minimum number of troops considered adequate for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way back into the offensive position they were deprived of by the German break-through . Currently their objective is to keep the enemy so heavily , engaged that he can not withdraw troops for any purpose . In certain sectors , the Germans are pulling out so fast behind the usual screen of mines and artillery fire that it is hard to maintain contact . In other sectors , Nazi rear guards are fighting fiercely to gain time for redisposal farther back . But th ' acute problem has to be faced of finding reserves . Some of these are being drawn from Norway . Some of the reserves which have been thrown into line here have had little or no previous battle experience . I came across one prisoner from such a formation who had been engaged in garrison duty in Norway since 1940 . He went there after the occupation was completed . He never had seen any fighting until he was hurled into the thick of it here . He is a studious type of young man who had been through the usual Nazi mill for conditioning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to be an enthusiastic devotee of Hitler and Nazi philosophy . Contempt for Hitler Five years among people who resented occupation bitterly had given him time to think again . He said he had come to detest the ' Nazi regime and everything it stood for . " Many of us have I , changed our viewpoint in this ' way , " he averred . " But we have not been able to do anything about it while watching the country we love draw closer to ruination . " In contrast , one often sees prisoners who still have some swagger about them and say they believe Germany remains invincible . They ucually are officers . Enlisted men as a rule seem relieved to be out of the fighting and have not heard about the Russian advance at all . They probably think it is Allied propaganda . Those who have been subject to air attack are apt to speak bitterly of the absence of the Luftwaffe upon which eastern levelopmmts foreshadow fresh demands . To what extent Luftwaffe squadrons have been diverted so far it is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so limited one has almost given up thinking about them since the brief intensified effort they made in the early stages of the German counteroffensive . Their losses then were such as to rule out the probability of any repeat performance . There has not been one  --  not even an effective defensive effort against Allied aircraft which has been hammering their vital communication lines .                     