@@711564

txt Sanitary district officials yesterday launched an investigation to determine if a fireman employed at the southwest sewage treatment plant , who once was suspended with two other men for negligence that cost the district more than $100,000 , held another political job with the school board while still on the sanitary board pay roll . The fireman is Joseph J. O'Con nen , 3515 W. 63d pl . He has been a sanitary district fireman since June 29 , 1942 . In 1946 he was suspended for 20 days , and took five months leave of absence , for his part in the negligence that caused a boiler explosion Fire loiter Lacking Water William A. Dundas , general superintendent of the district , said O'Connell and two other men fired a boiler unit and neglected to run water into it . When water was run into it , the boiler was so hot the explosion resulted . Dundas said O'Connell had returned to work and was still ' on the pay roll , with a good attendance record . Apprised that a Joseph J. O'Connell , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the school board , working 44 hotrs a week at a monthly salary of $380 fromOctober , 1947 , to Aug , 79 , Dundas said he intended to question O'Connell about the matter . Oils Asks For Report Anthony A. Olis , Republican minority member of the sanitary board , who directed an investigation of incompetence , gambling , and waste in sanitary district operations last year , said he would ask Dundas ( or a full report on his inquiry into O'Connell 's employment , " A sanitary district Job , partic.plarly the handling of expensive equipment , is too important to be considered an avocation or a part time Job , " Oils said . ' 9f this man has been holding down two Jobs it hardly seems possible he could devote the necessary attention to his duties at the southwest plant . " First In Civil Service Dundas could n't explain how O'Connell could hold a day time job while lie was working for the sanitary district on a different shift every three weeks . Tne O'Connell employed by the school board worked from 8 a.m. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a.m. until noon on Saturdays , school officials said . O'Connell , whose father is a school engineer , ranked first on the civil service eligibility list posted recently liy the civil service commission . lie was dropped to 23d place after scores were adjusted to provide credit for war veterans ? Ile had two brothers who also made the list and another brother who made the promotional list for school firemen . Denies Holding 2 Jobs The examinations for school engineers aroused interest when it was learned the eligibility list included close relatives of several politicians , school engineers , and labor officials . O'Connell , reached at his home yesterday , denied he had held two public jobs at the same time . lie said he had been working recently at a mill but declined to discuss his employment further .                     