@@706554

txt A limited number of- letters signed by Mayor La Guardia warning 3-A men ( deferred from the draft because of dependents ) that their failure to enroll in the City 11 Patrol Corps would result in " their defense status with the protective forces of the city " being reported to their local draft boards , went out in the mails yesterday in franked Selective Service envelopes , in compliance with a request from the Mayor 's office . However , a statement by Colonel Arthur V. , draft director here , made it clear last night that the Selective Service law provides no penalty for deferred registrants who refuse to join civilian defense activities and they are not threatened with reclassification by their local boards . On his return from Washington by plane last night the Mayor declared any one who objects to the wording of his letter is " a contemptible fifth columnist . " " Not Unreasonable , " He Says " It goes without saying that any one who is deferred and who sleeps at home while his neighbor is in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defend his home , " the Mayor added . Asked what he thought the draft boards could do to 3-A men who declined to enroll in the City Patrol Corps , the Mayor said they will then have " useful statistics and information which may be properly used in future legislation . " It was emphasized at Selective Service headquarters that the letters , written on the stationery of the Mayor 's office , were being distributed by a " permissive order " from Colonel , authorizing local boards to send them out if they wished , provided the extra task did not interfere with their regular work . It was recalled that Colonel cooperated with the Office of Civilian Defense a year ago by passing on fifty of its letters to each local board in the city for " permissive distribution " to a selected number of 3-A men . Those letters urged deferred registrants to join the Air Raid Warden Service . Names Were Refused At that time Colonel refused to order the local boards to turn over the names and addresses of all 3-A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firmly resisted any suggestions of pressure on 3-A men to join that earlier " draft-the-deferred " movement . When Mayor La Guardia first began to organize the City Patrol Corps , he appealed to veterans of the last war and others with military experience to enlist as privates . Lester B. Stone , former newspaper man who is now executive secretary to the Mayor at $10,000 a year , is a major in the corps . Bernard Mullady , former newspaper man who is now acting director of the information service of the Wages and Hours-Division at $5,600 a year , is a captain . Efforts to obtain the names and military background of other officers in the corps were unsuccessful last night . Inquirers were told that only Major Gen. Robert Danford , coininandant of the corps , could make public that information . General Danford is expected at the corps headquarters this morning . It was estimated that 65 per cent of the city 's total draft registration is classified as 3-A . Text of Mayor 's Letter The text of the letter , which was mailed yesterday only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Dear Registrant : You have been temporarily deferred from duty with the armed forces by your local draft board and placed in deferred classification 3-A . This temporary deferment does not entirely relieve you of your civilian responsibilities and patriotic duties to your country . " The City Patrol Corps of the City of New York is now engaged in enrolling men to the duty of guarding places vital to the war effort , which are considered sensitive and vulnerable to sabotage . New York City needs able-bodied men for this service . " You owe it to yourself , your family and your neighbors to come forward and assist the local authorities protecting your city . " If you fail to apply for enrollment with the City Patrol Corps your defense status with the protective forces of the city will be reported to the local draft board . " It is suggested that you report within five days from receipt of this notice to the registration office , indicated herein , nearest to your home and present this letter to the City Patrol Corps recruiting officer . " An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force that was planned for use in guarding power plants and other public buildings to relieve regular police of those duties . Colonel explained that the letters were being sent out under the government frank used for Selective Service mail because they were considered part of the general war program . Although he was careful to point out that there was no provision in the Selective Service law or regulations that would authorize local boards to take action of any kind against registrants who refused to join in civilian defense activities , Colonel expressed the opinion that " deferment is a privilege and not a right . " " Those men granted deferment , " he continued , " because of dependency , occupation or other reasons should show their appreciation of the consideration extended to them by rendering whatever services they can in these vitally necessary civilian defense activities . "                     