@@707333

txt All the recent statements by President Roosevelt , Mr. Churchill and General Marshall have stressed the point that after long preparations and many gratifying but preliminary victories the United States and Great Britain are about to embark on great offensives in both Europe and the Far East . Yet at this very moment the country is being treated to controversies over military personalities , which in addition to the absence of complete understanding between the Western allies and Russia , might easily impair the cordial collaboration between the fighting forces of the United States and the British Empire that has contributed so much to the successes already achieved . In so far as these controversies are the result of honest differences of opinion among persons in possession of all the facts , they are perhaps unavoidable in a democracy . But in so far as they are products of political partisanship or personal ambition they are regrettable . With the impending creation of new and larger fronts in both Europe and the Orient , it is obvious that new commanders must be appointed for them . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for knockout blows against our two main enemies , Germany and Japan , it is equally obvious that their commanders will have to be men of the highest caliber , able to inspire the same confidence in their Allied troops and obtain the same collaboration from all Allied subcommanders as have Eisenhower and . Beyond that , since the one war must still be waged in two widely separated parts of the world , some supreme military authority will have to guide the over-all strategy and above all the flow of men and supplies . In view of these considerations , the particular controversy that has arisen around the proposed elevation of General Marshall to either supreme commander in Europe or Allied world generalissimo appears to be not only pointless but mischievous . Once the " mass invasion of Europe " heralded by Mr. Churchill begins , the Allied commander on the western front , like Generalissimo Foch in the last war , will hold a far more important and decisive post than any conceivable in Washington . It will be he who must and will set the pace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be only fatal to the success of the then purely military undertaking . If the United States and Britain agree that General Marshall is the man to assume that post , it will be difficult to find a counter-argument  --  except one . That valid argument would be if General Marshall himself objects to this appointment . No general appointed to a post against his will can do his best , or inspire his subordinates with the confidence or enthusiasm necessary for victory . By the same token , the controversy about General , to which the General unfortunately contributed by his latest statement , appears equally pointless and mischievous . If General Marshall becomes world generalissimo , or if any American becomes supreme commander of the Allied forces in Europe , surely the British Empire would seem to be entitled to appoint a commander for operations on the Asiatic Continent which must of necessity start from British India . Such an appointment has been made in Lord Louis Mountbatten , the " triphibian " who is especially credited with being an expert on transportation that will be one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no question of General 's " subordination , " for the distances in the East are such that operations will have to be split up into several commands . And as for strategy . it is obvious that owing to Japan 's island position the war against her must be a " triphibian " operation , not merely from one side but from all sides , and that the final invasion of her main islands can not come from oversee , but must come from over land , through China and Korea , and with the aid of China , which is entitled to a large share in victory . Only when that stage has been reached will the question of a supreme commander for all East Asiatic operations become pertinent .                     