@@704442

txt Amendment of the Wagner Labor Relations Act is included in the list of legislation on which the House leadership will press for action at this session of Congress  --  and the House labor committee , which stalled on this issue last year , probably will decide this week whether to prepare legislation in advance of a preliminary report from the special committee investigating administration of the labor law . Disclosures which have come from the Smith committee thus far have convinced the Democratic leaders that action must be taken at this session . They have told colleagues , inquiring as to the possibility of legislation , that a bill can be expected . Furthermore , the move to provide the Smith committee with additional funds to continue its inquiry after this session adjourns is said to be looked upon favorably by the leadership . The labor committee is scheduled to meet tomorrow , at which time several Democrats are expected to join with Republicans in demanding that immediate consideration be given to pending proposals to revise the Wagner Act . As extensive hearings were held on these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can act without further testimony , or with limited hearings at the most . Preliminary Report Expected Meanwhile , the Smith committee is making plans to file a preliminary report and recommendations for use by the House as a guide should the labor committee act before more or less comprehensive recommendations can be offered by the investigating group . In responsible Democratic quarters in the House . the opinion prevails that any Labor Act amendments placed on the statute books at this session will not tend to curb the privileges granted labor under the law , but will tend toward mediation and conciliation . Also , the expectation is that a complete shake-up of board members will be forced by the legislation . unless President Roosevelt acts first . In this latter connection , there is considerable sentiment in the House to reorganize completely the administrative machinery by substituting a new board for that now handling the act . One proposal , said to have been given some consideration by President Roosevelt , would replace the present board of three with a. new board of five members Should Congress agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pro% ision prohibiting appointment of any of the present board members to the new board would be inserted , unless the President let it be known that he would not appoint any of these men to the new board . A Business Representathe As usually discussed , representation would be given to labor , business and the public on the board of five . There appears to be but little sentiment in favor of scrapping the Wagner Act in its entirety . General opinion in the House seems to be that the act , with some minor alterations which would not change its basic structure , can be made to function satisfactorily provided administrative policy can be changed  --  and by this members mean getting rid of at least two of the present board . The Smith committee hearings have indicated rather plainly that the difficulties encountered by the act have resulted largely from administrative policy and board Interpretations . The left wing New Dealers and the so-called liberals in Congress find themselves in a rather peculiar position with respect to the Smith committee s work . These quarters did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , after the House approved it . they hoped they could ridicule the inquiry and label it another " red hunt . This has not been the case , however , and it is because of the manner in which the in.estigation na.s been conducted , as well as the information it has produced , that support has been building up for a more extended inquiry .                     