@@711288

txt Massachusetts legislators set ; hemselves a stiff pace today as they headed down the home stretch of the 1948 legislative sesiion . The State solons are hopeful of ending the current session May 28 . Few observers see how they can accomplish this without undue haste . Several night sessions , however , might attain the result . Predominating issues remaining in the seemingly scrambled but essentially orderly process of lawmaking include the Boston Charter measure , the $100,000,000 highway project bill , and the controversial question of management of Logan International Airport , Boston . Two Amendments Voted As the Senate began consideration of the House-approved Boston Charter bill , Senator Chester A. Dolan , Jr. , of Boston , Democratic Floor Leader , conceded that the Republican majority " had the votes to pass the measure . " Two amendments were voted to the bill as the debate . developed . Senator Ralph Lerche ( R ) of Boston , who has been an opponent of a Plan E charter for Boston , successfully presented the changes . Under the first amendment , petitioners for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill would be required to obtain signatures from 10 per cent of the voters casting ballots in the preceding State election instead of the preceding city election . The effect would be to require petitioners to file 3,000 to 4,000 extra signatures . Twofold Effect The second amendment requires that the signatures be filed not earlier than the first Wednesday in March preceding the regular municipal election . The Election Board within 10 days after presentation of the petition sample would be required to supply blanks for use of subsequent signers . Approximately 150 days would be allowed to obtain the necessary 10 per cent of the signatures . In practice , the effect of the second Lerche amendment would be twofold . It would specify more definitely the signature obtaining procedure and secondly it would inform any mayoral administration then in office through . its election commissioner of the ? beginning of a movement to make a city charter change . Airport Control Plan Meanwhile , the Legislative Committee on Aviation today reported out un the airport question with a recommendation that the management of Logan Airport be placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would take it out from under the three agencies which now operate the huge air facility . The Committee also urged a $13,000,000 bond issue for building construction . Among the significant measures signed by the Governor in the past 24 hours is one permitting Massachusetts savings banks to make investments in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , a measure killed last year in the Senate . Another bill signed into law by the Governor is designed to curb the setting of forest fires . It increases the fine for dropping of lighted cigarettes , or other substances likely to cause forest fires from $25 to $100 , and fixes an additional penalty of imprisonment for-30 days for the offense.                     