@@707913

txt With the capture of Garapan and . Tanapag by the United States forces , the battle for Saipan island in the Marianas ' is moving toward an end . The battle here has shown up the formidable fighting ability of the Japanese Ve hen backed up against . ' their own front door . It has also shown the ability and determination of American forces to outfight the Japanese anywhere . Saipan has proved . under severe test the capacity of the American forces to handle the problems that are expected to crop up in.increasing proportions as the Central.pacific offensive moves farther west . Among these problems is the handling of large numbers of Japanese civilians , reduction and seizure of Japanese cities , . and the eradication of enemy resistance from the best possible defense positions . It is too early yet to make a complete appraisal of Saipan results . The real test of the handling of the civilian question is expected to come after the fighting and when peace is established . Garapan Sizable Town Garapan , which had a prewar population of 10,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by United States troops . Although Admiral Chester W. Nimitz 's communiqu ? announcing the capture of the city and the smaller Tanapag did not indicate the extent of enemy resistance , both of these towns apparently fell soon after they were outflanked and placed under bombardment by both land and sea batteries , suggesting that the Japanese relied more on hill and cave defenses than on city fortifications . All accounts of the Saipan fighting agree that the Japanese developed cave and cliff defenses on this island to a new peak of perfection and presented our forces with a much more difficult assault , job than encountered heretofore in the Pacific . In the early stages of the Pacific war the Japanese earned a reputation as cunning jungle fighters . Saipan has proved them to be equally capable as cave and cliff fighters and to have developed such a warfare almost into a class by itself . Tough Island Observers point out , however , that Saipan has offered the Japanese the best possible combination in size and terrain for defense , ' and while there are many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong combination in size and topography . Saipan 's dimensions ' are 13 by 51k miles and gave United States troops too little room for maneuvering and flanking which proved so successful on the larger islands such as Bougainville and Guadalcanal . The island is too compact to allow the Americans to by-pass and isolate strong points . The Japanese so far have proved unpredictable . Previous experience has shown that bitter enemy opposition encountered in one opera- tion does not necessarily mean equal resistance will be met in the next move . Strange Behavior In the South and Southwest Pacific the Japanese have put up fanatical resistance for some islands and relatively feeble resistance for neighboring islands which appear to be equally important . Other examples of inexplicable Japanese behavior were the abandonment of Kiska in the Aleutians after a determined attempt to retain Attu , and their unexpectedly light opposition in the Marshalls after exacting a high price for Tarawa . Now , on Saipan , the Japanese once more demonstrated their ability to resist tooth and nail when they want to . The very proximity of Saipan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not afford to yield one more foot of ground without the greatest possible opposition .                     