@@710876

txt A company personally recommended 3y Maj. Gen. Bennett E. Meyers , retired , got $1,053,000 in subcontracts for warplane parts , the Senate War Investigating subcommittee was told today . There was suggestive , though not conclusive , testimony intended to show that General Meyers had a. financial interest in the compally . Lawrence D. Bell , president of the Bell Aircraft Corporation of Buffalo , testified that on the recommendation in 1940 of the general , who then was a major , Bell Aircraft awarded subcontracts to the Aviation Electric Corporation of Dayton , Ohio . General Meyers , Mr. Bell said , gave not the " slightest " indication that he had any interest in the matter , except to say that the electric corporation was owned by " friends . " Mr. Bell added that he had not known until yesterday 's disclosures before the subcommittee that General Meyers had once held 1,000 shares of Bell stock . Maj. Gen. O. P. Echols , retired , ' swore that in 1940 he learned that the then Major Meyers had a ( financial interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed " suggestions " were made to the major to " disassociate " himself from any such enterprises . Meyers Sought Court-Martial General Echols , who later be .. came chief of matdriel , maintenance and distribution of the air forces , with General Meyers as his highest deputy , asserted that Ihe was unable to recall specifically the name of the Dayton corporation . At all events , the general said , he had been left in 1940 with the definite understanding that General Meyers had severed all connection with it , as he had been directed to do . Soon after this testimony , General Meyers gave reporters in the hearing room a statement saying that " two or three months ago , " in the presence of the Chief of Air Staff , Gen. Carl Spaatz , he had asked the Secretary for Air , W. Stuart Symington , for a courtmartial . The Air Force confirmed that the request had been orally put and orally denied , since a court-martial could not be recommended because of the Senate investigation and the Air Force 's lack of jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an officer of the Army and had not been transferred to the subsequently created independent Air Force 's roster . The Army stated that no application for a court-martial or court of inquiry from General Meyers had been received . Ferguson Urges Safeguards The general , who has been accused by Howard Hughes of seeking jobs and heavy wartime loans and has been represented in previous testimony as a large holder of aircraft company stocks , described his request for military trial by the Air Force as follows : " Sometime during the executive hearings ( of the subcommittee ) I went to the office of Mr. Symington and in the presence of Toohy Spaatz I asked the secretary orally for a court-martial , for the reason that this investigating subcommittee had made charges against me . " These allegations had become so public that I wanted a trial by court-martial to prove my innocence or guilt , because of the subcommittee 's method of presenting the case in - one-sided fashion . " I specifically told Mr. Symington and General Spaatz that I did not want a whitewash , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was guilty of any crime . " In the meantime , Chairman Elomer Ferguson of the subcommittee indicated that Congress would be asked to erect " safeguards " against contract fraud Dr official corruption in the armed services . The Michigan Republican 's statement followed testimony by Maj. Gen. J. W. Jones , the air in // spector , that his office was substantially powerless to inquire into the suspected wrongdoing of an officer if this involved searches into private bank accounts and stock ownership records . Moreover , he testified , it was at least technically impossible for such an investigation to be begun by the air inspector without orders from the commanding general . General Jones also said that he was unable to find any evidence that a 1945 anonymous letter attributing irregularities to General Meyers had ever reached his office , though it had been addressed there by War Department Intelligence , by way of Air Intelligence , after its receipt from the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The letter wound up in the " closed " files of the office of the then Air Forces commanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a notation , according to earlier evidence , that no action was to betaken in the matter . General Jones , who yesterday characterized the anonymous letter as " crackpot , " stood by his argument that if there had been an investigation , it should have been made by the FBI . FBI Official Disagrees I. M. Matlack , a FBI official , then took the ptand and asserted that the letter clearly lay in the jurisdiction of the military services , under a. long-standing wartime arrangement with the armed forces , since a military man was involved , This arrangement had been understood and accepted by the services in other cases , he added . Mr. Matlack , who is chief of the war frauds section of the criminal division , Department of Justice , said that his office acted on the " assumption " that the Air Force was following up the matter . " And there was no request front the Air Forces that the FBI make an investigation ? " Mr. Ferguson asked . " There was none , " Mr. Matlack said . " Would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Unquestionably , " the witness replied . " If this sort of letter had been received about a civilian official would it have been investigated by the FBI ? " Mr. Ferguson inquired . " We investigate every anonymous letter , " Mr Matlack said . " Does this letter strike you as giving sufficient facts to merit an investigation  --  does it look like a ' crackpot ' letter ? " asked the Senator . " I 'd say , " Mr. Matlack replied , " that it was an intelligent letter that deserved attention . " General Jones conceded that as the chief investigative officer of the Air Force he had put aside without comment or inquiry a remark made by a major general in 1943 , who questioned General Meyers ' honor . The officer , who was not publicly identified , expressed " great fears , " General Jones testified , 1 " that Bennett Meyers might get in control of surplus property and he hoped everything would be done to avoid that . " So far as he could recall , Gen. eral Jones added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant by this remark , or on what it was based . First of all , he said , it was " in the rumor category , " and sec'and , the officer making the statement " disliked " General Meyers . He conceded , in answer to questions from William P. Rogers , chief of the subcommittee counsel , that important and correct information often came from sources from which malice was not absent . Under prolonged questioning by Mr. Rogers and Senator Ferguson , General Jones defended his inaction and asserted that he was in no position to " investigate a personal conclusion " or some possible future wrongdoing . He admitted that General Meyers had appeared " wealthier " than the run of officers of comparable rank , but he said that it was not until recently that he had heard " rumors " of heavy-stake poker games involving General Meyers ' name . He denied that there was a " tendency " not to investigate allegations concerning general officers or to arrange for their retirement " for medical " reasons " so as to avoid embarrassment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter apparently never reached his office , General Jones said that he simply " could n't account " for it . " How do you account for the fact that it was concealed from the air inspector 's office ? " Senator Ferguson asked . " I do n't say that it was concealed , " General Jones replied . " It was addressed from air intelligence to ' the air inspector , but there is nothing to show that it ever got to the air inspector 's office . But there is evidence to show that it got to the commanding general 's ( General Arnold 's ) office . " General Jones was asked whether Mayor O'Dwyer of New York , a war-time officer , was in the air inspector 's office . He replied that Mr. O'Dwyer was not .                     