@@704883

txt WASHINGTON , July 18 ? Condemning President Roosevelt 's third term nomination as " fraught with peril to our free institutions , " Senator Edward R. Burke of Nebraska bolted the Democratic party today and pledged his support to Wendell L. Willkie , the Republican nominee . Almost simultaneously Senator Rush Holt , Democrat , of West Virginia , announced he would seek a record vote on his anti-third term resolution which has been pending in the Senate for months but allowed to lie dormant by its author at the urgent request of his Democratic colleagues . Senator Holt refused to say whether he would bolt his party and become an active worker against , the President 's reelection . Representative Coffee , Democrat , of Nebraska , anounced that he would not support Mr. Roosevelt for a third term , although he refused to say whether he would support Mr. Willkie in the campaign . Senator Norris , Independent , of Nebraska , contended that the argument of Senator Burke , his junior colleague " falls flat in the face of modern world and domestic conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winkle , criticized the party leadership for the third-term nomination and predicted that " a host of citizens nurtured in the Democratic faith " would support his // BURKE BOLTS PARTY OVER THIRD TERM // stand against a third term for any President . Long a critic of New Deal policies , the Senator was defeated for renomination in the Nebraska Democratic primary last April , as was Senator Holt in the West Virginia party primary . Text of Burke 's Telegram The text of Senator Burke 's telegram was as follows : Hon. Wendell L. Willkie , Colorado Springs , Col. As one who feels deeply that in the light of present world conditions it is essential for our country to maintain the two-term limitation on the tenure of office of President , I shall work for your victory at the polls In November . Thus only may we make certain that never again will any party or any individual be tempted to try to overturn the wise precedent established by Washington , strengthened by Jefferson , Madison , Monroe and Jackson , and cherished by all Americans who prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens nurtured in the democratic faith as you and I have been will rally to the defense of the vital principle that under our form of government ' a limitation on the tenure of office of an all-powerful Executive is essential . We share the firm conviction of the patron saint of the Democratic party , Thomas Jefferson , that should a President ever consent to be a candidate for a third term he will be rejected on this demonstration of ambitious views . We believe with another Democratic President , Buchanan , that the principle that no President should be more than once reelected is as sacred as if it were written in the Constitution . Andrew Jackson , honored by all real Democrats , steadfastly maintained that our liberties would possess an added safeguard if our Presidents were limited to a single term , and his view became party doctrine by action of the Democratic National Convention in 1912 . Grover Cleveland saw the most serious danger to America arising from the zeal born of benefits received and the hope of favors yet to come with which a horde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I disclaim the leadership of those of my party who but a few years ago put themselves on record that any departure from the two-term tradition would be unwise , unpatriotic and fraught with peril to our free institutions , and who today take the very action they then denounced . A fitting rebuke to their apostasy will be administered by an aroused people . In that program of education I volunteer my services for the duration of the campaign . Senator EDWARD R. BURKE . How effective the Senator 's support of Mr. Willkie might be in Nebraska was the subject of some speculation here today . Observers familiar with the State 's political trends recalled that the " private power issue " had long been a bone of political contention in Nebraska . It was questioned whether so-called anti-utility sentiment would he offset by opposition to a third term for President Roosevelt . Representative Coffee gave one side of the argument when he said today : " As a Jeffersonian Democrat consistently adhering to the principles upon which that party was built , I can not conscientiously support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy is to survive we must have more patriotism and less machine politics . " Challenging the argument of Mr. Burke and Mr. Coffee , Senator Norris said : " It is illogical and unwise to change a leader in the midst of a battle . I do not think people will pay much attention to this thirdterm issue . In fact , most- of the people who opposed Roosevelt on the third-term issue would oppose him anyway . They belong in the Willkie camp . " Senator Norris conceded that the traditional arguments against a third term would be justified under " normal conditions , " but contended that " the country and the world are not faced with normal conditions now and every one admits it . " Denying that the " draft Roosevelt " movement was in any sense spontaneous , Senator said it was the culmination of plans mapped out several years ago . " He is the New Deal , " Senator said of the President . " It was ' perfectly logical for him to be nominated . It was no surprise because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work that has been going on for a number of years . " The Senate minority leader added that he had expected Mr. Roosevelt 's candidacy since last May when the President did not object to his name being entered in early primary elections . Taylor Defends Third Term WASHINGTON , July 18 ? Since most Democrats , and virtually all New Dealers , were in Chicago attending the convention , comment here in applause of Mr. Roosevelt 's renomination was limited . Representative Taylor , Democrat , of Colorado , chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , said that one of the many reasons for keeping the President in office was his " defense leadership . " Nebraska Party Leader Is " Glad " By The Associated Press . CHICAGO , July 18 ? J. C. Quigley , Democratic National Committeeman for Nebraska , commenting on announcement by Senator Burke that he would support Wendell Willkie , said today he was " glad to hand him over to Willkie . " " Burke , " Mr. Quigley said in an interview , " is finally getting into the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " WILLKIE ' GREATLY PLEASED ' Says He Expects Votes of Many Anti-Third Term Democrats Special to THE NEW Tonic TIMES . COLORADO SPRINGS , Col. , July 18 ? Announcing receipt of Senator Burke 's telegram at his daily press conference today , Wendell L. Willkie declared that he was " greatly pleased " by the offer of support and had quickly accepted it . " Senator Burke is but leading a band of leading Democrats who are opposed to the third term and will be for the ticket of Willkie and in the Fall , " Mr. Winkle said . Later in the day the Republican nominee received and accepted another offer of the support from a Democrat  --  David P. Strickler of Colorado Springs , who served as a Roosevelt Presidential elector from this State in 1936 . Mr. Strickler told reporters that he had voted a Democratic ticket since 1904 , but that he was for Mr. Willkie this year .                     