@@709724

txt The Department of Agriculture said today that , as a result of seasonal increases in production , food supplies for the remainder of 1946 would be slightly larger than those available so far this year . The department in a food report stated that in general the situation would be much the same as it was in 1945 after V-J Day , when most foods were taken off rationing . Compared with a year earlier , there may be somewhat less of some foods , including chickens , sweet potatoes , but more potatoes , fresh fruits and vegetables . The report said that meat supplies for civilians would be larger than a year ago until late fall . Livestock held back in late May and June is now being marketed . By October . however , lower production of beef and lamb than in 1945 and possible larger exports to shortage areas abroad may bring civilian supplies below the near-1 record high consumption level of last winter . Supplies of fresh and frozen fish are expected to be plentiful during the rest of the year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next five or six months . Fats Shortage to Continue About as many turkeys will be marketed for civiians as for the 1945 holiday season , but less chicken will be available than last fall and winter . The department said there was little prospect for a significant improvement in supplies of fats ? such as butter , margarine , lard , shortening  --  in the coming months . Butter production is dropping seasonally and heavy exports of lard are scheduled . Supplies of milk in all forms will be seasonally smaller in the remaining months of 1946 , the department said , adding that should price controls and subsidies not be reinstated , higher prices for fluid milk would tend to decrease fluid milk consumption and begin a shift toward greater production of manufactured dairy products . The department said supplies of canned vegetables would continue large and that more canned fruit would be available than a year earlier . This year 's pack of canned fruit may be substantially larger , and civilians will get a larger share of it . Larger crops of dry beans and peas will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that restrictions on use of grains for food , livestock feed and industrial uses might be eased if wheat and corn crops turn out to be at the record levels now forecast , the food report said . The restrictions : ( 1 ) Limit milling of wheat for flour for domestic consumption to 87 per cent of last year 's level and require a larger portion of the wheat kernel to be milled into flour than normally , thus making a darker flour . ( 2 ) Prohibit the use of wheat in making whisky and other distilled spirits and greatly reduce the use of other grains for the same purpose . ( 3 ) Limit use of wheat in manufactured livestock feeds . Without indicating to what extent the restrictions might be eased the department said final decision would be governed in part by the world food situation after harvests are in , and particularly the need for export wheat from the United States . The Government has earmarked 250,000,000 bushels of this year 's record 1,160,000,000-bushel wheat crop for export . This country exported about 386,000,000 bushels from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Aug. 10 ( U.P. ) ? There may be local shortages of sugar because cf. " maldistribution " of supplies , the Department of Agriculture said in its food report . Sugar shortages will be felt particularly in Eastern areas . " Relatively large supplies of sugar from last year 's sugar beet crop have accumulated in some Western areas , " it said , " while supplies are short compared with rationed demand in Eastern States . " Fats and oil shortages result from large exports of lard and a decline in butter production to the lowest level in years . Creamery butter output from January to June was estimated at 537,000.000 pounds , only two-thirds of last year . If price controls and subsidies are not reinstated more milk may be diverted to butter and other dairy products because people will not pay higher prices .                     