@@707309

txt Boston : Boy Scouts to Harvest Maine Potatoes Permission to 150 Boy Scouts of high-school age to spend a month in Aroostook County , Maind. harvesting the heavy potato crop , was today granted by the Boston School Committee in a 3-2 vote . The boys . with parental approval , will receive the cost of transportation plus 14c per barrel of potatoes harvested . New England program for Congress , giving a New England viewpoint on major i , zsues. was given 18 members of Congress from this region at a meeting of the New England Council . Page 2 . Patrick J. Hyde of Boston . boatswain of a Panamanian ship torpedoed last winter . was cite/ by the British Government today for his seamanship in commanding a lifeboat from a British rescue ship . Page 2 . The . Army has leased the D Street garage of the State Public Works Department in South Boston and will take over as soon as the premises can be vacated , it was announced by Herman A. , Public Work : : Commissioner . Vice-Admiral William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Secretary Knox in Washington today for service in the First Naval District Boston ) ) in directing anti-submarine operations . Admiral Tarrant remides in Washington . Mr. Knox presented to Commander Bartholonew W. Hogan of West Newton , Mass. , a silver star medal for his heroic service on the aircraft carrier Wasp . In Europe : Bulgaria Ruled by Regency Council Premier Bogdan Philoff of Bulgaria , Prince Kyril and Secretary of War , Lieut . Gen. Nikola Michoff , have been appointed to a Regency Council to rule the country in place of King Boris , who passed on recently after a sudden and mysterious illness . Report of the new Council comes by way of the Berlin Radio . Adolf Hitler will broadcast at 2:30 p. in. , Eastern War Time , today , the German Radio has announced . King George VI has approved a proposal that Britain 's celebration of victory over the Luftwaffe in 1940 be combined with Civil Defense Day , and that Sunday , Sept. 26 , be observed as Battle of Britain Sunday , the Religious News Services reports Allied parachute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to shake the internal front , " the German News Agency warned in a Berlin broadcast . The announcement was followed by threat of severe punishment to anyone " irrespective of his private position and regardless of the motives of his action " who aided these agents . The French-Swiss frontier has been occupied and closed by the Germans and all hoping to cross the border will have to have both a German and a French visa to pass from one country to the other the Bern Radio reported in a radiocast picked up by the Columbia Broadcasting System Washington : United Nations Advance Food Plan Nutrition levels and living standards , and the obligations of governments to one another and to their peoples concerning them . are discussed in a draft agreement proposed by the United Nations ' Interim Commission on Food and Agriculture , it was reported by L. B. Pearson of Canada , chairman of the commission . The Bureau of Labor Statistics ' wholesale price index declined 0.1 per cent last week to 102.8 of the 1926 average , attributed to a reported drop of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vegetables National : V Gardens Produce 8 Million Tons Victory gardens produced 8,000.000 tons of food this year from 20 , - 000,000 plots and are expected to increase their output next year , Secretary of Agriculture Wickard told Victory Gardeners at a festival in Soldier Field , Chicago . Intellectual and spiritual bases for enduring peace are being discussed at the fourth conference on Science . Philosophy and Religion in Their Relation to the Democratic Way of Life , meeting at Columbia University in the City of New York . Gov . J. J. Dempsey of New Mexico will recommend to the Highway Commission that the State 's wartime speed limit be increased from 35 to 45 miles an hour . A similar proposal was made in Colorado , but the Colorado speed limit is statutory and can not be changed by executive order . James C. Petrillo . President of the American Federation of Musicians , told a National War Labor Board panel he would require 160 net-work-affiliated radio stations to employ musician staffs within 60 days . Hearings to decide whether the ban on recordings for broadcast purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Storni Resigns in Argentina Resignation of Argentina 's Foreign Minister , Vice-Admiral Segundo Storni , was announced from Buenos Aires , following rejection of the Argentine Government 's request for Lend-Lease aid from the United States . Page 1 . The War :                     