@@707151

txt Despite dire predictions to the contrary , Boston 's first day under curtailed bus service today resulted in no noticeable overcrowding of tiansportation facilities ? either train , bus , or street car , company officials reported . So smoothly and efficiently had the plan been worked out by the bus operators , that only the minimum of discomfort had resulted to the traveling public , Rush hour ti ips remained very much as usual , since the curtailment , except in scattered instances , was confined to the more lightly-traveled hours . Retail Deliveries At the same time , the Office of Defense Transportation in Washington warned that " the gasoline shortage in the East is expected to become increasingly serious during the next 60 days and additional restrictions may be necessary for the duration of the emergency . " One " additional restriction " will be the prohibition on retail deliveries of alcoholic liquor , soft drinks , ice cream , furs : and some other commodities . scheduled to go into effect Thursday at 12:01 a. rn . Text of the latter order from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be forbidden . Also on the prohibited list are sott drinks , tobacco products , ' confectioneries , ice cream or ices. magazines and periodicals , cut flowers except for funerals , ornamental shrubs , toys , novelties , jewelry , furs , radios , phonographs , and antiques . The order applies to the entire Eastern States gasoline shortage area , and judging from information obtained yesterday by the New England delegation in Congress , neither it nor the ban on pleasure driving is likely to be relaxed in the visible future . Officials of the Petroleum Administration for War told the New Englanders that although fuel oil supplies for next w:nter might be about as good as last winter , or perhaps a little better , every possible conservation of gasoline must be exercised in order to build up stocks of fuel oil . The plight of New England 's resort industry , hard-hit by pleasure driving restrictions , was explained by the Congressmen. but even then the officials insisted there would be no lifting of the ban . House Minority Leader Joseph W. Martin , Jr. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an oil pipe line from Albany to Boston and for rapid completion of barges already under construction . Meanwhile , reports from State and local police indicated that compliance with the pleasure-driving regulations had been satisfactory over the week end . Parked cars in downtown Boston last night were estimated to number only about one-quarter of what they usually are , As yet no official orders have emanated from Washington prescribing curtailment of bus travel , beyond the general order which extennecl the validity of the current rations to July 26 . Such older : . are expected momentarily , and in the meantime the bus opera ators have voluntarily cut operation 20 per cent on advice of the loc3I ODT . " This will at least leave them in a better position , " pointed out an ODT spokesman today , " to meet whatever restrictions Washington eventually outlines . " The extension of time on " I " ' rations amounted to 40 per cent reduction in quantity of gasoline . Civilian Defense Director Joseph M. Loughlin urged New England State defense councils and their 1.481 local affiliates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  