@@708126

txt The letter of the President to James C. Petrillo , head of the American Federation of Musicians , illustrates once more the double standard of the Administration in dealing with disputes between unions and employers . Mr. Petrillo has defied an order of the War Labor Board . One can not imagine the President 's writing so gentle and friendly a note to an employer wir had defied an order of the Board . The President and his advisers find that the law can do nothing to Mr. Petrillo because his defiance does not " unduly impede the war effort . " One has only to contrast this with the action of the Administration in the Montgomery Ward case , where noncompliance with a War Labor Board order was deemed so perilous to the war effort that Federal troops were instantly ordered in to seize the plant and remove the head of it bodily . What began as an " order " to Mr. Petrillo to desist has ended as merely a personal " request , " to which Mr. Petrillo is asked to yield as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing is said in the President 's letter of how it became perfectly legal for Mr. Petrillo to exercise the irresponsible private dictatorial powers that he does . Nothing is said of how it became perfectly legal for this private citizen to tell the American people what music it can and can not hear . To find out how this situation came about , one has merely to review the labor laws which the Congress has put upon the books and the laws and amendments that the Administration has opposed , together with the interpretation of the existing laws by the Supreme Court . The plain truth is that the powers exercised by Mr. Petrillo are powers conferred upon him by acts of Congress as interpreted by the Supreme Court . Congress has made it illegal for employers to discourage membership in a labor union , but has refused to make it illegal for unions to coerce workers into membership . Congress , according to the Supreme Court , has granted sweeping immunities to labor unions under the anti-trust acts , the anti-conspiracy acts and seven the anti-racketeering acts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts that would be illegal if committed by anyone else . Under the powers conferred upon him by Congress Mr. Petrillo can force practically every musician in the country into his union . He has the power to boycott any musician or the employer of any musician who refuses to join . Under these powers he can levy a private tax on the records of recording companies ( a tax which must ultimately be paid by the consuming public ) so that he can force the employment of unneeded men during a wartime manpower shortage and set up his own private system of unemployment relief . If the Administration is now , as it professes , powerless to take any legal action against Mr. Petrillo , and is reduced to asking him to desist as a special favor , it is because , through its own labor legislation , it planned it that way .                     