@@709770

txt Letters to The Times JOHN HANNA.HAROLD ALDRICHSOPHIE HIMMELL.WESTMORE WILLCOZ. pg . 67 Letters to The Times Property Loss Abroad Various Aspects Considered of the Compensation Problem The writer of the following letter was formerly special counsel to the Farm Credit Administration and chief analyst of the Administrative Office , United States Courts . He is at present Professor of Law at Columbia University . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Has the United States any legal or moral obligation to compensate American citizens for losses suffered as a result of action of co-belligerents of the United States ? American property in enemy-occupied countries is held either by individual or corporate ownership . Corporate ownership may be by American corporations , by non-enemy corporations wholly or partly owned by Americans , or by enemy corporations wholly or partly owned by Americans . Somei real or personal property has been owned directly by American citizens in most if not all the enemy countries . In the Far East , except in the Dutch East Indies , the general practice has been for American corporations to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been especially true in China . including Manchuria . In the Dutch East Indies , American property has been owned and managed by Dutch subsidiaries of American corporations . In Germany , Rumania , Austria and Hungary , Americans have usually acted through a domestic corporation in which an American corporation has a degree of control extending to substantially complete share ownership . Act of Co-belligerent When property , whether directly or indirectly owned by Americans , has been destroyed by a co-belligerent as an incident to prosecution of the war , as occurred in respect of oil properties in the East Indies , it is obvious that no claim for compensation against the United States arises . To the extent that compensation to domestic owners is made for similar damage , the American losses may be the subject of an international claim against the co-belligerent . Property damage suffered in enemy or enemy-occupied territory as a result of military operations may be allowed as a claim against the enemy country , but scarcely against the United States , especially if the damage occurred during operations of a co-belligerent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the consent and especially against the protest of the United States , there is no basis for a claim against the United States , though there might be an international claim against a co-belligerent . Such seizures may have occurred as a result of Russian action in Manchuria and Korea . Property of Russian Zone What has occurred in respect of American property in the Russian zone of Germany , and in other Russian-occupied areas of Eastern Europe , is somewhat obscure . It is likely that some directly owned American property has been used for reparations by Russia . The evidence seems clear that corporate property of enemy corporations in which Americans had a predominant interest has been so used . How far the United States authorized and consented to such use is difficult to state . Congress certainly never intended such action . No published account of the Yalta conference has disclosed any executive agreement to that effect . To the extent that the Potsdam agreement accepted such a situation , it may have been the recognition of a fait accompli about which the United States was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American interests . It seems profitless to discuss as a matter of eminent domain the rights of American claimants against the United States , whether for co-belligerent damage to directly owned property or for property in which they were interested as shareholders . In a technical sense , the property was scarcely " taken " by the United States to make applicable the Fifth Amendment . In the case of the property of foreign corporations , the property taken was not even American . The Americans retain their shareholdings . The various statutes providing for suit against the United States do not afford the basis for legal action by the Americans damaged . The United States certainly has not specifically consented to such suits , and the denial of consent to suits based on treaties argues against any implication of consent under existing provisions . Moral Claim When one considers the broad principle behind the doctrine of eminent domain and the constitutional prohibition against taking of private property for a public purpose without just compensation , the moral claim of the Americans in question is considerably stronger than their technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a state can compel a citizen to permit his property to be used for the purposes of the state , it is a principle of our Constitution that the people as a whole should share the burden of this use . If the United States believes that it can attain its international objectives in closing out its European commitments and effecting a reparations policy against Germany and other countries by consenting to the use of American property in Eastern Europe for reparations to Russia , it should recognize that the Americans affected by such policy are burdened with a disproportionate share of the war costs . If Congress should convert its moral obligation here stated into a legal one , the question would arise as to the nature and extent of the compensation . It has been proposed that the United States obtain agreements whereby its citizens whose property , including that of corporations in which they have a predominant or substantial interest , was damaged or lost , should be compensated in the currency of the country in which the property is located , where the property can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the currency has depreciated the payment should be sufficient to give a contemporary equivalent for the damage suffered . Under present conditions such an arrangement would afford no real compensation . No plan has been or can be effected in the near future for the transfer of such funds to the United States or elsewhere outside the enemy country . Exchange conditions are such that a disastrous currency depreciation might occur after the payment , before any transfer of funds was possible . The proposal also must take account of the progress of nationalization of property in the countries involved . If American claimants received back property in kind or its monetary equivalent in circumstances where they could resume their former competitive position in a free enterprise , taking into account the effect of the war upon the residents of the countries generally , their compensation might be regarded as just . Unfortunately such a situation would occur in scarcely any localities in Eastern Europe . It is barely possible that some Americans can be compensated by removable tangible assets . In most instances , however , if Americans are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparations , then compensation must come directly from American sources . JOHN HANNA , Woods Hole , Mass. , Aug. 27 , 1946 . Cooperation for Peace Sovereign India A Vigorous Program Is Urged to Assist an Emerging Nation The writer of the following letter ? T. cently returned from India where , as Special Representative of the United States Foreign Economic Administration , he made a study of conditions . Previously he served as a director of the British Raw Materials Mission . To TM E EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Exception is taken to much of the argument and conclusions of Prof. Curtis P. Nettels in his letter published in THE TIMES of Aug. 18 . He maintains that the United States foreign policy is leading us to a position of uncomfortable isolation " exposed to foreign actions contrary to our interests . " We have been supporting Britain , he states , against Russia , while in a dozen situations recently Britain has not supported us , His conclusion is that the United States must now " seek to restore friendly relations with Russia and end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States must secure the backing of the military power of the British Empire by means of a military alliance . " From a cursory reading of current events such a pessimistic interpretation as the above would seem to be unjustified and the conclusions wrong or at least impracticable . Secretary Byrnes has said that our interest in foreign countries is not to gain territory or reparations , but solely to secure peace in the world and a fair chance for prosperity of all peoples . Probably the vast majority of Americans agree to this . Quite probably , also , the vast majority do not realize that the United States interprets the second part of Secretary Byrnes ' statement as meaning a fair chance for trade in all parts of the world . Trade always involves competition and rivalry . What the United States is struggling for in all the foreign conferences is that Russia be not allowed to drop an " iron curtain " down in front of our trade over an ever-increasing part of the globe . England is struggling against the same " iron curtain , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated . Since Russia has shown such an uncooperative , even obstructionist , attitude in all the conferences , such a bold use of power politics , what is more natural and inevitable than that the United States and Britain find themselves often , willy-nilly , standing together in opposition to the Russian tactics ? Both England and the United States have become alarmed at Russia 's expanding security zones , making puppet states . out of her neighbors ; of her ideological warfare , propaganda and agents in every country . It is the duty of the United States Government to protect our interests throughout the world in the best practicable manner . If our interests often coincide with Britain 's and conflict with Russia 's , to that extent and on those issues we are inevitably lined up against Russia . The fact that at times Britain 's interests are opposed to ours should not cause Americans alarm , and should tend to dispel Russia 's suspicions that a hard and fast " bloc " has been formed against her and her satellites . In short , if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seek to restore friendly relations with Russia by always abandoning Britain , even when our interests coincide with hers , would we not be appeasing Russia at the expense of our interests ? What assurance would we have that Russia would always support us when we are against Britain ? Would we not be cynically underwriting the " iron curtain " ? As to the other of his alternatives ? secure a military alliance with the British Empire -- it is utterly impracticable in advance of any definite crisis because it would involve not one alliance with England , but five or six with the various independent Dominions . And when would the United States Senate ratify any such series of military alliances ? HAROLD ALDRICH , Jamaica , New York , Aug. 28 , 1946 . NORMANDY PASTORAL A little boy and a brindled cow Watching a cloud-ship launch planes from its prow : How gay this thing -- a brindled cow , And a little boy not . cringing now . SOPHIE HIMMELL , To THE EDrioR OF THE NFIW YORK TIMED : Having recently returned from nine months in India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES of Aug. 25 of exceptional interest . Professor Das makes the point that anti-American feeling in India is grow . ing through a number of misunderstandings . These are cultivated a.ssidn ? ously by Russian propaganda , and per ? milted to grow and fester through default , in any positive and coherent counterbalancing policy or publicity by the United States . From my observations while in India , I believe both premise and conclusion of Professor Das ' argument are completely accurate . My confidence is based upon sights seen and upon intimate conversations with Indian business men , Government officials , editors , industrialists , Princes and Ministers of the Indian States . Indian Army officers , shopkeepers , leaders of Nationalist India , the Moslems , Sikhs , Hindus . Nothing could have been clearer to an unbiased observer returning from India to the United States than that our Government has not yet fully awakened to these facts : 1 . India 's four hundred millions of people are about to enter the comity of free nations . 2 . Sovereign India will he of vital importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , both economic and strategic . 3 . We can no longer safely regard India as an exclusive appendage of Great Britain and one with which we must not deal directly or fully lest we annoy Great Britain . Nearness of Freedom In the same issue of Aug. 25 THE TIMES announced the formation of the first all-Indian Executive Council under the leadership of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru . Even the most skeptical Indians must themselves now realize that freedom is near , dubious though most Indians were of Great Britain 's sincerity of intention for weeks after the arrival in Delhi of the British Cabinet Delegates . India , free , must and will make tremendous efforts to raise the standard of living of her under-privileged masses , by reformation of her agrarian methods and by industrialization . To make rapid progress in this enormous under .. taking she must have wholehearted and practical assistance from the most advanced industrialized nations , the United States and Great Britain . Her undertaking will mean requirements , over years to come , for great quantities of Western machines , equipment and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All that stands in the way of a free India 's demand for huge quantities of American products is lack of dollar ex. change . This lack is due to the block .. ing in sterling of India 's huge foreign . balances . To release these balances in too great amount and too rapidly would create a dangerous strain , perhaps , on Great Britain 's economy . There is an obvious , common-sense an . swer . An American dollar loan to India , just as soon as she has established a national constitutional government , would permit India to buy freely in the United States all that is available of American products required for the implementation of India 's industrialization program . Such a loan would be safe . It would alleviate the tension between India and the United Kingdom over the amount and rapidity of the latter 's releases of India 's sterling balances . It would have a steadying effect upon free In. dia 's first Government . It would dispel any doubt in India as , to our practical good-will toward Indian independence . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance to us . A glance at ' the map shows this . To her west lies the Mid . dle East , eyed intently by Russia , the United Kingdom and the United States . To her south lies the life line of water communication between the United Kingdom and the Pacific , with the raw materials of Malaya and the Dutch East Indies , with the route to China and Japan , Australia and New Zealand , all at stake . The United States can no longer re . gard India as a British preserve . But what are we doing about it ? What consideration has been given to the change in India 's status that has been inevitably approaching and is now upon us ? What practical steps have been planned ? If there be any policy , or any steps planned , is it not time the Indians themselves be told of them ? Or shall we indefinitely continue to lose the game by default Shall we again suffer unnecessarily from " too little and too late " ? India five , ten , fifteen years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the scales of international political events . Aided and befriended by the United States she may well take her place as one of the most pow .. erful proponents of peace , of development by peaceful , democratic , non-aggressive means . Neglected she may fall victim to Russian progaganda infiltration . One way or the other In. dia will go . It is high time the United States publicly proclaimed its interest , its friendship , its determination to lend practical , substantial aid to a great and sovereign India . WEsTMoRE New York , Aug. 26 , 1946.                     