@@708461

txt What . was the genesis of the program of Allied relief aid to France , the subject of recent controversial discussion ? Details , including the much-rumored " Plan A " covering the civil affairs supply planning of the Allies prior to the invasion of Normandy , were obtained yesterday from officials at the War Department . There have been reports that this plan conveyed promises to the French of large quantities of civilian supplies and that these were not carried out . It has been suggested that President Roosevelt had issued directives to the Army to give greater aid to the French , and that his instructions were likewise unfulfilled . As described by those familiar with the plan 's formulation , the situation was this : Before the troops stormed the beachheads of Normandy last June , the Allies made alternative plans based on a series of assumptions as to how successful the invasion might be and how rapidly it might develop . One of these plans  --  Plan A ? was confinded to the French authorities in Washington last June . a few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to some misunderstanding of the problem . Plan A , it was stated , was based purely for planning purposes on the supposition that a collapse of all German resistance might occur ' soon after the Allies had effected successful landings in France ; t1W the Axis-occupied countries of Europe would be liberated , and ' that the Germans would not pursue a " scorched-earth " policy in their withdrawal . On that supposition , an estimate was made in Plan A that the whole of continental France would require for civilian relief in a six-month period a total of approximately 2,225,000 tons of imported supplies . This included some 700 , - 000 tons of food , 150,000 tons of petroleum , 40,000 tons of soap , 400,000 tons of agricultural rehabilitation materials , and 900,000 tons of coal . Food requirements included estimates of 420,000 tons of wheat , 70,000 tons of canned meats and stew , 50,000 tons of evaporated milk , 45,000 tons of dehydrated ' soup , and smaller quantities of cheese , lard , sugar , coffee , and salt . In turning over these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department stated explicitly and in writing that they could not in any sense be regarded as commitments ; that they were based on certain stated assumptions , and that the estimates did not deal with whether the supplies would be procurable or whether there would be shipping available for their delivery . 90-Day Programs ? When the invasion actually began , the Allied armies were operating on a basis of 90-day programs of civilian supplies , subject always to operational changes , and predicated on the military reiquirement that there must always be sufficient civilian supply to assu ? e the prevention of serious disease or civil unrest . The assumptions of Plan A , of course , never materialized . Instead of a collapse of resistance , the Allies encountered stiff opposition and a German policy of sabotage which wrecked harbor installations . , destroyed bridges , damaged locomotives and railway rolling stock , removed all motor vehicles , and in general bequeathed to the Allies , at least so far as transportation facilities were concerned , a truly " scorched " France . Also , only a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in German hands , including some of the vital seaports . Obviously , the estimates of Plan A were of no significance , and in any case deliveries of materials in the quantities indicated would have been impossible except at the cost of delaying military operations . The later swift advance of Lieut . Gen. George S. Patton 's Third Army laid heavy military supply requirements on the Allies , and it was not considered that General Patton could be instructed to halt his onslaughts against the Germans . Total Aid to France The Allies continued their month-to-month deliveries of civilian supplies to France . Military assistance was given also in the restoration of docks and transportation systems , thus aiding directly in the fullest development of France 's self-supply . It was disclosed at the War Department that during the first six months after D-Day , the Allies delivered in that part of Franre which was liberated 262,150 tons of civilian relief supplies . This included 194,000 tons of food , 64,000 tons of petroleum , 640 tons of medical ' supplies , 250 tons of clothing , 2,500 tons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with French Government officials , the Allies have been stepping up deliveries , and according to an unofficial War Department estimate , the civilian supply import program for France for the first quarter of 1945 is 380,000 tons . Army officials said , that every effort is being made to relieve conditions in France , and that at no time had the Army run counter to White House directives or made promises which were unfulfilled . Five More Ships WASHINGTON , March 5 ( p ) ? The Foreign Economic Administration announced March 3 that five more ships have been assigned to carry supplies and food to France , in addition to the 26 already promised for sailing by March 31. 