@@704693

txt Congress has authorized a five-man investigation into the plight of the unemployed migrant in western United States as a prelude to the enactment of remedial legislation covering this social problem brought on by drought , depression , and mechanized farming . San Francisco , Calif . The voices of a former President and a potential future President of the United States are being raised in behalf of the hundreds of thousands of migrant Americans who are today adrift on the Nation 's western farm lands . Though politically apart as far as the Republican presidential nomination is concerned , Herbert Hoover and District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey are at one in urging that the whole country cooperate with California in coping with a human and economic problem for which no single State is responsible and which no one State can solve . While not commenting on Mr. Hoover 's specific proposal that migrant workers be established on three- to five-acre farms in settlements of small numbers spread throughout the Nation , Mr. Dewey in conferences and consultations in southern and northern California took the view that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have many unfortunate refugees , " Mr. Dewey said on different occasions , " men and women who are victims of natural calamities and of failure to restore opportunities for employ ? ment . California has received many thousands of the unemployed and indigent for whom adequate provision should have been available elsewhere . This is a national problem and its burden has been unfairly thrust upon the people of California . " Drawn from all over the Great Plains , from Texas to North Dakota , these migrant farmers still form a veritable river of human beings , searching for jobs which usually do not exist and seeking homes which they rarely find . Just Missed Graphic Reminder Traveling westward from Amarillo , Texas , we escaped by only a day one of the grim reminders of what has driven many Western farmers from their land , a dust storm which shortly before we reached Albuquerque blackened the air for some hours and then quickly blew itself out . It is the combined pressures of drought , depression and farm mechanization which are keeping the stream of migrant workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stream which continues to gather its greatest force throughout the agricultural areas of California . In New Mexico we motored for a distance along U. S. Highway 66 , made famous as the trek of the Joads in John Steinbeck 's " Grapes of Wrath " and 66 is still the path of a people in flight refugees from dust and shrinking land and the thunder of tractors . But the Joads who come from nearly every State in the Union , though predominantly from Oklahoma , Texas , Arkansas , and Washington , and may well number 900,000 farmers without farms , are only a part of the westward trek of America 's agricultural workers . Year after year from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 men , women , and children traverse the whole range of the countryside , following the crops and harvest from one section to another . This vast migration which usually returns to its base i , different from the wanderings of the Joads who have been rooted up from the soil and temporarily at least lost their moorings . Empty Words for Joads The terms which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plight of the migrant farmers . Here the question of " parity prices " and " soil conservation payments " and " marketing agreements , " however important to the basic economics of American agriculture , fail to convey in human terms the needs and necessities and deep desperation of this segment of ' armless farmers and homeless citizens . As Dr. Paul S. Taylor of the University of California points out in the latest Public Affairs Committee pamphlet on the migrant worker , the farm problem is also a problem of the relation of the people to the land , the most dramatic symptom of which is the constant insecurity of the Nation 's mobile agricultural labor The California Emergency Relief Administration reports that the average annual earnings of a migrant worker and family are $289 . " The disarranged human relationship to land . " says Dr. Taylor , " finds no clearer expression than that by a displaced sharecropper , now a mobile seasonal laborer , as he was waiting to work on the plantations of Arkansas : " ' Now , ' he reflected , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do n't know . ' " The advance of mechanized farming in the cotton-fields of the South is adding new numbers to the migrant labor reserves , and its effects are being felt throughout the country . It is feeding still further the westward-flowing river of refugees , who in turn swell the roving labor all the way from Arizona to Washington It is only by the present stop-gap efforts of Government relief that this tide for the time being is kept from growing vastly greater . The migrant farm problem is today being seen more clearly as a national problem requiring national action to rebuild the living and working conditions by which this . tream of human beings - can come to rest and recreate for themselves and for their families a home life and a community life . J. Roscoe Drummond 