@@710893

txt Ecole Libre Is Now ' Functioning As an Independent School With the opening this fall of the Ecole Libre des Hautes Etudes as an independent institution , an opportunity has been provided scholars , teachers and the general public interested in French culture to obtain free courses on the university level . Founded in 1941 by outstanding French and Belgian educators who escaped from the Nazis , the Ecole Libre has been part of the New School for Social Research until this year . It has now become independent and hopes to serve in this country as a replica in miniature of the Paris Sorbonne . Last month the school , which is subsidized by the French and Belgian Governments , moved to Finch Junior College , at 52 East Seventy-eighth Street , where it is to make its home for the time being . Classes are conducted in the late afternoon and early evening , after the regular sessions at Finch are concluded . Outstanding Scholars With nearly 1,000 students and a faculty of eighty , the new institution has taken firm root in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been stationed in France . Others are Americans who expect to travel in France . A number of teachers are taking courses for the alertness credit offered by the Board of Education . Outstanding scholars and educators are found on the faculty , among them some who fled from nazism and remained in this country . The school has attracted visiting foreign professors and international figures . Lecturers from universities in the ? metropolitan area are invited on a part-time basis to conduct classes in their specialties . A series of lectures on the United Nations and international problems has been introduced . The public lectures wil ' be given by prominent authorities in the fields of education and world affairs . The regular curriculum offers courses in French culture , history , law , science , art and music . Except for the special credit-granting courses , all lectures are free and open to the public . Anyone who understands French  --  all work is conducted in the French language  --  may visit the school and attend classes at any time . Dr. Boris Pregel , vice president and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an institution where " A.iierican and European cultures meet . " This fall , for example , the school will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the French revolution of 1848 . Prominent guest speakers will join in the program . Officials are planning to build a strong institution at the university level . Funds have been obtained to develop a library that can serve as a research center for those interested in French culture . " This is the only school of its kind in the United States , " Dr. Pregel remarked . " It is a unique creation , designed to serve a valuable purpose in bringing the cultures of France and the United States closer together . " A Permanent Institution The school will be expanded whenever necessary to meet student demands . The Ecole Libre is not an emergency project but a permanent institution . Moreover , it is not connected with any political government that may bs in power at the moment . Although it receives some money from France and Belgium , most of its funds come from private contributions . Dr. Boris Mirkine-Guetzevitch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Teachers College , Columbia University , has taken an active part in the formulation and operation of the Ecole Libre , where he is serving as dean of the faculty of Law and Political Science . It is his belief that the school can become a powerful factor in promoting good relations between the United States and France . Other educators agree that the Ecole Libre can play a significant role in the years ahead . 