@@708555

txt The defy Congress " in not having Office of Price Administration granted price or subsidy increases . firmly rejected today before the " About the only way I can see rnCo Investigating Food Senate to reach the OPA , " Senator Thomas added , " is by new legislation . And mittee a picture of a country-wide there is a bill up right now to exand rampant black market in meat tend the life of OPA. " which had been offered by some A few hours later a Senate BankSenators and contended that there ing Subcommittee , considering that had been no general breakdown of measure , ended an executive meetprice and ration regulations . ing without formal announcement , At the same time the agency 's but one of the conferees said the long controversy with the meat desirability of " a change in attipackers over prices broke out tudes " in OPA had been discussed . afresh before the committee and The investigating committee 's its chairman , Senator Thomas of session often raised tempers about Oklahoma , declared that the Ad- the table , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montana leading the attack on the OPA 's witness , Thomas I. Emerson , deputy administrator for enforcement , who is in process of changing jobs to become general counsel to the Office of Economic Stabilization . " You do n't know what 's going on , " Mr. Wheeler told Mr. Emerson . " You 've got a lot of amateurs who are not even beginning to cope with this thing . " Mr. Emerson broke in to say that " a great many rumors " of vast black market operations were " sheer gossip . " Senator Wherry , Republican of Nebraska , thereupon recalled that it was he who had recently declared that " 90 per cent " of meat being sold in New York City was black market meat , which Mr. Emerson in his formal statement had characterized as " fantastic . " " I do n't want you to make a statement that I have been guilty of a gross exaggeration , " Senator Wherry shouted , " unless you have evidence , and you are admittedly just guessing . For that matter , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $8 a thousand . " " If you have such information , " Mr. Emerson replied , " you should give it to the OPA . " Senator Wheeler then called much of Mr. Emerson 's prepared statement " perfectly ridiculous , perfectly childish . " " What do you think Senators are , a lot of children ? " he asked . " I concede , " Mr. Emerson replied tartly , " that I do n't know all about it ; but I suggest that , even so , OPA after three years probably knows more about it than anyone else . " Estimates for This City Pressed to estimate what the black market amounted to in New York City , the witness stated that it represented perhaps 10 per cent in wholesale trade and 15 to 20 per cent in retail trade as against Senator Wherry 's 90 per cent figure . " I do not mean to under-estimate the extent of the black market , " Mr. Emerson went on . " But I do say that there has been no general breakdown of price and rationing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the National Independent Meat Packers Association , asserted in effect that it had been understood previously on all sides that , as an outgrowth of the committee 's hearings , OPA would grant to the packers some price relief . " The plain fact , " he said , " is that they actually are proposing to do even less . " Senator Lucas of Illinois , who on several occasions had taken a friendly view of OPA , interrupted sharply : " I simply can not understand OPA 's attitude in this crisis when the packers are going broke . " Senator Thomas , who some time ago had recessed the committee to direct OPA in effect to grant some price relief , then said : " Mr. Emerson , place in the record , now , the names of those in OPA who have been responsible for this  --  beginning with your own name . " Mr. Emerson mentioned James F. Brownlee , Geoffrey Baker , John Madigan and others , while Richard H. Field , general counsel to OPA , declared in the confusion : " Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . OPA has done that . If Congress wants to change the legislation , that 's another thing . " ( ) PA Head Here Hits Senators Daniel P. Woolley , Regional Office of Price Administrator here , issued yesterday this statement : " Senator Burton K. Wheeler is reported to have received a letter stating that the writer knows a butcher who bought 5,000 red ration points from his bank clerk . " I certainly believe that a ' broadside against the Office of Price Administration made on the basis of a letter giving hearsay information about one transaction is most unwarranted . " The OPA has itself uncovered a number of cases where employes of banks have been caught selling ration currency , and in each case convictions have been obtained . " I personally do n't see what benefit to the country Senator Wheeler hopes to accomplish by making sweeping accusations based on hearsay . Why does n't he give us the names of any culprits he knows about , so that we may proceed against them ? " I want further to emphatically deny any statement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The people of this city and the retailers who supply them are just as patriotic and law-abiding as the people of Oklahoma and Montana . " Of course , there are black market operations here , but we are doing our best to eradicate them wherever they occur . Tomorrow , for instance , there are sixty-eight meat and poultry cases coming up in the War Emergency Court against retailers charged with selling over ceiling . " In spite of what a few Senators proclail'n , there are still millions of people in this city who buy their foodstuff at ceiling prices , and the majority of dealers sell at ceiling prices . "                     