@@708387

txt Despite the evidence submitted , I am not alone in the belief that there is a waste , not a shortage , of manpower . The report made last week by Senator Mead and his committee abundantly shows how manpower is being wasted under the very eyes of the Navy . You concede that there is waste and that " it is high time " to stop it . Various agencies of our Government have been and still are vested with the power to end such abuses , but they have failed to do so . Essential workers who will not work , although they collect generous wages in defense plants , should be inducted into military service without further delay . No additional legislation is necessary . A prompt change in their classification would accomplish the desired results . But here again the agencies in control of the problem are afraid lest they offend labor . The penalty for such unfairness and partiality is being paid by our fighting men . You also ask that we " consider what would happen to the armed forces themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he pleased , and when he pleased , " as men engaged in industry on the home front have been doing . The answer is obvious . Here again our Government and its many agencies empowered to act in such cases have failed to take appropriate steps to curb such evils . As a matter of fact , the War and Navy Departments have themselves given a very bad example to members of the armed forces and workers on the home front . In the past year one item of news after another in the press has disclosed that men prominent in the world of sports , in the motion-picture industry and in the field of radio entertainment have been permitted to r6turn to their civilian occupations . All of these individuals were given substantial commissions from civilian life , and when they elected to end their service they were still of military age and apparently in good health . Yet this same privilege is not accorded enlisted men . Do such practices relieve the alleged manpower shortage ? Does it help morale to permit such favoritism ? Let the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they expect to convince the American people that a manpower shortage really exists . I hope that these few word are sufficient to dispel a misunder standing that is painful to me . And want to assure you , in closing this let ter , that my only aim is to continue ii my modest way to create durable bond between our countries . In your editorial of Jan. 29 on th Ward decision you state : " To force a ) employer to discharge a worker wh ( resigns from a union does not respec the right of free choice on the part o the individual worker . As a device ' t ( maintain the union status quo in war time , ' moreover , it is spurious , for i maintains merely a one-way freeze which prevents any shrinkage of unio ) membership but permits indefinite ex pansion . " Despite the high regard in which thi writer holds the editorial opinion o : THE NEW YORK TIMES , I believe tha the above sentences were written either in haste or without a full knowledge o : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union contracts . In the first place , you state that tin right of free choice on the part of th ( worker is not respected . As far as : know , there are no " maintenance o : membership " provisions written into contract with a fifteen-day escape clause omitted . Surely you must know this . Anc surely you must know that during Mai time  --  the fifteen days from the posting of notices  --  a worker has the privilege of dropping out of the union if he is member , or remaining out if he hap pens to be a non-member . He know : that if he remains in the union he must remain in good standing for the dura ? tion of the agreement . No choice could he any freer than that . By the same token , there is certainI3 no truth to the statement that it pre . vents any shrinkage of union member , ship . During the fifteen-day escape period there would he nothing to pre . vent an entire membership from sig. nifying that they were going to resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was as much free . dom of choice in all things ! I have read with great surprise the lines written by your Paris correspondent in New York about my article on the United States published in Le Figaro . I want your readers to know that the quotations were incomplete and that the spirit in which they were made was contrary to the spirit in which my article was written . I have never lost sight of the fact that I am a guest in the United States . And paradoxical as it may seem , I had written this article to thank the Americans for tile moving welcome they had given our group of French journalists . I had thought that it would not be inappropriate for me to explain to French readers the misunderstandings that had separated us from America and to inform them of the principal causes of these misunderstandings . I wanted to show the evolution of a spirit which climaxed in a triumphant reception given to General de Gaulle . I especially emphasized that the conflict that divided the Americans on the French question showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us . I also brought out that those among you who were not partisans recognizing General de Gaulle loved France and often had rendered her great services . I tried to explain that American opinion , which remained for a while misguided , was in great part our own fault . I presented the attitude of the American Government as perfectly liberal , and I repeated that the American Government had first wanted to be assured , before recognizing the Provisional Government of the French Republic , that the French themselves had accepted de Gaulle from the bottom of their hearts . Lastly , I assured my readers in France that only a liberal and democratic form of government could hold American friendship . Of all this your correspondent did not say one word . Undoubtedly I also made some criticisms . When we left France , representatives of the OWI told us , " You will see the good and the bad , and you will speak of both . " If it had been otherwise I would n't have taken this trip . Government employes in New York never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am thankful to them for doing so . I have learned , in these first few weeks , the perfect objectivity of the Americans and their deep love for the freedom of thought . I know that your paper has defended our cause . I want to assure you of one thing . The criticisms that I have made and will continue to make will stem from a spirit of deep friendship for the United States . I will continue to report under my own responsibility all that I like and that attracts me in your country . I did n't have to wait to reach New York to feel a deep affection for all I know of your country . I am not saying all this only because of your soldiers that are fighting to defend our border , which no Frenchman will ever forget , but also because men of our generation have been influenced by your literature , and because during the occupation we turned our spirits toM . Sartre Explains Article Criticism of Our Stand Toward France , He Says , Aimed at Friendship With the fifteen-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right of free choice fifteen days of the year , but is denied the right to change his mind , regardless of develop . ments , in the remaining 350 days of the year . How many of those who nom , contend that the present maintenance . of-membership clause permits lull free . dom of choice for the individual worker would agree that this freedom of choice would be equally preserved if the re . verse condition also applied  --  that is if workers were allowed fifteen days it which to join a union , but would be discharged if they joined it on any of the remaining 350 days of the year . The State Legislature will soon discuss proposals for the reorganization of the New York City Board of . Higher Education . This body , which controls the four city colleges , consists of twenty-one members appointed by the Mayor for nine-year terms . In comparison , the Board of Education , though it administers all the public and high schools , with many more students than the colleges , consists of only seven members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact , long known to students of our municipal government , that the Board of Higher Education is too large and unwieldy . A smaller , more flexible body would do far better . I suggest that the board he reduced to the same size and appointed for the same terms as the Board of Education . Furthermore , the president of both boards should be the same person . This would bring greater cooperation between the high schools and colleges in such matters as requirements for admission to college . The revised board should be allowed to appoint a Chancellor , an official similar to the Superintendent of Schools , appointed by the Board of Education . The Chancellor should be the chief executive officer of the board , should collect statistics and data about the colleges , and have general supervisory powers over them .                     