@@706990

txt While thousands of New Englanders cpntinue to fight valiantly on far-flung battle fronts to maintain that American liberty proclaimed by George Washington , thousands of others , also in uniform , or clad in workers ' dungarees , will push on relentlessly over the week-end observance of the firs ( President 's birthday , so that democracy shall not perish . Boston retail stores will be closed on Monday , as will banks , stock markets , and.many business . establishments , bringing for thous ands of others a three-day let-up in their daily activities . However , , war production plants and shipyards will hum as usual . This general two- and three-daffy I closing of many offices , stores , and banks , plus indications oi5. a much warmer week end than prievailed at the beginning of the week , is expected to greatly relieve the acute oil shortage which has been a serious problem to many householders in this area for most of the winter . Schools not only will be closed on the holiday , but will remain closed throughout the week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who , early on Monday morning , will begin the task of registering millions of citizens for the new War Ration Book Two . Program at Faneuil Hall Those citizens whose last names begin with the letters A to E are urged to register at their nearest schoolhouses on Monday . And those in other alphabetical classifications , who foresee inability to register on one of the designated days for their particular name classification , are urged to take advantage of the holiday and obtain their new books . Following a plan of some years , and in harmony with wartime conservation , the official City of Boston patriotic exercises honoring Washington and Lincoln will be combined in one program on Sunday afternoon , Feb. 21 , in historic Faneuil Hall . A varied and colorful ' program , arranged by the Citizens ' Public Celebrations Association by sanction of Mayor Maurice J. Tobin , will include motion pictures reenacting scenes of history and dramatizing human interest events of the days when the nation was being created with so much assistance from the inspiration of Boston and the same " cradle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting will be taking place a century and a half later . Massimr of the Flazs No tickets will be required for the Sunday afternoon exercises , which will start at 2:45 . Doors will be open at 2 , with a musical prelude at 2:30 . Community singing will be featured , with a chorus and orchestra to provide musical background . Recognition of conditions today will include massing of flags of the United Nations along with color I guards from the Army , Navy , Coast Guard , Marine Corps , the WAAC , WAVES , SPARS , State Guard , American Red Cross , Women 's Defense Corps , Ancient and Hon , orable Artillery Comlany , Sons of American Revolution , and Lexington Minute Men in uniforms of the 1775 period . Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney ( D ) of Wyoming will be the principal speaker at the Massachusetts Democratic State Committee 's George Washington Dinner at the Hotel Statler on Sunday evening , the State Committee has announced . Former Governor Francis P. Murphy of New Hampshire also . will speak . Former Congressman Joseph E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Christian Association will hold its annual Open House at the Huntington Avenue building on Monday from 2 to 6 p. m. , with a program of music , a basketball game , swimming exhibition , informal dancing , wrestling , jiu jitsu , and badminton exhibitions . A Washington 's Birthday Ball will be held at the Bunker Hill Clubhouse of the Boys ' Club of Boston , in Charlestown Tuesday evening from 6:30 to 8:30 , with a program of movies , dancing , and I refreshments . Breaking a tradition which has lasted for more than 100 years , with two exceptions , the Perkins Institution and the Massachusetts School for the Blind will not hold its public demonstration on Washington 's Birthday afternoon . The program is being given up this year because of the probable small attendance , due to travel restrictions , as well as because of the intensive work being done at the school as part of the war program . In addition to regular instruction , pupils are now engaged in knitting and making tent poles for the Red Cross , 