@@708974

txt TrrritorinUm politically . end economically , the Chhict of todati is in an incomparably better , position than the China of prewar days , Says Gunther Stein , for many years The Christian Science Monitor 's . Chungking correspondent . In sereral articles Of which . this is the first , Mr. Stein shows how this dramatic change has come about and at . 1C711MS to chart the future course of China 's foreign and domestic policy . By Gunther Stein Weifte .. e for The Christ:an Soirr , e ** f nr For the fourth time in a century the Chinese are face to face with the promise and challenge of a 1-eat national opportunity . As they try to make certain that they will not again fail to respond to it , the three failures of the-past are being discussed like events that happened only yesterday , and many a political argument topical problems is clothed in historical deliberations which enjoy a certain freedom from censorship . A hundred years ago , the Western powers , recklessly bent on the expansion of trade , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercourse on the secluded countries . China could have done as Japan did : She could have made the best of that rude awakening from medieval sleep , modernized. strengthened and asserted herself . But her Manchu rulers feared that internal reform would strengthen the stirring popular opposition against the dynasty , They enlisted the support of the foreign powers for the suppression of revolutionaries and reformers , shunned all but superficial change , and made China suffer the inevitable penalties of stagnation within , of national weakness , and in consequence , of aggression from without . Chance to Reform " The history of those days must not be allowed to repeat itself . " the critics warn . " Do n't rely on the United States Army to strengthen your rule , as the Manchus relied on British arms . " they implore Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . " Only if you go far enough in your promised democratic reforms and rely on the people , can China be made really strong . " Chin ' a Faces Big Opportunity // than being overthrown by the revolutionary strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China was free to reform herself. * But her new rulers overrated their share in the winning of victory over the monarchy and , hopelessly divided among themselves , ignored the age-old claims of the people . Increasing internal weakness was the result , and with it the firmer establishment of foreign domination over China . " The failures of those days must not recur , " the citics warn , " Do n't overlook that it was the plain people of China who prevented our defeat by Japan , " they remind the Generalissimo , " and only the plain people , when given a new deal , can enable China to develop her full strength after the Allied victory over Japan . " In 1927. the united forces of Dr. Sun Yat-sen 's rejuvenated national revolution , after the passing of the leader , defeated the warlords who had misruled the country since 1911 . The foreign pow ers , impressed by China 's new strength , seemed slowly on the retreat from the positions of extraterritorial power they had arrogated to themselves in the country . Once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the victorious revolution split into its present Kuomintang and Communist factions which fought one another in a grim 10-year 's civil war while the Japanese took Manchuria and penetrated into North China and 1while the Western powers held on to their special rights in the country and their paralyzing con , trols over its economy . Hopes Exceeded Today , having at the last moment successfully avoided another open civil war between the Kuomintang and Communist camps which have split the country into two , the Chinese are overwhelmed by the greatness of their new opportunity . For the total of what they have won as a result of the defeat of Japan is much more than anybody had dared to hope until a few months ago . , Destruction liy war in China as a whole is not nearly as great as had been anticipated . The country was spared that wholesale devastation of railroads and mines , factories and power plants , villages and towns in the Japanese-occupied territories which would have been unavoidable had the Allies been forced to continue the struggle against Japan in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innumerable villages destroyed before the Sino-Japanese war entered its stalemate stage in 1939 have since been rebuilt by the effort of the people ; with the same primitive materials , mud , sun-dried bricks and bamboo of which they had been made before . Comparatively few of the big and medium cities suffered severe damage ; and Chinese diligence , together with United Nations Relief and Rehabilitations help , will be able to restore them fairly soon when peacetime transportation is resumed . Manchuria and Formosa are being returned to China , not poor and undeveloped as they were when the . Japanese conquered them long before the Sino-Japanese war  --  not devastated , as had been taken for granted  --  but unscratched , with all the vast transport , power and manufacturing installations the Japanese developed during the many years of their rule through the investment of billions of yen , through consider- able technical , skill and through the reckless but well directed exploitation of millions of Chinese coolies . Especially Manchuria , today , is an enormous industrial asset , incomparably more developed economically than any part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those thousands and thousands of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises w ' eh the Japanese , frightened Amercian bombings , evacua from the home islands during the last year or two  --  a fair part of what constituted Japan 's own consumers ' and export industries before Pearl Harbor . And large industries in China proper , built up and owned by the Japanese through decades are now Chinese property . China is thus the only one of the Allied countries to emerge from the war with a vast gain of long-lost territory and with a total of industrial and transportation assets far beyond those she controlled before the last war . What is even more important , for the first time in 100 years China is again mistress in her own house . For the United States and Britain , like the United Socialist Soviet Republics , soon after the Soviet Revolution , have at last given up their extraterritorial rights in China and their controls over part of her public finance . Foreign Areas . Go States  --  are three or four times as large as they were before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the , foreign goods China imported in three full prewar years . The new assets , accumulated during the last few years , originate from American goodwill  --  credits granted China during the war , for postwar use ; from American payments , at a generous exchange rate , for the cost of maintaining United States Army air and ground forces in China , and from charitable gifts of the American and British public for the Chinese fighters and war sufferers which it was not possible during the war to convert into goods for their use . All these items were added to the several hundred millions of private Chinese capital that had fled to the United States before and during the early stages of the Sino-Japanese war and , having been frozen by the Administration in Washington , are now at the disposal of the Chinese government . The greater part of China 's foreign debts , once so oppressive , have virtually been wiped out . Those she owed to Japan are gone , and those to the Allies who are anxious to help China revive , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal debt , like that of Germany after the last war , has been practically annulled by the inflation which depreciated the Chinese currency to about one-thousandth of its prewar purchasing power . Yet , different from Germany , China need not fear the social consequence of this drastic internal debt settlement : for Chinese state loans were never owned by middle class families and small savers but almost exclusively by government banks which can write them off in the coming currency reform . China 's internal problems , as will be shown in further articles , are as great as the singular chance she has for building up a bright new life for her long-suffering people .                     