@@705538

txt As the British had long feared , fighting broke out in Iraq today . Troops of Rashid Ali Beg Gailani , the German-supported Premier who seized power by a coup d'etat a month ago , attacked the British airport at Habbania , where for some years the British have kept a unit of training airplanes . The British force  --  probably a small one made up of Royal Air Force air and ground personnel ? fought back , and the fighting was still in progress tonight , it was said here . Apparently little information has been received as to what happened , but undoubtedly the Iraqis had superior forces at the airdrome , which is on the Euphrates River sixty-five miles west of Baghdad . It was reliably reported in London that the Iraqi Premier had sent an urgent appeal to Berlin for military help , The Associated Press said . The trouble started , it was said here , after Rashid Beg had objected to the arrival of a second contingent of troops from India to reinforce a force sent to Basra following Rashid Beg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but when he was notified of the arrival of the reinforcements he said it would be a violation of the AngloIraqi treaty if they landed before the first contingent had passed through . " Provocative " Message Sent The British stuck to their guns and Iraqi troops thereupon surrounded the airport and sent in an officer with a " provocative " message . Soon thereafter the clasb came . It started , it was reported here , with Iraqi shelling . It may turn out , of course , that this will prove to be only a minor outburst and the quick British action may cause Rashid Beg to back down or else be thrown out by his own people . According to the British , large sections of the Iraqi people are opposed to Rashid Beg 's anti-British policy . However , there may be a bad situation for a few days , since Basra is about 250 miles from the scene of operations , and it would take time to get troops there . No matter what happens , it would now appear that the only thing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have adopted to its logical conclusion ? overthrowing Rashid Beg by force if necessary , bringing back the 6-year-old boy King Feisal and generally taking over the government , though leaving , as the treaty requires , Iraqi sovereignty . While the British are naturally worried that the flames of war should break out at yet another place to threaten the Empire , there is one school of thought here that regards the development as possibly a good one in the long run . Bad Timing Is Seen This school contends that Rashid Beg 's outbreak was badly timed . It is held that it is too early for the Germans to have established by infiltration any real machinery to aid Rashid Beg and that the German dirve southward has not progressed far enough for the Nazis to be able to give any effective help from the outside before British troops can take control of the situation . As to the Iraqi Army , British officials here do not appear particularly worried . The Iraqis have no reputation as fighters and they do not have much modern equipment . Their air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handle the situation , though there may be some nasty incidents , both at the airport and in Baghdad , before the troops arrive . Of course , this may be a too optimistic way of looking at the picture . It may be that the Germans planned the attack to come off when it did in the expectation that they would be able to go to the aid of the Iraqis or , at any rate , create a diversion in Iraq . In some ways this incident may be interpreted as supporting the theory that the Germans ' next move may be to by-pass Turkey entirely and leap across to attack Syria and Palestine . There has been serious infiltration going on in Syria , and that French mandate probably would not present a particularly difficult military problem for the Germans . But this would be a difficult move and in any case it probably could not be carried out quickly enough to save Rashid Beg .                     