@@709587

txt As discussions in the Atomic Energy Commission begin to come to a head this week we shall be entering again one of those crucial periods of which there have been so many during the past decade  --  crises of diplomacy , of battle , of human need . As far as the future is concerned , this is the most serious of them all . Everything is wrapped lip in it , the fruits of victory , an enduring peace , civilization itself . The Commission and the Governments it represents have a long and difficult task ahead . The hope is that all will realize that this is no affair of one nation trying to get something from one or . more other nations , but of all nations trying to destroy the menace of atomic warfare . If we make the bomb a. subject of controversy the bomb is likely to win . To date we have been listening to plans , none of which is final . Yesterday this newspaper published a wellfounded report that the United States would be willing to set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this would make it easier for the Russians to relinquish the veto power in this particular field . This might mean merely that there would be two United Nations organizations , with identical membership , one to control the atom , one to attend to all other international matters . It is a little difficult to see what would be gained , but the reported suggestion at least indicates that our Government is not in a take-it-or-leave-it mood . All that we are insisting on is what we consider to be the essentials to make any atomic plan work . We  --  and Government . atomic scientists and a. majority of informed public opinion can safely he included in this pronoun ? do not believe the Russian plan , in so far as it was presented and explained last Tuesday by Mr. Gromyko. is sufficient . We agree with Mr. Grornyko 's denunciation of atomic warfare . We agree that there should be provisions for control , sanctions and punishment . We want the manufacture of atomic bombs stopped and prevented , here as well as elsewhere . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the provisions enforceable . A wise comment comes from TVA Chairman David E. Lilienthal , who presided over the committee of experts on whose report the American program , presented to the Atomic Energy Commission by Bernard M. Baruch , is based . Mr. Lilienthal believes that those who hope to subdue the bomb by law or treaty alone are " dewy-eyed , naive and ignorant of the realities of human nature . " We need , he declares , repeating the principle of his report , positive controls . These positive controls demand an international agency which will have charge of all uranium and thorium deposits , supervise all " dangerous " manufacturing processes and their product , maintain continuous inspection of all atomic plants in all countries , carry on continuous research and be empowered  --  and this is the heart of the plan  --  to call in an international police force to restrain and punish violators of the Atomic Charter . This agency and this police force can not be subject to anybody 's veto . The nations of the world must give them authority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asks of Russia or of any other country it asks of ourselves . We are willing to turn over Oak Ridge and Hanford , together with the raw materials they require , to an international body on which there will be a Russian member . We ask Russia to accept the same control for her own present and future plants , from the same international body with the same Russian member . We do not propose to change our own economic or social system in any other particular , nor do we suggest that the Russians change theirs . We propose mutual survival . If these general principles are accepted there remains the question of stages and timing . We now lead the world in our mastery of the dangerous uses of atomic energy . We propose to whittle ourselves down to a point where this mastery will be equalized and nullified . The question is , how soon and by what stages ? And the answer is , as soon as we are sure our confidence will not be misused . The Russians may make substantially the same observation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of mutual confidence . We must proceed on the theory that Russia , the United States and all the other nations are consciously dealing with a common enemy , just as they were during the war ; with the threat of an epidemic disease , just as the new World Health Organization will try to do . It was good to see Mr. Baruch the other night chatting pleasantly with Mr. Gromyko in the Yankee Stadium . Let us hope that this personal amiability is symbolical . Let us invoke the utmost tolerance and good-will . Success will be a universal success , defeat a universal defeat .                     