@@709661

txt Get:ing down to business after two lays of inconclusive discussions . senate-House conferees promptly Became deadlocked today in their first vote on the price control bill . The Senate delegation , however , appointed a three-man subcommittee to draw up a compromise proposal for submission to the joint conference tomorrow . There was some optimism over the prospect of agreement at that time on legislation that would be acceptable to both branches of Congress and President Truman . Today 's vote found a majority of the House delegation insisting on elimination of two sets of Senate provisions . One would exempt meat , milk , butter and a number of other items from price control and the other would give the Office of Price Administration discretion in applying a formula for setting producers ' price ceilings . Counter-Proposal Is Planned A majority of the Senate conferees refused to yield on either issue , thus precipitating what one of them called " a complete stalemate . " A subcommittee composed of Senators Robert A. Taft of Ohio and Charles W. Tobey of New Hampshire , Republicans , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then appointed to draw up overnight a counter-proposal to the House conferees ' position . The subcommittee 's assignment , it was understood , was to modify both the exemption provisions and the discretionary clause so that they would meet the approval of both sets of conferees with the hope that they would also be acceptable to the Senate , House and President Truman , whose veto June 29 of an earlier price control bill resulted in the OPA 's expiration the following day . Senator Radcliffe , whose insistence on " decontrol " of meat deadlocked the conferees temporarily when they were considering the original measure , now has suggested a compromise on that issue and is expected to seek the subcommittee 's approval . Would Permit Reinstatement His idea , the principle of which is reported to be acceptable to most conferees , is to retain the exemptions in the bill but permit reinstatement of ceilings on the uncontrolled items if an independent three-man decontrol board should find that price levels ' warranted such action . Under provisions of the Senate bill in its present form , a decontrol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under another clause requiring removal of ceilings when supply of an item equals demand for it . But the board would have no such authority over products exempted by legislative act unless the Radcliffe plan were written into the bill . While there seemed to be agreement on the principle , there remained the question of what standards should be specified for recontrol . The subcommittee 's task is to agree on the standards . The subcommittee also faced a ticklish job in attempting to modify the clause giving the OPA discretion in applying a formula which would permit producers to realize the average 1940 price of every item plus the average increase in its production costs since that time . Any tampering with that section of the bill , endorsed by Price Administrator Paul Porter only after insertion of the discretionary provision , might put *foe measure in jeopardy of a vet , - , . The disputed clause would give the OPA authority to ignore the formula in cases where a producer was making his costs if increased production of the commodity in question " would not be practicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least equally needed products . " With each conference delegation acting as a unit under conference rules , the votes on the questions now in controversy were reported to have been as follows : On elimination of the Senate 's exemptions of specific items from price control : House ( 4 to 3 ) : For ? Representatives Br ent Spence of Kentucky , Wright Patman of Texas , William B. Barry of New York , Democrats , and Ralph A , Gamble of New York , Republican . Against ? Representatives Paul Brown of Georgia , Democrat , and Jesse P. Wolcott of Michigan , and Frederick C. Smith of Ohio , Republicans . Senate ( 3 to 4 ) : For  --  Senators Robert F. Wagner of New York , Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky and Sheridan Downey of California , Democrats . Against  --  Senators Taft , Tobey and Eugene D. Millikin of Colorado , Republicans , and Radcliffe , Democrat . On elimination of the discretionary clause : House ( 4 to 3 ) : For  --  Wolcott , Gamble , Smith and Brown . Against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 to 4 ) : For  --  Taft , Tobey and Millikin . Against  --  Wagner , Barkley , Radcliffe and Downey . It was understood-that the votes of Representatives Brown and Wolcott on the question of exempttions were not indicative of their stand but rather constituted a protest against the first vote being taken on that issue instead of on the discretion provision . Both are reported willing to vote for elimination of the exemptions provided the discretionary clause is also eliminated . Meanwhile , President Truman told a news conference that he would appoint a successor to Chester Bowles , resigned stabilization director , when he could get a price control law under which a successor could function . ' Asked whether he expected to get such a law from Congress , he said your guess is as good as mine . The President said substantial increases in prices had followed the termination of price control and perdicted they would go higher unless controls were reinstated                     