@@711123

txt With regard to the state of Europe and what lies ahead , Secretary Marshall and President Truman have spoken with intent to create a mood in the Capital and in the country which is exceedingly sober and somber . Both the President and the Secretary of State have used words deliberately to accentuate the gravity of the issues which the nation must face in the next " few weeks . Their words say , in effect , that there is reason to be very , very concerned and need to be very , very calm . They agree that the spreading hand of Soviet totalitarianism is cause for alarm , but warn against allowing either hysteria or passion to influence the actions which the American people and the Government should take . The evidence today is that the atmosphere which prevails in Washington corresponds closely to the careful counsel of the White Houses and the State Department : The outlook is dark , but not hopeless , and Congress seems disposed to act decisively without acting recklessly . A A k The truth is thit the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are not , helpless in face of the signs of moving the iron curtain menacingly westward ? over Austria , over Norway , into Italy , along the shores of the Mediterranean to the borders of France itself . In the span of less than a week Moscow 's seizure of control of the Czech Government and Stalin 's iron-gloved invitation to Finland to step into line brought these actions by the western democracies : 1 . By more than a 4-to-1 vote the United States Senate passed , without a single emasculating change , the full Marshall Plan in time to enable the House to complete its ac-tion before or by the Administration 's April 1 deadline . 2 . Encouraged by the as- ' surance of the European Recovery Program , the five western countries farthest from Soviet pressure  --  Britain , France , the Netherlands , Belgium , and Luxemburg ? approved a 50-year treaty of mutual defense which may well bring a broad union of all western Europe into being . The alliance guarantees automatic action if any one of the five is attacked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tariff-free customs union . This is one of the advance dividends of the Marshall Plan . 3 . At the initiative of the liberal , anti-Communist Chilean Government , the charge will be brought before the Security Council this week that the Soviet Union brought about the Czech coup by a " threat of the use of force . " Moscow will not like to hear this matter discussed by an agency of the UN and will consider it positively indelicate . Russia boycotted all meetings of the Council when the Iranian case was before it . Of course , the Soviet Union can veto the Council 's doing anything , but a majority of seven members can put it on the agenda for discussion and discussion may well help to put other Soviet targets more fully on guard . A A A These three actions represent only the beginning , not the end , of the necessary western defense against the spread of Soviet police states throughout Europe . In view of what has happened in Czechoslovakia the threat is that the Communist tide will strike further to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stir up new trouble in Austria as a pretext to taking over fife government by force . The Austrian liberals and socialists are vigorously resisting . The next visible deadline is April18 , the date of the Italian elections at which time we will knovi whether de Gasperi 's anti-Communist Government will stand or fall . What Car ; America do to help western Europe stand against the Communist tide ? There are three actions which can be taken , three decisions which will shortly have to be resolved . Prompt pissage of the Marshall Plan by the House of Representatives undoubtedly will strengthen the anti-Communist forces in Italy . Evidence that the United States is going to maintain its military strength  --  and not let the Army disintegrate through lack of enlistments  --  will encourage our allies and discourage the Communists . To this end Congress shortly will be , asked to reinstate a limited draft to secure the 120,000 men necessary to bring the Army to the authorized strength of 66,000 . Finally , with the approval of the country , thee Government can make it clear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' can not go without ' encountering the resistance of American force . Former ? Secretary of State James F. Byrnes put this issue squarely in a week-end speech and it is the most consequential decision before the country today . " We have every reason to believe that the Soviets covet control of Greece , Turkey , Italy , and France , " . Mr. Byrnes said . " We must let the Soviets know we will act immediately to preserve the status quo until the Seciirity Council has an opportunity to investigate the threatened aggression . " War need not be the consequence of the crisis which the world is now in . Peace can be the consequence of this crisis if America acts calmly , courageously , speedily , and with foresight .                     