@@707616

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 18 ? Reasons of " imperative military necessity " have forced the War Department to slash the Army Specialized Training Program from 145 , - 000 to 35,000 men , it was suddenly announced tonight . Of the 110,00D men to be transferred from the colleges to camps , about 80,000 will go to the Army Ground Forces because of their special skills and ability for leadership . The rest " will be assigned to other units destined for overseas service . " The 35,000 left at the colleges will be principally those taking advanced courses in medicine , dentistry or engineering , as well as 5,000 pre-induction students , including the 17-year-olds . The War Department 's decision was based upon " the increasing tempo of offensive operations , " " the mounting casualties demand-1 ing immediate replacements in the field " and the failure of the Selective Service System to deliver fighting men according to schedule , which has left the Army short 200,000 of the goalsof 7,700,000 set for the close of 1943 . Secretary Stimson emphasized " military necessity " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges , which , he said , had been " of great value " to the Army . He expressed his " appreciation of the devoted and intelligent cooperation " of the colleges and their faculties . " No one can predict far in advance the course of this war or the type of training that may be required by our soldiers in order to win it , " he said . " The needs of the Army in training will be subject to constant review and the types of training which will be given will be determined by the conditions that prevail from time to time . " Reasons for " Drastic Decisions " In its announcement the War Department said : " The shortage of personnel from which the Army is now suffering has led the War Department to drastic decisions during the past week . Because of the inability of the Selective Service to deliver personnel according to schedule , the Army is now short 200,000 men who should have been in uniform before the end of 1943 . " The increased tempo of offensive operations together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created a situation which has necessitated drastic economies in the employment of personnel throughout the United States , and a decision to reduce the soldiers in colleges taking the Army Specialized Training Program from 145,000 to 35,000 . " This last measure has been rendered necessary by the imperative requirement at this time for these men who have already had their basic training and a certain amount of specialized training for which their services are now urgently needed . " After exhausting all other sources , it was determined that the type of trained military personnel needed could be obtained only by decreasing the number of combat units or by drawing from the reservoir of men in ASTP trainng . It was decided that military necessity required that existing combat units be maintained . " The 35,000 remaining in the program will be primarily those trainees taking advanced courses lin medicine and dentistry , or engineering and include . 5,000 preinduction students . " The students withdrawn will be those already basically trained and on active duty . Seventeen-yearolds in the Army Specialized Training Program reserve will not be affected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Special Fitness Emphasized " The student soldiers now in the Army Specialized Training Program were selected for their high intelligence , adaptability and potential leadership . They are the type who can be expected to assume the responsibilities of noncommissioned officers and of skilled technicians . " Experience to date in this war has demonstrated to the Army that the combat arms , particularly the infantry , need a substantial proportion of men with these qualities to insure continued success in operations . " All experience also has shown conclusively that losses are considerably lower in units which have intelligent and aggressive leadership among noncommissioned of- , ficers . " Reassignment from ASTP to other duty before April 1 will be made , so far as military necessity , permits , at the completion of a particular training course or a term in that course . Colleges will be reimbursed for the unexpired portion of contracts covering students withdrawn from ASTP . " The War Department believes , 1 on the basis of experience , the infusion of thousands of highly intelligent student soldiers into the ground forces , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases , will help to increase our striking power . " Consequently , around 80,000 of the men to be transferred from ASTP will be assigned to the Army Ground Forces where the skills and capacity for leadership are now ' most needed . Most of the remainder will be assigned to other unite destined for overseas service . " The policy will be to make certain that the skills and the qualities of leadership which these thousands of student soldiers possess are used on assignments where they can function most effectively . "                     