@@706866

txt Both northwest and southwest of Stalingrad the Germans have been unable to make a stand on the hill lines where their commanders had elected to halt the Russian advance and they are gradually being pushed back , in one case toward the city and in the other way from it , according to today 's reports . The midnight Soviet communiqu ? reported that the Red Army had driven farther into the German lines west of Rzhev and had captured a strategic height southwest of Stalingrad . On the central front the Russian offensive west of Rzhev is reported to be gaining in impetus and to have made fresh breaks in the German lines , while south of the city the Russians have overrun another village on the RzhevVyazma railroad . In almost all active sectors the central front battles are reported to be increasing in violence as the enemy throws in reinforcements and increases his air activity . Several highly important defense lines are reported to have been seized from the enemy . Though Rzhev is expected to be defended with utmost . determination by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is graver for the Germans than ever before . Nazi Resistance Overcome Late reports again stress the persistance of the German counterattacks on the whole active front , but they also tell of the capture of several further points . West of Rzhev , in a surprise attack , the Russians routed a battalion of Jaeger troops , hardy mountaineers trained in the use of skis , and killed 500 of them . In another sector resistance at a strong point was overcome , subsequent counter-attacks were repelled and a battle of pursuit developecL In a third sector of the central front the Germans ' line sagged when an all-day battle , into which reserves were constantly rushed , ' turned against them . In the recent fighting the German losses in men and armor on the central front have been particularly heavy and the command has been obliged to draw deeply on its reserves . Some divisions are reported to have lost fully half their numbers . The battle of Stalingrad , in both its converging and its outwardspreading aspects , has taken no surprising turn in the last twentyfour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliged to shift some strength from Stalingrad itself to meet the Russians advancing from the Don , though the holding force left on the outskirts of the city is heavy enough to make counter-attacks . German attempts to consolidate on a line of . hills east of the Don again has broke down , while in the south , in the Kotelnikov region , the Russians in their southwestward advance are meeting well-prepared fortifications , where the Germans hoped to gain time . The Russians have pierced these with their vanguards and are massing their main forces . The consolidation in the southwestern sector , mentioned in recent communiqu ? s , indicates that the deep zone blocking the enemy 's retreat in that direction from Stalingrad now has been cleared of pockets of resistance . As all Russian supplies for this region must cross the Volga , such periods of consolidation are not unexpected . Within Stalingrad , in the industrial northern part , the German - resistance is reported to be weak-1 ening , though sharp clashes by small groups of fighters are frequent . It is the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle on the enemy by attacking blockhouses and buildings . .11 Between the Don and the Volga there were violent battles in the depth of the enemy 's defenses , into which tanks and motorized infantry penetrated . Hill Won in Fierce Battle One of the fiercest battles fought south of Stalingrad was for Southern Height , the loftiest hill in the chain of the Ergeni Hills , running south from Krasnoarmeisk between the Stalingrad Kotelnikov railroad and the Volga . This height plays the same tactical role in both offensive and defensive fighting at Stalingrad as the Mamai Height northwest of the city . It commands a view of long stretches of the Volga and the surrounding steppe . There the Tartars , Mongols and Russians fought in the past , and there a few days ago there was a long , violent clash between Russians and Germans . Its possession was vital , for it blocked the way to the railroad , as well as placing the movement of the Russian forces south of Stalingrad under observation . By a decisive blow of massed artillery and the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about three hours ' fighting . Under cover of the fire of forty-seven tanks in line on the steppe , the Germans were able to withdraw a considerable body of their forces , and during the night Russian scouts located an enemy battalion preparing to attack from a valley . In the morning this battalion stormed Southern Height with the support of twenty tanks . It was met by a storm of fire , six tanks were withdrawn and the infantry engaged in hand-to-hand fighting . During the rest of the day an entire German division launched attack after attack on the height . The tanks often were within 200 yards of the Russian positions . By noon thirteen tanks had been destroyed , but early in the afternoon seventy machines approached the Western flanks of the hill with two regiments of infantry The Russian right flank yielded , the left flank faced the danger of being surrounded and part of the hill fell to the Germans . Then , on the left flank , a Russian counter-attack was launched and the posiRED ARE PUNCHES NEW HOLES IN LINES // tions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed . In the evening further German concentrations were broken up by artillery , remnants of the division were seen to be retreating and the Russians pursued them for five miles , destroying three more battalions and many guns and continuing their advance toward the railroad .                     