@@710172

txt Is Socialism to blame for'the fuel crisis here ? For a week now , this has been the subject of the most intense political debate since The Labor Government came to power . It is time for at least a tentative verdict . Indeed , the controversy has clarified a good deal in the eight days since the surprise power cuts first were announced . The cause of impartiality is served best by breaking the answer down into several component parts : First , the amount of blame to be allocated is not as great as is generally supposed . No Way to Avoid Britain never had an opportunity to avoid a fuel crisis this winter . Its only choice was between rationing fuel all winter long , to prepare for extreme storms which might not come , or taking the chance of an all-out crisis like the present one , if the weather turned out really . bad . Against the disadvantages of a rationing which might prove to have been unnecessary , there had to be ' weighed the fact that a great switchoff like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal as Britain has available . It forces essential industries to shut down and gives no opportunity to take cuts in the field of luxury goods and services which could be spared . Different Blames Second . there are different kinds of blame to be allocated . If winter-long rationing now is agreed to have been the right course , the Labor Government can be blamed in the absolute sense for not having followed it . But politics is relative . For the fullest blame , it would have to be shown that the Opposition parties advocated a course which the Government did not follow . This was not the case . After going through the records , including the full texts of coal debates in the House of Commons last June and October , when the subject was fully discussed , it is clear that neither Conservative Party nor Liberal Party leaders ever asked for fuel rationing . It was not mentioned . The House had before it all the facts then available . They were extremely grim . Yet no Conservative speaker advocated anything more drastic than various means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition here was on weak rather than strong ground . Increasing the miners ' output has been an outstanding success of the Labor Government , and such was the hostility of the miners to Conservative methods that it is to be doubted whether the Conservatives would have done nearly as well . Third , those political ingredi , ents which entered into the great public furore over the fuel crisis have to be considered . It is a normal function of a democratic opposition to blame the party in power for all mistakes , without being too clear about its own program . So the Conservatives leaped to their opportunity to discredit the Government here last week . Fourth , Labor has made mistakes in the field tlf ? publicity and Parliamentary strategy which can be separated from the issue of whether or not Socialism is responsible for today 's crisis . The abrupt way in which the bad weather crisis was sprung on the public last week generally is regarded as nearly inexcusable . Fuel Minister Emanuel Shin-well 's alleged Nero-like optimism in the face of disaster ? is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his have been distorted far beyond their meaning in the virulence of the press campaign against him . Fifth , in order to blame Socialism as such , it would be necessary to prove that the mistake of failure to ration was typical of Socialist policies and actions . This would be difficult to do . Unpopular Move The Labor Government rationed bread when it was just as unpopular as the fuel ration would have been . This was done against the heaviest Opposition criticism  --  and regardless of the political damage which might ensue , especially if it were later proved to have been an unnecessary precaution . In general , the Labor Government has proved resolute in imposing one unpopular segment of austerity after another upon a tired people . Export industries have been given priority over domestic consumer goods , almost to the fullest extent that Conservative industry could desire . Therefore , dodging unpopular decisions for political reasons can not be called typical of the present administration . Furthermore , if failure to ra-. tion was a deliberate result of the Government 's political philosophy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one would not recant . But the Government has flatly acknowledged making a very grave mistake , both through editorials in its semiofficial spokesman , the London Daily Herald , and in Chancellor of the Exchequer Hugh Dal-ton 's very candid statement that this must under no circumstances be allowed to happen again . Factors Recorded Having recorded all these factors , which tend to remove the present upheaval from the ' doctrinal realm of Socialism versus capitalism , what remains for a verdict ? Obviously , it is that a Socialist government , rather than Socialism itself , has been guilty of a great administrative mistake in failing to_the take precautions -- and a serious error in not taking the people earlier into its confidence . But Britain , if any country , offers at least a chance for a test of social economic change without Continental extremism . Labor has admitted its mistakes in this instance . It is privately appalled at the results of them . Conservatives , after the first outburst of party politics for which both sides share the blame , have co-operated admirably in the national emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stability , although party politics will , of course , break out again , when the crisis recedes and post mortems are in order .                     