@@709470

txt CASE BILL CALLED Senate Votes 66-9 to Act on Labor Legislation Despite Coal Truce LEWIS CURB IS ASKED Byrd Ban on Royalty Set for Test  --  House Group Backs Similar Plan By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to THE NEW YORK Tams . WASHINGTON , May 10 ? The Senate , by a 66 to 9 vote , called up the modified Case Labor Disputes Bill for floor action today with members urging that there be no relaxation , in the face of the twelve-day coal truce ordered by John L. Lewis , of determination to write strike-control policy into law . Carrying out strictly the pledge he made yesterday , Senator Barkley , the majority leader , moved consideration of the labor legislation within a minute after the Senate had passed the British loan measure . Tiien , because of last night 's long session , the " lateness of the hour " and the fact that the Senate L. tbor Committee 's drastic modification of the Case bill since its approval by the House has divided the Senate sharply , Mr. Barkley proposed a recess until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , holding the Senate for more than another hour while members protested delay in action , blamed the Administration for the paralysis caused by the coal strike , and pleaded that the Congress legislate " fairly , " " firmly " and " preserve the rights which labor has won during the last twelve years . " With the Senate committee 's re // written Case bill viewed frankly by perhaps a majority as merely a vehicle to which to attach amendments when voting tests come , proposed amendments in large volume awaited their turn . Some were considered so restrictive that " labor " members discussed " counter-active measures . " There was talk , back-stage , of " a strong possibility " that opponents of labor legislation would offer as an amendment the bill to create a I permanent Fair Employment Practice Commission . This , it was pointed out , likely would prompt Southern Democrats most interested in strike-control legislation to set off a filibuster that would block the passage of any labor law . A filibuster defeated the FEPC bill early in the present session . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be on the amendment introduced yesterday by Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia which would outlaw the payment of production royalties to labor unions . This , while withheld from discussion in the coal strike negotiations , is considered to be the real No. 1 demand of Mr. Lewis and his United Mine Workers of America . Today Senator Byrd filed another amendment , which would require labor organizations to incorporate and register with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the same as other corporations . They would be required also to put on the public record finan- , cial , organizational and operational information , and would be subject to prosecution for violation of their contracts . Soon after the truce called by Mr. Lewis was announced , Senator Barkley broke into the waning debate on the British loan to pass the word on to the Senate . He expressed the hope that the return of the miners to the pits would result in complete strike settlement . Reaction among his colleagues varied . Curb on Lewis Is Urged " Lewis 's offer gives the American people a temporary reprieve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi told reporters . " The fight must go on to curb him and his kind . Congress should not leave the power in the hands of any one man to destroy the nation . " Mr. Eastland made the original motion yesterday to call up the ease bill . It resulted in almost immediate extension of the Selective Service and prompt clearance of the British loan measure to make way for consideration of labor legislation . Senator Joseph F. Guffey , Demo , crat , of Pennsylvania , a member of the Senate " labor bloc , " said he I NN'as " very glad that Mr. Lewis took the step he did . " After Senator Barkley had pro ! posed the recess to Monday , Senator Wayne L. Morse of Oregon , a member of the Senate 's " liberal ' bloc , " entered his formal protest against even an hour 's delay in tackling the legislative problem which had been posed by the majority leader 's motion . " We should stay in session , we should meet on Saturday and we should , if necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to write into law a distinct policy regarding labor and strikes . " The time has come for us to take a stand and settle this question once and for all . We should render the verdict , and then let the American people lender their verdict as to us . Just because there is a lull in the strike there is no reason for us to relax . We ought to stay on the job and face it . " Mr. Morse said he would support the Senate Labor Committee 's revisions of the Case bill . In its decision to take up labor legislation as its unfinished business the Senate divided in a way which apparently gave no signal as to the type of legislation that would ride to final passage . A record vote was taken on the demand of Senator Warren G. Magnuson , Democrat , of Washington . Voting to take up the legislation were thirty-one Democrats , thirty-four Republicans and one Progressive . Voting " no " were eight Democrats and one Republican , Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont . The Democrats were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Mead of New York , Hugh B. Mitchell of Washington , Claude Pepper of Florida , Glen H. Taylor of Idaho , James M. Tunnell of Delaware , and Robert F. Wagner of New York . Senator Magnuson said he opposed taking up the legislation because , as revised by the Senate committee , nothing was left for the Senate " to get its teeth into . " Later he added that he saw nothing that could be done legislatively now to affect the coal strike and feared that the Senate would possibly give its approval to excessively restrictive measures . Senator Brien , Democrat , of Connecticut , sought to break into the taking up of the labor legislation by proposing immediate establishment of a fourteen-member joint committee of Congress to investigate safety , health and other conditions in the coal mines of the country and make its report in thirty days . Senator Barkley objected and the resolution will have to take its normal course through committee consideration . " This resolution , " Mr. said , " was prepared before the present crisis developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know through investigation the truth about conditions in the mines . " ? WASHINGTON , May 10 ( LT.P )  - -   - -  A House Judiciary Subcommittee agreed today to approve a bill aimed at outlawing the tonnage royalty demands of John L. Lewis . The subcommittee planned to report out on Tuesday a bill similar to the Byrd amendment , after Mr. Lewis ignored an invitation to present his side of the issue to the committee . Representative Stephen Face , Democrat , of Georgia , said he favored laying aside everything but labor legislation " this minute . " It was expected that the House first would approve the Senate 's stop-gap extension of the draft lay until July 1 .                     