@@708154

txt Demands upon Governor Dewey to call a special session of the Legislature to extend the voting hours on election day increased yesterday after the Board of Elections defeated a motion by S. Howard Cohen , its president , to that effect . The motion was defeated by a tie vote , with William J. Heffernan , Democrat , voting for the motion and the two Republican members , David B. Costume. , secretary of the board , and John R. Crews , Brooklyn leader , voting against it . " I have taken enough abuse and criticism from the registrants and the newspapers regarding congested conditions at the polls and I propose to shift the responsibility to the Legislature , " Mr. Cohen said , adding that he would " stand on that language , " when asked how the Legislature could be responsible , if not reconvened . At the request of five Democratic members , Mayor La Guardia called a special session of the City Council for tomorrow at noon to petition the Governor to call a special legislative session to extend the voting hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vice chairman of the Council ; William A. Carroll , Manhattan ; Louis Cohen , Bronx ; Edward Vogel , Brooklyn , and Hugh Quinn , Queens . " We feel that due to the heavy registration the hours allotted to citizens to vote are insufficient to meet the increased registration , " Mr. Sharkey said . " We also feel that , unless extra hours are desig- nated , thousands of day workers working on defense , many of whom are working outside the city , will have to take hours traveling back and forth to their home precincts and - will lose additional time by standing in line awaiting their turn to vote . This would mean a serious loss of time and it would certainly tend to halt the production of war materials now so sorely needed on the war fronts . " Mr. Sharkey recalled that Governor Lehman established a precedent by calling the Legislature into special session in 1936 and 1940 to extend the voting hours and said the general voting situation then was not as acute as it is now . Asserting that " failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thousands and serve the same purpose as the Southern poll tax , " Dr. John L. Childs , State Chairman of the Liberal party , and Alex Rose , chairman of its administrative committee , telegraphed Governor Dewey urging him to reconvene the Legislature to extend the voting hours to 9 P. M. " It is your duty as Governor of the State of New York to convene a special session of the Legislature so that the voting hours can be extended on election day , " the telegram read . " It is imperative that there be no repetition of the confusion and delay which marked registration week in New York City . " The Board of Election Republicans could not completely disregard the unprecedented emergency . " The law requires every employer to give employes two hours off for voting on election day . If confusion and delay prevail on election day , two hours will be insufficient time for voting . Those working any distance from polling places will spend a good part of their voting time traveling . " The New York State Congress of Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Garno , secretary-treasurer , sent a similar telegram . " Governor Dewey 's action , " a statement by them read , " will prove whether he is really interested in giving these war workers a chance to vote and whether he is interested in the democratic processes in giving every voter a chance to register his choice . " The New York State . branch of the CIO Political Action Committee , through Charlotte Carr , regional director , also telegraphed Governor Dewey requesting that the Legislature extend the time for receipt and counting of State war ballots from Nov. 3 to Dec. 15 . " On Monday , Oct. 16 , the War Ballot Commission announced that 605,044 applications for servicemen 's ballots had been received , and 305,000 war ballots have been voted and returned to date , " an accompanying statement read . " In plain language , this means that only half the servicemen who have received their ballots have voted up to this time . Since under Governor Dewey 's Soldier Vote Law in New York State 23 to 40 per cent of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State of New York must not permit any more of our soldiers and sailors overseas to be deprived of their vote . We must make certain that the 300,000-odd servicemen who have not yet returned their ballots will have the opportunity to cast their votes in the coming election . Many servicemen need four weeks at the very least to jeceive their ballots and mail them back home . Many ballots were mailed as late as last week . "                     