@@706158

txt When the second session of the 77th con . Kress begins at noon tomorrow the executive and legislative branches of the government will come to grips w , ih the colossal undertaking of wag . Inc the greatest war In history . The legislation enacted during this session and the degree of efficiency of administration achieved by the executive will influence profoundly the course of the war and the welfare of the country during its conduct end after . The session will begin with congress and the country looking to the President for the leadership that will bring about the defeat of our enemies in the shortest possible time with the least expenditure of man power and material resources . Message Affords First Test . The first lest of that leadership will he afforded by Mr. Roosevelt 's message to congress on Tuesday or Wednesday . In this message , the most momentous a President has addressed le congress in a quarter of a century , Mr. Roosevelt is expected to present his conception of the struggle for existence into which the nation has been precipitated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his annual report on " the state of the union , " required by the consti. tution , the message properly will be a review by Mr. Roosevelt of the events leading to the declaration of war on the United States by Japan , Germany . and Italy . Properly a part of the message also trill he a report by the President as commander In chief of the army and navy on the first month of the war . including the disasters to American arms in Hawaii and the Philippines . War Plans Signal Topic . The most important burden of the message , however , will be Mr. Roosevelt 's plans for winning the war . These will embrace the program of joint strategy of the United States , Great Britain . Russia , Chinn , The Netherlands and 21 other countries provided for in the declaration of the united nations last Friday and the program for n stupendous production ( 1 ships , planes , and arms and the training of a vast army by the United Sint PS , The strategy program is taking form with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . at the suggestion of Mr. Itonsevelt , and the Americans cont ? mending the allied fleets under Brit . h.h supervision . A similar joint high command is to he established in other theaters of war . Production Report Expected . While congress will not expect the President to disclose details of stmt. egy , it will look to him for a competent presentation of the program of production . including the steps he already has taken and proposes to take to make the United States the effective arsenal of the allies and whatever legislation he deems necessary to carry out the project speedily . The United States is being relied upon for the equipment and additional man power required to defeat the axis , Britain and Russia declare their capacity reached in the production of arms . The United States from now on must equip not only Its own forces but help to equip the British , Rus. sians , Chinese . Dutch , Free French , and other foes of the axis and eventually send American expeditionary forces overseas to clinch the victory . Output Must Be Doubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gigantic arsenal is one so colossal that it challenges ? the organizing capacity of the President and the men he has chosen to aid him in this field . Less than one-third of the capacity of Licustry Is now engaged in the production of the implements of war . The immediate necessity is the doub. ling of that output this year . Arms production is now in the hands of a congeries of conflicting agencies , operating without any central authority and frequently at cross purposes . To these chaotic conditions is attributed the failure of the administration to effect a greater degree of industrial mobilization for turning out war material . Outstanding example is the months of delay in putting the automobile industry fully to work on arms manufacture . The latest delay until Feb. 1 is being attributed to the war department , which , according to Leon Henderson , was not ready with war work for the . auto plants this month . Pressed to Create Supply Chief . The President is being pressed from many quarters to create a war production czar heading a ministry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the chief . Lord Beaverbrook , who is here with Prime Minister Winston Churchill , is advising Mr. Roosevelt on this matter , and it is more than , likely that the President will adopt the British suggestions . He already has embraced Lord Beaverbrook 's views in proclaiming an arms production objective that will consume half the national income , or about 50 billion dollars , this year . The dollar a year men in the production setup blame the New Dealers ' inefficiency and suspicion of business men for the failure to speed up output . The New Dealers accuse William S. Knudsen and other industrialists in the Office of Production Management of reluctance to abandon business as usual and are agitating for a new superproduction organization headed by Vice Presi. dent Henry Wallace from whom Knudsen and his colleagues would take orders . Outstanding candidate against Wallace ( or production czar is Donald M. Nelson , now executive director of SPAB . InternMed Board Expected . The expectation in official quarters is that the formation of an interallied supply hoard having jurisdiction of production and allocation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the deliberations of the Anglo-American war council . It is understood the joint board will be headed by an American and that the headquarters will be in Washington . The name of Mr. Nelson figuresprominently in the speculation on the selection of the head of this agency . Mr. Nelson left for Havana today for a vacation . He participated in a White House conference . last night on coordination of war production and lend-lease shipments . Some surmised that he is vacationing in anticipation of assumption of more arduous duties . Nelson Is reputed to be the author of a plan for pooling strategic war materials that has Impressed both American and British authorities . The President has not signified whether he will deliver his message in person or transmit it in writing . If he follows the Wilson precedent he will send it to the capitol to be read by the house and senate clerks . President Wilson revived the custom of appearing in person to deliver the annual message , but after the United States entered the World war Mr. Wilson transmitted the message in writing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1942 war tax legislation . The budget will be submitted by the President the latter part of this week . Consideration of appropriation hills will begin at once with attention centered on efforts to cut down non . ' defense expenditures . A joint corn mittee has recommended cutting 1 billion 300 million dollars from the appropriations for the current fiscal year and that 400 millions more of unexpended appropriations be trans- ' ferred back into the treasury . ? Price Control Bill Up . The price control bill will be considered by the senate this week . As the house has passed a differing bill the legislation will be finally written in the conference committee . The question of labor legislation will turn mainly on tile success of the new war labor board , soon to be appointed by the President . Milo the house has passed anti-strike legislation and Senator Tom Connally ED. , Tex. is pressing for such legislation in the senate , the leaders are disposed to mark time pending a test of the device for ending labor stoppages of war production . One of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institute daylight saving by adjusting the clocks of the nation within , a range of two hours .                     