@@711319

txt Republican supporters of the nation 's bipartisan foreign policy in and out of public office are laying it on the line before Congress . Harold E. Stassen told the Senate Appropriations Committee that unless it puts back the $2,000.000,000 the House of Representatives hacked out of the European Recovery Program , the nation will be breaching its word to the world and taking refuge " behind a technicality . " The Minnesota candidate for the GOP presidential nomination told the group headed by Senator Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire that much more than dollars . or materials , or recovery is involved  --  that it is a question of the nation 's honor . Meanwhile , a high Economic Cooperation Administration official said that Administrator Paul G. Hoffman is prepared to drop the entire machinery and equipment program for European recovery if Congress fails to appropriate the amount it already has authorized for the first two years . Machinery Quotas Hit The ECA spokesman said that since coal and food commitments can not be reduced , there is no alternative but to eliminate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machinery provisions are essential if the plant facilities of western Europe are to be built up beyond the prewar level , otherwise " European recovery can not succeed . " Mr. Stassen 's appearance was somewhat in the nature of anticlimax after the stirring appeal by Senator Arthur H. Vanden-. berg ( R ) of Michigan touched off the bipartisan following 's drive to restore the House cuts . Only four committee members , two Republicans and two Democrats , heard the former Minnesota Governor 's brief statement backing up Senator Vandenberg 's position . The witness spoke with sincerity , and his powerful hands were clenched as he drove home his points . His face was browned from his recent campaign under the Oregon sun , where he suffered defeat at the hands of Gov . Thomas E. Dewey ( R ) of New York . Governor Dewey already has spoken out strongly against the House action in slashing ERP , Mr. Stassen declared that during discussions with leaders and peoples of other nations , at . San Francisco and in their own lands , he repeatedly had noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States could be depended on , with its form of government , to follow through in international affairs . Cynical Forecasts Cited " Unfriendly cynics among them stated that we could not be relied upon , " Mr. Stassen recalled , " that economic depressions here , or changing results of elections , would lead to a breach in our commitments , a sudden change in our policies . " Now vou have before you a matter in which Congress has acted . The word of the country has been given . Nations throughout the world , including 16 of our best friends , have taken action , difficult action , sometimes dangerous action , on the basis of that word . " I realize full well that under the procedures of this Congress , appropriations are necessary before an authorization becomes a reality . But I submit that to seek to explain to the peoples of other lands a breach of commitment on this basis would be to take refuge behind a technicality . " The free peoples of the world have made progress in recent months . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress is to be highly commended for the action it has taken as a whole in world affairs . " With all of the difficulties that are naturally present with a congressional majority of one party ? and a President of another , you have , nevertheless . made one of                     