@@705144

txt Fresh bomb craters pitted districts of Britain and of Germany and Nazi-occupied territory today following a vigorous exchange of aerial hammer blows by the German Air Force and the British Royal Air Force . Once again German fliers concentrated on London , seemingly seeking revenge for the R. A. F. raid on Munich Friday night when , according to British officials , one bomb hit the beer cellar where Adolf Hitler had just made his speech on the anniversary of the Nazis ' 1923 Putsch . British planes attempted to attack Berlin last night , but were turned back by " an energetic defense " before they could drop bombs , according to a German communiqu ? early today as reported by The United Press . Outbursts of : fighting between enemy aviators and London 's defending gun crews punctuated the night until the " all clear " came about two hours before dawn . German planes were either over the city or hovering on the outskirts for nearly eleven hours . While London is bearing the brunt of the latest raids , other parts of Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over singly or by twos , were reported in southwest , southeast and northwest districts . Meanwhile the British announced a new series of R. A. F. attacks on the Channel " invasion " ports , the U-boat base at Lorient , France , and eighteen air bases from which Nazi and Fascist airmen take off for their attacks on Britain . From daybreak until just after nightfall London enjoyed a. peace- ful Sabbath , without an alarm being sounded during that period . But in the early dark the menacing hum of a German plane was heard aloft and the anti-aircraft guns went into action . A minute or two later the raid sirens sent out their dismal chorus . Bombs crashed heavily here and there in the city area during the early part of the night and fires were started . The ground guns roared savagely . Londoners who had been gleeful about the R. A. F. raid on Munich decided Herr Hitler was trying to pay back with interest . Also as usual , London officials would not give out figures regarding casualties and damage pending compilation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of German planes crossed the Dorset coast . They were intercepted and scattered back by a strong force of British fighters before they got far inland . During the German raids on Britain Saturday night and early yesterday , according to the Air Ministry and the Ministry of Home Security , three Nazi planes were shot down . One crashed at Bromley , Kent ; another on the Kentish coast and the third in Boconnoc Park , Listwitheil , Cornwall , which was once the estate of William Pitt , the statesman . Fatalities in Early Sunday Raid In the early morning ten persons were killed and a number of others trapped in debris when six high-explosive bombs hit buildings on the outskirts of London . Three were killed in another London suburb when a crate of small bombs fell . In other parts of the country a few casualties and some property damage were reported . German fliers were said to have machine-gunned a convent , their bullets piercing a second-floor wall . The nuns were all below stairs in a shelter and escaped injury . Reports said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off Lands End , but did not kill or wound any one or cause any damage . A luncheon group of forty Conservative members of Parliament , including David Margesson , chief party whip and Parliamentary Secretary of the Treasury , had a narrow escape in a recent raid when a bomb struck the Charlton Club , it has been disclosed . In the debris club members later found a check for more than ? 21,000 that had been raised for the fund to buy Spitfire planes . The Reform Club , another famous club in the West End , also received a direct hit in a recent raid . The Air Ministry communiqu ? stated that over Saturday night , the R. A. F. bombers attacked the docks at Boulogne and Calais as well as Lorient and the . Nazi air bases . All the British planes returned safely . After a day of sharp squalls the weather at the Strait of Dover was unsettled last night . A biting northwest wind blew and a light mist covered the choppy sea . Stretcher-Bearers at Clinic Killed LONDON , Monday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a terrific anti-aircraft barrage at a one-a-minute clip pounded London with high explosives for almost five hours last night in an Armistice Eve raid that was one of the heaviest of the aerial siege of Britain . Four members of a stretcher party were killed when a high-explosive bomb scored a direct hit on a maternity and child-welfare clinic used as an air-raid-protection depot . Fires ringed the London sky during the early part of the raid , but were smothered quickly . The firemen worked in a hail of bombs , for the flames provided an ideal target for the bombers . An indication of the effectiveness of the anti-aircraft batteries was seen in an announcement by the Air Ministry 's news service that the ground guns had destroyed 400 German bombers and fighters since the war began . Army Camp Bombarded , Nazis Say BERLIN , Monday , Nov. 11 ( P )  - -  Low- flying German raiders caused " terrific " destruction yesterday in a successful attack on a British military camp in Southern England , informed sources said today . These sources said the bombs dropped by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , poured upon the surprised soldiers rushing headlong for shelter , caused severe losses , they added . The railway station and harbor facilities at Bexhill were other targets of Sunday bombers , it was stated . The High Command last night stressed air attacks by Stukas on British shipping . One of these dive-bomber units was credited with sinking 200,000 tons of British shipping space since the war began and so damaging 306,500 other tons that " it is assumed one-third of this cargo space was lost . "                     