@@709223

txt John R. Longo , long a political foe of Mayor Frank Hague , won today his two-year fight against a conviction for fraudulently altering his voting record . Hudson County Common Pleas Judge August Ziegener ordered a new trial on the ground that Mr. Longo had been convicted as a result of " fraud " on ' the part of the prosecution . Mr. Longo was sentenced to one and a half to three years in state Prison by Judge Thomas H. Brown , Judge Ziegener 's predecessor , on Nov. 15 , 1943 , after a trial in which Mr. Longo was not represented by , counsel . J. Owen . Grundy , a codefendant , who turned State 's witness , received a suspended sentence but subsequently was indicted on a charge of perjury in connection with the case . In his fifteen-page opinion setting aside the conviction , Judge Ziegener found that the defendant did not receive a legal trial as , in his opinion , the conviction was obtained as a , result of fraud . The court severely criticized William George , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I find , " the judge said , " that Mr. George 's failure to disclose the fact that Grundy , the State 's principal witness , was a perjurer constituted a deliberate fraud upon the trial court and jury and as a result thereof the defendant , Longo , not only was deprived of a fair trial but also a legal one . " If this information had been given to the court it would have in my opinion been included in the court 's instruction to the jury and thereby the jury would have been informed not only that Grundy was a confessed accomplice but also a perjurer . " I do not agree with Mr. George that he was under no obligation to make this disclosure because it was his absolute duty as well as his ethical duty to see that justice was done . His actions were certainly contrary to the canon of ethics adopted by the American Bar Association , which says that the primary . duty of a lawyer engaged in public prosecution is I not to convict hut to see that justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of witnesses capable . of establishing the innocence of the accused is highly reprehensible . " Overzealous for Conviction " " It is most apparent that Mr. George was overzealous for a con. viction in the case . He strenuously opposed the adjournment of the trial ; he personally conducted the hearing before the grand jury , although this was not a part of his regular duties ; he failed to produce the handwriting report and withheld the information that Grundy was a perjurer . " His actions in this case were mere those of a persecutor than a prosecutor . " Judge Ziegener continued Mr. Longo 's bail at $5,000 pending a new trial , for which no date was set . Raymond Chasan , counsel for Mr. Longo , said that although he was elated over the outcome over the long legal fight , he would withhold comment on the court 's opinion until he had an opportunity to study it . Mr. Longo originally was charged with having altered his primary voting record from " Rep. " to " Dem . " in 1941 while an employe of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the alteration was made so that Mr. Longo would be eligible for a political appointment by the then . Democratic Governor Charles Edison . Aided by Edison . Statement In an affidavit at a hearing before Judge Ziegener a month ago , former Governor Edison said he knew Mr. Longo was a Republican and had considered him for an appointment without regard to his political affiliation . Three handwriting experts , one employed by the State , were unable to find any trace of the " Dem . " on the defendant 's primary Voting record . Mr. Longo from the time of arrest early in 1943 maintained he was the victim of political persecution at the hands of the Democratic organization headed by Mayor Hague . The 31-year-old Italian-American has been an outspoken critic of . the ' Hague administration in Jersey City and Hudson County for ten years . After his conviction two years ago , he carried his battle for a new trial through the State Supreme Court and the Court of Errors and Appeals . Losing appeals before both tribunals , Mr. Longo then applied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His plea was rejected and the application for a new trial was made to Judge Ziegener last Nov. 14 . State Attorney General Walter D. Van Riper , acting prosecutor of Hudson County , who was a witness at the hearing on Idle application for a new trial , declared then that if he had been sitting as a judge in the Longo case he would " in good conscience vote to acquit. "                     