@@704937

txt Throughout Canada there is a rising demand for closer co-operation between this country and its neighbor , the United States , in planning the joint defense of this continent . From a vague idea among a few students , joint defense planning by the two countries has become a question of practical politics on which the Canadian Government will have to take a stand before long . When the issue was broached gingerly in Parliament here a few days ago , Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King avoided any direct answer . Asked by an opposition member whether Canada has " any commitments or understanding with Washington regarding the naval protection of the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts of this country , " Mr. King replied : " I can not imagine myself giving a ' yes ' or no ' to the question . . . . Regard- less of what reply I had made , it would be entirely misunderstood and misinterpreted not only in this country but much more so in the country to the south . " He asked that the question be dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament asked whether a plan of joint defense had been worked out with the United Slates and whether Canada proposed to offer its neighbor a base in Canada for defense purposes . Again Mr. King refused to make a statement . He said he would not reveal this information even to a secret session of Parliament . Such discussions , he indicated , would cause controversy in the United States . Influence of Press Thus , the whole question has been stalled for the moment , but apparently not for long . All over the country powerful newspapers are calling for a definite policy , for staff talks between the heads of the Canadian and United States armies and navies. 's Magazine , an influential national publication , has demanded editorially that Canada take the lead in this movement and make a sensible arrangement with its neighbor . Two powerful Liberal papers in the West , the Winnipeg Free Press and the Vancouver Sun , have urged Canada to seek allies wherever they can be found in the New World and argued that in no sense would such a policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a military understanding , says The Sun , is not surpi ' sing . " The only surprising thing is that the understanding does not already exist . " ? The Ottawa Journal , a leading Conservative newspaper , while skeptical of any plan for a hemisphere economy in the Americas . regards staff talks between Ottawa and Washington to prepare for joint defense as sensible and obvious . Status in Parliament Meanwhile , influential members of Parliament are pressing for definite action , feeling that Canada has been too timid in handling this problem in the past . Surveying the history of military relations be ' tween this country and its neighbor , they find a singular lack of actual co-operation . Eighteen months ago it was revealed that Canadian and American military experts had conferred secretly in Washington to plan the placement of artillery along the Straits of Juan de Fuca. leading to Seattle and Vancouver . As a result of these conferences , the Canadian batteries and forts were placed so as to complement the lire of guns already placed on the American coast . But the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great secret until a Canadian newspaper correspondent disclosed it . Apparently the Canadian Government anticipated serious protest from those sections of Canada which have always opposed too much co-operation with the United States as likely to weaken the ties with Britain . Instead , the Government 's action met with general approval and no objection- whatever . No Further Talks For some undisclosed reason , military co-operation appears to have stopped there . Up to recently no further conferences between the military men of the two nations have been reported . Yet the need for conferences has obviously deepened in the " last few months . Many leading Americans have made it clear that the United States wants an understanding , and access to naval bases on the Canadian Atlantic coast , in order to plan its own defense . At the same time , the defense weapons of Canada has e been geared more closely than over into American manufacturing methods so that . in a purely technical sense , the two countries are more intimately associated than ever . The Canadian airplane industry , for example , has had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the war started in order to use American engines . Any satisfactory plan of joint defense would have to include an understanding about manufacturing processes and standards to be used in various forms of armament . Many Canadians are puzzled by Mr. King 's suggestion that any frank discussion of these problems would lead to misunderstanding and controversy in the United States . Presumably it is feared here that if Canada engages in any closer military co-operation with its neighbor , some Americans will imagine that their country is being drawn into the affairs and the risks of the British Empire . Guarantee Cited Those who advocate a military understanding here realize that it must relate to the defense of this continent only , that it must not involve the United States beyond the territory of this continent . They can not understand why any American should object to such an arrangement when the American nation already has guaranteed to defend Canada from invasion . In Canada , among those who think this way , the defense of Canada is regarded as having two lines . The first line is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already an economic revolution , has budgeted for unprecedented expenditures , accepted extraordinary taxation , sent soldiers to Britain , Iceland , Newfoundland , and the West Indies , and adopted universal military training . Thus there can be no question about Canada 's wholehearted support of the first line of defense . But there is a second line , in America , and most Canadians feel that it must be maintained  --  not in the expectation of British defeat , which Canadians feel to be impossible , but because Canada may be endangered no matter what happens in Europe . The Canadian Government has said so , officially , in Parliament . Thus , it is reasoned , Canada must work with British forces overseas and with American forces in America and , as the British and United States forces each use different equipment , a difficult technical problem is posed for Canada . The first step towards a solution of all these problems , it is felt , is a frank discussion with the United States , an agreement as to what each nation would do , how it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventualities .                     