@@708708

txt Japaris homeland will be bombed and burned from the face of the earth within the next 12 months . That is the terrifying picture of how joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington will deal with Japan , as foretold here today by Gen. H. H. Arnold . From Tokyo to Nagasaki , Super-fortress raids will in the future rake Japan in raids which , already having wiped out huge sections of Japan 's populated areas , will continue to mount in intensity until they dwarf what was done to Germany from the air . Although the exact details of the strategic bombing program can not be fully published , this much of the plan can be disclosed : Superforts , bolstered shortly by Lieut . Gen. James H. Doolittle 's 8th Air Force , will drop a total of 1,300,000 tons of bombs between now and July , 1946 . The additional bomb loads to be dropped by Gen. George C. Kenney 's Far Eastern Air Force will bring the total weight to 2,000,000 tons . B-29 Total to Be Doubled The number of Superforts to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present total . It can not be stated exactly how many Superforts now are operating , but it has been announced that four wings are flying from the Marianas . A wing usually con : : sts of a minimum of 150 planes  --  making a minimum total of 600 aircraft . The main targets will be the Japanese five key cities  --  Tokyo , Yokohama , Kobe , Nagoya , and Osaka . Once these objectives have been adequately dealt with , pinpoint bombing will hit selected targets in other areas . Perhaps the most startling aspect of General Arnold 's disclosure today was the complete sangfroid with which he lounged in the briefing room of Superfort headquarters here and told how his air force would destroy an entire nation . Only when ong studies post-bombing photos , showing how a single incendiary raid wiped out almost an entire major city , is it possible to visualize the utter destruction which can be wrought by bombing methods far exceeding anything that was practiced in Europe . Air War Revolutionized One of the most significant points General Arnold stressed today was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warfare . He explained that Superforts could be transferred to the Atlantic Ocean in three days and placed in operation on the fourth day , and he gave a lucid example of their range when he pointed out that Superforts based in Kansas City could hit targets scattered over the entire face of North America . It is apparent from what General Arnold disclosed that America 's military chieftains have not adopted a policy of attempting to knock out Japan by air power alone . General Arnold stated flatly that his bombing program will be entirely separate from any other ground operations which migtht be undertaken . Therefore , in the event it should be deemed necessary to invade Japan itself , the bombing program will be in the nature of an adjunct to ground operations , It must be remembered that Japan , unlike . Germany , does not have the industrial or engineering potential with which to replace damage to any appreciable degree . Once a Japanese factory should be knocked out , it most likely would remain so . Another factor which General Arnold did not touch on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the mass killings of Japanese civilians which is almost sure to attend large-scale air attacks , particularly of an incendiary nature . It is believed here that civilian casualties run possibly into the hundreds of thousands already . The huge fire raid in Tokyo recently is believed to have resulted in some 500,000 civilians losing their homes . As far as the air force Is concerned , civilian targets are now fully as important as industrial areas . General Arnold made this clear when he pointed out that Kamikaze Corps planes often were made in " back yards " where civilians join the production line in true Oriental coolie fashion  --  a single family sometimes manufacturing the tiniest part in the piecemeal construction program . Finally , General Arnold outlined just how the plan to wipe out Japan from the air had been predicated on lesson learned in Germany . Pointing out that industrial targets in Germany were picked and given priority through the help of industrial specialists who had lived and worked inside Germany before the war , General Arnold stated that smilar specialists who knew Japan 's industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superforts . The German air force eventually was grounded by the bombing out of gasoline-producing facilities . From this , General Arnold forecast that Japan 's air force similarly would be voided and in much less time .                     