@@704520

txt With the United States Undersecretary of State , Mr. Sumner Welles , preparing to visit Berlin by way of Rome before visiting London or Paris on his " survey of Europe , " information received here recently makes it possible to form a timely picture of Germany 's price for ending hostilities and co-operating in new international economic reconstruction . Surrender by Great Britain of its controlling position on the sea and of its colonies appears to be the , main demand , according to the interpretation placed here in London upon statements made in the Reich . Without these concessions it is clear Nazi Germany is not prepared to co-operate in whatever plans the United States may have for establishment of a sound international economic system and world-wide reduction of armaments . In fact , an article in the BOrsen Zeitung by Karl Megerle , who is generally assumed to speak as an unofficial representative of the German Foreign Office , defines conditions under which Germany would abandon its system of economic self-sufficiency and help build up a new international free trade system . Surrender the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Empire to the whole world , Herr Megerle then asks : If Germany and Italy abandon their systems of economic self-sufficiency , is Englind prepared to surrender dominion of the sea , control of sea routes , naval bases . and abandon its claim to maintain the greatest Navy in the world ? This he concludes should be Britain 's contribution to a " new economic equilibrium . " Such a statement appears nothing other than a detailed interpretation of Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick 's earlier statement of Germany 's war aims which de-clared : " This war must not end with worthless compromise , but with genuine peace based on fair conditions . We shall take care to finish off this war as quickly as possible with a Pax Germanica  --  a lasting and just peace giving every people living space which its importance and achievements merit . " Show the Problems It is not surprising that the British should enthusiastically welcome Mr. Welles ' visit to Europe since it will give the United States envoy first-hand knowledge of the problems with which France and Britain are faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced if a genuine peace , rather than an embattled truce which might well mean victory for aggression , is to be early achieved . Britain has pledged itself to peace only after the National Socialist regime is overthrown while the Third Reich is equally determined to smash the British Empire , " Our people may be divided on this or that question , " Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels recently declared , " but regarding the English people there is but one opinion . Destroy them . There never was a time when Germany had such splendid prospects as today to achieve a dominating position in the world . " Ideas Widely Differ Continued reproduction of arguments as to Lebensraum ( living space ) which have been heard from Germany since 1933 onwards are interpreted here as meaning that Reichsfiihrer Hitler also will repeat the old arguments and simply transfer the responsibility to the Allies ' shoulder . Hence there is much work ahead before even that basis of understanding between present belligerents is achieved which is essential to the accomplishment of Mr. Welles ' mission . Today as so often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and justice differ so widely from those of the democracies that a common ground is hard to find , and it is not surprising that the Allies will expect something more than mere words as a guarantee of German willingness to co-operate on international lines , especially since the very term " international " has been taboo to the National Socialists . And when they can maintain that the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia is today happy and peaceful , and that that section of Poland occupied by the Germans is happily settled , it is not surprising that Britain should assume that Germans say " freedom " when they mean hegemony .                     