@@707342

txt With the plan to draft fathers scheduled to become effective Friday , it will again be the chief issue before Congress this week . The bill of Senator Burton K. Wheeler , Democrat , of Montana , to prohibit drafting of fathers before Jan. 1 is slated to come up in the Senate Tuesday . Whether it will reach a vote is uncertain , but if it does , the consensus is that it will be defeated . It was approved by the Senate Military Affairs Committee before the Congressional recess , which began in July , but with the recess ended House and Senate Military Committees held new hearings on it last week and strong opposition to it was voiced by high military and civilian leaders , including Gen. George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff ; Admiral Ernest J. King , Commander in Chief of the Fleet and 1Chief of Naval Operations , and Bernard M. Baruch , special adviser of James F. Byrnes , War Mobilization Director . Recommittal Move Possible Senators opposed to the bill may move to send it back to committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move probably would carry by an adequate if not substantial majority . However , if the bill seems to be developing support opposition Senators may seek an agreement to postpone consideration pending an effort to have war manpower officials consent to try to get the required number of men from draft categories other than that covering fathers . Alternatives to the Wheeler bill may be offered by Senator Josiah W. Bailey , Democrat , of North Carolina , and Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio . Senator Bailey would seek to obtain the needed men by " work or fight " legislation . Senator Taft 's proposal would restrict the induction of family men to those under 30 years of age until that supply is substantially exhausted . Senator Bennett C. Clark , Democrat , of Missouri , has indicated that he might offer a proposal to divide induction of fathers into three categories , those under 25 years old , those under 30 and those past 30 . Protracted Debate Hinted It is possible that the Senate debate may go on for ? week or two . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even though he might feel his bill had little chance , he would continue to agitate for it as long as possible as a means of impressing on the " bureaucrats " in Washington that they were not making efficient use of the available non-father manpower . He and his supporters may prolong the debate with this object in view . With no other legislation of consequence pending , the Senate would find it difficult to obtain support of any move to shut off the discussion . The House will be marking time , both on the floor and in its committees , for the next week or ten days at least . The Ways and Means Committee will hold a routine executive session tomorrow , but does not plan to begin consideration of the administration 's request for $12,000 , - 000,000 in new taxes or forced savings until Oct. 4 . Tax Request Meets Fight However , the House Is already simmering over this request , the latest reaction being the addition of the voice of Representative John J. Dingell , Democrat , of Michigan , ' a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ com mitteemen who hold that $6,000 , - 000,000 or $7,000,000,000 is all that should be sought and all that the public can stand in additional levies . Republican members take the view that the Government can save , $6,000,000,000 a year out of present expenditures and they also point to the assertion that the Army and Navy have been authorized to contract for materials in a total ' amount of more than $200,000,000 , - 000 which is as yet unexpended . An extensive Republican floor attack on the Administration tax proposal may come , it was indicated tonight , even before the Ways and Means Committee begins its hearings . The absence of any consequential legislation before the House gives the Republicans ' ample chance for a " field day " on this subject . An expected Administration request this week ror a $1,000,000 , - 000 food subsidy fund , which many members oppose , may set off another flood debate .                     