@@711667

txt Mayor O'Dwyer returned yesterday morning from his curtailed vacation in California and plunged immediately into efforts to bring about a settlement of the longshoremen 's strike that has tied up the city 's entire waterfront and shipping industry . He was back at City Hall before noon and soon afterward announced that he would confer there at 11 A. M. today with Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , AFL , and members of the union 's negotiating committee . Later in the day the Mayor had a telephone talk with Cyrus S. Ching , director of the United States Mediation and Conciliation Service , to whom he offered the city 's complete cooperation in efforts to end the general walkout of longshoremen in principal ports along the 700-mile stretch of Atlantic seaboard from Portland , Me. , to Hampton Roads , Va . Concern fpr Food and Fuel He told Mr. Ching the city was primarily interested in continuity of its food and fuel supplies and realized that settlement of the strike was . primarily a matter for the Federal authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile the city 's waterfront remained almost completely tied up . The Italian liner Saturnia arrived from Mediterranean ports with 1,669 passengers who had to carry their own luggage ashore . Among them was John D. Rockefeller 3d , who arrived from Naples after an African tour . Several New York hotels were crowded with persons unable to sail as planned for foreign ports , and foreign mails piled up in the city . A few transatlantic liners were diverted from East Coast ports to Halifax , N. S. , and many prospective passengers moved to and from that port by train . At Police Headquarters it was reported that 140 longshoremen worked at the Army Base piers in Brooklyn , and seventy-seven at the Staten Island Army piers . Mail was handled by twenty-one longshoremen at Pier 40 , North River at Clarkson Street . Seventy-five policemen patrolled the city 's waterfront , and a larger detail will be assigned today . It will include four sergeants , ninety-four patrolmen and twenty-seven radio patrol cars . The main purpose of the City Hall conference this morning , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of the local situation . He said he had received assurance that there would be , for the present at least , no break in the water-borne supply of food and fuel . There was no present indication , he said , that a strike of tugboat workers was imminent . Kheel to Attend Conference Theodore W. Kheel , director of the city 's Division of Labor Relations , who has been in close touch with strike developments on the waterfront , will attend the conference . Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander met the Mayor when his plane landed at La Guardia Field at 7:40 A. M. , nearly an hour behind time . Soon " afterward he and Mr. Kheel conferred with the Mayor at Gracie Mansion . They talked with him again at City Hall when the Mayor arrived there at ' 11:12 A. M. to " make a few telephone calls . " Later the Mayor said he had been told by Mr. Wallander that there was no immediate danger of an interruption in the city 's supply of food and fuel . He indicated also that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee headed by Mr. Wallander , which has functioned in past strikes involving danger to the city 's fuel and food supplies . Thomas R. Steutel , Federal conciliator for this area , said he would be present as an observer when Mr. Ryan and the union 's negotiating committee meet at 10:30 A. M. today at the Catholic Youth Organization Building , 363 West Seventeenth Street . Mr. Steutel . expressed the belief that a joust meeting of union and shipping representatives would be held later in the week . Mr. Steutel said he had talked with Mr. Kheel on Saturday and had spoken to Mayor O'Dwyer the same day . Re has also talked with Mr. Ryan and John V. Lyon , head of the ' negotiating committee - if the New York Shipping Association , representing the ship owners . Mr. Ryan , whose heralded conference with the Mayor failed to materialize yesterday , said he planned to give assurance at this morning 's City Hall meeting that the tugboat - men would not join the walkout . This , he said , meant that the city 's food and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonsensical " a statement by John J. Sampson , a strike leader , that the tugboat men would quit their jobs . The longshoremen 's strike , which now involves 15,000 men on the city 's waterfront , began Wednesday as a wildcat walkout when the union 's rank and file turned down a recommendation by their leaders that they accept a wage rise of 10 cents an hour . It became a fullfledged strike at 12:01 A. M. on Saturday when the results of the men 's . balloting on the proposed agreement were announced and Mr. Ryan and other leaders backed the rank-and-file position . Spreading to such ports as Boston , Philadelphia , Wilmington , Baltimore and points along Chesapeake Bay , the strike has tied up 200 ships and made idle 45,000 stevedores . Mr. Ryan said the union members were standing by their original demand for a pay rise of 50 cents an hour . No picket lines have been set up along the waterfront . Capt . William Bradley , head of the tugboat affiliate of the ILA. , said that tugs would continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their piers . In Philadelphia , striking longshoremen voted to reject a request by Army officials to permit the shipment of grain , other foodstuffs and mail to armed force- overseas .                     