@@711469

txt A 17 per cent increase in independent voters in Boston in the past 16 years has both Democrats and Republicans wondering , but not openly worried . City hall voting records show that party registration has skidded steadily from 80 per cent of the registered voters in 1932 to 63 per cent on the first printed list this year . Republican a n d Democratic Party leaders comforted themselves today by ' these two explanations of the current low : 1 . Many new voters  --  the now settled war veterans and those who reached the 21-year-old eligibility mark since the last election  --  will enroll in a party for the first time at the Sept. 14 primary ; Democrats Confident 2 . Party interest among the heavily Democratic majority in Boston was at a low ebb in 1946 , the last time party registration was required for a state primary . Democratic Party registration " will never again reach such a low as in 1946 , " Mrs. Margaret M. O'Rriordan , , vice-chairman of the Democratic State Committee , said today . Mrs. O'Riordan anticipates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary and a consequent strengthening of the ? party , Furthermore , " the two-party system is here to stay , It will be difficult to change it , " she added . GOP Eyes Primary On the Republican side of the fence , James C. Bayley , Jr. , vice-chairman of the Republican City Committee , emphaized that most people get into parties by voting at the primary . Thus , it was pointed out , the throngs who registered for the forthcoming primary at recent registration periods have not yet had a real opportunity to commit themselves . Since those registering are not asked their party preference , only a few ask to sign up at registration time , Mr. Bayley said . At primary voting , he continued , the voter must ask for either a Republican or Democratic ballot , thus automatically enrolling in a ' party . However , Mr. Bayley did not look for any reversal in the long-range trend toward independent voting and disregard of primaries . He regarded the situation as unfortunate . Trend Evident This trend is evidenced by the following figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1936 were enrolled Republicans or Democrats as compared to 78 per cent in 1940 , and 74 , per cent in 1944 . The first printed list in 1948 shows 37,080 registered Republicans , 176,402 Democrats , and 121 , - 179 without party designation . The Republicans lead in only two of the city 's 22 wards  --  four and five . 