@@704771

txt Not All in Fifth Column Indiscriminate Accusation of Aliens as Subversive Called Unjust To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Intelligent citizens who are struggling hard these trying days to keep their bal , ance and retain a sense of sobriety are heartened by your editorial comments on the rights of aliens . It has been stated by no less a personage than President Roosevelt that , by and large , ours is a nation of foreigners ? former aliens  --  who , for one reason or another , fled their mother countries and made America the land of their choice . Together we worked and prospered . Together we made this the greatest , the richest country in the world ; rich in material welfare , great in art , science and invention . With freedom and liberty as our creed , we built the greatest democracy on earth . This is our America ? our land . To stigmatize , therefore , as " Fifth Column men " or traitorous suspects the small minority of foreigners who , because of our stringent requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to betray a sense of alarm and bias unworthy of a great people . Traitors and saboteurs are not , by any stretch of the imagination , limited to aliens alone . They may be found just as plentiful among native Americans of several generations as among foreigners . Government authorities know , or should know , who they are and where they are to be found ; and knowing this , they should not lose much time in apprehending them and putting them where they can not do any damage . As an American citizen in constant touch with foreign bprn or children of naturalized citizens , I deplore the actions of some of our legislators who , in their eagerness to protect our country , are ready to rob it of one of its cardinal and fundamental principles . NATHANIEL M. IVIINKOFV . New York , May 30 , 1940 . Not All Are Aliens To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Aliens Have Civil Rights " properly describes Senator Reynolds 's amendment to the La Follette Civil Liberties Bill as " a deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States . " The amendment provides that not more than 10 per cent of aliens may be employed in any industry engaged in interstate commerce . I am not an alien . I have been an American citizen for twenty years or more . Further , I am of English birth , and so can scarcely be suspected of any undue leaning toward the side of our two largest racial groups  --  the Germans and the Italians . True we have Fifth Columnists , but many of them are citizens . JOHN W. ROBINSON . Kew Gardens , N. Y. , May 30 , 1940 . Limitation Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I express my appreciation for your editorial urging the defeat of the vicious Reynolds amendment to the Thomas-La Follette bill . Such a provision to limit the employment of aliens in interstate industry is so un-American as to make one think one 's self in a Fascist State . B. L. MAZEL . New York , May 30 , 1940 . Defense Effort Broadened Task , It Is Held , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Yes , the United States must defend itself . Where does this defense begin ? At the point where an invader crosses the Canadian or Mexican borders or enters our marginal seas ? At a marine line five hundred miles from our shores ? In Latin America where a European conqueror seizes by force one of the States in that region ? In Latin America when a European power over a period of years reorders trade condiditions to the detriment of the foreign and domestic economy of the United States ? In the East Indies where a conqueror could cut off our supply of rubber ? In the Philippines ? In Hawaii ? I suggest that " defense " is a colloidal term convenient for the use of policydeterminers and propagandists who do not wish the public to know too intimately what they mean when they use it . Candor requires admission that the term has one of but two meanings . ( 1 ) . It may denote a policy of restricted concern for the inviolability of our primary and immediate frontiers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external contacts . This policy ' inevitably degenerates into extreme isolationism . It is a policy of desperation , futility , suicide , as several small nations of Europe have found out after preferring a policy of so-called neutrality to one of a guarantee by powerful neighbors . Indeed , such a policy hardly can be called defense , for its lack of foresight destroys defense . ( 2 ) . The second meaning Can only be collective security , a positive cooperative policy of insuring order under law throughout a world which can no longer be broken into isolated fragments , or marked off into a half-dozen mutual quarantines . This larger view is the only hopeful view of defense . We can not maintain and expand life , liberty and prosperity in a national monad . Our standards rise and fall with the rest of the world , and collective effort alone can handle the problem . ROBERT F. KARSCH . Fulton , Mo. , May 27 , 1940 . Mother OpposeD to War To THE EDITOR Os ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am the mother of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the last war my brother enlisted because he thought he was going on a holy crusade to make the world safe for democracy . Allied propaganda made him believe that the United States had a sacred duty to right the wrongs of the world . He lived long enough to return to America and die in agony . Fortunately , he did not live long enough to see France and England grab everything in sight and call us " Uncle Shylock . " I am one American mother who will not sit back and let our country be eased , led or dragged into this conflict by hyphenated Americans . If President Roosevelt and the Democratic party learned nothing from the last war , the American people did . ELEANOR WILLIAMS , New York , May 20 , 1940 . Answering Dr. Borchers Situation of the Churches in Germany Found Unlike His Picture To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A letter published some weeks ago in THE TIMES from the German Consul General in New York City ' stated that the churches are well attended in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Christianity by the Nests . The fullness of the churches , where it does occur , does not mean what Dr. Borchers intends it to convey . Hitler has not been so crude as to attempt the sort of destruction which would result in the closing of churches or their disappearance . He has begun it by the use of such teachings as are represented in a booklet under the title " Can Christianity Survive ? " which has recently been compiled by Stanley High and sponsored by four prominent American clergymen intimately acquainted with European conditions . It gives authentic translations of the Nazi antiChristian teachings , including one to which Dr. Borchers 's attention should be called . The Fuehrer is quoted by my friend Dr. Herman Rauschning , former President of Danzig , as saying , " A German Church , a German Christianity , is a distortion . One is either a German or a Christian . You can not be both . I tell you we must prevent the churches from doing anything but what they are doing now , that is , losing ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dig their own graves . They will betray their God to us . I can guarantee that they will replace the cross with our swastika , and when we have reached that point , the churches will be crowded again . " In the same conversation Hitler said , " Fascism , if it likes , may come to terms with the church . So shall I. Why not ? That will not prevent me from tearing up Christianity root and branch and annihilating it in Germany . " These statements are in line with others made openly in " Mein Kampf " years ago , to which I have repeatedly called attention publicly and privately for more than a dozen years . It is high time that American leaders in and out of the church recognize what is afoot and realize what it portends for the spiritual values upon which democracy and civilization rest . The church as well as the synagogue will be under persecution in every area over which Hitler secures domination . That will be bet a symbol of the crushing of every cherished ideal of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consistent and enlightening interpretation of this whole movement from its earliest beginning to the present . In this connection may I say that in my frequent visits to Germany I found the people who were fighting for the revival of the Christian faith saying that 90 per cent of the reports which appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES were accurate and authentic . ( The Rev. ) HENRY SMITH LEIPER . New York , May 25 , 1940 . Suggested to Republicans To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Without subscribing to the extreme suggestions for varying the traditional procedure of the Republican convention , I propose one change that has been welcomed by friends to whom I have mentioned it . Ordinarily the platform committee brings in its report before the candidate is nominated . If this custom is followed this June the result may be grotesque . It would be a bold plank-writer who would undertake to write a statement on foreign policy that could be palatable alike to Messrs . Taft , Dewey and Willkie and that would be appropriate to the state of affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inocuous verbiage unsuited to a stirring contest and unconvincing to the electorate . It is suggested that no platform be adopted at the convention . Let the nominee with a representative committee be authorized to write the platform and submit it some time in August when the campaign is launched . This should result in a statement realistically drawn , close to contemporary domestic and foreign events . It might also mitigate somewhat the handicap in holding the Republican convention in advance of the Democratic . JAMES M. NICELY . New York , May 28 , 1940.                     