@@707011

txt I can not speak for the other fighting fronts or for the civilian attitude inside Germany or Italy , but here in Tunisia , at least , there does not seem to be any noticeable decline in morale among Axis fighting men The consensus of observers who have seen German and Italian prisoners during recent days is that both are prepared for a long fight in this area and that the United Nations should not expect any aid from Axis soldiers ' unwillingness to fight to the limit of their endurance . This conclusion , derived solely from observation of the actions of prisoners in camp and their general attitude toward their conquerors , is confirmed by such Allied officers as have had closer contact with the captured enemy . This bears out the warning of high American and British officers that extremely bitter fighting impends and that the foe is a long way from being defeated mentally . German and Italian soldiers in service in North Africa , of course , know little of the magnitude of Axis reverses and what they do know is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distortion . Perhaps the only chink in the Nazi propaganda armor is the recurring admission by prisoners of their desire not to return or go to the Russian Front .. Berlin is apparently unable to prevent news of the extent of German reverses in Russia from seeping through to troops or to explain to them satisfactorily . This leads to the belief here that if hardened soldiers are fearful of experiences on the Russian Front , what must be the attitude of civilians at home , particularly in view of Dr. Joseph Goebbels ' statement that Germany is now fighting to prevent Communist hordes from engulfing all Europe . Although it is apparent from simple observation that the Italians are markedly less warlike than the Germans , the former have proved themselves to be a long way from being " pushovers " in Tunisia . The improvement in Italian morale , which was first noted during the last phase of the Libyan battle , apparently carried over into Tunisia . In some instances Italians have put up considerable resistance long after possible surrender with honor . In one case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender , and then ambushed the Allies . Greater Italian Resistance The impression gathered is that the Italians are no longer interested in Mussolini , the King and the Empire but that many units , as with the British Eighth Army , have now had sufficient battle experience and have become hardened warriors , and that the caliber of Italian resistance in Tunisia will be definitely higher than in Egypt and Libya . On the other hand , it can be said accurately that Italian units in French North Africa still are measurably inferior to their German counterparts , both in training and morale . So far as can be gathered , the increasing difficulties of Nazi troops in North Africa are traceable to growing United Nations strength in equipment and training , and not to any drop in the German will to fight . Those with opportunity to watch enemy prisoners being marched to detention camps declare the Germans still preserve the swagger of confident troops and that , aside from natural battle weariness of any troops , the Nazis show much the same spirit as in the days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large group of German soldiers in Tunisia is seriously concerned over , the possibility of defeat . They have now given evidence of being men who know the road to victory is a long one yet who are determined to reach the goal . Fiihrer Versus Duce There is virtually no counterpart among the Germans of the cynicism prevalent among the Italians and it is safe to say that Hitter ' has not suffered a drop in estimation comparable to Mussolini 's . In fact it is not infrequent to find the Fiihrer 's picture among the effects of Germans captured or killed . German morale seems particularly high among Luftwaffe members , most of whom are young men and have consequently spent their formative years under intensive Nazi propaganda . Even more than land troops , the Luftwaffe still foresees an Axis victory despite the terrific inroads now being made by the Allied Air Forces . As well as can be judged , Luftwaffe personnel and material in this theater is as good as any that has yet appeared on the European battlefront , The only evidence of a growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating here recently arrived from other major European air fronts , particularly the Russian . Prisoners , however , contribute one piece of direct evidence of the effectiveness of Allied air and sea opposition . Some groups of prisoners are found not to have eaten for several days , indicating either a shortage of supplies due to Axis ship losses or disruption of Axis supply lines to the front .                     