@@707019

txt WASHINGTON , March 6 ? A new type of currency was introduced to American shoppers this week , and , despite the forebodings of government experts , the average housewife mastered its intricacies within twenty-four hours . " Point rationing , " that new form of currency which consumers must now consider along with dollars and cents prices when buying canned goods , was accepted with a minimum of difficulty by the average American . The Office of Price Administration , which had worked out the system , developed the point scorecard displayed by all grocers and took the task of educating the American public to the new rationing program , late this week made a profound bow to the newspapers of the country for their help in publicizing the program , and then expressed all but complete satisfaction with the manner in which the rationing plan had been accepted . Unnecessary Qualms No mention was made of , the qualms with which key executives of the OPA awaited word Monday and Tuesday from the regional offices . Since the plan had been accorded general acceptance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit publicly that instructions calling for instant telegraphic advices of any breakdown or difficulties had been sent out from Washington on the eve of point rationing . Reports did come in , however , from officers in all parts of the country and the amazing thing ( to those who worked out the seemingly complicated method governing sales of scarce canned goods ) was that so few real misunderstandings arose . Not a single office appealed for emergency help from Washington . Results were truly surprising in view of the fact that consumers , case-hardened to certificate and to coupon rationing ( the elementary forms of wartime distribution controls ) , were asked to accept and absorb the intricacies of " point rationing . " The average American housewife who shopped for canned goods last week was in much the same position as a tourist in a foreign land . She had not only to judge whether she could afford the dollars-and-cents value of the items she bought but also to weigh the desirability of one purchase against the amount of ration " points " available for the current month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Boston , for instance . consumers of Italian extraction posed the most difficult problem of the week to rationing officials when they ' complained that spaghetti without tomato sauce is not spaghetti , yet the point value of tomatoes is extremely high . In many communities the OPA observers discovered that many Americans had an urge to spend all their ration points at once . In some instances the " spendthrifts " were motivated by a desire to " get this involved business over with " while in others the buyers were prompted by a fear that the available supply would run out before all those with ration books had had a chance to expend their allowances . Among the complaints registered was one from Detroit where restaurants were bitter about the amount of processed foods allowed them under the system . " The allowances for restaurants for the country was figured out on a slightly more " skimpy " basis than that for the average consumer . " Swing " shift workers in Oklahoma City had a lot to say about the fact that no allowance was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The office there moved swiftly to meet the complaints and made arrangements ' to register some 20,000 " swing " shift workers in war plants after the official date for the closing of registration had passed . Stores Slowed Down Retailers accepted the new point system with good grace , although there were numerous comments to the effect that it slowed down business to a considerable extent . Many retailers said that the difficulties involved in appraising point values as well as many values for processed foods resulted in their clerks spending two to three times , longer with each customer than they normally would . Canners whose goods were the Subject of the point rationing plan were restrained in their comments but indicated a highly critical attitude . They insisted that point values established for the various types of processed foods were all out of line with actualities . To this OPA executives answered they were the first to admit the inadequacies of the present valuations and were willing to adjust them to meet the weakness that only experience could disclose . The OPA attitude toward canners ' complaints is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their plan . They maintain that rationing itself is comparatively new to the United States , that point rationing is a complete innovation and that they are open to suggestions as to how to make the point program work more effectively . Looking to the Future There are more reasons than a desire to be polite behind the OPA 's conciliatory attitude on criticism . Rationing officials are now . in the process of perfecting a variety point rationing program to introduce to the public April 1 . If the mistakes of the processed foods program can be corrected before then , so much the better for all concerned . On April 1 the public is to be introduced to the intricacies of point rationing affecting fresh meats , cheese , butter , cooking fats and oils , and , according to some reports , fresh fish , eggs and several other items . Despite its complications , OPA officials are looking forward to the day when they can ration fresh meats . When that occasion arrives they believe the " black market " trading , ' which has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the year , will be cured effectively . In the interim , they are hoping to end the " black market " menace to health ( due to widespread slaughter of uninspected live hogs and cattle ) , first by clamping retail price ceilings upon the prices of pork and , second , by insisting on the licensing of all commercial slaughterers , no matter how small their operations may be .                     