@@705729

txt The American housewife , as well as the American business man , was warned today by Leon Henderson , Price Control Administrator , that the " honeymoon months " of the defense boom were about ended and that a long period of higher prices and shortages of all kinds was at hand . Addressing the opening meeting of the New York Housewares Manufacturers Association at the Atlantic City Auditorium , Mr. Henderson , Administrator of the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply , painted an admittedly " dark picture " of how the nation 's defense effort would make its impact in the American home . " It is a picture of factories made I idle by lack of raw materials to turn out civilian goods , " he said , " of men made idle by lack of materials to work with , of single-industry towns blighted by a spurious prosperity based oh production of goods that we ca n't wear , or eat , or live in . " Every person will be touched , and many will be touched harshly , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect democracy here and abroad brought little change in our ways of life . Those months were largely ones of preparation , of ' tooling up ' for the production jobs ahead . Those were the honeymoon months  --  the golden . months ? people were going back to work , pay envelopes were fattening , you men were getting orders you had dreamed about in the past ten years of business drought . " It becomes my disagreeable duty to tell you that the party is over . Not that you did n't sense it before , " but it needs to be brought home to housewives and business men so that , in true American fashion , we can stir our stumps and get busy handling the situation . " Next week , at my office in Washington , my staff will sit down with the makers of oil burners , automobiles , metal furniture and household appliances , to explore the future . I wish I could tell you that we had an easy solution , that everything is going to be all right . I ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you is that only by sweating blood and tears can the dislocations be held to a minimum . " No exactly similar paradox ever confronted American business . Customers , ready , eager and able to buy , will be crowding the market places and stores , but manufacturers will be unable to get enough raw materials to satisfy demands . All of us will get tired and sick of hearing that unfamiliar word ' shortage . ' " Because the instruments of war are made of the same basic materials as automobiles , washing machines , electric toasters , kitchen stoves and paring knives , Mr. Henderson continued , the defense requirements of many of these 1 means that there will have to be rationing " at the raw material line , and rationing means that some one is going to get hurt . " " But now let me speak to all of you in your capacities as housewives or as that most necessary A-1 priority household appliance , the bill-payer , " he continued . " Prices are going up . Some of you ladies are already complaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who destroyed family income in the last war  --  old H. C. L. himself . Shortages have brought-him back into 1 the prospect . We will deceive ourselves if we believe that the cost of living will level off shortly and everything will be all right . Costs and prices of many consumer items have already risen at the wholesale level-=it 's only a question of time lag when they will hit the pocketbook . " Without seeming to criticise let me give you some of the facts . A few months ago , wage increases were negotiated in most 1 of the basic and large industries . Fortunately many businesses could absorb these increases out of increased profits  --  but not all . " Then Congress established a policy of 85 - per cent parity loans for agricultural products , thus im-plementing promises given to farmers over recent years . The commodity markets , under this impulse , and further strengthened by necessary food purchases for the British , have reflected these loan rates . This is the main explanation of the rise in domestic food costs . Shipping Rates Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' Nazi ship sinkings and greater demands for war purposes . You probably recall that fifty oil tankers have been diverted to the British to insure necessary oil in Europe .. I expect more tank , ers will be needed for the British shuttle service  --  and our price and supply problems for gasoline and fuel oil will be more acute . I do believe , however , that ocean freight rates are higher than necessary , and I hope something can . I be done to reduce them . " These three items , parity loans , wage raises , and ocean freight ! rates are real cost increase items . They come , of course , at a time 1 when defense needs are shortening available supplies just at the 1 time that wage earners , hungry i for all kinds of goods , are getting more pay . " Before long now there will be more purchasing power running around hunting something to buy than there are goods available . If that occurs to substantial degree , no power on earth can prevent inflation . " For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex/ tra purchasing power , and it can do so in many healthy ways . It must increase taxes , thus helping 1 to pay for defense .. It can stimulate savings  --  thus providing a lback-log for the future when first attention is not being given to 1 making merchandise ' of death . Consumer credit must be kept from expanding . At the same time ; increased attention must be given to making it easier for industries 1 which do not compete with de1 fense to expand their production . " In the meantime the government must stiffen its control over prices ? no matter how ornery and belligerent the outcries become . We do not expect to be i popular ? in fact , I 've said recently the honeymoon is over . We expect to be judged by our fairness , and only the judgment of - time can tell that . "                     