@@709691

txt Letters to The Times ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT.SVEND 0 . HEIBERG.L.V . KLEINWAECHTER , MARJORIE L. COE , R.N ... Letters to The Times Trade Unions in Germany Support of American Labor Is Urged to Counteract Soviet Policies TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Whatever one 's views on Russian manipulations in Eastern Europe , Germany , the Far East , Latin America , and elsewhere , there can be no doubt that Soviet foreign policy is shaped by Communist thought and action . It is a pity that this stark truth is kept from the American public by statesmen who obviously know better . The Russian-sponsored plan of a highly centralized German state  --  as opposed to the American-British proposal of a federalized Germany in which the member states would exercise administrative and political power ? corresponds closely to the Communist concept of power from , , above . It has its trade union counterpart in the " One Big Union " movement , a mechanism as anti-democratic and totalitarian as it is abhorrent to trade unionists attached to Anglo-Saxon traditions of human freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind freely and act accordingly . These remarks are prompted by the observations of a commission of the World Federation of Trade Unions on the subject of reconstruction of the German labor movement . According to Lord Citrine , interim president of the Federation , they embody a thorough study of German economic and trade union conditions as the commission found them in the course of a recent survey . Zonal Autonomy The WFTU report strenuously objects to the establishment of a single central trade union fund for all unions , " even as a temporary device , " from which money would be allotted to carry on local union activities . Citrine added : " We did not say that these trade union funds should be split up . But we did tell the Allied authorities that central unions , consisting of from fifteen to eighteen local unions , should be established in each zone , with absolute control of their own funds . " The commission also suggested that unions should be joined together within their respective sectors or in zonal federations , and that later on these zonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run counter to the views of the Russians , who , it should be remembered , constitute the largest and most powerful part of the World Federation of Trade Unions . The Russians dominate the policies and proceedings of the WFTU . That the WFTU should have ventured into the controversial field of German labor unionism without running right smack into a Soviet veto is surprising . The writer has repeatedly stressed the need of reorganization and development of the German trade union movement along truly democratic lines and in accordance with the wishes of the workers themselves . This is contrary to the Russian concept of trade union organization along the lines of a strictly disciplined monastic or military order . Whether the time has already come to join the widely divergent elements of German organized labor on a national basis is debatable . Equally debatable is the admittance of the slowly reviving German movement into the international labor movement , from which it had been barred since Hitler 's rise to power and the subsequent destruction of the democratic labor unions . The crisis within German labor and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached a point that demands universal attention . Need for American Aid It would be most desirable if the American Federation of Labor and its leading unions  --  such as the miners , metal trades groups , transport workers , building trades , printers  --  were to interest themselves early and constructively in the matter of future affiliation of the German labor movement . Germany 's political and economic reorientation is basically a labor problem . The issue will be decided by none but the German workers themselves . The sooner the German working people are made to understand , by word and deed , that American democratic labor stands ready to support them in the struggle for freedom and rights , the better for all concerned . If the German workers are not given the help and encouragement which they so urgently need , there is great danger that they may succumb to Soviet governmental pressure of the Russian-CIO dominated World Federation of Trade Unions . ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT . New York , N. Y. , July 30 , 1946 . Forest Museums Proposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primeval under " Topics of The Times " was very timely . But do you realize how little is left of the original forest types of the State of New York ? True , 2,358,280 acres are protected by the Conservation Department inside the Adirondack and Catskill Forest Preserves , but of this large park area less than 100,000 acres can be considered real primeval forest . The remaining has been strongly influenced by cuttings and the majority of the virgin forest that is left is found in only two types : the beech , birch , maple type and the spruce , fir type . Furthermore , most of this is quite inaccessibly located on steep mountain slopes . Outside the forest preserve only few and small patches of primeval forest are left . If nothing is done to preserve these areas , they too will be gone . The war took a heavy toll of all the privately owned forests of the State , and it did not spare the old growth timber . We can be reasonably sure that in a few decades no virgin forests will exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is done about it . Taxation , change of ownership and increased values of forest products all contribute to diminish the old-growth timber . We need an instrument by which the last patches of primeval woods can he preserved for the present and future generations . One or two dozens of these areas , perhaps ten to a few hundred acres in size , will serve as forest museums and show the public at large how the original forest looked before man changed everything . They will also be of great value to the many scientists  --  botanist , zoologist , entomologist , ecologist , who must clarify the laws of nature and to whom primeval areas are irreplaceable guides . The Forest Museums should be owned and protected by the public , and perhaps either the State Museum or the Conservation Department , or both in cooperation , should be the custodians . SVEND 0 . HEIBERG . Syracuse , N. Y. , July 28 , 1946 . Austria 's Status Defined A Victim of German Aggression , Not an Enemy State , Her Envoy Declares To THE EDITOR OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Allies Against Disease , " dealing with the United Nations Health Assembly , states that " of the sixty signatures two were on behalf of former enemy states , Italy and Austria . " I believe that the term enemy states can only apply to those countries which had declared war on any of the United Nations . This is not true in the case of Austria . On the contrary , Austria was , as Czechoslovakia , Poland and others , a victim of Germany 's aggression . Had Austria 's Government chosen to go into exile instead of dying in the concentration camps , Austria would have had the possibility to declare war officially on the Axis and be now seated among the Allied Nations . L. V. KLEINWAECHTER , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary . Washington , July 26 , 1946 . Explaining a Shortage Conditions of Nursing Profession Are Discussed and Remedies Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We are certain that your recent editorial on the nursing situation was read by nurses with wonder at the gross misunderstanding of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guns and tanks . A great many of us heard and saw them in action . If there is anyone who does not need to be told about the needs of the sick , it is the nurse . During the depression , when nurses were " a dime a dozen , " we were working from 7 in the morning until 7 in the evening or else from 7 in the evening until 7 in the morning , with two hours off duty . We worked six days a week . We often worked extra hours without recompense . As to our salaries during those years , most of us are ashamed to say what we did work for . However , the records will show a range of salary from $30 to $60 a month  --  less than was paid to many maids at the time . Even the WPA paid nurses more for a fortyhour week . Still we continued nursing . Yes , we have always understood the word sacrifice . We have no pensions and are denied Social Security benefits . We have never received enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore have no semblance of future security . As soon as we become unable to carry out the strenuous duties of a nurse , the hospital is through with us . Due to varying circumstances , many of us are forced to live in institutions  --  a situation which is not the normal way of living . We are usually on duty on national holidays . Our pay is not in accord with our hours of work , our responsibilities , our long years of preparation . We are the last to receive a pay raise and the first to have salaries lowered as the economic situation changes . These are the reasons why nurses are unwilling to stay in nursing or to return to it today . The time has come when people must realize that we nurse not only because we like to nurse but also as a means of earning a living . We are not martyrs . We do not renounce worldly things . Do not doctors receive adequate remuneration and live as others do ? Why not nurses also ? Face the facts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if possible , to remove the cause . The same principle is true of the nursing shortage . MARJORIE L. COE , R. N. DOROTHY W. HART , R. N. HK , TER ANN BROWN , R. N .. MAR . M. HOWELL , R. N. ELIZABETH BANKER , R. N. New York , July 24 , 1946 . Logic of Refunding Premiums TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter of Mr. Lawres published in THE NEW YORK TIMES of July 24 raises an interesting point . Mr. Lawres suggests that the war-damage premiums paid to the War Damage Corporation be refunded , with an adjustment for expenses , to the policy holders . By the same reasoning I believe that Mr. Lawres is entitled to a refund of his fire premiums if he had no fire in his home during his last policy year . FRED BRAUEN . New York , July 25 , 1946.                     