@@709919

txt The Church is " menaced not only by hostile powers from without , but also by the interior forces of weakness and decline , " Pope Pius XII warned the National Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine today . He attributed the " devitalizing process " chiefly to an " ignorance or at best a very superficial knowledge of the religious truths taught by the loving Redeemer of all . " The Pope spoke from Castel Gandolfo , Italy , in a special fifteen-minute broadcast which was carried over the network of the American Broadcasting Company in the United States and was hooked up to the meeting places of the congress here . Atmospheric conditions resulted in disappointing reception for the almost 12,000 delegates who sought to hear the Pope . Pope Pius declared that the challenge sent from the heart of Christ to the congress was that the Church " be holy and without blemish , " and that to achieve this , instruction was indispensable not only for children in religious instruction but also in colleges and universities in a " place of honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said . " Sisters , to whom the Church in America owes such an incalculable debt , will not suffice . " The laity must lend their valiant cooperation and deem it their sacred duty to equip themselves so that they may be able to explain at least simple catechisms to their inquiring children . " The congress , in its five-day first meeting since the start of World War II , is devoted to the theme " Religious Instruction  --  the Basic Need of the People of the United Nations . " " Men muss be brought to be conscious of the fact of God 's existence , of their utter dependence on His power and love and mercy , and of their moral obligation to shape their daily lives according to His holy will , " Pope Pius said in the broadcast . " Perhaps the greatest sin in the world today is that men have begun to lose the sense of sin , " he stated . He urged that this be smothered , noting that it could hardly be eliminated completely from the heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formally this morning with a Pontifical Mass in the Church of the Immaculate Conception where Archbishop Richard J. Cushing of Boston , described peace as a living thing whose body might be molded by diplomats but whose soul " must be prepared by those who shape the mind and hearts of man . " Religion , more than any other agency , he said , " must do its work of education and inspiration before peace can possibly become an abiding reality . " He told the throng of ranking members of the Catholic hierarchy from all sections of the Western Hemisphere , and priests , nuns and lay leaders , that " educators of your caliber must do the work of removing prejudices which obstruct international amity . " Writers , journalists and orators must instruct the great masses of the people in the spirit which unites men to one another to constitute " the natural foundation of the one world which , whatever its political organization , is a fact of nature and a need of society . " He recalled the " unforgettable promise " made at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we would win the war and that , having won it , we woulff build a peace in which the spirit of Christ could rule the hearts of man and of nations . " Spellman Joins in Session Francis Cardinal Spellman of New York and the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani , Apostolic Delegate to the United States , took part in today 's session . Archbishop Cicognani will celebrate a Pontifical Mass tomorrow morning in Boston Garden and Cardinal Spellman will preach the sermon . Cardinal Spellman , Archbishops Cushing and Cicognani and the former Empress Zita of Austria will occupy four thrones within the sanctuary set up in Boston Garden where more than 14,000 persons are expected to gather . It will be the first mass sung in the auditorium , normally the scene of sporting and political events . The Right Rev. John O'Grady , secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Charities , told a Congress session tonight that the " plight of nearly a million migratory workers and their families presents a serious threat to family life in the United States . " The time had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have dramatized for them what the growth of commercial agriculture and the use of migratory workers meant for family and religious life and the whole rural economy . " It is the very antithesis of principles of American democracy which are built around the independent home owner with a stake in the soil , " he said .                     