@@708110

txt By Wireless to TES NEW Yowzc WITH THE AMERICAN FIRST ARMY , In Germany , East of ( Heerlen , the Netherlands , Oct. ** a violent bombardment by scores of the heaviest guns and hundreds of medium bombers and fighter-bombers , a bombardment that shook the sodden earth for ten miles around , a strong ' force of American infantrymen rose from their foxholes and poured across the Wurm River into Germany to begin a new and inherently important assault on the Siegfried Line this morning . All day the battle-line rolled slowly forward in the face of sudden bursts of German machine-gun and rifle fire , over countryside where huge slag heaps and tall factory chimneys contrasted queerly with rolling green meadows and heavily wooded hills . By late afternoon the Americans had advanced two miles at the deepest point and , in some places , they were in the first line of the German defenses . While heavy guns spoke from the wooded hills the infantry prepared to assault the second and more formidable line of defenses . As the evening shadows lengthened under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth and rock , torn up by our shells as they landed in the German positions around the rear pillboxes , and the almost cheerful twinkle of mortar shells exploding in a wood where the enemy was holding up our infantry . Over muddy fields and down long straight roads the Americans hurried , while here and there the snout of a supporting Sherman tank pushed forward to eliminate some German machine-gun nests troubling the infantry . Today 's attack , which was launched from the Netherlands , was not in great strength in this sector . Although it was initially // successful , it is too early to call it a break-through . In a tactical situation like that in which the First Army now finds itself , however , each success forms part of a foundation on which really important victories can later be won . Today 's attack did break the lull that had prevailed in this sector of the First Army 's front since Sept. 21 and , if the splendid autumn weather of this afternoon continues , the pace of the fighting throughout this Army 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armored unit is fighting around Overloon and is 3,000 yards west of the Meuse River after having attacked at dawn today . Between this unit and the forces engaged around Rimburg and Palenberg today , an armored cavalry force is harrying enemy positions around the German town of Havert , northeast of Sittard . The most important assault , however , was that across the Wurra , a battle fought in country much like that of southern New Hampshire . Throughout the sunny afternoon , as the Americans drove the Germans back into the Reich , the combat flowed through little towns where women marketed and children played , oblivious to the battle except when the fighting was at its height It was not uncommon to see women and children walking the streets a mile or even a half mile from the front while shells whistled overhead . The air assault that preceded the infantry attack suffered somewhat In efficiency because of the weather conditions . It was effective enough in some areas but in other sectors the German positions appeared to have escaped lightly . Some 350 medium bombers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighter-bombers , which swept in after the mediums had made their attack , appeared to have bombed more effectively , although the Jotters ' assault was by far the more spectacular . Palenberg and Merkstein were heavily pounded . As the bombers sped homeward , silver in the sun , the guns began to slam . The whole landscape seemed alive with the winking flashes from their muzzles and , when the big 240-nun. weapons fired , the sound hit one on the chest like the blow of a fist . The sun was shining through puffy clouds and from a vantage point one could see eruptions of earth as the big shells plowed into the German defenses . Under the cover of this bombardment , the infantry started to move . It is always impressive to see how efficiently and unspectacularly Americans go into battle . An officer looks at his watch and says : " Let 's go , " and the lean lines move forward . In history they , will take their place as soldiers of one of the great armies of the war . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just men grumbling and marching , fighting and dying . The Wurm River , which forms the border between the Netherlands and Germany at this point , was the first obstacle . Machinegun bullets were beginning to sing in the air as the first soldiers slid down its six-to-seven-foot west bank and waded through the icy waist-deep water at 11:40 A. M .. It is only about twelve feet wide at this point , but the mud sucked at and clung to the infantrymens ' shoes . They crossed , clambered up the other bank into Germany as the German fire increased , and met the second obstacle , a belt of barbed wire 100 yards east of the river . The guns had ripped great gaps in the wire and wire-cutters , profanely but efficiently handled , did the rest . A hundred yards beyond was a railroad , and the infantry was moving faster now as the men kicked the mud from their shoes and went across it . Here and there a- man went down and , once in a while , two or three fell when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scattered artillery fire began to ripple along the German front . Still the Americans moved forward . Now the forward files were in among the pillboxes in the heart of ' the first German defenses . In many cases the Germans had not occupied the pillboxes , which were targets for our artillery fire , but had dug in around them , bringing heavy small-arms fire to bear on the infantry attacking the " decoy " pillboxes . Other pillboxes spat fire as the infantry approached . Through glasses , one could see lines of tracers streaking toward the embrasures and , now and then , a puff of white phosphorus as a mortar or a gun hit its target . The mortar and machine-gun fire began to cut down the Germans outside the pillboxes . Soon the Americans were pushing slowly on into the open country beyond the first-line pillboxes . From the west , we could hear the big guns speak as they threw their shells toward this new obstacle . The second line of pillboxes , still part of the Siegfried Line , was situated on a ridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There were some pillboxes in the country between , but these did not seem to be heavily held . No " dragons ' teeth " have yet been encountered in this sector of the attack . By mid-afternoon a brisk fight was raging ha the woods southeast of Limburg . The cleverly masked German positions gave the infantry plenty of trouble and it was not until a concentration of fire from a mortar platoon had  --  been brought down that the infantry could go forward to assault the enemy positions with grenades and rifle fire . While this attack was progressing in what seemed to be an unusually lightly held area the enemy was bolstering his defenses around Aachen . Old tanks are being made into pillboxes and the corridors of the coal mines around the city are being transformed into supply der pots for the garrison .                     