@@710637

txt While Boston City Hall officials today weighed the recommendation of Temporary Mayor John B. Hynes for immediate installation of parking meters , Cambridge government authorities termed their five-month experience with meters " a tremendous success . " Since March 24 , Frederick J. Reardon , Cambridge City Treasurer , reported , the parking meter take has been close to $19,000 . At this rate , he estimated that the $25,000 cost of the meters would be crossed off the books within two months  --  or seven months earlier than thought by parking meter companies . Mr. Reardon 's views were shared by William H. , former Purchasing Agent and now Acting Superintendent of the Water Department , and Chief of Police John R. King . Violations Drop Sharply According to police figures , 700 meter violations were noted the first month , steadily dropping until only 236 were observed last month . Meanwhile , Leo F. Curley , Commissioner , of the Boston Traffic Commission , said today that he is proposing the installation 3,500 meters beginning at Massachusetts Avenue . His survey , which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , requires that meters be installed in conjunction with development of off-street . parking . In no instance , Mr. Curley pointed out , should there be parking meters where there are regulations against parking now . Instead , he recommended meters only for limited parking areas . Meter Plan Backed Little oppoistion to the meters is expected within governmental offices , and at least two organizations , the Boston Chamber of Commerce and the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Association today voiced approval of parking meters . " Parking meters wo n't be a cure-all , " commented E. J. Brehaut , Secertary of the Committee on Municipal Affairs of the Chamber of Commerce . " but the parking situation in Boston is desperate . " He said that , in general , businessmen and motorists favor meters . In the opinion of Norman , Executive Director of the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Association , parking meters " are an excellent idea , " but their success will depend upon the amount of ' briforCe -- ment . In a letter to ' Mr. Curley , Mayor Hynes warned that " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do n't do something immediately , the matter may be put off for an-. other year , and we will have lost a lot of revenue as well as having missed an excellent opportunity to remedy traffic congestion . " Only opposition to the Mayor 's proposal came from the Boston Automobile Club through its Secretary , Robert S. Kretschmar . He attacked the proposal to charge five cents for any part of an hour instead of only one cent for 12 minutes , as in Cambridge . 