@@708458

txt A general shutdown of twenty-four Chrysler Corporation and Briggs Manufacturing Company plants in Detroit , Chicago and Evansville , Ind. , employing 126,000 persons , was forecast by corporation spokesmen tonight . Strikes involving 34,125 workers had already closed ten of the factories and seriously curtailed operations in twelve others . The National War Labor Board , which received a warning from Richard T. Frankensteen , vice president of the International United Automobile Workers ( CIO ) , that the Detroit area faced a general war production shutdown , summoned labor leaders to a showcause hearing set for 11 A. M. tomorrow at Washington . Mr. Frankensteen said a change in WLB policy was urgently needed to " avert collapse of Detroit area war production . " He asserted that 90 per cent of the stoppages could be prevented by prompt and just action by WLB . The stoppages , Government authorities said , posed the most serious threat to war production since Pearl Harbor . They stemmed from a dispute which flared a week ago at Chrysler 's Dodge main plant and another yesterday at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' both cases were protesting disciplinary discharges of fellow workers . Union-Industry Charges The UAW heads were expected to reiterate charges at the Washington nearing that industry and the Manufacturers ' Association were provoking labor unrest at many plants on the eve of the Mead Senate Committee 's investigation of war plants here . The corporations have denied these assertions , adding that if unions " played less politics and paid more attention to war production there would be fewer strikes . " Chairman William H. Davis of WLB demanded an explanation from top UAW executives and heads of the recalcitrant Dodge Local 3 why the union had continued " flagrant disregard of regional WLB directives . " No Government action was taken in the case of Local 212 at Briggs . Mike Novak , president of the Dodge Local , and his executive board have defied repeated back-towork demands of Government and the international UAW in support of his 13,600 striking members . Jess Ferrazza , 26-year-old retiring president of Local 212 , recommended an indefinite strike by 6,100 Briggs workers . He will be inducted into the armed forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Addes , secretary-treasurer of the UAW , had passed his pre-induction physical examination . More Union Leaders Fired Briggs strikers are protesting the discharge of seven union committeemen and stewards charged by the company with leading a strike in February . Four others were ousted yesterday for fomenting the new strike . Late today Briggs fired two union committeemen at the Hamtramck plant and one chief steward at Vernor , charging that they incited new walkouts . The principal layoffs thus far were direct results of production jams caused by the Dodge main and Briggs Mack Avenue strikes. , However , the Vernor plant closed , when pickets prevented workers from entering . Chrysler 's DeSotoWarren personnel were protesting the use of railroad lines to haul armament parts between the Detroit units . The corporation 's interplant trucking operations were throttled early in the strike . Seven other Chrysler plants here and the Dodge Chicago plant where the B-29 engines are assembled faced drastic curtailment this week-end . WLB Telegram to Leaders WASHINGTON , March 2 ( ZP ) ? The War Labor Board 's call for a hearing tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chrysler Dodge main plant in Detroit said it was a violation of labor 's no-strike pledge and " a direct interference with our war effort . " Telegrams were sent to Mike Novak , president of Local 3 , UAW-CIO ; Norman Mathews , national Chrysler director ; Joseph Rubin , assistant Chrysler director ; 1 George Addes , secretary-treasurer UAW-CIO , and Walter Reuther and Richard T. Frankensteen , vice , presidents ; Robert W. Condor , director of industrial relations , Chrysler Corporation and George Bowles , disputes director , regional I War Labor Board , Region 11 . The text of the telegrams signed by Chairman Davis was as follows : " The National War Labor Board is informed that members of Local 3 , United Automobile Workers , CIO , employed at the Dodge main plant of Chrysler Corporation , Detroit , are continuing a strike in violation of labor 's no-strike pledge and the national policy . This strike is in flagrant disregard of order of your international union and a directive order of the Regional War Labor Board dated Feb. 26 , 1945 . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing dispute without resort to a strike . Participation by any individuals in the strike constitutes a direct interference with our war effort in that production of critically needed war goods at the Dodge main plant of the company has been stopped . " Therefore , the National War Labor Board , pursuant to the powers vested in its by Executive Order 9017 of Jan. 12 , 1942 , the Executive order , directives and regulations issued under the Act of Oct. 2 , 1942 , and by the War Labor Disputes Act of June 25 , 1943 , hereby summons the parties to the aforementioned case to appear at a hearing before the National War Labor Board at 11 A. M. , Saturday , March 3 , 1945 , in Room 5341 , Department of Labor Building , Washington , D. C. , to show cause why the strike has not been terminated . "                     