@@707149

txt At the end of the first full year Of academic instruction under the accelerated war program , colleges and universities throughout the Country report that they have become adjusted to the changed campus conditions brought about by the war emergency . This month and next the institutions of higher learning are holding their traditional commencement exercises , abbreviated in many instances . The men will receive their diplomas and commissions at the same time . In scores of colleges the reserves are being called to the colors , thus draining the colleges of their regularly enrolled undergraduates . Despite the financial and other hardships suffered by the nation 's educational institutions , a minimum curtailment of academic activities is scheduled . In most instances the colleges and universities plan to continue during the coming year , even though it may mean a greatly limited student body . War courses have been introduced and physical education stressed . Very little in the way of extracurricular activities remains . On Trimester Basis To conform to the Navy 's V-12 program , many colleges are planning to go on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students go to college for sixteenweek periods . This will divide the college year into three terms which , educators believe , will greatly influence the entire campus set-up . Adjustment of both faculty and students to the accelerated schedules has been excellent , Western Reserve - University reports . Such courses as the history of India and the economics of national defense have been added . The enrollment in the men 's division is down about one-third . At Western Reserve , as at other institutions , the graduate schools of law , pharmacy and architecture are the hardest hit . The losses in the graduate school range anywhere from 20 to 50 per cent . According to President Hugh P. Baker of Massachusetts State Coflege , the war has proved that the colleges and universities of , this country are flexible enough to adjust themselves to emergency conditions . A drop of about 40 per cent in the student body next year is anticipated . Massachusetts State has trained 750 Army Air cadets and is cooperating with the Statewide committee on home gardens to increase production of food . Hamilton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest in its history . Traditionally limited to 450 liberal arts students , Hamilton has found its facilities ample , in terms of Army requirements , to serve 600 . More than half of these are pre-meteorological students . Regular students , mostly Navy and Marine reserves and men under 18 , now number 177 , as compared with 420 when the Fall semester opened . Effective July 1 , Hamilton will change from the semester to the quarter plan , and at that time will offer a pre-military educational program to which a limited number of students will be admitted . It is the hope of this institution to preserve the essentials of its liberal arts program during the war , even though the small number of students available will not make the liberal arts program selfsupporting . University of Texas Rapidly adjusting itself to the new conditions , the University of Texas has entered into various agreements with the Army and Navy for the training of engineers and other specialized branches of the armed services . It is estimated that by July 1 there will be 10,000 University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and twelve war-training courses have been added to the curriculum . The liberal arts subjects have been the greatest losers , with the shift to engineering , science and mathematics . At Princeton during the last year the undergraduate body as a whole has been more serious about its work and has achieved a better scholastic record than ever before . Many of the faculty are engaged in essential war work over and above their normal duties , and all of them have been working harder because of staff reductions and the university 's year-round scheduling . Princeton 's conversion to war included the addition of eighteen emergency war courses and a compulsory course in the development ' of physical skills for self-preservation . The emergency subjects were designed to develop practical skills and cover fields from aerial dynamics to Russian , including map , making and navigation . In the humanities , a cross-departmental program in American civiliszation was begun . Enrollment in mathematics and physics has increased , at the expense ? of the liberal arts , Dartmouth Adjustments In addition to speeding up Its academic work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the college , since last July , of the Naval Training School for commissioned officers of the Naval Reserve . A new accelerated program will start July 1 , at which time the civilian college will coordinate its schedule with the three-term year-round V-12 Navy program . While many changes have taken place and in some respects the college is barely recognizable , Dartmouth has adopted the fixed policy ' of maintaining the traditional liberal arts program , no matter how small the civilian enrollment and no matter how disproportionate the cost . Dartmouth 's normal undergraduate enrollment is about 2400 ; at present It is 675 , a shrinkage of nearly 75 per cent . Although more students are taking physics , chemistry and mathematics at Smith College ; liberal arts subjects have not suffered . The principal change in the curriculum has been the addition of more minors or courses in practical or scientific subjects taken along with a major to prepare the student for a job immediately upon graduation . Changes at Tulane While many changes have taken place on the Tulane University campus , they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating-on a full wartime basis , Tulane contemplates further changes with the introduction of the Navy college training program next session . Emphasis on war courses , such as electronics , mathematics , engineering , foreign languages , navigation , anthropology and cartography , has been made during the last year . Certain nonessential features of the peacetime college schedule have been abandoned for the duration at Bucknell University . However , Bucknell administrators con- , alder the educational program as rich and full as it has ever been. , Curricula changes have consisted ) entirely of additions which seemed valuable in wartime either because they supplied direct technical training or because they of- , fered background information on I the world at war . Physical education is now re- , quired of all students . The news courses include map-making , meteorology , Morse code , Russian , Ital-1 ian and emergency community and ) military hygiene . A distinct trend is noted away from advanced courses in English , the social science and foreign languages and toward the sciences , mathematics and engineering . Beginning July b Bucknell will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ARE ADJUSTED TO NEW WAR PROGRAMS Report Accelerated Courses Are in Full Effect  --  Enrollments Down By BENJAMIN FINE in July , November and March . Colleges and universities have readily adjusted themselves to the emergency conditions . Although the campuses resound to the tread of marching men in uniform , every effort has been made to preservei the traditional liberal arts pro-1 gram and to maintain the highest academic standards .                     