@@709846

txt Letters to The Times ARTHUR UPHAM POPETRACY HIGGINS.MARION L. EVANS , R.N.L.S. GORDON.RICHARD FRANK ... Letters to The Times Our Relations With Russia Patience , Good-Will and Knowledge Are Considered as Fundamentals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : For more than ten . years America has been hating the Nazi tyranny . Now the habit of hate is still so strong that we are tempted to continue and transfer it , which can , dangerously confound the confusion of the moment . A clergyman is reported in THE . TIMES recently to have stated that " the center of evil has been transferred from Berlin to Moscow . " The old clich  --  s with which we expressed our condemnation of Nazi Germany are finding re-use , too . George Fielding Eliot , one of our - ablest columnists , on the eve of his arrival in Paris stated that- in Russia " man exists for the state , " an indefensible political principle which was an essential feature of the German menace but no part of our Russian problem . The same statement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council for Democracy in their letter to THE TIMES of Sept. 27 . Etatism has never had any place in Soviet political theory . The general trend has been toward decentralization , increasing regional and individual autonomy , decreasing governmental regulation , except when that trend has been arrested or reversed by fear of internal disloyalities or , even more , by threat of war . No Government has ever more explicitly stated its aim as human welfare and happiness or implemented that program with so many concrete measures . However frustrated by world conditions or its own shortcomings , this remains the ultimate and authoritative criterion of all Soviet policy and the justification of every act of Government . Opposite Methods Used It is , of course , obviously true that the Soviet Government has been paternalistic and that in detailed control and disciplinary action its methods have been quite the opposite of those which the Anglo - Saxon world has worked out for itself in the course of experiment and compromise through the centuries , a task still unfinished . But it is for the sake of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual that the Soviet Government has utilized dictatorial administrative means . This is insufficient to commend the policy to the Western democracies , but they can be at times doctrinaire , Complacent and unrealistic about other peoples ' problems and solutions , especially when these are uncongenial to their expectations and traditions . It should now be a cpmmonplace , though it is constantly disregarded , that the Soviets did face a situation such as the Western World has not known since ' the Thirty Years War . They inherited a country without political traditions , in the chaos and horror of revolution , with only a corrupt and inefficient bureaucracy to administer vast territories and heterogeneous populations , and had to fight at once a civil war and two devastating foreign wars . Ought not her success in meeting these difficulties , to which we are all indebted , give her the right to determine what kind of government she finds most effective wider present conditions , even if we have to contest in its foreign policy dictatorial decisions which the Soviet Government believes are required for the safety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are real enough , are only compounded if leaders of public opinion misemploy emotionally charged popular slogans . The yellowest section of our press has for years been screaming for war against Russia . Commentators have predicted it . " Irresponsible " officers in the armed services , both here and abroad , actually do talk about the coming war wtih Russia . ? Ex-Ambassadors and political columnists have urged that we brandish the atom bomb . The same animosities are being capitalized in less authoritative quarters . The most effective remedy is conscientious and valid statements by those who have a serious public , and scrupulous avoidance of catch phrases and emotional holdovers from other situations . More fundamental and the only sure protection from needless disaster are patience , good-will and knowledge . All are precious and hard to come by , but are tests of the maturity and responsibility of our own much-praised democracy . ARTHUR UPHAM POPE . Cragsmoor , N. Y. , Oct. 1 , 1946 . Castle Clinton Plan Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : My attention has , been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Castle Clinton National Monument . I was unaware of the fact that the association was opposed to the monument plan and have been delighted to know that it is . To me it seems the sheerest kind of folly to consider restoring the old fort at this time at great public expense , to the serious detriment of the plan 1 for the development and utilization of the park area . TRACY HIGGINS . Brooklyn , Oct. 1 , 1946 . Nurse Shortage Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have come to the conclusion that your articles on the nurse shortage in New York City hospitals have exaggerated the situation . I applied at Fordham City Hospital for employment . When asked if I would do any kind of wort , I replied that I would but I would not work afternoon or night shifts . At that , the nurse in charge of employment very abruptly told me that unless I would work those shifts she was not interested in my application . I grant that it is rather disheartening to an employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , but if the shortage is NO acute , would not a nurse who would work only days be better than no nurse at all ? MARION L. EVANS , R. N. New York , Sept. 30 , 1946 . New Parking Plan Discusser A Short Parking Period Is Advocated as Possible Alternative To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . Surely something more helpful and constructive to assist in easing New York traffic constriction can be devised than the order of our Mayor abolishing the natural right of parking between Twenty-third and Fifty-ninth Streets . In simple fact , the Mayor has taken away from us several thousand spaces each adequate td hold a motor car . He has not provided alternative garage or other parking space by a stroke of the pen , which is sadly negative . What is needed is intelligent action by the splendid police of New York to speed - and facilitate the use of the valuable parking space which our streets afford . The young policemen , rookies they seem to be called , who have been ordered out by the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's car , for no matter how excellent a purpose , might be better employed . Why not permit , even . encourage , parking in this area for fifteen-minute periods , and let the young policemen busy themselves in all the streets ' in question , taking care that the fifteen-minute privilege is used and not abused . We need to use our ' streets efficiently and fully , and let us not forget that brief use for the many legitimate errands of business and housekeeping is highly desirable . The Mayor himself well knows that in all the streets where he has " abolished " parking the imperative demands of trade and even life itself will continue to operate . Let us not have a reactionary , dead-hand policy , but a forward looking , constructive effort by the police of New York to speed and encourage the vital uses of our streets . L. S. GORDON . New York , Oct. 1 , 1946 . In Agreement With Order To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am glad to see THE TIMES in full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to call attention to another factor , not lightly to be overlooked  --  namely , the fire hazard in midtown . Who can gainsay that the unhampered movement of fire apparatus may not be a blessing in disguise and a contributing factor of preventing conflagration and catastrophe ? RICHARD FRANK . New York , Sept. 30 , 1946 . Moving of Some Businesses Suggested TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read your editorial of Sept. 26 praising the Mayor for his courage in demanding and enforcing old laws of traffic . Will this relieve the congestion ? I doubt it very much . The law will be enforced for a while and then will be forgotten . The real solution would be in asking some concerns who are not producing but only distributing their products to perform their operations in the extreme east or west in the city . Take , for example , a midtown street where I am located . Without mentioning producing factories , there are three concerns distributing only , and they use hundreds of trucks a day for loading and unloading . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of New York when they could be elsewhere with more convenience to them and relieving at least 90 per cent the burden on the traffic Mind you , , . I am speaking only of one street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues . Just imagine if the rule is applied to all commercial concerns in the heart of the city . NEW YORKER . New York , Sept. 30 , 1946 . Labor Viewed as Catching Up TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a nation , we have no right to criticize labor 's diminished effort to be productive . We have established prominent precedents by allowing a $600 shipyard investment to yield $300,000 , and by allowing 35-cent meat on June 30 to sell at $1 on July 1 . As usual , labor is only belatedly following examples of those of initiative and enterprise . ANNA MULLANE . Tuckahoe , N. Y. , Sept. 28 , 1946.                     