@@704589

txt While Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini were meeting on the Brenner Pass another important conversation was taking place today in the Hall of the Little Throne in the Vatican , where Pope Pius and Sumner Welles , United States Under-Secretary of State , talked for fifty minutes . They discussed principally the German peace proposal , which the Pontiff had heard from Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop and Mr. Welles from Herr Hitler . On the Pope 's side there was unwavering insistence that injustices be rectified . On the Under-Secretary 's side there was the reserve necessitated by the fact that he has no power to commit the United States or President Roosevelt , and the knowledge he had gained in London and Paris that the Allies would not accept such a peace plan . Your correspondent is in a position to give the general terms of Herr Hitler 's original peace proposal as they are understood in high Vatican circles . They comprise the following eleven points : 1 ? General , simultaneous and immediate disarmament on land , sea and in the air . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would take the form of a ? new European " directory " and serve as a sort of substitute for the zones of influence in Europe and would inaugurate an anti-Bolshevist policy with the idea of " liberating " Russia , by arms if necessary , from communism . 3 ? Recognition of absolute religious freedom ; but first Germany would force all her Jeve to emigrate under the direction of Britain ( to Palestine ) , Italy ( to Ethiopia ) and France ( to Madagascar ) . 4 . Absolute freedom of trade and of access to raw materials ; close contacts with the United States for economic cooperation ; the facilitation of German and Italian emigration . 5 . The restitution within twenty years of German colonies or equal colonial compensation , or at least the protection of German emigration in determined areas of Africa . 6 . Reconstruction of an independent Poland , composed primarily of the central zone of Polish territory , with about 10,000,000 inhabitants . Gdynia would be a Polish free port ; there would be free trade for the Poles through Danzig and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Polish frontiers would be determined on the basis of a plebiscite controlled by international commissions . Minority // problems . in Poland and the whole Danube basin - would be solved by a vast transmigration - of peoples , after which --  would disappear . Czech-Slovak-Magyar State 7 : Czechs : Slovaks and Magyars would constitute a tripartite State allied to the Reich . For , twentyfive years the Reich would enjoy certain privileges regarding industries and communications in those territories .. . 8 . Austria would remain in the Reich : ' 9 . A ' Danubian ' federation would be constituted as a sort , of customs union to equalize the interests of large and small States in the Danube Basin . In this federation two great powers ( Germany and Italy ) , two Balkan powers ( Yugoslavia and Rumania ) and three smaller powers ( Bohemia , Slovakia and Hungary ) would participate . 10 ? The status quo in the Balkans to be guaranteed . 11 ? Free customs transit for Italian goods through Jibuti , French I Somaliland ; free passage through the Suez Canal on expiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new statute for Italians in Tunisia . This , or something very close to it , was the German basis for peace conversations . It was apparently put up to Mr. Welles by Herr Hitler , working through Herr von Ribbentrop and Signor Mussolini . Of course , Pope Pius and King Victor Emmanuel would have heard the same proposal from Herr von Ribbentrop . The ? knowledge of that fact , as well as other developments , has led to the belief in informed Vatican quarters that the Mussolini-Hitler parley was the indirect result of , Mr. Welles's.visit to Rome . Having come from London and Paris , - Mr , Welles is believed to have been in a position to convince Premier Mussolini there was no hope for such a peace plan . To have it accepted Herr Hitler would have to modify his terms greatly . According to this theory , it was to try to induce the German Chancelllor to do so that Signor Mussolini went to Brennero . It seems true , it was authoritatively stated here , that Herr von Ribbentrop told every one concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Spring offensive . This information had supposedly also been passed on to Mr. Welles . At any rate , it certainly was one of the things he and the Pope talked about this morning . It is asserted on the best authority that the Pope continued to take ' the attitude that injustices must be righted , although it is understood that he did not specify either to Herr von Ribbentrop or to Mr. Welles exactly what injustices he meant by that phrase . He told the Under-Secretary that he ardently desired peace and would do everything he could to foster it , but that he did not desire to assume any personal responsibility as a mediator . He is understood to have indicated that he would prefer to work with President Roosevelt and Premier Mussolini , who would do the actual mediation , if any . So the next . move would seem to be up ? to Signor Mussolini , - whom Mr. Welles hopes to see tomorrow . Another meeting depends on whether the Italian Premier would consider it useful , although naturally Mr. Welles is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' that- he - can pass the information on to President Roosevelt . Atmosphere Much Different The Under-Secretary is not to leave Rome until tomorrow evening , since the Conte di Savoie ? quite independently of the UnderSecretary , it is declared In American circles  --  is leaving one day late from Genoa . . It is highly probable that another meeting with Signor Mussolini will take place . The : - . Lmosphere at the Vatican this morning . was much different from a week ago when Herr von Ribbentrop had his ' audience . The protocol is rigid , and since Herr von Ribbentrop ranks higher than Mr. Welles , he was received with much more pomp and ceremony . But where the German envoy found coldness and even hostility , Mr. Welles found nothing but friendliness . Just to give one little indication , the official Vatican . account in the Osservatore Romano tonight speaks of the " interesting and cordial colloquy . " For Herr von Ribbentrop it merely said : " the audience began at 11 sharp and lasted more than an hour . " Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other dignitaries did not flee the camera , but posed willingly with Mr. Welles . The ceremonial was simple . Two Vatican cars were sent to the Excelsior Hotel . Mr. Welles and Myron C. Taylor , envoy of President Roosevelt to the Vatican , got into the first car and Jay Pierrepont Moffat and Lucius Hartwell of Mr. Welles 's staff , into the second . They were met at the foot of the Noble Stairs by a Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape , Professor Pietro de Sanctis , and escorted to the Pope 's apartments , . where Mgr . Arborio Melia di Sant ' Elia , Master of the Chamber , met them . Mr. Taylor and Mr. Welles were : quickly taken in . to see the Pontiff . They remained for fifty minutes , after which they " went down to Cardinal Maglione 's ? Mee and talked to him for half an hour. - The Papal Secretary of State returned their visit early this afternoon . DATA ON RIBBENTROP TALKS Recent Conversations With Ciano and Pope Outlined Private advices received by TAE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said to be an authentic outline of the conversations Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop had in Rome with Count Ciano , the Italian Foreign Minister , and Pope Pius . This information is considered a useful background for yesterday 's meeting between Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini . The German Foreign Secretary explained to Count Ciano that in the first place , with the Finnish war ending , Herr Hitler believed that Europe was entering perhaps a decisive - stage . He spoke about the Russian success in Finland as a " German victory " and predicted that within a year Germany would succeed in ending the war by peaceful or belligerent means . Enlarging on this prediction , he said that Germany was prepared , if necessary , to make any conceivable kind of attack against the Allies to effect Herr Hitler 's aims . The Italian Foreign Secretary answered to this that Italy had no intention of changing her policy . He said it was to the advantage of Germany that Italy and Russia , guard against any possible Allied attack in Southeastern Europe or the Near East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should join Germany in trying to freeze the present status quo in the Balkans . Russia is willing to cooperate in this , Herr von Ribbentrop said , and in an attempt to overcome Italian prejudice against Russia the German Foreign Minister explained that the Reich 's relationship with the Soviet Union had many necessary wartime advantages . While the visit of Sumner Welles , United States Under-Secretary of State , might have certain advantages , Herr von Ribbentrop said that Germany was not inclined to take it too seriously . The Foreign Ministers apparently exchanged views on the recent Anglo-Italian coal controversy , which led to the British decision to cut off Italy 's sea-borne supply of German coal . At the end of this Herr von Ribbentrop said he had been instructed by Herr Hitler to tell the Italian Government that Germany would do everything possible to increase shipments of coal overland from the Reich . At no time during this conversation did Herr von Ribbentrop men- I tion or suggest the possibility that Italy should change her policy and enter the war on the side of . Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , despite this German consideration for the Italian viewpoint Count Ciano felt called upon to emphasize to Herr von Ribbentrop that Italy had no intention of changing her present policy . After receiving assurances that Italy was willing to cooperate in any German peace plans , Herr von Ribbentrop went to the Vatican , where his independence seems to have surprised Vatican officials . The German Foreign Secretary discussed at considerable length the Third ' Reich 's attitude toward the Catholic Church . Germany , he said , would not under any circumstances tolerate any interference by the church with the State . In reply to ' the Pontiff 's reminder that it was rather the State that had interfered with the church , Herr von Ribbentrop seems repeatedly to have questioned the reports on which the Pope based his opinions of the government 's action against the church , and he recalled that Germany had kept her obligations to continue to pay German Catholic priests and other representatives of the church . In support of the theory that the Catholic Church ' had an obligation to the Reich , Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thank for saving Germany from communism which would , he said , have wiped out the Catholic Church in Germany altogether . ' Received No Assurances The ? Pope appears to have suggested a reconsideration of the German Government 's policy toward the church , but he received no definite assurances . The Foreign Secretary did say it was possible some new rapprochement could be reached with church officials , but he entered into no commitments . During the audience the Pope severely censured Herr von Ribbentrop , who at one stage fainted . At= no time during his audience with the Pope did Herr von Ribbentrop seek the support of the Vatican in obtaining peace and , as in his conversation with Count Ciano , he made the unsolicited prediction that Germany would win the war within a , year . In view of the authenticity of this report , which was received separately by representatives of three major powers , it would appear that reports that Herr Hitler put pressure on Italy to enter ? the war are without foundation . The general feeling now Is that yesterday 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocking any Allied attempt to spread the war to the Balkans , and second , a way for making a new joint peace move on the eve of the departure of Mr. Welles for Washington .                     