@@710235

txt Production of as many atomic bombs " as the country can produce , " coupled with continued vigorous efforts to achieve world agreement on a plan to prevent misuse of atomic energy , was urged as United States policy by John M. Hancock . General Manager of the United States delegation to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission , in Boston today . The problem involved is much bigger than control of the atomic bomb , Mr , Hancock , who is a partner in the firm of Lehman Brothers , told a Boston Chamber of Commerce luncheon . " It is how to secure the good from the use of atomic energy and also avoid the risk of its sudden use for war . " he asserted . Even though efforts to solve the urgent problem of atomic energy control may require tremendous expenditures of sustained patience and time , with no guarantee that a workable treaty will result , such effort is still warranted , he said . ' Impractical ' Curb Hit But he emphasized that some hard realities have to be faced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he termed the , superficiality and impracticability of the recommendaN tion sometimes heard that the United States stop producing atomic bombs . It should be recognized from the outset , he emphasized , that the United States could not end the threat of atomic warfare merely . by stopping production of atomic bombs . " The suggestion of merely stopping the manufacture of bombs is a thoroughly impractical one unless it were accompanied by the stopping of the manufacturing of the fissionable materials themselves and the disposal of all in existence , " he said . " If this were stopped , " he added , " the result would affect adversely the development of atomic energy for peaceful purposes . " - " While in no sense a complete guarantee of self-preservation , reliance on national power is , at present , a nation 's only final choice , " he said . " It will not and can not be relinquished unti.1 a more effective means of assuring self-pieservation is found . " As viewed by Mr. Hancock , the United States proposal , calling fat , en.intettlatiortal control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access , and appropriate provisions for prevention and punishment without recourse to the veto , is only part of a broader goal  --  world trust . " The principal reason for starting with the bomb  --  rather than tackling the whole problem of disarmament ? is the hope that an effective plan of control for atomic energy can be worked out and that this plan may show the world the way to control , first , other weapons of mass destruction , and second , all weapons , and , hopefully , lead the way to peace . " Inspection Vital Something of far greater significance than the control of one weapon is the aim , and the need , of the United States plan , the associate of Bernard M. Baruch asserted . The aim and the need , he said , is for faith and conti ( 1.2.nce among nations . These are necessary if the United Nations is to endure and , in the opinion of Mr. Hancock , they can be made demonstrable . Willingness or nations to submit to inspection of their atomic energy activities was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be shown . " If confidence and , good will can be established in this field , " he stated , " It can be a definite step forward to world confidence in all fields , to the building of faith in the given word . " Nations have at hand an excellent and challenging opportunity to prove their honorable intentions not to use the bomb and also to make only the proper peacetime uses of atonic energy , he contended . They can do this , . he said , by their willingness to submit to inspection of their atomic installations by an international authority . 