@@704445

txt BERMUDA CENSOR HOLDS UP CLIPPER Halts Plane From U. S. for Lisbon on British Orders to Look Over Mail Special Cable to Tam NEW YORE TIMES . HAMILTON , Bermuda , Jan. 18 -- The American Clipper , transatlantic plane , arrived from the United States this afternoon and was preparing to continue her flight to the Azores when she was held up for the censoring of European mail . The chief censor stated that , " On instructions of the home government ( British , transatlantic ' European air mail will be censored from now on . " The American Clipper is now expected to take off tomorrow afternoon on her trip to Lisbon , Portugal . New Protest May Be Made Special to Tim NEW Yon= TTMEEL WASHINGTON , Jan .. 18 ? A new and perhaps a stronger protest to Great Britain against interference with American mails was foreseen tonight as a result of the action of British authorities in Bermuda in holding up for censorship European mail aboard the American Clipper . Dissatisfaction already indicated in official circles over the British note rejecting the protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with American mails on steamships bound for European ports was expected to be intensified by this latest action of the British authorities . ? Official reports of the Bermuda incident had not ' been received by State Department officials who could be reached tonight . The opinion was expressed that the imposition of a censorship on European air mail was in accordance with British action with regard to mail on steamships and therefore not necessarily surprising . Stir in Congress Expected Thus far there has been no public discussion in Congress of British interference ' with American mails . Some observers thought , however , that the Bermuda incident might arouse discussion in legislative quarters that might be reflected in subsequent diplomatic representations to the British Government . The British note in reply ; to the Dec. 22 protest was declared at the State Department to lie disappointing . It has been taken under study . The text of the British note is still being held in confidence , because of lack of permission from London for its publication . In its protest the United States Government took the position that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to interfere with American mails on American or other neutral ships on the high seas or to censor mail on ships that involuntarily enter British ports . This government based its case upon The Hague Convention of 1907 relating to the exercise of the right of capture . The convention , to . which all the present belligerents are parties , provides in Article I : " The postal correspondence of neutrals or belligerents , whatever its official or private character may be , found on the high seas on board a neutral or enemy ship is inviolable . If the ship is detained , the correspondence is forwarded by the captor with the least possible delay . " The British Government in its reply takes the position that the immunity here provided applies only to " genuine postal correspondence " and that a belligerent is at liberty to examine mail bags and to open sealed letter mails in order to assure himself that they constitute such " genuine " correspondence and do not contain military information or articles of contraband intended for the enemy . It is this examination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Government , The . Hague Convention was intended to forbid . This government believes that the exercise of the belligerent rights of inspection of neutral mail claimed by the British Government is incompatible with the immunity guaranteed by the convention . First Check of Air Mail Air mail carried across the Atlantic ' by Pan American , Airways previously has not been censored , except letters arriving in England for delivery in the United Kingdom . The establishment of censorship in Bermuda , the only port of a : belligerent that . the airline touches , in effect gives British authority supervision over transatlantic air mail from the United States whether destined for the British Empire or other countries . Officials of Pan American said last night that if the censorship was thorough and included a careful check of each piece of mail , planes might be delayed . The plane that arrived in Bermuda yesterday , however , was not scheduled to leave there until today . She had left Baltimore'at about 11 A. M. , with more than ' 300 sacks containing 5,200 pounds of mail , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight , and fifteen passengers . The planes ordinarily arrive in Bermuda at about noon and leave for the Azores on the afternoon of the same day . The Associated Press reported from Baltimore that the Atlantic Clipper , westbound , would land at Miami today on its flight from Bermuda , instead of continuing to Baltimore where the harbor has been ice-jammed for more than three weeks . The Clipper will be serviced at Miami and fly to Baltimore Wednesday , Air line officials said , then leave for Horta and Lisbon . If harbor conditions at Baltimore make a take-off unwise , the departure will be from Norfolk .                     