@@708757

txt Letters to The Times MALCOLM GILLESPIE.DAVID HINSHAW.GEORGE R. KAHN.HELEN SANFORD.MAURICE J. DIX . Letters to The Times Preparedness Urged Now Scientists , It Is Held , Should Study Plans for Next War To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Germany has been " totally " defeated . Various border areas have been torn away from the corpse ; others will doubtless be amputated . The remainder has been sliced into segments which will be ruled with a combination of ruthlessness and thickheadedness which should discourage quick revival . Yet disturbing reports are already coming in  --  not of open rebellion or underground activity but of the ability and eagerness of the German people to stay in business . German industry is surprisingly intact . Several German cities are said to be cleaning themselves up with a vigor which is equally astonishing . Unfortunately , the life of the rest of Europe measurably depends on the continued existence of certain German heavy industries , like those of the Ruhr . Such restoration as we permit will be carried out with extraordinary speed by this efficient people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rebuild can be satisfactorily controlled by conquerors who are surfeited with destruction and the sight of ruins . Possibility to Be Faced We may as well face the possibility that Germany  --  split and occupied as she is  --  will be showing signs of rebirth in less time than it will take our air generals to complete their accounts of her extinction at their hands . Judging by the current discussion of peacetime conscription , we Americans are not facing this dangerous possibility squarely . Influential groups feel that our security will require no form of compulsory service , and they so express themselves while we are still fighting what promises to be a long and increasingly murderous war . It is not difficult to imagine what the outcome will be when peace returns and we embrace her and retire : into our shell . At best we shall have a halfbaked training program which compromises with reality by producing amateur foot soldiers who might be capable of fighting the last war , but not this one , and certainly not the next one . Yet another eruption of evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German vitality or a suicide charge at the behest of a non-existent sun goddess . If we do n't think so , why are n't we inviting our friends over to celebrate the signing of that revolutionary document , the San Francisco Charter ? New Methods Needed When the time comes , how will we fight ? Our military experts , if they follow historical precedent , are planning to fight the present war over again the next time as it should have been fought this time ! Thus at the start of World War III we are likely to be relying on 4,000,000 reserves , an air-minded fleet and a multitude of huge landplanes based at home and at expensive island fortresses . It is equally likely that the enemy will plan to pinpoint all our bases with annihilating concentrations of long-distance rockets before a single plane or ship can move . German scientists may be enjoying a well-earned vacation , but such men do n't stay idle long , and they were on the trail of a rather wicked atomic explosive . So perhaps ordinary conscription is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dupes who apparently believe that oceans and Allies will save us a third time , or who ignorantly refuse to confront the possibility of a third time . The old motto was , " Keep your powder dry . " It can be argued that universal training serves that end . But how effective is dry powder if somebody invents TNT ? The realistic thing to do is to begin preparing for the next war , not this one  --  preparing technologically as the Germans did and will do again when the Allies get tired of watching them . We do not need standing armies of footsloggers but standing armies of scientists , devoting their lives to nothing but military science . Our scientists , starting almost from scratch , have done more to win this war than any other Americans . The only sound way for us to face the dangers ahead is to draft many of these men away from their post-war careers in the automobile , television and other industries to serve on a national board of military experimentation , where they would receive the high honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . Such a board should be replenished with brilliant students from our technical schools . It should be independent of shrunken peacetime Army and Navy appropriations , which are mainly spent for the upkeep of outmoded weapons and warriors , and should be generously endowed ; a billion dollars a year would not be excessive . No thinking citizen could begrudge the annual expenditure of one-fifth of 1 per cent of the estimated cost of this war to guarantee out technological supremacy over all potential enmies . Let us not forget that we already have two strikes on us in the international preparedness game . MALCOLM GILLESPIE . Washington , June 30 , 1945 . Independence 's Tenacity To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A tiny footnote to history could be added to your editorial " History of Independence . " The people of the community of Independence , Mo. , were such loyal supporters of Confederacy 's cause in the War Between the States that they never raised the Stars and Stripes above the court house in that city between 1861 and 1912 . Following Woodrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of Independence apparently decided that they were back in the Union and raised the Stars and Stripes over the court house . At least that is the story the late Fred Trigg of The Kansas City Star ' , editorial staff told me nearly thirtythree years ago . The tenacious loyalty of the Independence citizens to a lost cause undoubtedly is significant of something . Perhaps it even may throw a sidelight on the character of Harry S. Truman . DAVID HINSHAW . West Chester , Pa. , June 29 , 1945 , Luxury Rent Raises Opposed Reader Gives Reasons Why He Believes Increases Are Unwarranted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have read in the newspapers that rentals for living quarters of $100 am over per month may be increased by the landlord . I hope the OPA will clarify this a little further . I will grant that some property owners who have owned their property for a great many year . may have reduced their rents to fill their apartments , but these are in the minority . I am listing below the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rental is $100 a month more or less . 1 . Many property owners have received reductions in assessments ? a saving of taxes . 2 . Many properties are now 100 per cent rented , whereas previously they had up to 10 to 15 per cent vacancies . This is additional income . 3 . Property owners have not ' ? any painting or have only done a littl good-will painting here and there -- tremendous saving to them . 4 . Many owners have reduced thei maintenance staffs , also a saving of expense . 5 . Many owners have reduced th size of the electric light bulbs in thei hallways , thereby cutting down thei electric bills . Of course , to counteract all this the : , have had a few increases in wages ? fuel bills . In addition to the above , many pieces of property have changed hands the new owners bought them at le than 50 per cent of the assessment value , giving a very small amount of car ' ? therefore the new owners are receiving larger returns . If property owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will encourage the owners the lower rental bracket to try to rt ' - rentals . I hope the OPA will clarify this matter , and while I realize that this is court order , I trust they will see to it that the increase is practically nil . Perhaps it could be arranged that each property owner must show that he i. not getting an adequate return on hi . investment before being allowed to increase rentals . GEORGE R. KAHN . New York , June 29 , 1945 , Mr. Churchill Is Criticized I To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Widespread publication of Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery ' statement to American troops that Britain was on the threshold of defeat when the United States entered the war , I am sure brought more than appreciation from Americans who hays , so wonderfully contributed to the Allied victory . It was praise well earned , and if it was a bit ambiguous , we whc read it took it in the spirit in which it was made . However , Prime Minister Churchill ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a sour note . It seems to me that a little more diplomacy could be expected of Mr. Churchill . In the same issue Mr. Churchill admits that until the intervention 01. the United States in 1941 there wen , some doubts about victory . He also mentioned supplies , " a very large , enormous proportion comes from th , United States , and they are practically given to us on lend-lease . " Am I and others mistaken in assuming that this is no time to quibble about " who won the war " ? This seems to me especially inappropriate when we have set up a United Nations organization for peace . HELEN SANFORD . Waterbury , Conn. , June 28 , 1945 . Meatless Points for Soldiers TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Vacation Time for Soldiers " does not go far enough . The men who come back from overseas are bound for home and not for vacation resorts . They cherish every moment they spend with their families . They receive a thirty-day furlough and food points for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be had . The other day the press reported that additional meat would be made available for vacation resorts . It would be more becoming if the provision were made for furloughed soldiers . It is they who give and should receive . Those like me , to whom a summer vacation is a habit , can and should wait . MAURICE J. DIX . New York , June 29 , 1945.                     