@@707651

txt In a move that is at once a tribute to their strategy and their never-tiring zeal , the Russian armies which only recently drove the enemy from Leningrad and Krivoi Rog have opened another offensive that holds great military and political possibilities . Striking south from the broad salient which they had driven into old Polish territory , some 200,000 Red armored and infantry troops under the command of Marshal Zhukov , the savior of Moscow , have broken through the German lines along a front on both sides of the old Polish border in the direction of Tarnopol . They have succeeded in cutting the Odessa-Lwow railway , which is the lifeline of approximately half a million Germans still fighting in the great , Dnieper bend . The break-through , acknowledged by Berlin , is in itself a great victory . But the cutting of the Odessa-Lwow railway It the junction station of Volochisk , just east of Tarnopol , represents a success for which the Russians have fought for months . It threatens the Germans with real catastrophe . ' For this double-track railway is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern Ukraine , which have hung on desperately to their last hold on the Dnieper River despite increasing threats to their rear . For months the Russians have tried to trap them . They came close to it in January when they threatened to cut the same railroad at Zhmerinka . At that time the Germans were still able to keep their lifeline open . They must be expected even now to throw in whatever reserves they can in an effort to close the breach . But if they are unable to do this the position of their troops in the Dnieper bend will indeed be desperate . And unless these forces can be withdrawn quickly by a few remaining single-track railroads into Rumania . or by sea through Odessa the German Army will be confronted with another Stalingrad . This raises again the question why the Germans clung to the Dnieper despite the fact that Russian armies were operating more than 400 miles to the west of them . Hitler 's intuition and the demands of German prestige were undoubtedly partly responsible . Other factors were the manganese mines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor can the theory be wholly set aside that the Germans defended this salient in the hope that from it they might be able some day to launch a counter-offensive against a Red Army tired from its battles and handicapped by long communication lines . In fact , the prospect of wearing out the Red Army is one hope which Nazi propaganda has dangled before the eyes of the German people . The cutting of the Odessa-Lwow railway should effectively destroy both the hope of a counter-offensive and the theory that the Russian armies are wearying . But there is undoubtedly another factor which determined the Germans to hang on to every inch of ground in the south , and that is the political situation in the Balkans . For many months all of Hitler 's Balkan satellites have been seeking some way out of the war . Peace feelers have long since been inaugurated.by Rumania , Bulgaria and even Hungary . But as long as the Germans could keep the Russian armies far away they could keep the Balkans in line , if only by their overwhelming military might . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only sixty miles from the Rumanian border . Unless they can be stopped Rumania itself may become a battleground . If that happens , a political break in the Balkans would appear inevitable . And that political break might prove to be as important as any military results of the new Russian drive .                     