@@707010

txt While another wholesale meat dealer was being arraigned today on charges of alleged sale of meat above the Federal ceiling price levels , and was held in bail of $5,000 for appearance March 18 , the trial of B. Rottenberg Co. , Inc. , of Boston , and its President , Benjamin Rottenberg , of Brighton , on similar charges , went into its third day before Judge Charles E. Wyzanski , Jr. , and the Jury , in the U. S. District Court . Jacob Cohen , of Beverly , wholesaler in meats , was brought before U. S. Commissioner William C. Rogers in Federal Court , charged with selling beef to Harry Barron , of Salem , at prices above the ceilings . Joseph J. Gottlieb , Assistant U. S. Attorney , told the Commissioner that the defendant had been warned by the Office of Price Administration not to violate the price regulations , but that he had done so from Dec. 16 , 1942 , to the present time . The defendant put up cash for his bail . Paid by Check At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brighton , wholesale meat dealer , to the witness stand . Invoices and checks were presented and identified , and the witness said he had done business with Paul Miller , described as an employee of B. Rottenberg Co. , Inc. , as he had been given to understand that he could secure beef through Mr. Miller , and that he could not get beef anywhere else . He testified to paying for the meat by check at the ceiling prices , which were those shown on the invoice , and to paying extra amounts each time he bought meat to make ' up the difference between the ceiling prices as mentioned on the invoices and the figure he was actually paying for the meat . Mr. Gordon said he had told defendant Miller that the price was high at 31 cents a pound for certain grades of beef , and that had been told by Mr. Miller that the meat cost him more , and , therefore , Mr. Miller had to ask more . Cash payments were made to the bookkeeper as " extras " after checks had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testified . Lacked-Funds All meat purchased by Mr. Gordon at the Rottenberg place of business was marked with the Federal grading stamp , Mr. Gordon testified . The witness said he had known Mr. Rottenberg for 20 years , but had not purchased meat from him for many years , until recently , when he was unable to get it elsewhere . He said that he had appealed to Mr. Rottenberg to sell the beef at a lower price , but that he was told that Mr. Miller had charge of that . On one transaction , meat bought on Jan. 27 , 1943 , and invoiced at $254.10 , the extra payment to the bookkeeper was $222.02 , he testified . On some occasions , Mr. Gordon testified he lacked sufficient money to pay for all the meat purchased , and said he was told that as long as he lived near Mr. Rottenberg he could go to his home at night , after he had sold the beef , and pay him the money . The Government rested its case shortly before . adjournment for lunch . The defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulations and price ceilings , which was declined by Judge Wyzanski , The Judge made several statements having a bearing on the question of constitutionality of the statute . When the violatioris occurred , there was an administrative remedy available to the defendants , Judge Wyzanski said . They could have sought relief by appli cation to the Administrator . Failing in that ; to the Emergency Court of Appeals at Washington . And failing in that by petition to the Supreme Court of the United States . Since these administrative remedies were not resorted to , the defendants are precluded from questioning the validity of the regulations which is the basis of this prosecution , he ruled . Leonard Poretsky , Counsel with John Backus , for the defendant , challenged the constitutionality of the statute , and the Judge ruled that it was constitutional on the face of it , in view of the fact that there was rio testimony to the contrary . The Judge said it does not deprive the defendants of life , liberty , or property and does not unlawfully delegate power to the Administrator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that six counts in the 20 against Mr. Rottenberg were dropped and five out of the 15 counts against the company were also dismissed . Paul Miller of Wollaston , salesman for the Rottenberg Company , who has been on trial with Benjamin Rottenberg of Brighton , and the B. Rottenberg Company , on charges of selling meats above the Federal price ceilings , changed his plea of innocent to guilty in the United States District Court late yesterday . The trial was interrupted in order to allow the defendant to change his plea . He informed the Court that he did not desire the services of an attorney , admitted selling wholesale cuts of meat at prices in excess of the ceilings of the Office of Price Administration , and threw himself on the mercy of the Court . Judge Wyzanski warned the Jury that the guilt of one man in the case does not necessarily prove the guilt of another man or of the corporation . Sentence was postponed until the close of the trial by Judge Wyzanski . Morris Kepnes , of Chelsea , a meat jobber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to retail stores , was the only witness at the second day of the trial yesterday , which was a short session that began at 2 p. m . Testimony of Mr. Kepnes described the part taken by defendant Miller in the transactions . The Government witness told of several occasions in December and January when he purchased mert from Mr. Miller at the Rottenberg place of business on Blackstone Street , Boston , and declared that he was compelled to pay from five to 16 cents a pound more for beef than the price ceilings . The method was to make an " extra cash " payment , he said , in response to questions .                     