@@706784

txt The most encouraging aspect of Great Britain 's most extensive arms profits probe of the war which was debated in the House of Commons during the week is that it throws fresh light on numerous ways in which a vigilant official eye is being kept on finances of armament firms . Two chief conclusions can be I reached from the Commons inquiry Into the affairs of the British Manufacturing and Research Company , whose most important job has been the production of airplane cannon . The first is that adequate machinery and powers do exist for virtually eliminating war profiteering in armaments . The second is that the main troubles with this machinery are its complexity , shortage of skilled auditors and the fact that the whole cost system in Government contracts is a constant source of difficulty . On this point Chancellor of ( Le Exchequer Sir Kingsley Wood gave a hint of coming Government action to revise the system . Three Protective Methods The British have three methods for taking both profit and waste out of war contracts . One is by the excess profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent above a certain profit level . Another is by the Select Committee on National Expenditure , which probes wasteful contracting and extravagance with national funds . The third is the Public Accounts Committee , which has wide powers to investigate books and finances of arms firms . It was on the first report of the Public Accounts Committee that the dems debate arose . This Corn , mittee has only found-it necessary to Investigate the affairs of about half a dozen firms and the test case they chose turned out to be a difficult one to substantiate . In fact , the Mr. Kendall certainly had the advantage of being a Member of Parliament and thus was able to conduct his own defense in Commons . Charges were that his firm had been paid excessive prices , had refused to give full access to accounts and had even threatened to hold back gun production pending settlement of price negotiations . But on the whole Commons speakers seemed agreed the company was vindicated from charges . Some thought a better test case could have been brought . The Members of Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his firm 's three-year profits at ? 309 . Nor were they satisfied that the Committee 's estimate of ? 1,700,000 was the correct figure . To the man in the street here today the report of the Commons session illustrates just how complex an affair , especially in wartime , is company finance , Government contracting , cost determination , and priorities . But the public is reassured somewhat by the vindication of Mr. Kendall and even more so by evidence of a check being kept on profiteering and waste in munitions making which , it is generally recognized , is a vital factor in the maintenance of national morale as well as in maintaining production efficiency . Financial Tangle At the same time problems facing the Government in planning war production have been underlined by disclosures about the British Manufacturing and Research Company 's airplane cannon . Much of the business investigated during this week 's debate had its origin in the grim days of the late summer of 1940 , with German invasion of Britain seemingly imminent . Lord Beaverbrook was then Minister of Aircraft Production and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how . " It is not surprising that there is now considerable unravelling to be done of the financial transactions of those hectic days when nothing mattered except getting weapons to defend this island . Lord Beaver-brook came in for familiar criticism in Commons during the debate for his unorthodox and even disrupting methods of stepping up production . But there was also tribute to him for his foresight in having implicit belief in cannon for aircraft even when the Air Ministry was hesitating.                     