@@711323

txt President Truman 's remark that " this is the worst congress we have had since the first one met " brought sharp retorts from G.O.P. leaders on Capitol hill today . House Leader Halleck turned the thrust by telling reporters " a lot of people think that Mr. Truman is the poorest President that we 've had since George Washington was elated . " " And there 's no doubt that this congress has had the worst co-operation . " Speaker Martin ( R. , Mass. ) said . " There are people who have said the same thing about the President . " " Ward Politics , " Wherry Says Acting Senate G.O.P. Leader Wherry ( Neb. ) accused the President of ward politics . " That 's a curious statement from the nonpolitical , bipartisan investigation trip . the President said he was making , " Wherry remarked . " The people  --  not the President  --  will decide as to the record of this congress in November . " Rep. Vursell ( R. , 111. ) said the President 's remarks were a reflection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the charge , " Vursell said , " the President is indicting members-of the Democratic party in congress who have had the courage and wisdom to vote , by a large majority , to override his vetoes of the tax reduction bill and the labor relations act . " Such a charge used for political purpos , ps by a President who was elected to congress by the Pendergast machine after being a failure in business only lowers the dignity of a high office he attained as a political accident ... The people will pay no attention to him . " " Big Talk From Small Boy " " That 's mighty big talk coming from a small boy , " was the contribution of Rep. Van Zandt ( R. , Pa. ) to the congressional chorus . " And this is not ' a political trip ? " asked Rep. Michener ( R. , Mich . ) . Chairman Hope ( R. , Kas. ) of the house agriculture committee Said , " The frigid reception which the President is receiving in the - west seems to have driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If congress gave all the President asked for there would be crazy inflation and economic disaster , " said Rep , Coudert ( R .. N. Y. ) . " Quite obviously he is interested in every one brit the taxpayer and the consumer . " " The President has lost his temper because the Communists and southerners who previously supported him have bolted , " commented Rep. Curtis ( R .. Neb ) .                     