@@706437

txt Changes in the organization of the Navy Department , in our naval construction program and in our commands afloat that will put greater emphasis upon the importance of naval aviation are now taking place . The lessons of the war at sea , again stressed by the action in the Coral Sea , in which carriers gave and took the heaviest blows on both sides , have shown the great and growing importance of the aircraft carrier . The first United Nations casualties of the Coral Sea battle have been landed , unheralded , at an Australian port and taken to a hospital inland , The Associated Press reported from Sydney . In five months of war our concepts of naval tactics have been revolutionized , and our shipbuilding program and the organization of the Navy Department have been , or are being , altered accordingly . Many of the changes are , of course , secret , but the latest alteration in the structure of the Navy Department  --  a structure that has been undergoing almost constant revision since Dec. 7 ? will probably be announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rear Admiral John H. Towers , Chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics of the Navy Department , is being made an Assistant Chief of Naval Operations while retaining his present duties as bureau chief  --  a promotion in position that may eventually carry with it a promotion in rank to vice admiraL This change , which will probably become effective immediately , is a definite recognition of the increased importance of naval aviation in the war at sea . Later , if present plans are consummated , five other assistant chiefs of naval operations will be named , to act as assistants to Vice Admiral Frederick J. Horne , present Vice Chief of Naval Operations . These will include , in addition to Admiral Towers , assistant chiefs for the Coast Guard ( a part of the Navy in time of war ) , the Marine Corps , Personnel , Materiel and Services . The Bureau of Navigation of the Nr .... 7 Department has been renamed the Bureau of Personnel , and the assistant chief of naval operations for personnel will have under his jurisdiction , it is now planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Surgery . The Bureau of Ordnance and the Bureau of Ships will be under the cognizance of the assistant chief for materiel , and the assistant chief for services will administer such separate offices as the Office of Naval Intelligence . Admiral Home , all his new assistant chiefs and the bureaus and personnel under him will continue to be responsible to Admiral Ernest J. Ring , who holds the dual positions of Chief of Naval Operations and Commander in Chief of the United States  --  Fleet . Vice Admiral Russell Wilson is chief of staff to Admiral King in his position as Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet , so that today , central authority in the Navy continues to rest in one man , Admiral King , with two principal assist ' ants , Admiral Willson and Admiral Horne . Admiral Willson , under Admiral King , supervises the actual operations of the fleet , while Admiral Home 's title  --  vice chief of naval operations ? is an actual misnomer , since his duties are principally concerned with shore establishments , materiel and administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter phase of Admiral King 's duties , not with operations of the fleet , which are conducted by the flag commanders in the various theatres of action acting in accordance with a general directive and under the general supervision of the Commander in Chief 's flag staff here in Washington . In addition to these organizational changes , however , there is a tendency to entrust the command of the carrier striking groups , or task forces that now represent the main striking power of the fleet , to officers with aviation experience . The importance of carriers in modern naval war has also been recognized ; today they are a type that yield priority to none , and the revised and expanded program of carrier construction and conversion that has been adopted since Dec. 7 is almost as large as it can be made ? so large , in fact , that in carrier construction , as in all other phases of construction and production , it is safe to say , our program is unmatched by any other nation . The battleship has by no means been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These changes by no means imply that all necessary modifications or improvements have been made . The organizational alterations here outlined are probably transitory ; in some ways they are still obviously cumbersome , and it is doubtful if the basic bureau structure of the Navy Department can be altered  --  even if it were desired to do so ? under the President 's War Powers Act without additional enabling legislation . Until the lessons of the Coral Sea battle are assembled , studied and analyzed , until war experience has verified or made obsolete the peacetime theories of the past , it will obviously be impossible to be precise about all constructional programs , or about all organizational needs . The struggle in the Pacific , particularly the Battle of the Coral Sea , in which opposing carriers clashed on a large scale for the first time in the history of naval warfare , is totally different from the struggle in the Atlantic or the struggle in the Mediterranean . The experience so far gained in this type of warfare speaks well for the soundness of our peacetime theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clash in the Coral Sea , possibly to be followed by others , was a United States victory , though it must be constantly borne in mind that no victory can be won without paying the price in blood and losses .                     