@@711293

txt The House , disassociating itself from bipartisanship in a key aspect of the country 's foreign policy , passed today the Republican - sponsored bill to extend the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act for one year in a restricted form . The vote was 234 to 149 . The ancient issue of protectionist tariffs versus freer world trade was thus projected squarely into the current political campaign . Passage followed the rejection , 211 to 169 , of a Democratic substitute calling for a simple three-year extension of the act beyond its present expiration date of June 12 . President Truman had requested this as necessary for the maintenance of United States leadership in world economic affairs . The bill would subject future trade agreements to Congressional veto if tariff changes and other concessions to foreign countries failed to come within limits to be established by the United States Tariff Commission , Halleck Assails Marshall It now goes to the Senate , where key Republican leaders are understood to have agreed with House chieftains to put it through without substantial changes , if any . They were consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the measure was condemned by Democrats as " sabotage " of the trade program begun fourteen years ago under the leadership of Cordell Hull , then Secretary of State , and popularized over the years as the keystone of this country 's foreign economic policy . Republicans , crying " red herring " and asserting their adherence to the principle of the reciprocal trade , stoutly maintained that the bill would in no way cripple the program . Rather , they contended , it would provide a system of true reciprocity along with needed safeguards for the protection of domestic industry , agriculture and labor . The debate was punctuated by attacks on George C. Marshall , Secretary of State , for his assertion yesterday that enactment of the Republican bill would be worse than no extension at all . " I for one resent it , " declared Representative Charles A. Halleck , the majority leader . " And I for one want the people to understand that those statements are utterly reckless and irresponsible . " Hooted by Democrats Secretary Marshall 's charge , he said , came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional cooperation on foreign affairs . Mr. Halleck drew hoots from the Democratic side when he alluded to the President 's request for a straight three-year extension and commented : " Thank God this is n't a rubberstamp Congress any more . " Secretary Marshall was also assailed by Representative Harold Knutson . Republican , of Minnesota , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee . which reported the bill . Mr. Knutson said that General Marshall , as Army Chief of Staff , " did n't know where he was the night before Pearl Harbor and has n't known since . " He called the Secretary " a conspicuous failure " under whose leadership , he said , the recent war cost this country thrice as much money as it should have cost . Recalling the unsuccessful Marshall mission to China and policy switches on the Palestine issue , he accused the Secretary of walking on " both sides of the street . " He suggested that General Marshall had " ambition to sleep in the Lincoln bed at the White House . " Representative James W. Wadsworth , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspersions " upon Secretary Marshall 's record , but expressed firm disagreement with contentions that the Republican bill would kill the trade program . The first House test came on a Democratic effort to upset a pro- cedural rule , recommended by the Rules Committee at the behest of the Republican leadership , whereby no amendments to the bill could be proposed from the floor without approval of the Ways and Means Committee . The attempt was defeated on a straight party ballot of 212 to 156 , vith the two American Labor party Representatives voting with the Democrats . The rule , attacked by Democrats as a " gag . " was then adopted , 196 to 166 . Generally regarded as the most significant vote was the - me on the Democratic substitute , which was offered by Representative Robert L. Doughton of North Carolina , senior Ways and Means Democrat . On that roll call , sixteen Republicans joined 1 Democrats and the two American Labor party members in supporting a straight three-year extension . Against it were 205 Republicans and six Democrats . On passage of the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can not work , ' some Republicans as well as Democrats who had voted for the Doughton substitute also voted for the Republican measure in the apparent belief that it was better than nothing . Recorded for it were 218 Replanlicans and sixteen Democrats . Against it were 142 Democrats , five Republicans and the two American Laborites . A factor contributing to the Republicans ' near-solidarity , observers believed , was a change of opini3n voiced during the debate by Representative Charles A. Eaton , Republican , of New Jersey . Mr. Eaton , who as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee has been a chief advocate of the bipartisan foreign policy , disclosed his opposition to the Republican bill yesterday but announced today that he would support it . Under the bill , procedure for entering into trade agreements with other countries would start , as under present law , with an announcement by the State Department of its intention to begin negotiations . The announcement contains a list of items with respect to which changes in tariff rates , quotas and other restrictions are to be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , composed of representatives of interested Government agencies , including the Tariff Commission , holds public hearings . An interdepartmental trade agreements committee then considers the evidence taken by the reciprocity information committee , item by item , and reports to the President . The President approves or modifies the recommerldations. the State Department holds negotiations with the country or countries involved in the proposed pact , an agreement is signed and the President proclaims the new rates and concessions . Provisions of Bill Under provisions of the bill , the Tariff Commission , composed of three Democrats and three Republicans appointed by the President , would hold the public hearings instead of the Committee for Reciprocity Information . The commission would then report to the President , setting limits within which concessions could be made without seriously injuring domestic producers or the national defense . The State Department would carry on negotiations as under present law and an agreement would be signed . But if the concessions granted failed to come within the limits recommended by the Tariff Commission , the President could not proclaim them without submitting the agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sixty days . Within the sixty-day period the agreement could be nullified by the Senate and louse passage of a resolution which would not be subject to Presidential veto .                     