@@705226

txt The 10,926-ton British liner Western Prince , bound for England with sixty-seven passengers and a valuable cargo that included a few bombers and other war equipment , reported by wireless early yesterday that she had been torpedoed about 410 miles from the nearest Irish Coast . Traveling far northward , further even than the uppermost latitudes of Scotland , the ship was struck in the general section of Germany 's intensified submarine warfare against Britain . The importance of the attack was emphasized by the presence on board of C. D. Howe , Canadian Minister of Munitions , and a number of other Canadian officials . Mr. Howe and three Canadian officials who were1 with him , serving as aides in his Ministry , were safe after a rescue , the Canadian Legation at Washington reported late last night that it had ? been informed by London , according to The United Press . The three Ministry assistants were E. D. Taylor , W. C. Woodward and Gordon Scott . Previously Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King at Ottawa had received official word from London that most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The London reports said the sea had been calm at the time the Western Prince was struck . The liner had left New York at noon Dec. 6 , and persons who saw her go said the decks were piled with cargo . An official of the Furness Withy Company , owners of the ship , said she was in command of Captain John Reed and had a crew of about eighty men , including some twenty stewards to care for the passengers . Until recently the Western Prince carried passengers only westbound and returned to England with cargo , but no passengers . The ship , s. 496-foot motorliner , was built in Glasgow in 1929 and operated prior to the war in the New York-South American service , along with her sister ships , the Eastern Prince , Northern Prince and Southern Prince . She could make about 15 knots and should have been a fairly good match for a lone , marauding submarine , for she was armed , carrying in addition to an anti-aircraft gun a larger gun on the stern for use against undersea attackers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raid Britain 's Atlantic lifeline with submarines traveling in packs " like wolves . " The consequences to the liner from the torpedoing were not known , for no second message was relayed here after her first S 0 S. The first message , timed at 7:02 A M. , or 2:02 A. M. in New York , was picked up by Mackay Radio 's station at Amagansett , N. Y. , from a land station in Scotland . Preceded by the series SSSSS , which indicates a submarine attack , the message as reported by Mackay was : " From Port Patrick Radio , position 59.32 North , 17.47 West , Western Prince torpedoed 0702 GMT 14th . " The attack on the Western Prince followed by a day the announcement of the loss of the new Norwegian liner Oslofjord , which was sunk by a mine off Newcastle , England , while presumably in British service , and the reported loss of two British vessels , the Forfar , an armed cruiser , believed to be one of the transatlantic ships that has been renamed in naval duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South American-United Kingdom service . The four Prince ships were withdrawn from service in September , 1939 . All returned to service this year except the Southern Prince , which was requisitioned by the British Government for armed cruiser duty . The Western Prince came to New York in August , carrying passengers , including child refugees , and made another voyage in October . Her third arrival here was Nov. 22. when she entered port with ninetytwo passengers . She was manned by a crew of eighty . An operating official of Furness Withy said the liner had been loaded at Pier 95 , but that he knew nothing of the passengers , as they had been booked through the Cunard Line , which still maintains a passenger booking staff . Cunard agents declined to . commeat on the report that Mr. Howe was on board , but it was confirmed elsewhere , and Ottawa dispatches said that he was accompanied by a number of other government officials bound for England on a war mission . Howe Had Spoken of Risk By Telephone to Tan lime YORK Timm OTTAWA , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clarence D. Howe , Canadian Minister of Munitions and Supply , who , with three of his assistants , was a passenger on the Western Prince . With Mr. Howe were ' E. D. Taylor of Toronto and Colonel W. C. Woodworth of Vancouver , executive assistants to the Minister , and Gordon Scott of Montreal , financial adviser , who is also Provincial Treasurer of Quebec . Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King has received assurance from London that the greater part of the passengers had been saved . No names were reported . The sea was calm at the time the Western Prince was hit , London said . Mr. Howe had kept the name of the ship on which he proposed to sail for England a secret even from Mrs. Howe , who remained here . It was learned definitely only after news of the torpedo attack , that his party was on the Western Prince . Before he left , Mr. Howe had commented on the risk of being torpedoed . " Anyhow , " he said , " the chances are . that if it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " PAM() Minister Announced Trip Mr. Mackenzie King told the House of Commons recently that Mr. Howe was going to Britain on a business trip . Navy Minister A. L. Macdonald is acting as Minister of Munitions in his absence . Mr. Howe is a native of the United States and a naturalized Canadian . He was born at Waltham , Mass. , Jan. 15 , 1886 , and was graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He came to the DoClarence D. Howe , Canadian Minister of Munitions , a passenger . Times Wide World , 1939 minion first as Professor of Civil Engineering at Dalhousie University , Halifax , in 1908 , and later became a consulting engineer at Port Arthur , Ont . He entered Parliament in 1935 and was almost at once made Minister of Railways and Canals and of Marine by Mr. Mackenzie King , later becoming Minister of Transport . He has been responsible in large part for the great development of the Canadian Air Force and in pushing forward Canadian output of munitions during the war he has been methodical , unwasteful and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could produce quickest and best . His journey to London was known to be for the purpose of seeking to coordinate British , Canadian and United States production so as to avoid overlapping and at the same time speed the output of what was most needed . WARNS OF SEIZED TANKER Norwegian Says Nazis May Use the Ole Jacob as Raider MONTREAL , Dec. 14 ( UP ) ? David Steen , Norwegian Consul General here , warned mariners today that Germans had seized the Norwegian tanker Ole Jacob and might be using it as a raider under Norwegian colors . The announcement said : " The Ole Jacob sailed from Kobe ( Japan ) Dec. 4 , under the command of a German prize crew . It is expected that the vessel will fly the Norwegian flag . She is armed and might bring about capture of unsuspecting vessels . " A dispatch from Tokyo on Thursday said the Ole Jacob had been captured in the Indian Ocean by a German raider that flew the British flag , had been brought to Kobe by the prize crew and later departed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Ole Jacob is a bulk oil carrier of 8,306 tons with oil-burning engines and cruiser stern . She was built in 1939 and was registered at Arendal , Norway . Nazis Say Oslofjord Hit Mine BERLIN , Dec. 14 ( IP ) ? D. N. B. , the official German news agency , said today the Norwegian liner Oslofjord , reported sunk while en route to Canada under the British flag , " probably " had struck a mine . D , N. B. also declared that another 10,000-ton merchant vessel had been torpedoed and sunk 450 miles off the French coast .                     