@@704859

txt The British Navy , having oosed effectively of any major menace from the disbanded French fleet , today engaged Italy for control of the Mediterranean Meanwhile , air raids over Britain increased in intensity . Details : Mediterranean sea battles : British and Italian surface war fleets and planes clashed in the new battle of the Mediterranean , fighting fiercely for control of the vital sea routes from Gibraltar to the Suez . Powerful naval squadrons thundered against each other for the first time July 9 in the blue waters in a smoke-screened battle of Three separate engagements were reported : cast of Gibraltar , just below the " boot " of Italy , and near the island of Crete in the Eastern Mediterranean , south of Greece . Altogether . the British claimed a long-range shell hit on an Italian capital ship ' and listed four Italian airplanes shot down and seven others badly damaged . Rome admitted losing the destroyer Zeffiro and a submarine , as well as 29 fatalities and 69 wounded on a warship . Reuters , British news agency , dispatches from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency as one British cruiser sunk , a battleship and an aircraft carrier damaged , and other British warships bombed from the air . Britain admitted no losses . Perhaps the most significant engagement was the action between units of the two fleets in mid-Mediterranean , off Cape Spartivento , extreme southern point of the Italian island of Sardinia . The British Admiralty said a British squadron encountered two Italian battleships ( Italy has six ) and several 8-inch and 6-inch gun cruisers and destroyers . After a British hit on an Italian battleship , the Italians retired behind a smoke screen , according to London . To the west . the British Admiralty reported , another British force swept eastward from Gibralta r toward the Central Mediterranean . This force sighted no surface ships but was credited with bagging four Italian planes ! and damaging seven others . The third engagement , Reuters said , was described by Stelani as taking place July 8 off the island of Crete . Italy claimed aerial bombing damage to a battleship and an aircraft carrier , and the sinking of a cruiser . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two German warships here set on fire during British bombing raids on Kiel and Wilhelmshaven July 9 . They were bel'eved to he either destroyers or light cruisers . A communiqu ? also said that British bombers set on fire en ammunition dump at Bergen , Norway , and bombed aircraft lined up at Sola Airport , Stavanger . Eight British planes faded to return from raids , the communiqW said . DNB , the German agency , said all of 12 British planes attacking the Stavanger airdrome were shot down . British sources denied this . Big Air Battle : More than 50 planes fought the largest air battle yet seen off Britain 's shores in this war after 34 German bombers attacked shipping in the English Channel . Ten German planes were reported shot down and at least one British merchant vessel sunk Sixty German planes , including 10 fighters , have been shot down during attacks on Britain sitice June 18 , it was claimed officially . Germany was said to have lost about 130 planes in raids on Brit. , ain since the start of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ships with a , total tonnage of 26,000 were sunk ? , in air attacks against England , while 10 other merchant ships were badly damaged and some of , them set afire . Hits on tanks of , airports at Pembroke and Ipswich , as well as munitions works at Norwich , Leeds , Tilbury , and Swansea were said to have caused fires and explosions . Polish ships escape : Two Polish ships totaling 9,478 tons , which French authorities in West African ports attempted to hold , broke out of their harbors and are now in British ports , the Admiralty an . nounced . Swedish warships : Four Swedish destroyers , purchased from Italy . entered Swedish waters , a Stockholm communiqu ? said , after going seized and damaged by a strong British naval detachment , released , and subsequently attacked by British warplanes . London said the attacks were by mistake . Iceland waters mined : Waters between the Orkneys and Iceland and between Iceland and Greenland have been mined , the Admiralty announced . French liner : The Pasteur is safe in port at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rear Admiral Percy Nelles , chief lof the Canadian Naval Staff , declared . He made no comment on ' reports that an armed British force boarded the 30,0 ( 10 ton ship July 4 and prevented the French crew from scuttling the vessel . Picture Battle LONDON , July 10 ( /P ) ? The British public , eager for news of naval activity in the Mediterranean , is packing a West End motion-picture theater showing a new film called " Convoy " and dramatizing the exploits of the Royal Navy . The film , starring Clive Brook as a skipper , features a rip-roaring battle ? in which a British cruiser holds off a German pocket battleship until British battleships arrive on the scene to put it to flight . The skipper of the German warship is made up to resemble German Propaganda Minister Paul Joseph Goebbels . Shipping Accord MELBOURNE , July 10 ( Australian Associated Press  --  Pending clarification of French-British relations , British and French ships continue to ply between Australia and New Zealand and the French possessions of the South Pacific . including New Caledonia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small islands rely enr tirely on Australia and New Zealand for such essentials as flour and coal . The joint French-British Administration in the New Hebrides still is functioning . Three Focal Points of Action In the first major British-Italian test of power in the Mediterranean , both sides claim the advantage . The first engagement occurred off Crete , and two others followed off Italy itself and near Sardinia . Locations shown are necessarily approximate .                     