@@710015

txt Anyone who has at any time cherished the belief that the strike of the bituminous coal miners might be broken by an overnight shift to some substitute fuel must by this time have been pretty well disabused of the notion . The miracle that some had permitted themselves to look for in the piping of natural gas to the Atlantic seaboard through the " Big Inch " and " Little Big Inch " lines becomes little more than a mirage in the face of the actial figures , which show that this can not be expected to provide the equivalent of more than 5,000 tons of coal daily in the early future , as against a total of 2,000,000 tons normally produced by the miners . Nevertheless , that the coal industry as we know it today is obsolescent is clear beyond question . The evidence is to be seen if we look backward or if we look ahead . Looking backward , we find that there were 147,000 men engaged in the mining of hard coal in 1919 , while today there are only around 68,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesale replacement of anthracite coal with fuel oil ? are now pressing relentlessly against the cheaper bituminous .. This is to be seen , for example , in reports showing ten Diesel locomotives on order by the railroads today for one of the steam-generating type . And if we look further into the future , what do we see ? We ' see the day not too distant , according to the economists of the Army 's Manhattan District , when soft coal will run squarely into competition with energy generated by nuclear fission . These experts tell us that it will soon be possible to build a plant capable of servicing a city of 150,000 at a cost of approximately $25,000,000 . And they see this as an economic probability when and if soft coal , now selling around $7 , reaches $10 a ton . Dr. Arthur H. Compton put it slightly differently the other day in an address in Paris on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of the release of atomic energy . He predicted that power from that source might become a serious competitor of coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfere . " But it is n't necessary to predict the exact form the new competition for bituminous coal will take in the next decade or two to know that it is on the way . We know it is on the way because if there is one thing that is clear in the pattern of history it is that monopoly sooner or later generates its own competition and encompasses its own destruction . That process never changes . Only the tempo changes ; and that may be said to vary with the degree to which the powers of a given monopoly are abused . This is something that Mr. Lewis might well ponder in mapping his future strategy . By his present , tactics he is completely reversing the possibilities foreseen by Dr. Compton when the latter referred to " political difficulties " as retarding obsolescence in the coal industry ; for by his course he is creating a political situation which is calculated greatly to accelerate that process . To state it another way , he may succeed , if he continues in his present direction , in bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Manhattan District . He may make resort to atomic energy not an economic probability when bituminous coal reaches $10 a ton , but an economic imperative long before that . For price becomes a secondary consideration when the question of recurrent interruption of supply , with its accompanying threat of economic paralysis , is introduced into the equation . The day when the country receives its power through atomic energy will be a great one for the nation as a whole , in terms of public health , convenience and economy . But Mr. Lewis is likely to find that he has won not the blessings but the maledictions of his coal miners if he succeeds in speeditng up , as he seems bent upon doing , the technological revolution which that will mean .                     