@@707018

txt LONDON , March 6 ? A question that is constantly being asked is whether the strategic bombing of Germany can win the war . The obvious answer is that nobody knows because it has n't ever been tried . Another answer , which is just as obvious but is sometimes forgotten , is that this war in Europe can not supply the answer because of what the Red Army has been doing in the east on land in the old fashioned way . This air war from the west against Germany in which Britain and the United States are dove-tailing their efforts like parts of a well-oiled machine is really supplemental to the slugging match now going on in the east between Russian and German soldiers who are pumping steel into each other from . mortars , field-pieces , machine guns and rifles . " Hell Around the Clock " The strategic aim of-the R.A.F. under Air Marshal Arthur T. Harris and of the United States air forces under Major General Ira C. Eakeris to use the materials available to them to give the Nazis unstinted hell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their equipment tactically to the , best strategic advantage . Now it happens that the United States , which had its eyes fixed on long-range targets , built aircraft perfectly suited for daylight raids in this theatre while the British have perfected a plane that works best at night . The four-engined British Lancaster can carry more bombs than the Liberators or Fortresses on flights within range of the enemy . Liberators and Fortresses carrying a lesser weight of dynamite can call their shots better in daylight , can fly higher without loss of efficiency and are better able to defend themselves against fighters than any bomber the British have developed . Each type is good at its own job and it is a fortunate thing that they complement each other so nicely . Purpose of Air Attacks All air attacks on Germany or Nazi - occupied Europe , whether carried out in daylight or at night have one common purpose . That purpose is to soften the Axis for a knockout blow . These bombers which are being hurled skyward , day after day , night after night , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They carry big guns ahead of the battle lines that are forming . Talk with a dozen American and the no-man 's land of the English Channel and over enemy soil where hell breaks loose . In a space of minutes they fly from a world where . early English - Springtime reigns into , a , world spitting death and hate . They risk their lives day after day , not under the illusion that they are winning the war single-handed , but that they are preparing the way for forces which will turn their tactical successes into strategic victories . Sooner or later the Allies must end the war ' by landing on enemy Soil , and pressing inward upon the heart of his citadel , which is Berlin . That will be a costly business at best . It can be made less costly by weakening the enemy at home first . That 's the . job ' the Allied air forces have undertaken . They are doing it in several different ways . ? Industry the Target The first objective is to cripple the industry which feeds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which supply parts ' for submarines and the bases from which they operate because just as the Allies ' lightning air war in the west is waged ' to supplement the efforts of the Red Armies in the east , Hitler is fighting an underseas defensive action in the western waters separating the United States and Britain from the theatres of war . . It is impossible to assay the value of destruction.4 ) f a tank-factory in , Paris against the heroic struggle of the Red Army defending Stalingrad , but that the destruction of such factories , played a part in the final Russian victory seems a reasonable supposition . It is equally true that the effects of bombing a munitions factory in the Ruhr are not felt on the eastern battle line for several months . There are several ways of crippling industry in any given locality . One is to destroy the factories . But factories generally occupy only about one-fourth of the space of any given target area . The margin of error in dropping bombs is considerable . It is less in daylight , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fly high above ordinary flak , to defend themselves against fighters , and to aim their bombs like a sniper 's rifle . When night falls the big British bombers are able to carry enough explosive to be able to waste some and carry on the fight , just as two challengers , one with a strong right , and one a powerful left , would be formidable opposition for any champion . Indirect Results Gained The reason is that there is more than scoring direct hits in a factory in this business of crippling of industry. - Even when roofs are torn off the workshops a lot of machinery escapes damage and much that is sustained can be repaired quickly . The British learned that during the Battle of Britain . But they learned more . They know what happens to an industrial-town when electricity , water and gas are cut off and when the workers have to be evacuated . Added to the natural confusion resulting from these inconveniences is the expenditure to the city . Next to industry itself , communications are regarded as the . Pri-mary target @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , already overstrained h , . by Nazi demends , are easy targets , for darting daylight fighter raids on trains , tracks and tunnels . But the Coastal Command enters into the picture too  --  laying in enemy waters mines which circumscribe the activities of blockade runners hugging the coastline of the Fortress of Europe . First in importance , perhaps , is crippling the factories which produce the sinews of war for Germany , next is impairing the means of transporting the weapons manufactured throughout Hitler 's domain . But there is another target which can be described best as morale . Situation Is Reversed Time wasNwhen London was taking it , when Germany was shoot ' ing at British morale . Then Goebbels was minimizing the damage on the home front , and the British wereibeing fairly frank about what hurts they were sustaining , meanwhile making their own puny raids look big . Now the situation is reversed . The Allied air forces are punishing Germany heavily as the Germans themselves are admitting . Retaliation is on a small scale and hardly noticeable in this capital'except when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Allies to pop at occupied territory , but when Hitler 's capital is hit it calls for some kind of reprisal , even though it is only enough to provide something for Berliners to read about next morning . A Theory ' Under Test The Allied air offensive against the Nazis is on a rising scale . That of Reichsmarshal Goering against Britain is on a small scale . It looks very much as though Air Marshal Harris 's theory that there are some sixty strategic centers in Germany which if knocked out would cripple the Nazi war potential and that if he had enough bombers he could do it , is going to be put to test . Leaving out the question whether bombing alone can lick Germany ? a question which no one can answer ? it seems like a good idea to I drop as many shells as possible into Hitler 's fortress during the period of waiting before the invasion . Now that the weather is improving the R . A. F. and the - United States . Air Forces are just getting a chance to prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Baker both believe that , with sufficient planes , they can save countless British and American lives , when the zero hour comes , by softening up Germany for the kill . But for that purpose both need many more planes than they have at their disposal now . British pilots and they will sooner or later say that the uppermost impression , brought back from their sorties over the enemy trenches , is that they are living through stories their fathers told them about trench warfare , multiplied , exaggerated , and speeded up a hundredfold . In an atmosphere notable for peace , good-will and good cheer they take off from their airports and are swiftly transported across                     