@@705191

txt Dies Statement Denied Dr. Barnes Excepts to References in White Paper To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW " YORK TIMES : In your issue of Nov. 22 , commenting on the Dies White Paper , you include this statement : " The committee added that Harry Elmer Barnes , Cooperstown , N. Y. , ' who was previously connected with Dr. Auhagen of the Fellowship Forum , ' in a letter last June 21 commended the publication of the German paper , ' and offered his influence in furthering its popularity . ' " I have had no connection with Dr. Auhagen of the Fellowship Forum . I met. him three times in the Winter of 1938-39 in the most casual fashion in anti-Nazi social circles . My entire conversation with him on all occasions occupied far less than a half-hour . On one instance he outlined his plans for ' he Fellowship Forum , which he stated to he the encouragement of liberal opinion in Germany -- -a work somewhat like that of the American Friends of German Freedom . He assured me that he had received encouragement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He did not ask for my aid . Declined to Preside Some months later he wrote and asked me to preside at one of his Forum meetings . I declined and suggested several prominent New York liberals . I never heard from him after that , nor has he heard from me . Next , as to the so-called " German paper , " it is obvious to all informed persons that this reference is a deliberate misrepresentation . The implication is that this is a German publication and that any one commending it is supporting the German Government or propaganda agencies . The fact is that this " German paper " is a collection of Polish documents purporting to show the encouragement of war sentiment in Poland and Britain by Ambassadors Bullitt and Kennedy . These documents have never been proved spurious . They were published by a reputable anti-Nazi American publishing house , Howell , Soskin &; Co. , under the title " The German White Paper . " The publishers repeatedly requested me to write the foreword , but I declined . I imagine that I expressed my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was an oversight and I would like to take this occasion to express my opinion that the publication should he read by every American . I can not recall ever offering to " use my influence to further its popularity . " At least , I was never asked to use it . I received only two copies of the publication and they have both reposed on my shelves since that time . I have never been asked to suggest the distribution of a single copy of the German White Paper nor have I made any such suggestion of my own volition . Opinion of Dies Body My conviction that the United States should keep out of the European war is sufficiently firm and robust so that I do not require nudging or encouragement from any outside source , Anybody with the slightest acquaintance with American intellectuals well knows that my opinions , however good or bad , are my own . I perversely insist on the quaint practice of putting American interests before those of Britain , Germany , Indo-China or Patagonia . As for Mr. Dies and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any American intellectual who is not at one time or another , for one reason or another , condemned by this committee may be regarded as having wasted his life and its opportunities for constructive citizenship and the service of his country . HARRY ELMER BARNES . Cooperstown , N. Y. , Nov. 24 , MO .                     