@@710345

txt DETROIT , April 14 The Gen- fered the UE. the United Auto eral Motors Corporation settled Workers and the United Rubber its wage differences today with Workers last Saturday . At that the United Electrical , Radio and time the company said that it Machine Workers of America , CIO , would give each of these three with a 15-cent increase . Of this , unions an increase of 10 cents an hour . This was the first time GM has granted paid holidays ' to its hourly rated workers . The 31,4-cent allocation for this purpose was one of the original union demands . The holidays involved are New Year 's Day , Memorial Day , July Fourth , Labor Day , Thanksgiving and Christmas . The union 's demands for a health , welfare and retirement program will be continued as subjects for discussion and negotiation . The agreement must be ratified by the four UE local unions involved and notification of this ratification by April 21 was prescribed in the settlement terms . GM divisions concerned are Frigidaire and Delco Products , // 111/s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and 3 cents as adjustments for paid holidays and other economic factors . Some union and management officials here interpreted the Electrical Workers ' settlement as a blow to CIO efforts to bargain on an industry-wide ' basis and , more immediately , as an action weakening the United Automobile Workers ' demands for a 2312 cents increase . The year-long agreement , which affects more than 30,000 employes in four GM divisions , was reached in a secret meeting of company and union negotiators at 9:30 P. M. yesterday . It was not announced until 11:15 A. M. today . The settlement figure was 5 cents more an hour than GM ofELECTRICAL UNION WINS GM PAY RISE Continued From rage 1 Dayton , Ohio ; Packard Electric , Warren , Ohio , and Delco Appliance , Rochester , N. Y. Increased living costs and the necessity for " continued , maximum and uninterrupted " production instigated the settlement , a company-union release said . ' The UE-GM settlement came little more than twenty-four hours before the opening* of a special meeting of the executive board of the United Automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon in New York City . The agreement certainly would do little to improve relations between the UE and the UAW . A year ago leaders of the UAW lashed out bitterly against the UE for concluding a pact with GM for an 18% cents increase in a similar fashion . At that time the UAW was conducting its longest and most costly strike against GM and was holding out for an increase of 19% cents an hour . UAW Demands Total 30 Cents Currently , the UAW is asking an increase of 23% cents an hour , plus social security , old-age pen1 sions and other fringe demands , bringing the total to more than 30 cents . Among other things , the UAW wants a guaranteed fortyhour week , which is to say that if a man should be called to work and sent home after only a few minutes ' work , he would receive a minimum of forty hours ' pay . In addition to the embarrassment caused to the UAW , the UE move also was viewed here as causing concern to Philip Murray , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington accused " big business " of fqFcing strikes by refusing to negotiate a cost-of-living wage increase of 20 per cent . The UE action also was seen as an illustration of a lack of unity ' within the CIO as a whole . They contended that Mr. Murray , whose original design was to let steel set the pattern this year , had failed to hold his forces in line . The statement issued jointly by the Electrical Workers and company representatives follows : .. " An agreement has been reached between General Motors and the United Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers of America , CIO , providing for a 15-cents-an-hour increase , effecttive today , for more than 30,000 employes represented by the UE-CIO in four General Motors divisions . " Effective today , Monday , April 14 , 1947 , under the terms of the agreement , all wage rates and classifications of the hourly rates employes represented by the UECIO will be increased by 11% cents an hour . " The remainder of the 15 cents will be used to cover the cost of six paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents for holiday pay and to meet other economic issues was one of the original demands of the union which was agreed to in negotiations . " The holidays , for which General Motors will pay employes represented by the UE , are New Year 's , Memorial Day , Fourth of July , Labor Day , Thanksgiving and Christmas . " Under the terms of the agreement the union 's demand for a health , welfare and retirement program will continue as a subject for discussion and negotiation . " The agreement , reached following negotiations between General Motors and the bargaining committee of the union , will not become effective until ratifed by the membership of the four local UE unions involved . " Under the terms of the settlement , the international union must notify General Motors of ratification by the membership of the locals no later than April 21 . " This agreement settles the economic issues raised by the UE-CIO and the new agreement may continue indefinitely unless either or both of the parties choose to terminate the contract or reopen it for modification . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 28 , 1948 . " The divisions of General Motors covered by the agreement are Frigidaire , Dayton , Ohio ; Delco Products , Dayton ; Packard Electric , Warren , Ohio , and Delco Appliance , Rochester , N. Y. " This agreement , arrived at through direct collective bargaining by the parties , recognizes increased living costs and the necessity for maintaining continued , maximum and uninterrupted production to meet the demand for General Motors products . The parties have been in continuous negotiation for the past week . " Both parties recognized the unsettled economic status of the country and the need for industry and labor to settle their mutual economic problems . " This is the first majol " agreement that has been completed for a year 's term in the electrical manufacturing industry . " Heading the negotiating committee for the UE-CIO was Neil Brant , international representative , and for General Motors , Louis G. Seaton , director of labor relations . "                     