@@705044

txt Government by Propaganda Senator Clark 's Evident Distress Evokes Charge Against Himself To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is hard not to feel sympathetic with Senator Clark of Missouri when he voices the distress he feels in regard to propaganda . The newspaper makes him close an impassioned appeal with the sentence : " Have we come in the United States to government by propa-ganda ? " Bless the Senator 's dear heart , the United States has always been a government by propaganda . Sam Adams of Massachusetts was , perhaps , the first American propagandist on a large scale . Thomas Jefferson was a master of propaganda . Every election is a contest of propaganda . I have always regarded the refusal of the United States to join and lead the League of Nations as the greatest calamity of modern times , for the world and for America . Can anybody forget the gigantic struggles of propaganda on that question ? Now , another question of vast importance has come up and Senator Clark is one of the leading propagandists on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the word " propaganda " in modern times , and consequently a statement on our side of the case is a legitimate argument , but a statement on the other side we call propaganda . There is no way of advancing a cause except through propaganda , whether this is carried on in the press or in speeches or in private conversation . There is nothing wrong about propaganda except dishonesty . If a man says what he does n't believe , of course we know what to think of him . If he has a personal interest which he is concealing , his propaganda is dishonest . There would be nothing wrong in the use of our freedom of the press and freedom of speech by an Englishman or a German in this present debate , provided the man admitted that he was an Englishman or a German and was speaking in the interests of his own country . Of course , it would be a very stupid thing to do because of the reaction in the minds of American citizens . What is wrong , however , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doctrines or the coloring of news in the American press , pretending that it is done for the benefit of America . Does Senator Clark 's reading of recent history , with its fifth column and all , make him think that Adolf Hitler is more scrupulous in this manner than his opponents ? Mr. Churchill was a very vigorous propagandist ten or a dozen years ago in favor of England 's making ready for a great war . The laziness , the pacifism , the isolationism of the British people were too much for him and England is now paying for her sins . We , in the " helping England " organizations , are carrying on the strongest propaganda we can . Mr. Clark and his friends are carrying on their propaganda , having on their side the pacifists , the isolationists and all those who , for one reason or another , hate England so intensely that they can not see where the true interests of America lie . It is this same hatred of England which defeated the League of Nations , and the appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League was the most discreditable part of the isolationist propaganda . HORACE D. TAFT . Watertown , Conn. , Sept. 28 , 1940 . Standard Lease Form Urged That Now Used in Apartment Rentals Regarded as Unequitable To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This letter concerns itself with the apartment lease commonly known as the Real Estate Board form . It seems that this lease frustrates any notion of free contract . Almost all tenants must sign the lease , and do so without reading or questioning . Its sanctity has permeated the minds of tenants to the extent of being considered as inevitable as the right to have shelter . In other words , it has become a fixed institution , and thereby relegates the tenant to a status . Yet a careful reading of the lease shows how many of the rights of the tenant are alienated by it . Consider the right of entry given to the landlord . In a one-year lease he even reserves the right to enter seven months before its expiration date to show it to prospective tenants . Jury trials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right won after centuries of struggle . Numerous other faults could be mentioned . Recently the provision in the lease exempting the landlord from liability for his negligence was nullified by Section 234 , Real Property La* , voiding such provision . Several years Lgo the Association of the Bar voluntarily issued a lease which after careful study was deemed fair and equitable . Copies of it were printed by stationers . Yet they are little used . Landlords still present the Real Estate Board form to tenants , who sign automatically . Landlords find this form more desirable for their purposes . Since they are in a superior position to enforce their demands , the use of their form becomes the practice . This demonstrates the futility of seeking voluntary use of a fairer form . The effective remedy in such cases is to have legislation establishing standard forms , such as insurance companies are required to have . It is better than piecemeal strictures like Section 234 , Real Property Law , voiding lease provisions of immunities for the negligence of the landlord , or Section ' 230 concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statutory standard form of lease . EmANUEL REDFIELD . New York , Sept. 27 , 1940 . Stamp-Buying to Aid Britain To THE EDITOR OF THE Nsw YORK TIMES : Those who wish to help Britain personally could adopt a very simple method . Buy a draft on London to the order of the Postmaster of London . Mail it to him and ask him to send uncanceled English postage stamps in return . If England is defeated , these stamps will become very valuable . If England wins , they will always be worth par for mailing letters in England . Thus a contribution to the English treasury can be made with no chance of loss . If many of us would do that , it would run into real money and give substantial help . FRANKLIN WiLsoic . Washington , Sept. 29 , 1940 . Mr. Ickes Is Again Disputed No Basis Seen for Inconsistency Charge Against Republican Candidate To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Secretary Ickes , in his message to Wendell Willkie , published in THE TIMES of Sept. 25 , makes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you condemned the public power politics of the Roosevelt Administration , with specific mention of Bonneville and Grand Coulee in The Atlantic Monthly of August , 1937 , or.you ' misspoke ' in the Northwest yesterday when you said that you would not only see that Bonneville and Grand Coulee , which you heretofore opposed , were completed but that they were ' operated for the full benefit of the people of this and adjoining areas . ' " I have looked up the article in The Atlantic Monthly and would like to call attention to the following passage : " * * * there is nothing sacred about private operation of business . The utilities have no God-given charter for existing . Provided that the government compensates for what it destroys ( a provision which , unfortunately , we can not take for granted ) , there is no reason why the government should not put the utility companies out of business if the people want the government to do so . The only question which people are interested in  --  and this is the issue which bitterness has obscured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distribute electric power efficiently and econom-ically ? " I fail to see inconsistency between this statement and any made by Mr. Willkie in his speech in Portland . Nor is it inconsistent with the rest of Mr. Willkie 's Atlantic Monthly article , wherein his arguments in favor of privately owned utilities are based solely upon his reasoned belief in their superior ability to serve public interests . But he makes his plea before the tribunal of public opinion , and nowhere does he indicate that he will not cheerfully accept the people 's final verdict , on whichever side it may ultimately be given . Mr. Ickes would have us believe that Mr. Wilikie was a foe of TVA because he was a foe of the public . But the real basis of his fight against TVA was his conviction that this agency employed methods that are unconstitutional . And in view of the success with which he waged this battle it is evident that Mr. Wilikie managed to convince some members of the government , if not Mr. Ickes , of the justice of some of his claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 26 , 1940 . School Costs and Design To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Saul Bernstein 's analysis of the school situation in Yorkville , based on a factual survey of the neighborhood , may with equal logic be applied to other sections of the city where existing facilities are both antiquated and inadequate . However , the shortage of seats in vocational schools , so vitally necessary in the defense plans of the nation , and the construction of which will be delayed by the curtailment of the capital outlay program , makes the replacement problem one of secondary importance . As an employe of the Bureau of Construction of the Board of Education , I should like to correct some erroneous impressions created by Mr. Bernstein 's concluding remarks . The cost of a Park Avenue apartment is no yardstick foe determining the cost of a classroom any more than a bathtub would be in estimating the cost of a swimming pool . School costs are determined by various methods , such as cubic contents , pupil capacity , and type of school . Under such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , building regulations , etc. ? our schools compare favorably with those of other localities . The question of design is purely academic . P. S. 118 , Manhattan , newly constructed skyscraper school ; Forest Hills High School , William Howard Taft High School and the East New York Vocational High School , all nearing completion , can hardly be classified as prehistoric caves . JOHN MOORE . Jackson Heights , N. Y. , Sept. 29 , 1940 . Parking Practices Resented To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The current system of regulation for overtime and illegal parking on city streets appears very unjust . On one street in the Eighties between West End and Riverside Drive , for example , cars parked overnight are tagged periodically and systematically . Out-of-State cars , those with M. D. plates and others with D. H. signs bear tags morning after morning . This street has four pub . lie garages east of West End Avenue . The next street south , a thoroughfare with a bus line , has similar lines of cars parked overnight , but no tags @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plate was parked on that street overnight all of last Winter , and through the severe snowstorms , without being tagged . There are no garages on this street . Garages park cars before their doorways overnight , and in the early morning hours have them along both sides of the street . Often enough there are three or four abreast for the length of the block with no tags or summonses . No space is left for cars going through without slowing to a snail 's pace . There is no space against a curb for parking a car for a business or professional call . Even hydrants are blocked . The Fire , Police and License Departments should cooperate toward a fair enforcement of the laws and regulations . GEORGE MEYER . New York . Sept. 22 , 1940.                     