@@711277

txt WASHINGTON , May 22 ? The Mundt-Nixon bill " to protect the United States against un-American and subversive activities " swept through the House of Representatives this week by the resounding majority of 319 to 58 . The event was accompanied by loud acclaim from the Right and by cries of anguish from the Left  --  a din that Will continue for some time . The effect and intent of the bill , if not its stated purpose , is to prohibit political activity by any group or individual falling within the broad legislative definition of a Communist or Communist-front organization . Under ordinary circumstances , such overwhelming endorsement of a piece of legislation by one chamber obligates the other to give it prompt , and frequently comparable , consideration . However , it looks now as though the Senate will duck the issue , at least for the remainder of this session . Represents a Milestone As the magnum opus , legislaively speaking , of the House committee on un-American activities including its progenitors all the way back to its first chairman , former Representative Martin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milestone . It is the first substantial legislative offering to result from nearly ten years of ceaseless committee investigations that have cost more than $1,000,000 and that have accounted for incalculable newspaper space . It also represents another sort of milestone in the view of many critics of the measure . It is seen as the climax of a steadily mounting post-war hysteria against the " red menace " ; of a collective national manifestation of internal weakness and of domestic uncertainty . It is regarded as a sort of nervous reflex of our national organism as it makes a tortuous adjustment to the inexorable leftward drift of human society . Advocates of the measure , on the other hand , assert that the " Red menace " is no longer a myth ; that events both here and in the world at large have left no doubt of the threat it poses to all democratic institutions . " What to do about the Communists " has been an absorbing preoccupation of most responsible public leaders since V-J Day made palpable their suspicions of Russian intentions in the post-war world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world force dedicated to the ultimate destruction of the democratic way of life as it is conceived in the United States . Yet , to extinguish it as a political doctrine contravenes the very principles we most cherish . What , then , can a democracy do to protect itself without at the same time destroying itself ? Thrives Underground Various programs have been suggested . The one most likely of success ? to make our kind of democracy work so well that communism can not get a foothold ? has obvious practical and political handicaps . Utopias do not come about by legislative injunction . At the other extreme have been various schemes for deliberately outlawing the Communist party . This has as many shortcomings as the other , and would be , furthermore , almost certainly predestined to failure . As Governor Dewey said in his broadcast the other night , and others before him , " you ca n't shoot an idea with a law . " In an inhospitable climate , communism thrives better underground than above , and any direct prohibition would certainly drive it underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or means of hobbling Communist activities in this country , and rendering it negative , but at the same time keeping it dut in plain view and under surveillance . The whole course of this search has been marked by much prejudice and confusion . Indeed , a good many persons have been under the impression that the Communist party is already under some sort of legal interdiction . The Communist party is an entirely legal political organization , and membership therein violates no provision of the law . Question of Proof What is against the law is to advocate , or to belong to an organization that advocates , overthrow of the United States Government by force or violence . This is contained in a section of the Alien Registration Act of 1940 . However , the difficulty of attacking the Communist party under this statute has been the highly important matter of proof . Communist parties all over the world , including the Communist party of America , officially abandoned the doctrine of force at the seventh world congress of the Communist International at Moscow in 1935 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in the absence of an arsenal or a secret army , a prosecutor would be hard pressed to adduce substantive proof that the CPA advocates such violent stratagems today . Moreover , while numerous lower court decisions have attempted to substantiate this thesis , the Supreme Court has never done so . Referring to the question obliquely in the Schneiderman case in 1934 , the majority opinion stated : " This court has never passed on the question whether the party does so advocate and it is unnecessary for us to do so now . " Communist Activity Defined The Mundt-Nixon bill endeavors to circumvent this legal vacuum by proscribing certain actions and associations , so minutely spelled out that Communist and " front " organizations will be put squarely within the target range , Supporters of the measure insist that the Communist party , as such , is not prohibited : only its subversive activities . It is demonstrably true that nowhere does the bill say , " the Communist party and membership therein are illegal . " However , what it does make illegal ? and with penalties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the distinction is meaningless . In justifying the bill , the committee said in its report that it was satisfied ( 1 ) that the Communist movement in this country is foreign controlled ; ( 2 ) that its ultimate objective is the overthrow of the existing form of government and the substitution thereof of a dictatorship ; ( 3 ) that its activities are carried on by secret and conspiratorial methods , and ( 4 ) that its activities constitute " an immediate and powerful threat to the security of the United States . " It adds that the adoption of the measure would not only curb these dangerous activities in the United States but also would set a pattern that other freedom-loving countries could employ . Alarm over the Implications of the Mundt-Nixon bill is widespread in Washington , and without regard to party or ideological grounds . Objections to Bill Not only is it felt to be contrary to American principles to single out a single political organization for punishment but the definition of subversive political activity is so inclusive that a literal reign of terror against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe the Socialist party and the new party headed by Henry Wallace clearly fall within the scope of the bill . Other evil consequences attributed to the measure are that it acts as a bill of attainder by applying exclusively to certain specified groups and individuals ; that it condones the establishment of guilt by association , and that it puts within the administrative decision of a single individual , the Attorney General , the power to stigmatize entire groups of individuals .                     