@@706461

txt High Army , Navy and was Production Board officiala fear that the enormous volume of war contracts placed in the southeastern Michigan area where the giant automotive plants are centered will create a labor shortage of such proportions as to preclude future placement of new contracts here . Knowing how rapidly changes in war strategy have necessitated changes on the industrial front of the United Nations during the past two and a half years . they feel that to overload the industry night wipe out the margin of safety that would permit future use of its resources to handle difficult " must " war contracts . Engineering skill and " know how " have come to be regarded as one of the nation 's greatest assets . entitled like aluminum , copper , steel and other scarce metals , to a high priority rating . This means that when new war jobs are to he placed they will not go to the auto plants unless they are so difficult to handle that only automotive facilities are capable of doing the job . The easy contracts will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Needs To ascertain if the coming labor shortage is going to be as severe as is expected . W.P.B. 's automotive division is undertaking an immediate reappraisal of the industry 's peak labor requirement . Ernest Kanzler , chief of the division , and his associates believe current estimates , which were prepared early this year , show the picture too darkly They are hopeful that the manufacturing experience of a few companies , which have found their labor needs after they got into mass production to be less than expected , will be reflected throughout the industry . Should this be the case , it would indicate that automotive plants have not reached the saturation point on war work ; that the government still has a margin of safety to allow for placement of difficult emergency jobs and that automotive " know how " therefore still is available to the country . Should early labor estimates be verified by the new survey , however , the situation probably would be regarded as critical enough to justify gradual transfer of some relatively simple arms viol* out of the area to cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor that could be used to better advantage on difficult work . This eventuality is not much discussed yet , but it conceivably may happen should the labor situation become acute . cut Alan-Hours on Jobs That there is reason to believe the labor bottleneck in the southeastern Michigan area  --  Detroit , Pontiac . Flint . Saginaw . Bay City , Lansing and other cities  --  may have been overemphasized is indicated by several demonstrations of mass production efficiency . according to Mr. Kanzler . One large producer of airplane parts , he states , originally figured 14.000 man-hours for two jobs . Contracts for the same two jobs are being renewed on the basis of only 6,000 man-hours of work . Another aircraft manufacturer here , Mr. Kanzler says , figured that 60 machines would be required to handle a specific job . When the engineers got through laying out the Jon , however , it was found that 40 machines probably could do the work . The reduction in labor on the job will be proportionate . These are but two of several demonstrations of the efficiency being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique . according to Mr. ? Kanzler . He believes that the survey now being conducted will find numerous repetitions of the same experience . When the auto companies were handed production jobs on bombers , bomber parts , machine guns , airplane engines , etc. , Mr. Kanzler explains , they had no experience on which to rely in estimating their labor requirements . Mass production had never before been achieved either in the aircraft industry or in government arsenals . Consequently there was a lot of guess work in making up estimates of the numbers of workers who would be required and the prices at which the jobs could be undertaken . Mr. Kanzler points out that early this year 512 major manufacturing establishments in the Wayne County ( Detroit ) area estimated their war peak requirements next spring at 830,0000 workers . This compares with slightly over 500,000 who were working in April . His office , after consultation with plant managers , believed the figure to be about 75,000 too high and therefore estimated the peak requirements at 755,000 . It is this lager figure that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be over-conservative.                     