@@709925

txt ' FULL-TERM ' PLEDGE Democrat Declares He , Unlike Opponent , Has Eye Only on Albany REACTIONARIES ' ATTACKED Senator Charges Strategy of Dewey Is to Divert Notice From His ' Dismal Failures ' Senator Mead 's address is printed on Page 23 . By CLAYTON KNOWLES In a ' last appeal to voters , Senator James M. Mead last night asked to be elected Governor on the basis of his contributions through the years to liberal and progressive Democratic leadership . This leadership , he said , had saved the nation from depression , guided it to victory in global war and set it on the path to sound post-war prosperity . " I will serve as a full-time , fullterm Governor with no occupation or ambition except to be a good Governor , " the Democratic-American Labor-Liberal candidate said in closing his plea , broadcast to a State-wide audience over the American Broadcasting Company network . The Senator declared that Governor Dewey , his Republican opponent , had stressed throughout the campaign that there is " not enough teamwork in Washington . " Sees Lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that a liberal and progressive national administration has not been able to get cooperation , either from the solid reactionary Republican minority or from some reactionary Southern Democrats . " Mr. Mead maintained that Governor Dewey 's appeals boiled down to the " silly conclusion that we put reactionaries in complete control of Congress and also of the White House . " " I reject that kind of teamwork // because it will put the wrong kind of people in the driver 's seat , " he said . The broadcast was made at a testimonial dinner at the Hotel Astor to Ben Levine , veteran business representative of Local 234 , Hebrew Butcher Workers Union , American Federation of Labor . Fifteen hundred guests applauded the appeal , which in effect closed the candidate 's campaign in the city and State After attending an outdoor meeting this afternoon at Coney Island the Senator will board a plane at Newark Airport to return to his home at Buffalo , where he will vote and . listen to election returns with his family . He will attend " victory rallies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Monday . Charges Strategy of Diversion In his summing up last night , the Democratic candidate charged that Governor Dewey 's " whole campaign strategy had been to divert attention from his dismal failures in Albany by violent criticism of the conduct of national affairs under Democratic leadership . " " He has asked you , " Senator Mead said , " whether you want in Albany the philosophy of government that you have had in Washington since Roosevelt 's first election . If Governor Dewey were fair he would turn the question around . He would ask you whether you want to turn all government  --  in Washington and in Albany  --  over to the kind of economic philosophy which Dewey and Hoover and Taft and Reece represent . " Senator Mead declared the type of campaign his opponent had conducted demonstrated that Governor Dewey even now is " running for only one office , the Presidency of the United States " and that he had permitted affairs of the State to play " second fiddle " to his Presidential ambitions . " Governor Dewey has been in public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the war , Dewey was an open isolationist . During the war , he made violent attacks upon our war program and war strategy . He predicted that the Democratic program for reconversion would produce a tremendous depression as soon as the war was over . " Literally every time Dewey opened his mouth , he said something which time has proved to be hopelessly wrong . He is always spinning like a top , trying to get faced in the right direction . " In an indictment of the Republican State Administration , Mr. Mead said Governor Dewey had " riddled the civil service with political appointments , woefully neglected our State institutions , allowed our natural resources to dwindle , made a shambles of protective labor laws , neglected our teachers in the face of increasing living costs , transformed an army of veterans ' counselors into a horde of political hacks and turned the $500,000,000 veterans ' trust fund into a political slush fund . " The night speech was one of ten made by the candidate . during the course of a day in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved . on to Westchester for three big rallies , returned to Manhattan and closed with two Liberal party meetings in Brooklyn . Addresses 1,000 Women Flanked byformer Governor Herbert H. Lehman , candidate for the United States Senate , and others m the coalition State ticket , Senator Mead told nearly 1,000 Democratic women workers at a luncheon at the Concourse Plaza Hotel in the Bronx that the " spirit of Al Smith and Franklin D. Roosevelt " would lead the slate to victory on Tuesday . Edward J. Flynn , Bronx leader and Democratic national committeeman , in introducing the Senator and the other candidates , predicted that the Democratic plurality " will be just as big and probably bigger than it has been in the past . " Mayor Erastus Corning of Albany , candidate for Lieutenant Governor , in stressing the qualifications of the Democratic ticket , declared it collectively offered the people " more than 100 years of distinguished public service and experience . " The entire group of candidates then traveled to a reception and tea of the Democratic Women 's Club of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand to wish the candidates well . In his swing into Westchester , Senator Mead addressed rallies at Albert Leonard High School in New Rochelle , at the Italian Civic Center in Mount Vernon and at the Saunders Trade School in Yonkers . He later spoke at the People 's Democratic Club of the Fourteenth Assembly District rally at Grand Paradise Hall in Brooklyn , and then went on to the Liberal party rallies at Erasmus Hall and Pub ? lic School 156 , also in Brooklyn .                     