@@709579

txt British and Amp.ridanAroops will be withdrawn frOin Italy and Russian troops evacuated from Bulgaria within 90 days of the signing of peace treaties with those two nations , according to an agreement reportedly reached today by the Big Four Foreign Ministers . The Foreign Ministers also are said to have broken the longstanding deadlock over the question of an Allied treaty inspection commission for Italy by adopting a Soviet counterproposal for a commission to be composed of the four Allied ambassadors in Rome . This commission would control the carrying out of the terms of the peace treaty . Heretofore the level lower than the Foreign Ministers themselves . Consequently , there has been a great impatience here on the part of the press which reflected itself in dispatches and in a general discussion of the conference progress . In the face of this , ? certain balancing factors should be understood : The conference has not been wasting time . Serious Approach The issues have not been trivial , nor discussions unintelligent and illogical , as some would have them appear . The conference , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it has gone . Excepting the problem of reparations , most of the issues Cs-cussed during the first four working sessions have been new material from the deputies which had not come before the Foreign Ministers themselves previously . The tenor of the debates has indicated very little as to the outcome of more serious issues which will roll up gradually in the next week . The only safe conclusion evident is that each - minister , with the possible exception of tl-.5 ... French one , has been taking a vigorously national line , arguing for what his nation and econom ! c philosophy would desire . There has been little trading because the time has not come yet for that , and so most questions had to be postponed or referred to experts . Both sides have made concessions in those cases where agreements have been reached , and , on the whole , Russian Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov probably has yielded more than any of the others . This is doubtless because he considers Italy largely outside the sphere of the Soviet security belt in eastern Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally pliable when discussions turn to his sphere . Demands on the patience of the press and the public are not nearly completed . A decision today to hold informal sessions starting with the Italian colonies question , with no formal report made to_the the press on what look place , will throw conference reporting into still hotter waters . A period of less important fact will give way to a phase of more or less well founded hints obtained at keyholes . Call for Self-Discipline Still greater discipline will be required both of reporters and the public , to match the discipline which the Foreign Ministers are expected to impose on themselves now that they face really big issues on which a united or a di-. vided world depends . The request for informal meetings without reports to the press came , significantly , from United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes , who managed to obtain in the secrecy of Moscow last December agreements which had eluded more formal conferences at London the previous September . The present effort to avoid daily reports of bargaining , and half-formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be judged by its results .                     