@@709116

txt Austrian Economy Discussed Problems of Covering Deficit and Return of Stability Stated To THE Eerroa OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter of Victor Heller , which you published Dec. 1 , gives a picture of Austria 's economic possibilities which is not at all justified by the facts . Before the occupation by Germany , Austria had a foreign trade deficit which never fell below $80 million at the pre-war rate of exchange , and in some years reached double this figure . This deficit was covered largely from three sources  --  profits derived from transit trade , profits from tourist trade and , to a lesser degree , from Austrian investments abroad . Foreign loans from time to time covered the remaining deficit In the balance of foreign payments . Every one of the items named is bound to be less favorable for many years to come . In order to maintain anything near the former standard of living in Austria , which was higher than in the countries farther east , though lower than in western Europe , imports would have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war-destroyed property , to replace machinery and every other kind of durable goods looted by the Russian occupation army , and to replace wear- I ing apparel and many other things which have been irreplaceable for the last six years . Export Drop Foreseen On the other hand , exports are sure to drop . Forty per cent of Austria 's exports went to Germany , whose buying power has now been destroyed for a long time . Another high percentage went to the Balkan countries , which are equally impoverished . To compensate for this loss by increasing the export of quality goods to western countries , many of them war victims themselves , will be impossible for any foreseeable time . Ninety per cent of Austria 's transit trade was in the hands of Jewish firms in Vienna , and their foreign correspondents were in most cases Jews , also . These firms have disappeared ; their experienced proprietors or managers have been murdered or have emigrated . The considerable income which Austria drew from her tourist trade was derived principally from the great number of Germans who came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visited Vienna afterward , to a smaller extent from tourists from Czechoslovakia , Hungary and the Balkans . The Americans and the visitors from western Europe , who stopped in the big Vienna hotels , or in some fine resort in the Alps , contributed a comparatively small fraction of the total tourist income , despite the fact that their individual spendings were , on the average , several times higher than the individual spendings of the other tourists . Tourist Trade Delayed There will be no tourist influx from Germany or the central and east European countries for a long time to come . Americans and , in a few years , people from western Europe may come again to the Arlberg for skiing and may visit other places in Austria , but what amounts in foreign currency they will leave in Austria will just be a drop in the bucket . The income from Austrian investments in Czechoslovakia , Hungary and the Balkans was already a small fraction only of the amounts which streamed into Vienna before the first World War from what , at that time , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be completely dried up . There can be no doubt that the Austrians , and especially the city dwellers among them , will have to tighten their belts to an extent undreamed of after the first World War , when conditions were bad enough . Even so , ' the powers which are interested in seeing Austria as an independent and non-Communist state will have to lend a helping hand for many a year to come . PAUL KAUFMAN . New York , Dec. 2 , 1945 . Living in Parkchester , unfortunately I have to use the subways to get to my office near Columbus Circle , which now takes me almost an hour and a half , using first the IRT to Fifty-ninth Street and then the BMT to Fiftyseventh Street . The speed of the Lexington . Avenue branch of the IRT , particularly in the morning , is unworthy of a huge metropolitan city . Today this subway took exactly one hour  --  from 8:25 to 9:25 A. M. ? to get its passengers from 177th Street East to Fifty-seventh Street . According to the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes . During the war there might have been reasons for slow subway travel . Now that the war is over , there is no excuse for snail's-pace transportation . People have to get to work in the morning and want to get home at night . It might be worth while to compute the daily loss in work hours due to this inadequate means of conveyance . ANDRE LION . New York , Nov. 30 , 1945 . Dishonesty Is Condemned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The imposition of dishonesty upon the human race is , beyond every known activity , the fundamental cause of the races ' meanest calamities . And although living an honest life may not bring to one the greatest commercial rewards , it is , nevertheless , a worthy manner of contributing to , humanity a greater and more appreciable degree of self-respect and stability than can be earned through remanly efforts -- commercial dishonestp . However , in this world a very generous and first-class livelihood can be had without resorting to tactics which are inimical to the public and national interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of financial returns , it is not necessary to carry out an insane ambition . It may take more than a little refleetion to set the world fully aright , and ethically , under the tension of man 's present struggle for existence ; but an early start to do so will save many an unnecessary heartache in the future . JOSEIVI GANS . Brooklyn , Dec. 2 , 1945 . Another Opinion on China Some Ciitics ' of Our Policy There Are , Held to Be Mistaken TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : After reading J. S. Kennard Jr . ' s letter in THE TIMES of Nov. 29 , I haves , feeling that those people who agree and support American policy toward China do not care to write much about it , but some people who have different interests are the ones who choose to write . As a Chinese , I am sorry to say that I can not agree with Mr. Kennard for a few simple reasons : 1 . Chinese people are not fools . They know who is imperialistic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China will create sentiment of nationality and will turn all Chinese into Communists is something based on -a wrong assumption of American intentions toward China . 2 . It is generally recognized in China that foreign aid is absolutely necessary . China would appreciate British aid if there is no colonial imperialism involved , and also would appreciate Russian aid if there is no communistic imperialism involved . Since America is not an imperialistic nation , I should say it is not the wish of the Chinese people that America should change her policy and return to isolationism. 3 . " The middle way " philosophy can hardly be explained in a few words , but I would like to point out that anything which is right or good , no matter how extreme , can never be regarded as bad by the Chinese people . ROBERT H. CHIANG . Washington , Nov. 29 , 1945 . Lighter Streets Wanted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Referring to your editorial " Oar Overworked Police , " it is very true that the force is now overworked , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to full strength . However , it is necessary that something , be done now  --  not two or three years from now ? as the conditions probably will get worse . My suggestion , that could be put into effect within a month or two , is more street lighting . In many instances in New York City now the dim-out street lights have not been changed . If all of the lights were brought back to pre-war strength and then doubled , it would materially help conditions . Right now some of the main north and south arteries are fairly lighted , but the side streets in most instances are very , very dark . It might even be feasible to ask storekeepers to leave lights on in their show windows for the winter . WILLIAM V. NEGUS . ? Passaic , N. J. , Dec. 1 , 1945 . Eyesight Accident Factor To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Your editorial " Safety 's Basic Rules " listed impressive figures concerning injuries and deaths due to traffic ac. , - cidents . Your message certainly indicates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , more basic than the rules you list  --  cross on green lights , etc. , - is the need for greater visual care and efficiency . For example : recent figures rereal that 75 per cent of garment workers , 53 per cent of office employes and 72 per cent of workers in a plant having 12,000 employes have visual problems . Visual training for those who suffer from uncorrected errors of vision will allow those who adhere to " Safety 's Basic Rules " to lessen the rate of accidents . DANIEL RASHALL , Executive Secretary , Public Health ? Bureau . New York , Dec. 1 , 1945 . Service Boards Might Help To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There are within the metropolitan area hundreds of Selective Service Boards trained in service since October , 1940 . Why can not these boards be used for civic work like combating crime , etc. ? They have trained secretarial personnel and offices fully equipped to handle probation work , etc . If an arrangement can not be made to use these Federal facilities , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any task which will be of help during this difficult period of conversion . I have a vast respect for the Selective Service System and its ability to do a fine civic job . Our work has almost come to an end and we would welcome the opportunity of using our experience acquired through these bitter years for the benefit of the people of this city . SAUL GODWIN . ' New York , Nov. 30 , 1945.                     