@@709341

txt Influential House opinion for a " strong " extension of the military draft , in view of what several members called " the Russian situation , " was rising today , and senior members of both parties on the Military Affairs Committee privately predicted that a continuance of Selective Service for six months exactly as it stands would be approved . The present act expires on May 15 . Chairman May , Democrat , of Kentucky , disclosed that the committee would discuss the matter in an executive meeting tomorrow , indicating that no formal action would be taken until the Senate Military Affairs Committee acts on a proposal by its head , Senator Thomas , Democrat , of Utah , for an extension of only six weeks . The Thomas committee also will meet tomorrow . Speaker Rayburn , for his part , emerging from a White House conference with President Truman , replied in answer to inquiries as to the prospects for draft extension : " I am not very discouraged . " One Plan Before Committee Mr. May said that his own earlier plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only childless men between 21 and 30 , was the only suggestion before his body in the form of prepared legislation . Apparently aware , however , that other members of the committee were ; low speaking in terms of an unaltered authority to draft men from 18 to 45 , he observed : " I believe I would now be prepared to agree to , or even initiate , an amendment in my own bill to bring the age down to 20 . " He indicated that while his pres. ent intention was to await the action of the Senate committee or the Thomas proposal , any extension of so short a time as six week , . was not likely to receive serious consideration on the House side . A continuance for some such substantial period as six months , he asserted , was necessary " to give us time to test out the recruitment policy and to see what conditions are going to be . " May Holds Extension Necessary " We must retain the vehicle ( of Selective Service ) , " he observed , " so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble . " Two members of the May committee of high seniority , . one a Democrat and the other a Republican , independently forecast that nothing . less than a six months ' extension of the existing act would in the end be accepted . Both said this would have been highly improbable only a few weeks ago , especially in view of the fact that this was an election year and that there was general Congressional talk of a much softer extended act , or perhaps none at all , but that " world conditions " had altered matters . Reminded that an extension of six months , which would keep Selective Service alive until after the elections , would leave the matter open beyond that date in view of the fact that Congress probably will not return until January , Mr. May replied : " The adjournment would be at the call of the Speaker . Congress can always come back in the meantime . " Joint Committee Sought Indications arose during the afternoon that not only the world situation but suddenly applied pressure in the House from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly was spurring the Military Affairs Committee to action . Representative Hays , Democrat , of Arkansas , and Case , Republican , of New Jersey , announcing that they acted with " the wholehearted " support of this group , introduced a concurrent resolution for the appointment of a special joint Congressional committee to investigate the size of the military forces that must be raised to meet American commitments to the United Nations Organization and to maintain this country 's - " own security and for the fulfillment of its obligations and policies abroad . " Mr. May and Representative Arends , Republican , of Illinois , the ranking minority member of Military Affairs , at once observed on the floor that the Hays-Case proposal appeared to infringe on the jurisdiction of that committee , and assured the House that inquiry into the whole subject already was in progress . In a speech to the House another Military Affairs Committeeman , Representative Sikes , Democrat , of Florida , declared that national defense required " men and weapons at least equal in effectiveness to those of any nation whose purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he added , " we shall need ? and of course shall have  --  an Army of approximately 1,500,000 men as of July 1 . " This was the force which Secretary of War Patterson and Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , Chief of Staff , had declared essential . " Without the continued operation of Selective Service and a high rate of voluntary enlistments , " Mr. Sikes went on , " we should shortly have no Army at all . " Saying that Soviet Russia 's " scientific and industrial development will be much more rapid in the future than in the past , " he added : " Putting it all together , it is clear that Russia now has three times as many men under arms as we have ; that in peacetime they plan an Army four times as large as ours , and that they have a permanent conscription system . "                     