@@710409

txt With splendid military ceremony , Winston Churchill was decorated with the Medaille Militaire today by Premier Paul Ramadier in the Court of Honor in the Invalides . Mr. Churchill , wearing the uniform of ' the Fourth Hussars , of which he is honorary colonel , and smiling , alert and visibly moved by ' the cordiality of his reception , looked the personification of Britain 's war tenacity . His appearance in Paris drew spontaneous enthusiasm from crowds wherever he went and when M. Ramadier , after pinning France 's most coveted military medal on the war leader 's tunic , bent forward and roundly kissed Mr. Churchill on both cheeks , there was an explosion of applause from the double-tiered arcades , packed with invited spectators . There was a large crowd stationed in the Esplanade and along the route of access across the Alexandre Bridge as far as the Champs-Elys ? es . Outside the Invalides were stationed two companies of French Marines and lining the entry route were French Republican Horse Guards in their brass helmets and with drawn sabers . The ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inside the courtyard , in the shadow of the gilded dome of Napoleon 's Tomb , were drawn up French crack regiments of the Foreign Legion and Alpine Chasseurs and a squadron of Algerian and Moroccan Spahis on their white desert stallions . All units were garbed in full dress regalia . Opposite these were grouped the foreign military attaches , members of the French Government and the diplomatic corps . Mr. Churchill , accompanied by M. Ramadier , the French Ministers of Defense , War , Air and Navy , and France 's chief military officers , passed the troops in review and Chen standing in a central position he received France 's highest award . It was conferred upon him and other allied war chiefs as a sign of France 's gratitude for liberation . " Mr. Churchill , I congratulate you and thank you , " said M. Ramadier . TEXT OF CITATION The text df the French Government 's official citation of Mr. Churchill , which accompanied the medal , follows : Called during a critical hour to direct the struggle of the United Kingdom forces against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he succeeded in grouping round him , with the same ideals , all the energies of the British people and their Allies and caused the world to understand the issues at stake . By his audacity in the conception and in the execution of the gigantic operations which unfolded In all corners of the globe , he was one of the artisans of France 's liberation and of the unconditional surrender of the enemy . Equally unaffected by bitterness in temporary defeat and by overconfidence in success , he incarnated the fierce energy and the unconquerable courage of the people from whom he springs . A friend of our country , he fought on French soil in the trenches of the First World War . He never ceased to display , in the darkest moments of the struggle as in the joy of victory , his attachment to a nation which finds itself honored to have fought beside him for the defense of liberty and civilization . Four French non-commissioned officers , heroes of the war , had the honor of receiving the decoration at the same time , Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the troops defiled in faultless order before the official party . Colorful Salutes Each detachment made its special salute , the chasseurs passing with an accelerated march and the Spahis rising in their stirrups as they rode . Leaving the Invalides , Mr. Churchill drove to the Arc de Triomphe where he was greeted with another ovation . There , in the presence of high officials , he laid . a wreath on the Unkown Soldier 's Tomb inscribed " To all the glories of France and to those who will make them live forever . " Mr. Churchill remained in Paris overnight to be present during tomorrow 's Armistice observances . Tonight the Paris monuments were floodlighted and electric street signs and shopfronts were ablaze for the first time since the war . A great victory V formed by searchlight beams rose over the city from the Pont Neuf and another horizontal beam stretched across the sky from the Arc de Triomphe . Cafes , by special dispensation , were allowed to keep open , and provided bands for street dancing that was expected to go on all night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            