@@709013

txt CABINET TO DISCUSS MACHINERY TO DEAL WITH PAY DISPUTES Truman Will Make Statement After Meeting Today , but Meanwhile Keeps Silent UNIONS PRESS FOR POLICY President'Says That Snyder 's Hold-the-Line ' Stand Agrees With His Own Aug.18 Order By LOUIS STARK Special to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 ? President Truman will make an announcement after a Cabinet meeting tomorrow on machinery for handling wage disputes . Replying to a question at his news and radio conference today the President stated that the problem of wage adjustment machinery would be before the Cabinet , but he indicated that meanwhile he could not say anything about it . In this connection it was learned that the President is being sub- , jected to a two-way " pincers " movement by organized labor . Labor leaders are urging Secretaries Schwellenbach and Wallace to spur an early decision by the Administration on a national wage and price policy to prevent current wage controversies breaking into strikes . Simultaneously they and their colleagues have set in motion machinery in the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Snyder to Mr. Truman . Presidential Order Is Cited The subject of wages and prices came before the President today when a reporter referred to speeches in the last few days by Mr. Snyder . He asked whether the OWMR chief 's views on holding the line firmly on prices and allowing some increases in wages represented the Government 's policy . The President replied that Mr. Snyder 's remarks were in accordance with his Executive Order of Aug. 18 , which he had read at a previous press conference . This order permitted wage increases where they did not interfere with prices and where they involved inequities , inequalities or maladjustments . Mr. Truman was then asked about wage adjustment machinery discussed at the conference he had held on Monday with the War // Labor Board . This time the reporter spoke of machinery for price as well as wage settlements and the President said that these problems would be discussed at a Cabinet meeting tomorrow and that he would have an announcement to make after the meeting . It was not clear whether his announcement tomorrow would also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price study was being tackled . Noncommittal on Labor Bill Asked if he could cast any light on why John L. Lewis sent the striking minerl back to work , the President pointed out that Mr. Lewis had stated he did it in the , public interest . He added that if all these gentlemen would work in the public interest we would have , very little trouble . I Mr. Truman did not identify whom he meant by . these gentlemen , whether employers , employes or both . The press conference opened with the President sidestepping a query , ' on whether the Ball-BurtonHatch Labor Relations bill might be helpful at this time . He said , he was not familiar enough with the provisions of the bill , as it was introduced after he left the Senate . Asked whether he favored repeal of the Smith-Connally War Labor Disputes Act , Mr. Truman said that it was up to Congress to make the decision and that when it came to him for consideration he would express an opinion on it . One report that the Administration was working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay-rate increases of about 23 per cent was scouted in official quarters . A wage and price policy , it was learned , is not yet ready . At yesterday 's meeting of the Advisory Board of the OWMR it was decided to recommend to Director Snyder that the staff attached to the board be requested to get additional figures on wages , - prices , profits , taxes , and subsidies and to make its report to the board at its next meeting on Oct. 29 . The Advisory Board will coordinate the material and will then , within a few weeks , submit its own viewseand recommendations to Mr. Snyder for submission to President Truman . The Advisory Board comprises spokesmen for labor , industry and agriculture . - Three-Way Split on Wage Policy WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 UP ) ? Since the question of wage-price policy was brought to fever-heat by labor 's widespread demand for a 30 per cent increase to offset loss of overtime , Government opinion has split three ways . One group  --  of which Secretary of Commerce Wallace is a member ? holds that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , believing this would increase living costs only 2.3 or 4 per cent . A second view  --  which Mr. Snyder apparently shares  --  is that the price line should be held . The third opinion is that some group or agency should promptly go to work and formulate a revised policy . The War Labor Board has suggested that a three-way commission be set up for that express purpose , with members representing labor , management and the public . President Truman said he expected to discuss the WLB proposal at the Cabinet meeting . In both houses of Congress committees took testimony on legislation proposing an increase in the minimum wage law from 40 cents to 65 cents immediately and 75 cents in two years . Dr. Frank Graham , formerly a WLB member , said he favored a minimum " just as high as our economy can stand . " He told a Senate labor subcommittee that WLB had foreseen difficulty when wartime earnings tapered off and had once recommended calling " a conference of competent people to work out something before the war ended " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican , of Wisconsin , told the Senate today that the " power-drunk labor leaders " were planning to " stampede " the 1946 and 1948 elections and elect " political stooges . " He introduced a proposed amendment to the Federal Corrupt Practices Act that he said would prevent labor unions from spending " gigantic slush funds " in political campaigns . Mr. Wiley named the Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Political Action Committee . He said they were " crawling with alien communistic doctrines and alien-minded communistic representatives . "                     