@@709765

txt The- 18 Estonian refugees who found haven here after fleeing across the Atlantic in a 38 foot sloop to escape Russian rule spent a big day today and face a bigger day tomorrow . Today , having been given the freedom of the city , they were distributed into three automobiles and taken on a sightseeing tour of Miami and Miami Beach . Their host was Ahto Walter , a former Estonian who operates a shipping business between Miami and near-by islands . Walter returned yesterday from a voyage to Bermuda and heard about the seafarers . When he went down to their sloop at Municipal Pier 3 to take them for the ride , he discovered that one of the 18 , Arnold Silla , was a schoolmate of his in Sweden 18 years ago . ' Get Their Pictures Taken Returning from the tour , the party found newsreel photografers waiting . The photografers induced the Estonians to get all dressed up in their best attire for pictures , and this seemed to please the six women of the party and Ella Kogu , 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the afternoon was spent in chuckling for the cameras , and then the refugees returned to the near-by city warehouse in which they are making their temporary home . Meanwhile a group representing the American Veterans committee went down to the pier ' and the warehouse to look things over . Afterward the Miami chapter of the American Veterans committee sent a telegram to Washington , D. C. , urging immigration officials to take speedy action to keep the refugees In this country , " Worthwhile Citizens " The telegram said the chapter had investigated the group and , in the chapter 's opinion , tile 18 Estonians Would make " worthwhile citizens of the country they wish to adopt . " Tomorrow the refugees will be dinner guests of the Miami Swedish club , after being entertained all tiny ii mimes OE memners ot Ine club . The Estonians had received 20 invitations for tomorrow from other organizations . Tonight they slept in the city warehouse on borrowed cots . Already the warehouse Is clean as a battleship . The windows are washed , gay curtains hang from some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group during the sloop 's two and one-half months at sett -- hang on the Wails . Fled Frani Germans The sloop slipped into Miami liarbor . Wednesday after a long voyage from Sweden . Capt . Felix Tandre , young skipper , navigator , and leader of the expedition , explained that the group lied Estonia during the German occupation but coult not return under Russian occupation because " freedom has gone from Estonia . " The 18 threw themselves on the mercy of the  --  United States , having no valid immigration permits , and machinery was put Into motion to see if they might not stay . Scores of persons all over the country volunteered aid , and Miamians In a steady procession have brought them food and clothing . 