@@709093

txt Committee Report to Mayor Asks Equal Rights for Negro in Baseball Other members of the committee are former Supreme Court Justice Jeremiah T. Mahoney , Daniel E. Higgins of the Board c- Education ; Edward Lazansky , former presiding justice of the Appellate Division in Brooklyn ; Supreme Court Justice Charles S. Colden of Queens ; Prof. Robert M. Haig of Columbia University ; Arthur Daley , sports columnist of THE ' NEW YORK TIMES , and Bill Robin son , tap dancer . Mayor La Guardia made no reference to the committee 's findings in his weekly radio broadcast from City Hall . The report expresses the belief that " the only equitable solution tol this problem is that individuals be ' treated alike and with relation to their abilities throughout organized baseball . " It commends the action of the Dodgers , who in October became the first club in organized baseball Charging that the reason Negroes had been excluded from organized baseball was " sheer prejudice and tradition " and that there was " no difference between the potential ability of Negro and white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of ten , appointed last August to study the question of racial discrimination in professional baseball , recommends , in its report to the Mayor , that the major leagues lose no time adopting a policy whereby Negro players would receive equal opportunity for advancing . The report , released for publication today , is the finding of a committee appointed largely upon the request of Larry , president of the Yankees , and Branch Rickey , president of the Dodgers . Its chairman is Dr. John H. Johnson , Negro clergyman and member of the advisory board of the Department of Welfare , and both and Rickey served on the committee . // to open the doors to a Negro player by signing 26-year-old Jackie Robinson for their Montreal farm club , and expresses the hope that this action will pave the way for others to follow . " How the process of integration is to be consummated , " the report states , " is a problem for each club to undertake ' individually , but a problem which can no longer be deferred or avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be able to perform up to majorleague standards . the report attributes this largely to the lack of opportunities Negroes have had for developing themselves on a par with white players in organized baseball . The committee , which apparently made an exhaustive study of the general structure of organized baseball as well as the leagues in which Negroes now play exclusively , opens its report with a comprehensive outline of both fields before closing with a six-point summation . A $100,000,000 Business " It is estimated by individuals familiar with the field , " the report reads , ' that the white leagues operate a $100,000,000 business annually and within the organized structure just described ( namely , the two major leagues and their affiliated minor leagues ) there are forty leagues operating from coast to coast . " " In contrast to this there are four Negro leagues . These are loosely organized and it would be difficult to say that they operate with any proximity to the quality of discipline and training achieved in white organized baseball . They constitute at best an opportunity for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A large per cent of the games played by the Negro clubs are ' exhibition games ' and are played only at the times when they can secure the parks used by the major league teams . Therefore , they have a difficult time maintaining schedules which are anything like approximate professional standards achieved in white leagues . This makes it difficult for Negro boys to get the training necessary to qualify them for participation in big league organized baseball . " In examining the status of the Negro leagues the committee reports : " It is estimated that they do a $2,000,000-a-year business and the New York Yankee management points out that last year Negro teams paid $100,000 in rentals and concessions for their four ball parks in New York , Kansas City , Newark and Norfolk . Contracts Are Analyzed Regarding the contention that Negro players were under contract to clubs in Negro leagues and that these contractual obligations could not be violated without destroying interest in Negro teams , the report replies : " This contractual relationship is a loose one at best and the contracts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many players have ' jumped ' their contracts in mid-season and nothing has been said about it . * * Schedules are loose arrangements and entirely at the mercy of the clubs who own the parks . " This portion of the report concludes with the statement : " If the equity of Negro professional baseball clubs was never to be disturbed , the reform could never be accomplished and the onus of present Jim Crow practices would be placed on Negroes themselves . Thus the practice which arose because of an evil would become the reason for its perpetuation . " Most people admit that the Negro leagues , under present arrangements , can never produce players qualified for big league competition . These Negro leagues are powerless to bring themselves into organized baseball and no one from within the profession has seen fit to organize them into leagues capable of participating in such competition . " In discussing the qualification of Negro players for big league standards , the report points out that " the entire field of sports other than baseball serves as an illustration . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track are too well known to reenumerate . We have not found a single individual who would admit that Negroes do not possess potential physical capacities which would make them worthy of major league competition . " Urging that skill alone be the determining factor in qualifying players , both Negro and white , for the major leagues , the report concludes with the following six-point summation : 1 . That there is no difference between the potential ability of Negro and white youths . We all admit that the reason Negroes are excluded from organized baseball is sheer prejudice and tradition . 2 . Negro youths have demonstrated their abilities both to perform and to cooperate with other players in team-work in practically every other sport , leaving organized baseball as one of the last to square itself with the ideals of democracy . In sports where even more intimate team-work is needed and more physical contact found , such as in football and basketball , there has been demonstrated the fact that Negroes and whites play together as a team without any difficulty . 3 . That good sportsmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would demand that they not be excluded . Landis Statement Quoted 4 . Inasmuch as Commissioner Landis said within the past year that there was no rule in organized baseball whereby a Negro could not be accepted on a team , it becomes clear then that their exclusion is due to segregation . While it is true that there is no such rule , the fact that Negroes ' have been excluded for these seventy years indicates that something more is needed than silence if this barrier is to be hurdled . Consequently , organized baseball has a responsibility of taking positive , aggressive action rather than remaining passively complacent . 5 . This only leaves then the matter of timing the move . Here , one would be forced to say that the time Is never ripe for social reform . The argument as to the illtimed pattern is one that has been offered by every industry which has been called upon to meet this situation . It has been pointed out that major league baseball draws 35 per cent of its players from traditionally prejudiced Southern communities and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet , it is to be recognized that there is scarcely a city in which major league baseball operates that could be classified as a traditionally Southern city , and aspiring youths who come from ' Southern sections of the country are expected to recognize and respect other customs and laws of the sections into which they migrate . An exception could hardly be made for organized baseball . Fair Play Is Asked If Southern youths expect to come to Northern cities and compete for the honors which such communities have to bestow , it Is only fair and right that they allow other youths , many of whom have no relation to these Southern backgronnds but happen to have a different color of skin , the same right to cempete for these selfsame hin , ors , and we know that the maj az portion of the population in these Northern cities are impatient ? of any low order of sportsmanship which refuses to recognize this request , 6 . We should hope that a way would be found to bring the Negro leagues into organized baseball with some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local needs within our larger communities and at the same time could offer opportunities for the development of Negro players , but in the last analysis , it is not the responsibility of the Negroes to prepare players to participate in major league competition any more than it is the responsibility of the Jews or the Italians or the Cubans to accept such responsibilities for their groups . We believe that the only equitable solution to this problem is that individuals be treated alike and with relation to their abilities throughout organized baseball . In conclusion the report requests that the committee be continued to extend the work started .                     