@@711414

txt Congressional skirmishing over the blame for the high cost of living and the housing shortage broke out between the Republicans and the Democrats today , virtually immediately after the opening prayers had marked the convening of the recalled Congress . While many legislators remained silent , awaiting tomorrow 's message from President Truman , a number of Representatives were unable to withhold their fire and exchanged oratorical salvos across the aisle in attempts to pin the onus for the situations on the opposition . The White House listed antiinflation legislation and enactment of the ? ong-range Taf t-EllenderWagner Housing Bill among the points that would be covered in the President 's communication to Congress , but failed to indicate the specific nature of the forthcoming proposals to reduce the cost of living other than to state that Congressional hearings already had been held on a good many of the recommendations and issues involved . Selective Controls Aim In legislative quarters it was expected that the President would seek selective controls over commodities essential to the cost of living , such as meat and steel , presumably on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , along with stand-by wage controls also were anticipated in some circles . Inasmuch as Mr. Truman proposed all these steps when he addressed the fall session of Congress last year and repeated his proposals several times since last November , some legislators , noticing the presence of Paul Porter , former chief of the Office of Price Adminietration , as a special Presidential consultant on the issue , were expecting some new steps . Other members doubted this , however , on the premise that the submission of new proposals by the President would invalidate his position of having recalled Congress to complete its job . Mr. Porter himself , in an article in the July Democratic Digest , on how Canada beat inflation and how it also could have occurred in the United States , indicates that he saw no startling means to advance at this point that would check inflation . " The Democratic Administration , " he wrote , " does not want over-all wartime price ceilings . Rather , it seeks stand-by authority to impose selective controls . " In Canada he pointed out existing economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there were stand-by controls " in the event other prices threaten to get completely out of hand . " He maintained that his system explained why the Canadian paid only 75 cents for every ( lanai spent by an American on food , clothing or rent . " Lid Off " Too Long " Stand-by controls at this time probably would not bring the American cost of living in line with Canada 's relatively low prices , " he added . " The lid has been off too long . " However , Americans would welcome any sort of relief , no matter how small , from inflation . And Canada 's experience indicates stand-by controls can work . " In the House , Representative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts , the Democratic Whip , reminded his Republican colleagues of their platform 's ? concern over " cruelly high prices " and assailed the . Congressional majority for its inaction on inflation and the dearth of housing . " Millions of families are suffering , " he shouted . " Something must be done by Congress . " The Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues that " the housewives of America ca n't eat speeches . " " Ca n't we recognize that if something is n't done about living costs - we will all go down together ? " she pleaded . Price Controls Opposed The Republican Majority Leader , Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , and a number of his colleagues rose to take exception to the Democratic indictments . They argued that the reason for high prices was the administration which created them through foreign aid activities and domestic policies over sixteen years in office . Representative George H. Bender , Republican , of Ohio , assured the House that the people had no desire for price controls and the resurgence of black markets . Chairman Jesse Wolcott , of the House Banking Committee , maintained that the administration already had sufficient powers to combat inflation , but wished to keep high prices until " after the election . "                     