@@711131

txt Immediate and adequate stockpiling of essential raw materials for national defense was named " one of the nation 's Number 1 problems " by Secretary of the Interior Julius A. Krug in Boston . Asserting that the country may face a national emergency without the many strategic minerals and metals necessary to fight a war , Mr. Krug called for a law that will facilitate the stockpiling of defense materials . " Very little has been accomplished ' in this vital matter , " he said . " The need is urgent . " In Boston for the commissioning of the Albatross III , fisheries research ship , Mr. Krug had more to say for The Christian Science Monitor about the state of the nation In terms of its natural resources . Beside the urgent requirement for stockpiling strategic minerals he emphasized the need for making up for the many metals we lack by developing new sources of supply . He favored legislation altering the Stockpiling Act of 1945 so that minerals can be imported here more freely from abroad to build up our national reserves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country will be dependent on foreign nations for nickel , tin , manganese , chrome , and the ail-important bauxite for aluminum making , an industrial " must " in this air age . The Secretary pointed out that there is not enough domestic bauxite available to last through another emergency and that importations of this material from abroad , as in the case of tin and manganese , must be made to American mills over thousands of miles of ocean , if the nation " waits till its too late " to build up strategic reserves . Mr. Krug held forth a bleak picture for civilian luxuries in the event of a future emergency on the scale of World War II . Civilians , he promised , will undergo much more drastic limitations on the use of metals and petroleum products than they did during the last war . There would , among other things , be an immediate " stop " order on civilian uses of aluminum , he said . No Joyriding Use of petroleum products would be drastically curtailed , said the Secretary , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil and refinery capacity is the reason . There should , he asserted , be a curtailment in the luxury use of petroleum products even now to stretch the nation 's oil resources . Emphasizing the serious lack of tin in this country , Mr. Krug hit at what he called the many " wasteful uses " of this metal , mentioning in particular the use of tin for beer cans , which is now double its prewar peak . He was unequivocal in maintaining that this and other " nonessential use of a strategic material " should be ? curtailed immediately . " Of most serious import , said Mr. Krug , is the urgent need of finding new iron ore reserves and of developing the use of inferior ores for use in American mills . Because the steel industry is pushing this investigation itself , the Government has not yet been active in exploring the use of second-grade iron ores , he said . Lodge Praised In commending Congress for a fuller realization during the past year of the nation 's plight in regard to its natural resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( R ) of Massachusetts and Alexander Wiley ( R ) , of Wisconsin , for their interest in this problem . Lamenting the fact that the Marshall Plan does n't provide for a reimbursement of vital minerals to this country in exchange for the great flood of productive wealth we will be pouring abroad , Mr. Krug asserted that " whoever is put in charge of administering the Marshall Plan would see to ' it that the receiving nations able to do so repay us iii some part with the raw materials we lack . "                     