@@705974

txt Return of prosperity for Boslon 's ' port was assured today ? by the announcement of Capt . E. I Granville Conway , - District Director of the . Maritime , Commission for New York and New- Eng , land . that substantial quantities of lend-lease shipments have been earmarked for export via Boston , with loading of the first ship to begin a week from today . The bulk of 30 shiploads of-such materials whit hare nod ready for export wil . e routed via Boston Captain onway told a delegation of shipping interests at a suncheon at the Parker House . Merchandis is already , being shipped to Boston , and the first steamer ordered her to load it is now en route from Philadelphia , due here tomorrow to undergo necessary repairs before starting to load Oct. 27 . Present plans call for 15 ships being sent out each month from this port and 17 have already been scheduled to load hem , between now and the end of November . Cantain Conway said . In Rising Volume . Shipments on a much faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program is to be further stepped up still later on , it is intimated . The Army Base terminal at South Boston will be utilized at the outset for the exports from Boston , Captain Conway said , but other terminals are expected to be utilized soon , including the Boston &; Albany piers at East Boston , which Captain Conway described today , after an inspection trip , as offering " excellent facilities . " Warning that lend-lease ships , however , must be worked " around the clock " was sounded by the Captain . That is one of the things that local longshoremen have not been willing to do . Daniel J. Donovan , Vice-President of the International Longshoremen 's Association , A. F. of L. , who attended the meeting promised the fullest co-operation from local labor with the least amount of delay possible . Meetings will be held Sunday by the three longshoremen's-likals , he said , to take ac , tion ow , , thc question of working shins around the ' clock . Wages $102-$108 a Week Hundreds of idle longshoremen are expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present scale night gangs working six days a week would receive $108 , and the day gangs receive $102 , it is pointed out . Present at the luncheon which was arranged by the Boston Port Authority were Richard Parkhurst and Andre - wF . Lane of the Port Authority ; Robert Cutler , Boston counsel representing the Mayor ; Frank S. Davis , representing the Maritime Association of the Chamber of Commerce ; Arthur Douglas Cook , Capt . R. A. Moon , and James P. , representing Moore-McCormack Lines ; L. M. Ross of the American Association of Railroads ; Capt . Charles G. Roemer , of the United States Coast Guard ; Malcolm H. , of Boston ; and Capt . H. R. Bishop , of New York , both representing the United States Maritime Commission .                     