@@708217

txt James F. Byrnes , director of War Mobilization and Reconversion , consented today , at the personal request of President Roosevelt , to remain in that post " until the elimination of Germany from the war . " The decision was made at a White House conference held at about the time many Washington observers were expecting the President to send to the Senate for its confirmation the name of a successor to Mr. Byrnes . Months ago Mr. Byrnes announced that when the Office of War Mobilization , which he headed , gave way to the projected Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion , he would not be a candidate for appointment to the new directorship . Nor , he added , would he accept the appointment if it were offered him . Last month , when the President signed the bills containing the industrial demobilization and reconversion programs , he stated that Mr. Byrnes had consented to take the new post , but only until the return of the recessed Congress , when the appointment of a successor would be made . Soon after Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House secretary , called cor : respondents into his office and read to them the following statement from the President : " In view of the importance of continuing the winning of the war at top speed , and at the personal request of the President , Mr. Justice Byrnes has consented to continue as the Director of the Office of War Mobilization until the elimination of Germany from the war . " The President is very much gratified by the willingness of Justice Byrnes to do this , and the work of the office will , therefore , continue as at present . " At his news conference this afternoon Mr. Roosevelt was asked whether Mr. Byrnes was persuaded to remain so as to avoid a shifting of commands in the civilian war set-up at this time . He said , no , it was done because Mr. Byrnes was obviously the best man for the job . The retention of Mr. Byrnes in the OWMR , directorship was viewed in some quarters as giving assurances that not only the war mobilization and reconversion establishment would remain intact at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general fronts , but that the collateral Office of Economic Stabilization would continue to function without change . Heading the Office of Economic Stabilization , of which Mr. Byrnes was director until his appointment to the OWM , is Fred M. Vinson . Speculation has focused upon Mr. Vinson as the likely successor to Mr. Byrnes upon his retirement from the higher agency . In addition to keeping continuance of the present work of the OWMR undisturbed , Mr. Byrnes is expected to maintain a sharp checking up on the operations of the OWMR and its subsidiary Surplus War Property Administration , with a view to recommending any changes that may be found desirable in the law which created them . In signing the OWMR and SWPA bills last month , President Roosevelt let it be known that he desired further Congressional action . The industrial reconversion legislation , Mr. Roosevelt said in his statement , was " quite satisfactory as far as the bill goes , " but he contended that it had failed to deal adequately with the " human side " of reconversion . The original Senate measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Gov- , ernment expense , war migratory ' workers and their families to their I homes or to new jobs , but that this had been eliminated before the bill was enacted . Mr. Roosevelt also criticized this legislation at that time for its failure to establish federalized minimum standards for the payment of unemployment compensation , and expressed the hope that further Congressional action would be taken . The House Ways and Means Committee has announced that it will consider this and other phases of the Social Security Act at a later date . The President said he had signed the surplus property legislation " with considerable reluctance . " Mr. Roosevelt has not yet appointed the members of the threeman Surplus Property Board which will supervise the disposal of an estimated $100,000,000,000 of war property ranging from clothing items to aircraft factories .                     