@@704741

txt Italy has by now produced the most lively uncertainty as to whether it will enter the war . Many neutral observers who hitherto have felt strongly that Italy would stay out are no longer speaking with conviction . It should be emphasized , however , that they are by no means certain that war is imminent . There remain many reasons which cause them to doubt it . Yet the violence of the press campaign against the Allies becomes more unrestrained with every mile of German drive deeper Into the Low Countries . More plainly than before , Italy is talking war . Yet the situation is full of contradictions . In the past few days student officially tolerated demonstrations against the Allies have been held . Even children in the lower grades have been stimulated to take part . But today police dispersed nearly 10,000 persons , mostly students , who gathered in various parts of Rome for further demonstrations against Britain and France . The action was interpreted as something of an official damper on the manifestations . Pressure Being Applied Meanwhile , Fascist enthusiasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Allies is commencing to verge on the traitorous . They take their lead from the forthright language of the Popolo D'Italia , popularly known as Premier Mussolini 's newspaper which said : " Any friction is an inadmissible waste of energy and any trace of servile attitude toward the former Lords of Europe is criminal and will be suppressed , not to say punished . In this hour of vigilance there is need to begin a cleanup of the small corners . " In some sections of Rome it is almost impossible to buy a copy of the Vatican newspaper , the Osservatore Romano , for the Vatican organ has been branded as a " foreign newspaper , although printed in the Italian language " by an anonymous editorial writer of the Popolo D'Italia . Some news vendors who nave become accustomed Christian Science Monitor to seeing the paper seized from their stands are hiding it . They carefully scrutinize inquirers before handing out a copy folded to conceal the title . At the Vatican it is recognized that a very serious hour has struck Church spokesmen are cautious since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereigns of the invaded countries . But they insist the Vatican will not change the rigor of its attitude . Calculations Upset But it is this effort to close ranks within the Nation which more than anything else upsets the calculations of neutrals . There has been much freedom in the expression of newspaper opinion in Italy even through these last weeks of crisis since Norway was invaded . Thus the more zealous pro-Axis groups have a long bill of particulars against " cowards , reactionaries , and friends of foreigners " as one newspaper calls them . If the present trend continues , they may seek to present the bill for a reckoning . Action taken by the United States Embassy in advising Ameri- cans to leave Italy is not emergenry action . No letter is being sent out to the American colony , no evacuation arrangements have been made . Only those who are making inquiries are warned . It IS a " precautionary step " since it reflects uncertainty rather than unmodified pessimism . It is all the more significant , however , because only a few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of United States Ambassador William Phillips with II Duce and Foreign Minister Count Galeazzo Ciano . The present situation has been summarized by one qualified observer as approaching the ideal time for Italian diplomacy . If the object is war , the present Axis demonstration is desirable to close domestic ranks as far as possible . If the object is merely to alarm the Allies and cause them to hold troops and ships on the Italian frontiers , it is likewise admirably served by the present uproar . It is conceivable that Italy 's decision is being made now on the Western Front . If the Allies repeatedly are driven back , the time will come when the various reasons of semi-preparedness which cared Italy to stay clear of the conflict will be offset , in the Italian estimate , by a decline in the fighting strength of the Allies . Then , if not before , the Italian crisis surely would come .                     