@@709781

txt A British i Foreign Office spokesman today ' confirmed reports of the withdrawal from Greece of a large part of the British military forces there . However , he insisted to this correspondent that the withdrawal was part of a general regrouping plan for the Middle East  --  and was in no way influenced either by the recent Greek plebiscite or by what he termed the " ridiculous and frivolous " coin-plaint by Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitri Manuilsky at the United Nations Security Council meeting in New York . Charges of Intrigue Mr. Manuilsky charged the British with interference and intrigue in Greek internal affairs . Plans to parade American airplanes across the skies of Athens were called off today as the United States aircraft carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt and escorting vessels reached Greece , according to an Associated Press dispatch . No explanation of the cancellation was given . The official inclination here is not to specify the exact numbers of British troops which are in Greece and which will start leaving on Sept. 15 . But it is generally accepted here that there are approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be withdrawn to be apportioned out to other Middle East operational theaters . It is stressed here that anyone who knows anything about logistics will understand that plans to withdraw a division from Greece starting Sept. 15 must have been laid some months ago , and therefore are not the result of the plebiscite , or of the latest Ukrainian complaint against Britain . The Foreign Office spokesman reaffirmed today that the justification for the presence of British troops in Greece was that they were asked for by the Greek Government to help restore order and stability in Greece . Foreign Secretary Ernest Bev-in , under some critical pressure in the House of Commons before the Parliament went into its summer recess , gave assurance that British troops will be removed from Greece as soon as possible . Parliament in Recess " As soon as possible " is an extremely vague term . It might be a long time , if the decision about the withdrawal was dependent on when the present Greek Government , chose to ask for removal . But the British Government , of course , can reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , strong political forces in Britain are determined to keep up an increasing pressure to have Britain quit Greece . It is only because Parliament is in recess that British voices have not been heard so loudly lately , contending that the role of British troops in Greece should now be ended . But they undoubtedly will start up again with renewed vigor when Commons reassembles in a few weeks ' time . Apart from the political aspect of the situation , . other British Government departments , such as the Treasury , War Office , and Ministry of Labor , are pressing the Foreign Office to cut it overseas commitments to a minimum . So-called peace-keeping operations constitute a continual financial and manpower drain . The presence of British troops in Greece , Indonesia , Egypt , and Iraq is authorized either by requests from the governments concerned or by existing treaty arrangements .                     