@@711136

txt The joint chiefs of staff , who have the responsibility of coordinating plans for national air armament , still have not presented a program . Rep. Carl Hinshaw stated at a forum of aviation authorities at the Hotel Biltmore yesterday . Rep. Hinshaw , who is vice-chairman of the Congressional Aviation Policy Board which recently made its report , stated that nothing definite had emerged from the meeting of the joint chiefs with Secretary of Defense Forrestal in Key West last week . Thomas K. Finletter , chairman of the presidents ' Air Policy Commission , which made its report the first of the year , backed Congressman Hinshaw 's suggestion that a coordinated plan is of primary importance in launching the construction of an air force sufficient to defend the United States . The forum was held under the auspices of the Wings Club and the Air Reserve Association . Other members of the forum panel were .. T. ; Carlton- Ward , Jr. ; president ' of- Fairchild Engine &; Airplane Corp .. and Ralph Damon , president of American Airlines . Gill Robb Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the forum audience that 25 bills to implement many of the 92 recommendations of the Congressional Board would be ready for introduction before Congress by April 1 . He outlined his own program in the present crisis : ? Take all political steps possible to check Soviet aggression ; back up the political stand with a large air force and military establishment ; and implement the European Recovery Plan . Mr. Ward . discussing application of nuclear energy to air power , said the emphasis was now shifting from the atomic bomb itself to the means of delivering the bomb over extremely long ranges , which nuclear power plants in planes might accomplish . He suggested that the biological sciences were lagging in finding antidotes against the effect of atomic attack on human beings . Mr. Damon underlined the importance of air logistics  --  the problems of carrying supplies and men by air ? as of paramount importance in building up the military establishment . He urged that the question of a strongly integrated military force in being , rather than just on paper , be the first consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report " Survival in the Air Age , " has been widely commented upon . urged that the ultimate objective of seeking a peaceful settlement with Russia not be forgotten in the present emphasis on armament . The American people , Mr. Finletter said , are more alert to world affairs than at any time in their history , and will follow sound leadership . The people must not be blamed for what is not being done . Mr. Finletter said . All four authorities agreed that a strong air force was the focal point of the present defense effort .                     