@@706824

txt AXIS FORCE IS HELD IN AFRICAN POCKET Tanks and Infantry Under Heavy Allied Fire  --  Two Enemy Vessels Sunk Wireless to TEE NEW YORK TIMER . CAIRO , Egypt , Nov. ** latest development in the British Eighth Army 's westward drive , near encirclement of a sizable number of German troops , has occurred in the northern sector around the coastal road and railway , it was revealed here today . The bulk of the Eighth Army troops fighting there is Australian , but the Australians naturally had the support of British armor Elsewhere , English and Highland regiments have done excellent work . If the Germans who are pinned between the seashore ridges and the Allied forward elements , including tanks , should be actually in a bag it would clear the coastal road for several additional miles and put the British near the jutting point on the seacoast called Sidi Abd el Rahman , which is about fifteen miles northwest of the railway station of El Alamein . Much Materiel Menaced Since a number of German tanks have fought their way through to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there would be a valuable amount of materiel to be captured or destroyed . To put the enemy unit in jeopardy , Allied troops drove northward , and crossed the coastal road east of Sidi Abd el Rahman . Later enemy tanks attacked from the southwest . Both the tanks and the troops of the Axis are now under intense artillery fire as well as heavy bombing . The battle of supply goes on on both sea and land , with the Allies well in the lead in both the constructive and destructive phases . A steady stream of Allied men and materiel is available for the front , and it can be turned on or off as required . There are no shortages of any vital element . On the other hand , the Germans are thought to be extremely short on oil and gasoline and it is likely that they also need other important supplies and equipment . For weeks no tankers have reached Axis-held ports in Africa and the fewest possible number of ships of am , dscription have arrived . Three were sunk Oct. 26 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Force torpedo planes , one flown by an American pilot , sank both ' of them as they headed toward Tobruk . The two Axis merchantmen , escorted by destroyers and patrol boats , were spotted at dusk Saturday and the torpedo planes were summoned . Early yesterday morning the aircraft approached the convoy , which was almost obscured by a thick smoke screen that the destroyers had put up . Then a flare lit up the water and Sergeant A. E. of Albion , N. Y. , a member of the Royal Canadian Air Force , spotted the silhouette of a ship through a rift in the smoke . He made a sharp spiral dive to get into position and then headed across the water for his target . Tells of Torpedoing " I let my torpedoes go very close , " Sergeant said afterward ; " closer than I should have , really . She was at a very tough angle . I knew that if I missed this time I probably would n't get another crack . " So far we had n't had any flak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw their splash and tracers started coming at us from all over the ? sea  --  or so it seemed . I was so busy dodging this flak that I could n't watch to see what happened , but a few seconds later I heard a roar , and the gunner yelled , ' We 've pranged the so-and-so ! ' So I knew the ' torpedoes had struck home . " A column of brilliant , orange flame followed the strike . Debris flew a thousand feet high , then subsided to leave only a dark ring of ripples in the moonlight . The vessel disintegrated . A few hours later the torpedo planes went back and Pilot Officer L. C. Pile put a torpedo into the second merchantman with similar results . Again vital supplies had failed to reach the German Africa Corps . U. S. Fliers Bomb Airdrome United States heavy bombers again raided the Maleme airdrome on Crete , causing explosions and fires . United States pursuit pilots helped the Royal Air Force Shark Squadron of fighters carry out a fighter-bomber raid and then protected the R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down seven Stukas . On the way home from the raid , a formation of twenty-five to thirty Stukas escorted by fifteen Messerschmitts were sighted headed eastward and laden with bombs . The Americans beat off the Messerschmitts while the . Shark fighters went to work on the Stukas . The German pilots , in desperate haste to get away , jettisoned their bombs on their own troops . The Shark Squadron has downed eleven Stukas and two Messerschmitt 109 's in two days as a result of engagements that occurred when the R. A. F. pilots themselves were on the way home from fighter-bomber raids . The Americans are continually being amazed at the international character of the P .. A. F. , even though they themselves contribute to it . The Shark Squadron includes English , Scottish , Australian and Canadian pilots . Recently a Spitfire flown by Pilot Officer D. E. Llewellyn was struck by anti-aircraft fire and was forced down in enemy territory . Pilot Officer Bryan Terry landed , got Pilot Officer Llewellyn aboard and flew home safely . Pilot Officer Llewellyn was born in Cairo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived much of his life in the Argentine . Malta 's Score for October Malta 's fighter pilots destroyed 131 Axis aircraft and damaged 200 more , of which some 50 probably never got home , during October . Anti-aircraft gunners shot down another seven and scored two " probables " and damaged one . Although the enemy kept up intensive attacks on the island during ten days , few of his aircraft ever reached the targets and a great many planes jettisoned their , bombs in the sea . Eventually all pretense of bombing was dropped , and the Axis merely sent over fighter-bombers and fighters in the hope of keeping Malta 's air force busy while precious convoys tried to slip through to Africa . Even that failed , as several ships were attacked and destroyed in near-by waters . So the Axis books showed much loss and almost no profit .                     