@@708729

txt Chicago merchants , struggling with the second truckers ' strike in a month , hope to fare a little better than they did before . The Army , the Office of Defense Transportation and grocery chains were a little I better prepared for this walkout . Profiting by the effect on war production of the last strike , the O.D.T. is leaving no stone unturned to prevent repetition of these losses . Federal troops are pouring into the city in special trains . They are bivouacked along Chicago 's lake front and at Sportsman 's Park race track . With the exception of the National Tea Co. , whose drivers are not affected , chain store units have not had any fresh , produce deliveries ' this week . However , a spokesman for one big chain said his company has been promised enough Army drivers to get fruit and vegetables into the stores for the week . end . Food companies wo n't take big losses this time , however . As one official of the A. &; P. put it , " we had our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike seemed imminent we immediately diverted carloads of fruits and vegetables destined for Chicago to other places . " During the May disturbance , the company lost 100,000 pounds of fruits and vegetables . Exit Fruits and Vegetables Kroger stores , which lost $45,000 on banana shipments alone during the last strike , is sending carloads of fruits and vegetables in yards here out to country points for sale . The last bakery shipments to Kroger stores were delivered last Friday night , so the company is not stuck with anything like $13,000 worth of layer cakes and 22,000 loaves of bread left on its hands during the May strike . All stores were given as large deliveries of staple goods as possible last week in anticipation of the strike but the traffic manager of one chain says he Is sure that no store will have enough to carry it through this week . All less-than-carload railroad shipments into Chicago have been , placed under an embargo . As it takes five to six days for freight to reach here from New York and other distant points , Association of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how much traffic will be tied up . The Army Drivers Over 1,200 Army drivers , more than 2,500 1MP 's to accompany civilian drivers and hundreds of dock hands are now on duty , and this number will be increased many times in the next 36 hours . Over 250 trained civilian 10 . D.T. personnel are being brought in from all sections of the country to handle the paper work . Boss of the job is hard-boiled 45-year-old Ellis T. Longenecker , federal manager for the 1,500 seized truck lines and a veteran of 18 years in the trucking business before he went with the O.D.T. in 1942 . Working with him iei Major General David McCoach . Mr. Longenecker admits that since the strike started on Saturday , Army service has been inadequate to handle all the requests for drivers which have been pouring into his office . Only a little over 35% of the city 's 10,000-odd trucks are now rolling , all on a priority basis with war orders coming first . And Chicago housewives , depending on extra quantities of vegetables to eke out family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Meanwhile , the 10,000 men striking just say that they are " staying away from work , " which Is permissible under the Smith-Connolly Act . The men seek a fiat $5 increase for a 48-hour week , time and one-halt for over eight hours work a day , two week 's vacation with pay for workers with five years ' continuous service , and a full day 's pay for the six legal holidays when not worked and double six legal holidays hen not worked and double time when worked . A good percentage of the strikers are apt to And themselves wearing ' Army uniforms within a few days . Ben Miller , manpower official in charge of highway transport for the O.D.T. , is arriving from Washington today to coordinate requests to local boards to cancel occupational deferments for all striking truck drivers under 88 . During the last few months several thousand drivers have been deferred . Those on strike are to be inducted Immediately .                     