@@710929

txt Joseph B. Chifley of Australia . of the private banks of Australia ran counter to national needs . Is his view , the banks fed the boom preceding the 1930-37 depression , but contracted credit immediately that bad times appeared in sight . He agrees the banks followed this course because it seemed best and safest from the standpoint of their own interest . But , he contends , those interests were not necessarily the nation 's . Operational Effect Opponents say Mr. Chifley already has sufficient powers for his purpose under the 1945 Banking Act , that the new legislation is constitutionally invalid and that it is too far-reaching and revolutionary to be put in effect without first being approved by referendum of the people . They contend also that it sets up a money monopoly without parallel and , most important of all , that it will have an operational effect far beyond banking , since it is a major step in the , field of socialism and the setting aside of liberty of choice . Despite the fact that the campaign before the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaggeration , observers agreed the opposition did not come only from the business community and vested interests . A large body of average middleof-the-road Australians showed extreme uneasiness at such a ' fundamental socio-economic change . AUSTRALIA BANNING ITS PRIVATE BANKS High Court Suits Are Started . to Prevent . Nationalization Planned by Government By ROY L. CURTHOYS Special to Tae NEW YORK Testis . MELBOURNE , Australia , Dec. 6 ? The greatest legal battle in Australian history will take place in Federal High Court over the law recently enacted by the Parliament at Canberra authorizing nationalization of private banks . What does the Federal Government propose under the banking legislation ? It intends the expansion of the Commonwealth Government-owned bank business ; the taking over by the Federal Government of Australian private banks ; the acquisition on just terms of their properties , and the prohibition of the conduct of banking business in Australia by private companies . The Bank Nationalization Law may be put into effect by the Federal Government 's serving written notice on a bank that henceforth it Is to be taken over . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the High Court delivers its judgment as to whether the legislation is constitutionally valid . Fears Another Depression There have been varying explanations of why the Government decided to introduce the bank measure , Some say Prime Minister Joseph B. Chifley felt it was time his Government started to put Labor 's policy of socialization of the means of production , distribution and exchange into effect while it had a parliamentary majority . Others argued that Mr. Chifley was piqued with the High Court 's decision that his Government did not have power to compel municipalities to transfer their accounts to Commonwealth banks . But the real reason behind the move lies more in Mr. Chifley 's own painful memories of the last depression and his fears that another is approaching . Mr. Chifley believes that during the last depression the policy                     