@@709856

txt A spokesman for the Arab league , representing seven lands , said in Jerusalem that if President Truman is n't bluffing , the league will be asked to declare a " moral war " on the United States , including the severance of economic , cultural and diplo ? matte relations . Details on page ; Washington , D. C. , Oct. 4 ( W ) ? The United States end Britain split wide asunder on the Palestine issue tonight , with President Truman demanding immediate admittance of substantial numbers of Jews to the Holy Land and Britain sharply " regretting " his move . In London , a spokesman for Prime Minister Attlee , upon whom the President served his demand , said it would prejudice a settlement of Palestine 's future . Moreover . the British were obviously angered because , they said , Mr. Truman had not complied with a British request to hold up his move pending a study by British leaders . The political editor of the Daily Herald , British Labor party paper , said ypsterday that Primo Minister Atike has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongest terms " the President 's request for immediate and " substantial ' immigration into Palestine , a London dia. patch reported . " Most Unfortunate " " It is most unfortunate that a statement of this kind , which may well jeopardize a settlement of the most difficult problem of Palestine , should be made at this time , " the British spokesman declared . Attlee 's spokesman said the Truman message was received last midnight and that Attlee immediately cabled Mr. Truman requesting that it be delayed until Attlee and For . elgn Secretary Flavin could study it . " This request was not complied with , " the spokesman told newsmen in sharp tones . Later the spokesman said Presi. dent Truman had replied to Attlee 's request for a postponement of the statement , but had expressed regret he could not delay publication . ' Said other sources : " The Presi. dent cited important circumstances or used some similar phraseology to justify immediate publication . " Rejection Is Implied Outright rejection of the request for immediate action to throw open the gates of Palestine was implied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no decision could be made on it until the whole political future of Palestine is set . ' tied . Mr. Truman 's statement expressed " deep regret " that British efforts to reach an Arab  --  Jewish settlement had been adjourned until Dec. 16 . ' " I believe and urge , " he said , " that substantial immigration into ' Palestine can not await a solution to the Palestine problem and that it should begin at once . " He promised assistance to the int . migration movement , presumably meaning the United States would furnish ships and supplies . Further . more , he pledged American support for any future workable solution for Jews and Arabs in Palestine . Ito renewed a commitment he made last summer to ask congress to allow thousands of additional displaced persons to enter the United States . He reiterated his insistence on the prompt admission of 100,000 Jews to Palestine . Answers Published Charges Among the reasons behind issuance of the statement , official informants said , is the fact that the Truman administration and the Democratic party have been under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have not adequately handled the Pales . Itine problem . Mr. Truman 's break with the Brit . ish on the Issue came on several points . In the first place , the British have consistently contended they could not risk an Arab uprising by allowing substantial Immigration to Palestine before they had won some sort of Arab agreement . Mr. Tru , man , in effect , rejected this argument . In the second place , the British were firmly committed to a plan worked out by American Ambassador Henry F. Grady and Britain 's Herbert Morrison calling for the creation of separate Arab and Jewish sections of Palestine under British government . Mr. Truman rejected this plan outright and it was In this connection that he brought in domestic politics , saying that the plan had been opposed " among members of the major political parties in the United States  --  both In the congress and thruout the country . " In the third place , Mr. Truman for the second time spoke out strongly In favor of a Palestine partition plan put forward by the Jewish agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the British apparently have made no progress . The substance of the Jewish plan is that the Jews should be given a largely independent state " in an adequate area of Palestine " and that Britain should agree to issue immediately certificates for , 100,000 Jewish immigrants . Silent on Military Ald Mr. Truman said that " I can not believe that the gap between the Grady-Morrison and the Jewish agency proposals is too great to be bridged by men of reason and good will . To such a solution our gov. ernment could give its support . " His statement made clear that it such a solution is adopted the Amer. scan government would be willing to go ahead with its previous tenta ? tive promises to the British to help develop Palestine and win the co. operation of its political leaders by pouring into the country , together with the new world bank , gifts and loans of $300,000,000 . British sources here were noncommittal on Mr. Truman 's statement . Some noted that in promising help , the President made no mention of possible military assistance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagree with the British , contending that the Arabs would not cause major trouble . These officials argue that the only way Britain can restore tranquility to the Holy Land is to meet the demand there for immigration . The British negotiations in London on the Palestine question have thus far been held only with Arab representatives . The London conference was adjourned a few days ago until Dec. 16 , and the British say they hope Jewish leaders will come into the meeting at that time . Mr. Truman pinned his statement today on the fact that adjournment of the London conference means there is no chance for a solution before winter comes . He also chose a Jewish holiday , Yom Kippur , on which to make the statement public . In addition to promising aid in getting Jews from Europe to Palestine , Mr. Truman also reaffirmed his intention to ask congress  --  meeting next January ? to liberalize American immigration law to allow entrance of thousands of additional displaced persons . The President expressed deep regret that the meetings of the London conference are not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Undersecretary of State Acheson , questioned at his news conference , said the President 's statement makes it clear that plans were worked out between British and American representatives months ago for American handling of the transportation of Jewish refugees from Europe to Palestine . The Arab Office , which speaks in Washington for the Arab league , issued a statement saying the Arab world will greet Mr. Truman 's statemerit with greatest regrets . It predieted a " detrimental effect on the attitude of the Arab and Moslem peoples toward America " and new complications in the problem of Palestine . It said that " disgust " is the greater " Inasmuch as the President 's plea for immigration into Palestine is so much more emphatic than his suggestion for immigration into this country . " Politics , Says London maim ? Tribune Press Service LONDON , Oct. ** official explanation of the Palestine problem here is that the British are trying their best to solve it , but most observers feel that the Labor government is stalling and really Is seeking no solution . The inside story of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Truman administration wanted It called off until after the American elections . Truman , by appearing to reiterate his demand for Jewish immigration , is understood ' in political and diplomatic circles here to be making a play for the Jewish vote in the United States . There is bound to be a certain amount of simulated indignation on the part of the British government , political circles here say , but it is well uhderstood by government leaders that Truman is only attempting to engage in internal politics .                     