@@706497

txt those in position to send them back to their seats next Autumn or to vote them out of office . Matters have reached a point , it can be reported on authoritative basis , where Democrats on both sides of the Capitol are viewing with disapproval the functioning of their Congressional leaders . It is argued among some groups of Democratic stalwarts that as their majority leaders are elected by Congressional majorities they must become " majority leaders " in fact , not " Administration leaders . " As elected representatives and spokesmen of the Congressional majorities , they assert , visits to the White House should be to convey to the President the views and recommendations of Congressional majorities and not to receive " instructions " from the Administration and to return to the Capitol to carry them out . Trouble on X Cards Further , because of Congressional appraisal of the handling of delegated powers by major and minor officials of the Executive branch , scattered through departments , bureaus and agencies , it is being proposed that committees of the House and Senate be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ways and Means and Finance Committees . Members , highly self-conscious over the X-cards they got for their own cars , are being blasted by constituencies which face gasoline rationing , though they stand , figuratively , hip-deep in supplies of this commodity in their home communities . Apparently disregarding the recent expression of hope by the President that new tires of some sort will appear before all the presAT A UNITIM MINE WORKERS MEETING Doyle In The Philadelphia . Record I WASHINGTON , June 6 ? Congress has become moody under the stress of war , but it has segregated its moods along international and domestic lines and has kept each strictly in its place . Despite these rigid separations of issues the situation has assumed proportions that either may spell out trouble for the war effort as a whole or may have , on the other hand , a cleansing and clarifying effect . Time will give the answer . On the international side  --  the actual fighting of battles , the front-line strategies and actions , the servicing of supply bases and , to a great extent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate and the House are stanchly behind the Commander-in Chief . There is no doubt about that . Congressional hands do not Itch as much as they did for months to take hold of the running of the war itself . But on the domestic side large segments of Congress are in real revolt along such fronts as might be labeled Rubber , Agricultural Participation , Gasoline Rationing and Congressional X Cards , Oil Pipelines and Canals Across Florida , Return Load Orders of the ODT , and Conflicting Views and Pronouncements by High-Ranking Governmental Spokesmen , and other issues which bewilder a songiving , bond-buying and tax-laden public . A Conscientious Effort The situation is based upon an earnest , conscientious effort on the part of overwhelming majorities of the representatives of the people , first , to prepare a defense against approaching eventualities , and , later , for the successful prosecution of total war . The Congress gave liberally , on occasion almost unanimously , of its constitutional powers to the Executive branch . Now the feeling is widespread that it gave too freely of its rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fact , that movements are brewing with surprisingly highly placed sympathetic " understanding , " to take an inventory of these surrendered authorities and take some of them back . The Congress , as does the public , hopes for a short war . It expects a long one . Here the Congress reflects public sentiment ? to the extent that it is no more possessed of an answer than is the constituency itself . In the building up of the armed forces and their ships , planes , tanks and weapons the Congress , on recommendations from the Executive branch , takes the long-range view . A Retaking of Stock Members now give accent in dealing direct with constituents to the apparent fact that no one knows how long the 1 , var will last , but they warn that it appears to be a long , grueling haul . In apparent general acceptance of the probabilities of a long war , groups of the Senate and House have begun a retaking of stock of the powers they have delegated and are attempting to follow them " downtown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in matters that affect home States and districts . The results have not been encouraging to members of Congress who stand today for re-election , for they are over-sensitive to criticism ( they charge bitterly that " studied " efforts to discredit and break down the legislative branch are afoot ) , and they have done things which have brought down upon them scowls and howls from ent ones are gone , folk back home , members report , are viewing their present four-and-a-spare as their last , and wonder whether to get what wear they can out of them or conserve and possibly have their cars requisitioned under the muchdiscussed rubber distribution proposals . Congressmen Under Siege Farm blocs charge their surplus commodities are being " frozen out " of the synthetic rubber production program , that the return-load order would ruin both business and farming . Complaints from small business representatives have registered deeply . Deluges of " kicks " pour in on members ; conflicting statements from government spokesmen bring forth more new complaints . With edicts being issued under authority of powers delegated sweepingly for general prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ siege find themselves frequently able to do nothing about it . An example : When the Congress enacted the price control legislation , many , if not all , members voting it into law , were given to believe that it would be largely , if not wholly , " self-enforcing . " The recently disclosed plan of Leon Henderson , Price Administrator , to create an organization of possibly 100,000 in the field to handle this program came as a blow . A worse blow followed , however , when appointments to field positions in the OPA began to come to Congressional notice . Many of the appointments have been highly unsatisfactory . Appeals have started to reach the White House . Some members report that the President , too , has indicated dissatisfaction with some placements .                     