@@709505

txt The war department today began moving troops to strategic locations in anticipation of a request for protection of the strike-harried railroads , and military leaders urged an executive order freezing all military demobilization during the strike emergency . Gen. Eisenhower , chief of staff , was called back to Washington from a speaking engagement in Savannah , Ga. , to attend an emergency strike conference , and the army and navy disclosed plans to operate limited air transport services for priority cargo and some passengers between key cities . Both army and the navy made hurried surveys of discharged personnel with railroad operating experience . If the railroad strike should be prolonged , the army and navy might attempt actual operation of some trains . Make Appeal to ODT In urging a demobilization freeze , military leaders asked the office of defense transportation , as government operator of the railroads , to appeal to President Truman for an executive order on the subject . However , the ODT was reported to have rejected the idea , at least for the present . Army and navy air transport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They said a halt% on military discharges was necessary to prevent the loss of vitally needed ground crews for air operations . In the President 's executive order seizing the railroads , the armed forces were directed to be prepared to supply man power , protection , equipment , and other facilities to the ODT . Navy Recalls Pilots The ODT announced that it hoped to have 3,000 transport planes in operation during the emergency . Commercial air lines will be aug mented by approximately 474 trans . Port and cargo planes of the army 's air transport command , 100 planes of the naval air transport service and a small number of certified air carriers . To augment its present force of 80 air transports , the navy recallec 150 reserve pilots to temporary active duty on the east coast , Thesc pilots were the first of 1,110 reserve pilots requested earlier in the day by Rear Adm . J. W. Reeves Jr . commander of NATS , to help th ( navy expand its cargo carryinf capacity during the railroad strike The navy bureau of personne Moved rapidly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the government under the seizure order . District commandants were authorized to recall to temporary active duty any reserve officers or fleet reservists needed to help keep essential goods moving . The navy also authorized district commandants to accept for temporary active duty during the emergency any enlisted reservists and others eligible for enlistment In the reserve . The men will be paid for their active duty service en the basis of their rating or rank in the reserve . Army Units Available The army said it now has a military railroad service unit of about 1,000 men , including administrative personnel and trainees . This unit Includes a railway operating . battalion , a shop battalion , and a headquarters unit . The railroad units are stationed at Ft . Eustice , Va. , and could be mobilized quickly if needed . Arthur Goss , ODT transportation director , told reporters that the government has not called for military personnel to help operate the railroads. lie explained that even if the army , navy , and marines could supply the necessary trained personnel , it would take some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The marine corps early in the day appealed to all its discharged Personnel to volunteer for emergency strike duty by reporting to the nearest marine stations .                     