@@706331

txt Because she did one-half more work than most other girls working on similar jobs in a defense plant here and resented with her fists taunts of a colleague that she was a " job killer , " Miss Genevieve Samp , 25 years old , has been forced out of work by her union , it was disclosed here today . The union , a local of the United Automobile Workers CIOJ , has suspended her from membership pending a hearing on charges of " conduct unbecoming a union member . " Because of a union shop contract with her employer , the National Stamping company , Miss Samp is automatically barred from work until her trial and unless vindicated will lose her seniority . Would n't Take It Easy . Miss Samp 's trial by her union is scheduled for Thursday . National attention is centering upon its outcome in view of charges , aired in congress and elsewhere , that her union colleagues are barring her from work because of her efforts to speed war production and her nonacquiescence to a take it easy attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in good standing with her local since 1937 , declared today that her job was packing articles in boxes which were fed to her thru chutes from girls working on automatic inspection machines above her . Whereas most girls handled two chutes , Miss Samp and one other girl took care of three each . " When one girl squawked about me being a job killer I told her that handling three chutes was easy and that I 'd get sleepy If I had only two , " Miss Samp said . Clipped lice on Chin . " We started flinging cracks at each other until one day I got sore and started to take a punch at her , but the foreman stopped it . I told her I 'd meet her outside after work and 1 did . She started to give me a lot of fast- talk , but I just clipped her one on the chin and the fight really got under way . I did n't lose it , either . " After the fight , which occurred March 10 , about 300 women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the local . He said a shop committee then asked Miss Samp to leave the plant . She complied with this request , altho her absence was technically voluntary , until March 15 , when five union members signed a complaint against her and the union voted her suspension . Layoff Automatic . Union sources said Miss Samp 's layoff for the period between the filing of charges and her hearing is automatic under the union shop contract and that if the union clears her she will be paid out of union funds for the time lost . If the charges are upheld she will lose all seniority , but may go back to work without compensation for time lost in view of the fact there is now no waiting list of laid off workers with seniority rights , ' it was said . Miss Samp 's case was called to the attention of congress by Rep. Robert F. Rich R. , Pa. in a talk yesterday in which he said she deserved a medal rather than dismissal and asserted the case emphasizes the need for new labor legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special. ? Two union organizers who had obtained " mushroom charters " for two AFL unions , one of which had no members , were held today on charges of attempting to extort $5,000 from a third AFL union under threat of calling a jurisdictional strike in a war industry . The prospective victim , attempting to appeal to the patriotism of the organizers by citing the war work involved , said he was told by them : " What difference does the war make to us ? " The organizer whose union had no members , according to District Attorney Frank S. Hogan , Is William Joseph Campbell of local No. 4 . United Textile Workers ' union . He formerly was busineis agent for local No. 807 of the AFL Teamsters ' union . Ile has been arrested before for conspiracy to extort , but was not convicted . His partner in the purported shakedown is Fred Linser , organizer for local No. 23,110 , Rope and Wire Workere ' union , a federal organization which has jurisdiction over national and international units . Their contemplated victim , accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of local No. 350 , Allied Bedding and Curtain Workers ' union . Smith 's union has contracts with two large canvas firms , controling four factories here and in Brooklyn , which make canvas for helmets , tanks , and tents . Their war orders run into millions , and it was in these highly important plants , according to Hogan that the organizers threatened to call walkouts . Hogan said the men not only threat . ened to call a strike but asserted they could file phony complaints with the National Labor Relations board against the Allied Bedding union . Both Reach for Money . After Campbell and Linser had insisted on the $5,000 at three meetings , Hogan related , the payoff was arranged for last night in the Allied Bedding offices . Present were Smith , Detective William Kuntz , known as " Bill Hoffman , " and Harvey Fosner , a lawyer formerly attached to the Guggenheim Committee on Crime , Storm Center ( Story starts on page 1 . ) Associated Press IV Irepho to . Genevieve Samp , who was suspended from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much work , " it was charged . She will be tried by a committee of the CIO United Automobile Workers ' union on charges of " conduct unbecoming a union member . " who had been conducting the pseudobargaining in behalf of Smith . Campbell and Linser came in and shook hands all around . Every one called the others by first names . After a little conversation about the deal , Smith extended an envelope supposedly containing the money . Both organizers reached for it , but Campbell got it and smilingly put it in his pocket . Then the detective intervened . " You 're under arrest , " he told the two men . " I 'm from the alien squad . " In Felony court bail was fixed at $10,000 each pending a hearing Friday .                     