@@705565

txt Japan has presumably paved the way for economic southward expansion by virtue of the Franco-Thai peace pact and trade agreement with French Indo-China . Now Japan is apparently concentrating on what is called here the " disposal of the China incident , " which is the most important and most immediate problem confronting the nation . In respect to the world situation Japan , in the words of the Japanese-controlled Manchuria Daily News , is playing for the time being the role of " silent partner " in the Triple Alliance and is giving the other Axis powers indirect but none the less vital help . This is done , it is stated here , by holding fast the American main fleet in the Pacific and diverting to that region American and British land and air forces badly needed elsewhere . According to this paper , even if America should finally plunge into the European war , these naval , military and air forces would still remain tied down in the Pacific and kept away from the European theatre of war . In that holding role , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Japan sees her best bet for a bargain with the United States . For this possibility , Foreign Minister Yosuke Matsuoka 's visit to the United States is still being kept open by the Japanese press . , America 's Weight Felt At the same time , however , Japan is beginning to feel the weight of American aid to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . This is making the " disposal of the China incident " all the more difficult and apparently is producing a somewhat delicate situation in China . This is frankly admitted by Kuinataro Honda , Japanese Ambassador to the Wang Ching-wei regime at Nanking , as well as by the Japanese press . In an interview with a correspondent of Nichi Nichi just before sailing from Shanghai for Tokyo to present a " new plan for the settlement of the China affair " to his government , Mr. Honda is quoted as saying : " The construction of American airdromes in Burma , the transportation of American planes to China and the extension of $50,000,000 to the ' fapi ' stabilization fund at Chungking are serving to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $50,000,000 fund , made immediately after the conclusion of the Japan-Soviet neutrality treaty , served to counteract the effects exerted by that treaty upon Chungking . " This stabilization fund , it appears , is permitting General Chiang to transfer the financial center of his government from Shanghai to Chungking . He is inducing big Chinese financiers to leave Shanghai as well and the fund , therefore , is sending up the cost of living in the Japanese-occupied part of China . Mr. Honda admitted that " Nanking is not in a satisfactory condition " and General Shunroku Hata , Japanese Commander in Chief in China , has admitted in recent interviews that " far-sighted Chinese who are cooperating with the Imperial forces for the broader cause of peace and national reconstruction " are facing " mounting difficulties . " Moreover , despite all official denials , Nichi Nichi continues to insist upon the existence of an agreement between the United States , the British Empire , China and the Netherlands Indies for military and economic collaboration in the Pacific . Now its reports from Shanghai assert that a staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Singapore around next Monday . Among the questions to be taken up at that meeting , says the paper , are concrete plans for joint operation of British and American forces in the Far East , collaboration be tween the United States and Chungking in the air , and the establishment of a joint information headquarters . In view of these developments the Foreign Office and the Japanese Army appear to be emphasizing different , though not necessarily exclusive , aspects of the policy to be adopted to meet the situation . Resolve of Hata In his interview General Hata de-clared : " Whatever may be the fast-moving international situation in these days , I am determined , with all the officers and men under my command , to fight strictly on the basis of the required strategic operation in an effort to deal the enemy a crushing blow or to give him the coup de grace by continued blockade operations . If effectively carried out , the various conceivable operations for annihilating the enemy forces will unfailingly accomplish the desired objective . " On the other hand , various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to beat Chungking or to make peace with General Chiang and therefore the only possible policy is to increase support for the Nanking regime along the lines of the basic treaty concluded last year but scarcely applied so far in practice . The Japan Times Advertiser , Foreign Office organ , in championing the latter policy , declared : " The idea of overcoming this mastodon of nations China ) must have little more appeal even to the most sanguine of soldierly minds . " Even Toshio Shiratori , Foreign Office adviser and ardent pro-Axis champion , suggested some time ago that inasmuch as Japan was constructing a " high-degree defense State " China would never rise in arms against her and therefore the necessity for keeping Japanese troops in China had disappeared . China , he said , was a poor country , anyhow . But as for peace with Chungking , for which , as was reported in these dispatches last Sunday , serious negotiations were supposed to have been conducted in Shanghai by Japanese military representatives , Mr. Honda declared : " If there is any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair and the setting aside of Japan 's fundamental policy , hopes to conduct ' direct negotiations ' with Chungking , he dreams a foolish dream . " For , says Mr. Honda , to conduct direct negotiations with Chungking means closing one 's eyes to the cool reality of America 's aid to Chungking . Peace Talk Blasted The Japan Times Advertiser reprints the Honda interview under a banner headline saying " Peace Talk Is Blasted . " From this it would appear that if there really were any peace feelers In Shanghai they had been blasted by increased American aid to Chungking . For , Mr. Honda added , General Chiang 's terms are the withdrawal of Japanese troops from China as a premise for peace negotiations and the conduct of peace negotiations through the United States . The policy that Mr. Honda and the Japan Times Advertiser advocate therefore is to win Chinese cooperation , not through coercion , which is " useless , " but by aiding the Nanking regime to create stable conditions in the occupied areas and above all to cope with the rising cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " peace district by district through reconstruction " outlined recently by Lin Pai-Sheng , Nanking Propaganda Minister . Peace Movement Outlined " When the people of one district re9lize , " he wrote in the Japanese press , " that peace and reconstruction are beneficial to them they will start to support the peace movement . When the people of another district see the achievements of a neighboring district they will also support the peace movement .. In the past some one tried to unify the nation by force , with the result that the more he fought the more was the nation divided . We must follow the method of unification through reconstruction . " But this is a long and expensive process for China as well as for Japan . Kenkokukai , the ultra-reactionary party , today sent a delegation to the government requesting that the Soviet Government be asked to abandon its policy of aid to General Chiang and to suspend all Bolshevist activities within the " Greater East Asia co-prosperity sphere . " Kenkokukai has been stressing what it calls the unfaithfulness and unreasonableness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it has concluded a neutrality pact with Japan .                     