@@710588

txt The Dutch Colonial Government of the Netherlands Indies began last Sunday midnight large-scale military actions against the Republic of Indonesia on the ground that the Republican Government was unable to implement a truce signed last October or the Agreement of Linggadjati . The latter is an agreement negotiated last November and finally signed March 27 . It provided for a gradual transition from colonialism to self-government and eventual incorporation of the rich islands of the East Indies in a Dutch Union , in which the Republic would be one of a United States of Indonesia . The Dutch military action was taken while negotiations on various phases of the Linggadjati Agreement were still in progress . It followed issuance of sev eral Dutch ultimatums , setting time limits on Republican acceptance of certain Dutch proposals . The final demand was for the Republic to issue a ceasefire order to its forces opposite the Dutch-held port cities of Java and Sumatra and unqualified acceptance of a Dutch demand for establishment of a joint constabulary to maintain order in Republican territory . During the last seventy-two hours Dutch planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dutch marines have made amphibious landings in East Java and Dutch troops have driven against Republican positions in what appears to be a military plan to cut Java into at least three isolated parts. - There is little question that there have been violations by Republican forces of agreed-on perimeter positions . The Republican negotiators , feeling that time was on their side because of the heavy financial strain placed on Holland by maintenance of large armed forces in the Indies and no income from the islands , have attempted to drive as hard a bargain as they could . The Republicans have refused to allow food to be sent from their rice fields to the Dutch-held port cities . But neutral observers have testified that there have also been violations by Dutch patrols of perimeter lines ; the better-armed Dutch troops have made swift and heavy retaliations against Republican violators ; and on the question of blockades , the Dutch have maintained both a sea and land blockade of Republican territory . Aside from these charges and countercharges , however , a rereading of the Linggadjati Agreement brings the inescapable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truce and the Agreement , failed in their negotiations to exhaust the methods agreed on at Linggadjati to meet the situation that prevailed when Dutch ultimatums began to be issued a few weeks ago . Article 17 of the Linggadjati Agreement states : ( 1 ) For the cooperation between the Netherlands Government and the Government of the Republic contemplated in this agreement , an organization shall be called into existence , consisting of delegations to be appointed by each of the two governments , with a joint secretariat . ( 2 ) The Netherlands Government and the Government of the Republic shall settle by arbitration any dispute which might arise from this agreement and which can not be solved by joint consultation in a conference between those delegations . In that case a Chairman of another nationality with a deciding vote shall be appointed by agreement between the delegations , or if such an agreement can not ? be reached by the President of the International Court of Justice . In a letter to the United Nations yesterday the Dutch Government said that it " wishes to stress that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program based upon ' the principles underlying the Linggadjati Agreement . " We believe it is in order for the United Nations to ask the Dutch Government why Section 2 of Article 17 of the Linggadjati Agreement was not taken advantage of when negotiations reached what the Dutch considered a stalemate . The fighting in Java , with its implications for all colonial peoples and for the Moslem World , is exactly the kind of a threat to peace and security that the United Nations was set up to prevent . We hope that it finds the means to enter die situation quickly and again resume negotiations . With a neutral Chairman , if necessary , as provided for in the Linggadjati Agreement .                     