@@712039

txt The city council finance committee and Mayor Kennelly yesterday approved a four point program which the state legislature will be asked to enact to solve the city 's financial difficulties . During the discussions Ald. Duffy ( 19th ) , finance committee chairman , confirmed an exclusive story in THE TRIBUNE last week which revealed that pay increases for city employes are to be provided during the last half of 1949 with part of the anticipated state aid money . The legislative program , submitted by Duffy and approved by the committee by voice vote , calls for : 1 . Legislation to distribute- 4C million dollars of state aid to municipalities during the next biennium on a per capita gran basis . Chicago would get 5 mil lion dollars in 1949 , 10 million : . in 1950 , and 5 millions in 1951 . Duffy said the Illinois MuttiCipul league has indorsed this plan , under which the state money officially would go for police , gee , and health protection . Seek Midyear Budget 2 . Enabling legislation permitting the city to adopt a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first 5 million dollars of state aid for use this year . This legislation also would permit rearrangement of the city 's regular 1949 budget , which would be necessary if general pay increases Fe to be.granted. 3 . Delegation to Chicago by the state of authority to license for revenue all business and in-. industry , but not professions . The legislation would . not give au ? thority to levy a payroll tax cr other tax on employes . Duffy said the added licensing power would not be used until Jan. 1 , and that Present license fees would not be increased . The city now requires licenses in about 125 categories of businesses by authorization of the legislature . " Working Cash " Bond Issue 4 . Legislation to permit the city to issue 8 million dollars of bonds to provide a " working cash " fund . A similar revolving fund was established two years ago with bonds issued by authorization of the legislature , but this money has been absorbed . Duffy said the language of that legislation made it impossible for the city to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , he , explained , would permit supplementing the fund by sale of tax anticipation warrants . Mayor Kennelly , who remained ' with the committee thruout its discussions , gave his whole- , hearted approval . The mayor said real estate taxes no longer can carry . the increased burden of taxation . He said the purpose of the program is to keep real estate from carrying a disproportionate share 01 the tax load . Compares Budget Changes Kennelly remarked that he had said for two years that too much money goes to Washington and Springfield . He said the state budget has gone up 300 pee cent in the last 15 years , while the City budget has gone up less than ' 50 per cent . Yet the city government , he said , is the one closest to ' the . people and the one which supplies the essential services . ' Ills id- " . ministration , the mayor said , has done its best to hold down expenditures in the face of rising costs . Turning to the proposed licensing bill , Kennelly said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city are licensed and that " there should be a more equitable situation here . " There was little indication as to how much the city would ex-. pect to raise thru the proposed expansion of its licensing authority . Kennelly had remarked several days ago that the city could n't expect to obtain more than 6 to 7 million dollars in additional revenue annually from this source . Luffy Cites " inequalities " Duffy commented that " a delicatessen pays , for example , but a next-door jeweler , used car ilealer , or currency exchange does n't . " He also mentioned industrial plants as among , those businesses which would face licensing if the authority is granted . " There will be no pay roll tax or tax on employes , " Duffy told the committee . " This never has been considered . It never was our intent to levy such a tax or to license professional men , and reports to the contrary are unfair . In fact , there will be a clause in the bill that nothing in the act shall be construed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A licensing proposal similar to that now sought was sidetracked by the legislature two years ago after business and industrial groups assailed it . When a new suggested licensing bill recently was submitted to Gov . Stevenson , these groups served notice that they would renew their fight Against it . Stevenson Waits On City Gov . Stevenson has suggested state aid of 40 million dollars for Illinois municipalities during the next biennium , but withheld recommendations as to how the money should be distributed pending recommendations from Chicago and the Illinois Municipal league , which represents Chicago and downstate cities . Chicago alone originally asked slightly more than 25 million dollars annually . Apparently the city now is willing to settle for the 10 million dollars a year plus what it can raise by using the proposed licensing authority . Duffy 's confirmation that wage increases are to be provided city workers this year if the state aid is forthcoming came as he was questioned by Ald. Wagner ( 14th ) . Wagner " Will we use The 5 million dollars for the balance of this year primarily for pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tnat . " Wagner : " If it is n't to be used for pay increases , I 'd like to know what it will be used for ? " Duffy : " Yes , a portion will be used for increases in wages , and the rest for necessary work . "                     