@@705863

txt The United States faces a repetition of the price inflation of the World war period , Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau as ? sorted here tonight . The price boom , already well advanced , can be stopped , Morgenthau'said , only by immediate and drastic Henry Biomenthau. . steps to check the inflationary effects of the multibillion dollar rearmament spending . Proposes Five Remedies . The measures proposed by 1VIorgenthou to keep prices under control included : 1 . Increase the taxes collected by the federal government ' under the , " social security program . " 2 . Release the surplus farm commodities that are now being held off the market . S. Permit the entry of Canadian wheat in larger volume . 4 . Enact the price control legislaUon that is now pending in congress . 5 . Siphon into the treasury thru higher taxes . antl-Wider'IdiStribution ? of government securities a larger share of the increased income of con. sumers ? Predicts , Skyrocketing . Prices . If such measures are not adopted , Morgenthau said , the country may look forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' the level . of the last war . It will mean , ho said , that eggs may again sell at 92 cents a dozen and pork chops at 50 cents a pound and a doubling in rents and clothing costs . Morgenthau spoke at a meeting of the Advertising Club of Boston . He did not go into detail in describing how anti-inflationary measures which he proposed would be applied . Most of the address was devoted to a description of the hardships that ' were suffered in the World war inbation ? Near Bursting Point , Ho Says . " Our economy today , " the secre ? tary asserted , " resembles an overloaded steam boiler . The fire under the boiler is being fed by billions of additional purchasing power in the hands of the public . The fire is growing hotter and Is generating more steam than the boiler can safely hold . " If we are to prevent the boiler from bursting , we must damp down the fires by diverting spending away from those articles or commodities in which there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the fires by increasing the flow of supplies of goods available to the consumer . " The surplus farm commodities , the release of which Morgenthau advocated , are held off the market because the government has been willing to loan to farmers on these commodities more than they bring in the open market . Against Withholding Supplies . The government holdings of cotton now aggregate seven million bales and the price of cotton has advanced from 931 cents a pound to more than 17 cents in the last year . " We ought not to withhold cotton surpluses , or any surpluses , from the market in times like these , " Morgenthau said . " The housewife ought not pay a tribute to speculators when she buys a cotton sheet for her home or a shirt for her husband or a suit for her child . " Morgenthau said that the reserve stocks of cheese , butter , pork , and beef are abnormally high and asserted it is " sheer nonsense " to permit the prices of these articles to be pushed up ' out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the large scale government buying of these commodities which has been a primary factor in the recent price advances in these products . These purchases have been made with funds appropriated under the lease-lend act . Suggests Sugar as Model . Morgenthau suggested that the recently enlarged quota on sugar imports from Cuba be used as a pattern in relaxing the import quotas on wheat . The ultimate objective of the present import restrictions , he said , is to keep up the price of wheat in this country . Mho present supply of wheat in the United States is the greatest on record . Available domestic supplies aggregate more than 1 billion SOO million bushels , equivalent to about two years ' domestic consumption . A largo part of the supply is held under government loan . Discussing his proposal for increas ? ing tax revenues under the social security program , Morgenthau said : " I hope we may extend the program so as to increase the flow of funds into the treasury , from current income during the ' emergency and increase the outflow of funds needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have already suggested a ' segregation wage ' ? that is , ark entirely new form of contribution out of which the worker may draw a regular wage for a stated period in case he loses his job . " It is clear , Morgenthau said , that wage earners must be encouraged to set aside a portion of their earnings each week so that rising payrolls will not contribute to the inflationary spiral . " We shall have to invest ' more widely and systematically in defense savings bonds and stamps , " he added . We may also have to extend general controls over bank credit and create controls over selected capital expenditures . ( The Dow-Jones financial news service reported yesterday that the treasury has under consideration a system of " forced saving " under which both employers and workers would contribute . It would be collected over a period of time front workers until their contribution had reached the equivalent of two months ' wages , the agency Details Of the rolan. it Was raid , are yet to be woriced out.J Just a Beginning . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billions of new revenue will be raised , is only a beginning of the taxes which will be necessary to finance the defense program and curb inflationary forces , Morgenthau said . " We shall have to tax ourselves much more heavily next year than this year , great and far reaching as the present tax bill will be , " he asserted .                     