@@707527

txt Advocates of a Federal ballot for service men and service women sufH fered a setback in the House today when the " States ' Rights " soldier voting bill approved by the Senate I was reported by the Elections Corn-1 mittee with only minor amendments , hut they promised to carry the fight to the floor . While the Senate moved farther toward a compromise on the issue , ' Republicans and Southern Democrats of the House committee overrode the chairman , Representative Eugene Worley , Democrat , of Texas , by a vote of 7 to 5 to approve the **32;210;TOOLONG substitute adopted by the Senate Dec. 3 with support of a similar coalition . All four Republican members of the committee who were present joined with three Southern Democrats after defeating Chairman Worley 's compromise proposal for a Federal ballot . They were Representatives Karl M. Le Compte of Iowa , Harris Ellsworth of Oregon , Charles W. Vursell of Illinois and Leon H. Gavin of Pennsylvania , Republicans , and John E. Rankin of Mississippi , Carter Manasco of Alabama and John S. Gibson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats voting with Chairman Worley were Representatives Herbert C. Bonner of North Carolina , Daniel K. Hoch of Pennsylvania , John Lesinski of Michigan and Edward J. Hart of New Jersey , who , Mr. Worley said , would join him in a minority report and in a fight on the floor for amendments to make the legislation more than an " efnpty gesture . " Describing the committee measure as " a ghost of a bill masquerading under the cloak of life and reality , " Mr. Worley said : " The action taken by the committee means that most of the 11,000,000 members of the armed forces will not get to vote in the next election . " Representative Manasco , in a statement opposing any action " to destroy the Constitution to satisfy certain pressure groups , " contended that to say the soldiers would not be able to vote under the State laws was " without foundation . " " If a five-pound Christmas package can be delivered on time , " he said , " certainly a three-ounce ballot could be gotten to the soldier and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Liberty ship . " Recommends Action by States The bill approved by the Senate and House Committee recommends that States revise their election laws to enable voting in the November elections by absentee members of the armed forces and merchant marine here and abroad and by members of the Red Cross , Society of Friends , Women 's Auxiliary Service Pilots and United Service Organizations serving overseas with the armed forces . It directs the Secretaries of the Navy and War and chairman of the Maritime Commission to distribute postcard applications for ballots . Since the 1942 soldier voting act also provides for distribution of ' postcard applications , the committee amended the Senate bill to repeal that provision of the present law . Representative Worley said , however , that he believed it " probably would repeal the entire 1942 act , " including its provision requiring States to waive poll tax and registration requirements for member bers of the armed forces . Other committee amendments would give mailing priority to applications and ballots and would require an equal sharing of broadcasting time over Governmentcontrolled radio stations by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lucas , Democrat , of Illinois , declared that the original GreenLucas bill could pass the Senate now . That measure , which would establish a Federal Ballot Commission to administer voting in the services , was swept aside on the floor when the States ' rights substitute was passed . The Senate Privileges and Elections Committee , after hearing // BACKS STATES BILL ON SOLDIER VOTING // Senators Lucas and Henry C. Lodge , Republican , of Massachusetts , support compromise bills which they have introduced , adjourned until Thursday , when it is expected to approve the Lucas compromise . Under this measure the proposed Federal War Ballot Commission would be stripped of all except what Senator Lucas called " messenger boy " functions . State election officials would be the sole judges of the voting qualifications of absentee members of the armed forces . ' In testifying for his compromise bill , which would provide a Federal ballot only for service members outside of the United States , Senator Lodge declared that " my bill enfranchises about 7,000,000 men who will be overseas by next election . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , told the committee , of which he is chairman , it was hopeless to expect the various States to change their election laws . This , he said , was illustrated by forty-one replies he had received from telegrams sent to the forty-eight Governors . They showed that fourteen States had held . or called sessions of . Legislatures to revise their laws , eight already had laws considered adequate , seventeen were awaiting Congressional action and two contemplated no action . Senator Millard F. Tydings , Democrat , of Maryland , introduced still another compromise measure , containing all provisions of the original Green-Lucas bill but stipulating that State Governors or Adjutant Generals must certify to the War Ballot Commission that their citizens in the armed forces are entitled to cast ballots under the State laws . The Lucas compromise , he said , could conceivably throw the Presidential election into the House by opening the way for contests of the ballot tabulations of precinct election officers .                     