@@706114

txt Today , a week after Japan launched her deadly surprise attack , the United States Marines on Wake Island were still resisting and were striking back at the Japanese . A Navy Department communiqu ? announced there had beet two additional bombing attacks on this mid-Pacific fragment of American territory , second of three important stepping stones between Hawaii and the Philippines . The first new Japanese attack on Wake had been light and the second had been " in great force , " the Navy stated . But not only was damage reported " inconsequential , " but the accurate anti-aircraft fire of the small garrison of the twomile-long island again took toll , bringing down two enemy bombers . There was no new word of Midway , 1,300 miles northwest of Hawaii and about half way between Hawaii and Wake . According to Friday 's advices the Americans on Midway were also putting up a determined resistance . Neither did the communiqu ? refer to Guam , which was now believed lost . Cabled messages from men on Midway , saying " All okay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company early today reported the cable to Midway still working . For the second successive day the Army had nothing new to report from Hawaii , which suffered the brunt of the Japanese attack last Sunday . The Navy reported that enemy submarines were operating " in the Hawaiian area , " and were being vigorously attacked . Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox arrived in Washington soon after 9 P. M. from his inspection trip by plane to Hawaii . He is expected to report to President Roosevelt tomorrow . In the Philippine theatre the Army report said enemy air activity continued , but ground operations were confined to the Aparri and Vigan areas in the north and the Legaspi area in the south of Luzon , with " no change in the general situation . " The Navy Department 's communiqu ? covered reports up to noon today , the War Department 's up to 4 P. M. From the Philippine Red Cross headquarters came word that evacuation of Manila and other areas was proceeding under Red Cross administration . The feeding of refugees and evacuees , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forster , manager of the Philippine Red Cross , was presenting a major problem . " We are using our entire resources regardless of budgetary arrangements for relief and can carry on for a short time , " Mr. Forster reported . " You should send us a substantial appropriation soon . " In reply he was notified by Chairman Norman H. Davis of the American Red Cross that it would give the Philippine Red Cross all possible assistance in meeting the emergency needs of the islands . The cable from Mr. Forster said the Philippine staff was showing " discipline , loyalty and courage . " He reported that 1,200 tons of cracked wheat , which had been en route to China , had been unloaded at Manila and was being distributed in cooperation with United States Army personnel to meet Philippine needs . The Philippine Red Cross had ten 50-bed first aid stations in operation , three of them in Manila , Mr. Forster said .                     