@@706724

txt of protesta- the final dissolution of France 's representative assemblies and in the establishing of numerous Fascist shock-troops . Yet , the elected Presidents of the two houses , while protesting against Marshal Petain 's breach of all promises , are still more afraid that the unscrupulous French Premier will soon take the final step in his external policy , pushing the unhappy country into a war against its former allies . The rupture between Marshal P ? tain and the former Parliament is now complete and the letter of the two Presidents makes it quite clear that if Marshal ' Detain intends to launch France into new dangerous ventures he will be unable to cover his acts with the veil of legality . Act of Much Courage M. Herriot 's and M. Jeanneney 's protest is , at the same time , an act of high personal courage . Latest dispatches from Vichy indicate that the Presidents have left CIA. - telguyon , last seat of the exiled , and now non-existent , French Parliament and have returned to their homes . It is possible that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sending both men to internment camps . The same information pointed out that two former left-wing leaders and Deputies Pierre Vienot , former Undersecretary of State , and Andre Blumel , Leon Blum 's secretary , have been arrested and sent to Vals-les-Bains . Moreover , M. Herriot and M. Jeanneney must be well aware that the French public will receive no official information , neither of their letter nor of their final fate . M. Laval had employe dall his shrewd and ingenious cunning to outwit and to deceive the National Assembly which met in July , 1940 . He promised to the Parliament that its constitutional rights would not be abolished and that it would be only sent on vacation , ratifying later the new French constitution . Hollow Promises M. Laval apparently never intended to keep his engagements . The French chambers never were convoked , again the Presidents of the assemblies who remained in function were exiled to Chatelguyon and were finally dismissed . The letter of the two Presidents protests strongly against this clear violation of all promises on part of the Marshal an dof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Laval , however , had succeeded in obtaining a majority for the establishment of the P ? tain regime . The final vote instituting Marshal Petain Chief of the French State was 569 against 80 . And yet , even under these circumstances it is highly doubtful if the vote of the National Assembly had been legally valid . 200 French Senators and Deputies , among them lead ing personalities of the left parties . according to reports , had beets tucked by M. Laval to sail to North Africa , where France should continue to resist . These Deputies were unable to return in time and to vote the constitutional change . People Deceived In July , 1940 , however . the Parliament and their Presidents had enacted M. Laval 's illegal proceedings and the French people were left under the impression that the new authoritarian regime had been voted by a two-thirds ma. jonty of their representative assemblies . Today . the deposed Parliamentary leaders have destroyed the legend of Feta in 's legality and they have pointed out that the marshal is usurping power which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they de . : fare , has deceived the French pen . pie and he has " substituted unlimited dictatcrship for guarantees that are the essential rules of civil and penal rights Never before has the mask which in the eyes of many persons still covers the true face of French Fascism been so ruthlessly torn away . It is , moreover , %Try significant that in the letter which the two Presidents addressed to Marshal Ntain the name of Pierre Laval , France 's actual ruler , is not even mentioned . M. Herriot and M. Jeanneney are unwilling to make a discrimination between the Chief and the French State and his collaborator . They are anxious to state that Marshal P ? tain fully shares the responsibility for the fateful acts of his government .                     