@@705361

txt President Roosevelt invoked Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act today to delay for at least sixty days the threatened strike of employes of the Rutland Railroad Company which he said " now threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce within the States of Vermont and New York . " A three-man board will investigate and report within thirty days . About 1,300 employes of the railroad had voted to strike at 6 P. M. today in protest against wage reductions of from 10 to 30 per cent which the company had ordered to become effective tomorrow . The salary cuts first were ordered two years ago , but despite a long battle in which court and mediation machinery was employed the employerlabor differences were not solved . The strike was to have been virtually system-wide and President Roosevelt declared in his proclamation that interstate commerce in New York and Vermont would have been interrupted " to a degree such as to deprive that section of the country of essential transportation service . " In invoking the act and ordering the establishment of a board of inquiry to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proclamation provided an additional thirty days within which the parties to the controversy will act on the recommendations presented . The membership of the board was not announced today . Public Necessity Stressed Under the Railway Labor Act it is incumbent upon the President to attempt to forestall a railroad strike , since it is assumed public necessity requires continued operations . The fact that a proclamation was issued at this time , however , served to focus attention again on agitation in some Congressional circles for legislation to provide similar machinery for preventing strikes in defense industries . Some legislators believe that a restriction upon casual strikes is even more necessary in the case of defense output in these critical times than in railroad activities . President Roosevelt thus far , however , has taken the position that strikes are not numerous enough to cause much concern or seriously to delay output of munitions of war . This view has been supported in testimony before Congressional committees by Robert P. Patterson , Assistant Secretary of War . The President 's proclamation In the Rutland case provides : " The members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such duties in the sum of $75 for every day actually employed with or upon account of travel and duties incident to such board . " The members will be reimbursed for and they are hereby authorized to make expenditures for expenses for themselves and of the board , including traveling expenses , not to exceed five dollars ( $5.00 ) per diem for expenses incurred for subsistence . " These labor organizations were listed in the proclamation as involved in the dispute : Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers . Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen . Order of Railway Conductors of America . Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen . Order of Railroad Telegraphers . Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks , Freight Handlers , Express and Station Employes . Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes . International Association of Machinists . International Brotherhood of Boilermakers , Iron Shipbuilders and Helpers of America . International Brotherhood of Blacksmiths , Dropforgers and Helpers . Sheet Metal Worwers International Association . International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers . Brotherhood of Railway Carmen of America . International Brotherhood of Firemen and Oilers , Helpers , Roundhouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     