@@707417

txt Secretary of State Cordell Hull , returning from the Moscow conference , where he played a leading role in laying the foundations for a durable peace and enhancing the effectiveness of the Allied military coalition , was unexpectedly greeted by President Roosevelt himself this afternoon as he stepped from a big Army cargo plane at National Airport , a weary but happy looking man . The whole welcome , which seemed the more sincere for the absence of formality , had the air ' of a triumphal return , which indeed it was . Mr. Hull not only returned with an agreement of momentous importance to the future of the world , but , as he disclosed in a brief statement made for sound cameras a few minutes after his arrival , with faith that the opportunities presented by that agreement will be availed of . " We agreed , " he said , " upon a broad basic program of international ' cooperation . The program contemplates the hastening of victory over the Axis powers , also the preservation of peace and the promotion of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our country and other peace-loving countries have a vast opportunity to profit by the program of policies outlined by the Moscow conference . I have supreme faith that they will avail themselves of that opportunity . " Republicans Greet Him In the throng of officials and members of Congress who came down to the cold , wind-swept airport to welcome him home were at least two Republican Senators ? Warren R. Austin of Vermont and Wallace H. White Jr . of Maine . Senator Austin said he thought the welcoming constituted " a fine demonstration of faith in Secretary Hull and expressed a feeling of gratitude toward him . " As for the Moscow agreements , Senator Austin said they constituted " a tremendous gain in the winning of the war and in laying the broad lines of enduring peace . " " Secretary Hull has achieved a diplomatic success nearly beyond measure , " said Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia . " He should receive the highest honor a grateful republic can bestow upon him . I would suggest that he be awarded the Congressional Medal . of Honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a joint session of Congress . " Secretary Hull rode with Mrs. Hull and Under-Secretary Edward R. Stettitnius Jr. , in the President 's car to the White House , but it was learned that Mr. Hull will not start making his full report to the President until tomorrow . Mr. Hull , who had traveled 26,224 miles on his trip to Moscow , brought a message to President Roosevelt ' from Premier Joseph Stalin , the contents of which were not divulged . Plane Brought Up Close President Roosevelt sat in a sedan on the edge of the landing apron to await the arrival of Mr. Hull . He chatted with Mrs. Hull and Mr. Stettinius , who sat alongside of him , in between words with the Senators and other officials who came up to greet him . A considerable throng of officials and diplomats stood alongside the President 's car as Mr. Hull 's plane , a four-engined C-54 , came in at 3:20 P. M. from San Juan , P. R. When the door was opened and a ramp had been put alongside , Mr. Hull appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . There was resounding handclapping and cheers as he came down the ramp , kissed his wife , and shook hands with Mr. Stettinius and diplomats from Russia , China and Great Britain , the other Moscow signatory nations . Representing these countries were the Chinese Ambassador , Dr. Wei Tao-ming ; Vladimir I. Bazykin , First Secretary of the Soviet Enfbassy , and Sir Ronald Campbell , British Minister . " Well , well , well , " said Mr. Hull , as he shook hands with the President . " You look extremely well , Cordell , " the President observed . An " Unanticipated " Honor " This is an unanticipated honor , Mr. President , " Mr. Hull declared . " You 're here an hour ahead of time , " said Mr. Roosevelt . " You do n't know how much I appreciate this , " said Mr. Hull to the President . " We 'll give you the keys to the city , " said the President , smiling . Senator Alben W. Barkley , majority leader of the Senate , came up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you , sir . " Mr. Hull turned to shake his hand , and said , " Hello , partner . " Mr. Stettinius and Maj. Gen. Edwin M. Watson , the President 's military aide , wanted to know if the President was going to see Mr. Hull at the White House immediately after leaving the airport . " I 'll see him , " the President said , " but let 's make it tomorrow ? he needs a rest . "                     