@@704561

txt DOBBIN TREATED AS A SOLDIER AT FRONT IN FINLAND BY DONALD DAY . Chicago Tribune rress Service.1 HELSINGFORS , Finland , March 4 . ? Finland 's horse hospital No. 1 ? on a modern dairy farm behind the Mannerheim defense zone  --  is a comfortable barn which a few months ago housed 300 purebred cows and four bulls . Two hundred ten horse patients were there when I arrived . The Finnish veterinary and ' iis two Swedish assistants who guided us on a tour of inspection were greeted with low whinnies of pleasure and snorts and snuffles or appreciation . The stable was heated and strik ? ingly clean . Hostler nurses were busy among their charges and in some cases adjusting straps which supported patients from the rafters and changing bandages and straw . Each stall had a drinking trough . Ventilated Operating Boom . At one end of the building the door , into a storeroom had been enlarged . This is now a ventilated operating room where equipment is available for . carrying out complicated operations . One of the most interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horse ' to the shoulder of another horse badly torn by an explosive bullet fired from an airplane . This horse had been wounded while engaged in taking supplies into the lines . It had been brought on a sledge to the veterinary first aid station where its wounds had been dressed , and on a motor truck 801 miles to the hospital on a bed of straw and warmly wrapped in blankets . In another month the horse will be fit for light duty in civilian life . There is a shingle above each stalls telling the horse 's ailment and a chart on which are written tempera- ; tare and other records just like human patients have in hospitals . A Comfortable Place . In fact , this hospital was even more comfortable than many field hospitals I have visited . The bombing activitiesof the soviet flyers have com pelted the Finns . to evacuate regulars hospital buildings and use other , structures which are hard to adapt to medical needs and which force hardships on both the staffs and patients . Both the Finn and his horse make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain being stoically endured in this cow barn as I saw on hospital trains where every jar and bump meant agony to some : Wherever possible the Finnish army , which has called both men and their horses into Service , has permitted them to be together . When the horse is wounded the man - con . Unties on duty . When the patients are cured and the masters arrive to take them away there is mutual joy at the reunion . Still Valuable in War . In spite of modern mechanized warfare the horse is helping Finland 's defense - in many ways . Covered by long white shrouds and pulling sleds filled with supplies covered with white canvas , the animals are keeping materials flowing steadily to the many fronts . The veterinary told mo the Finnish horse was helping to write another proud chapter in Finnish history .                     