@@709025

txt In their first national election since liberation the French people have voted overwhelmingly for General de Gaulle , for a new Republic under a new Constitution and for stability . General de Gaulle was not a candidate himself , but his regime was the main issue , and it emerged victorious . The election returns are the highest tribute which a grateful French people could pay to the man who led their fight for freedom . They are also a recognition that , whatever mistakes he may have made , General de Gaulle still towers high above any other political figure in France today and is the symbol of both French resurrection and French unity . At the same time it will be noted that while the endorsement of his continued rule during the interim period before a new Constitution is drafted amounted to 66 per cent of the popular vote , which exceeds the highest percentage ever polled by President Roosevelt , the popular vote for a new Constitution amounted to 96 per cent of the popular vote . This is overwhelming testimony that the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the rule prior to the war ? of Presidents who were mere figureheads , of Cabinets that toppled every few months and sometimes weeks , of the merry-go-round of intriguing politicians who constantly shifted their positions and allegiance , and yet remained the same . But that was the inevitable result of the governmental system adopted by the Third Republic , which sought to avert a monarchist restoration by an excess of misunderstood democracy . It did prevent the rise of another " man on horseback , " and in that it served its purpose . But it also so paralyzed government that it almost killed France . And since the French system was widely imitated on the European continent , it helped to undermine ( European democracy everywhere . The new Constitution will propose to retain all the essential elements of democracy , including parliamentary government , but to provide for a stronger executive and greater governmental stability under a President elected by the French people . In comparison with these decisive results , the various shifts in party strength are of lesser significance , especially since new elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In general , they confirm the trend toward the left prevalent throughout Europe , but even that must be viewed with certain qualifications . The Communists have doubled their vote compared with the cantonal elections only a few weeks ago , and are now one of the strongest parties in France . While they polled only approximately 25 per cent of the total vote they control 152 seats in the new Assembly , compared with 142 each for the other two leading parties . Their gain is rather balanced by the surprising growth of Foreign Minister Bidault 's Popular Republican Movement . This new party 's strength has been built largely on the new franchise of the French women , who voted for the first time , and it seems to have gained at the expense of both the Socialists and the misnamed Radical Socialists , who are really a center party ... The latter , who have played such an important role in French history , and who polled nearly double the Communist vote several weeks ago , have been nearly wiped out . For partisan purposes they flirted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others have learned before them .                     