@@709349

txt Elections in Poland , if held at all this year , are not likely to tpke place before fall . This was indicated here by President Bierut , who gave a numoer of reasons for this change in policy , the main reasons being difficulties in repatriation of the hundreds of thousands of Poles from abroad , the presence of about 2,000,000 Germans still in Poland , and the prevailing tense political atmosphere in the country . This tense , unsettled atmosphere is due primarily to a conflict between the Peasant Party , . led by Vice-Premier Stanislaw Mikolajczyk , which is raging in the entire press controlled by the P. P. S. ( Polish Socialist Party ) and the P. P. R. ( Polish Workers Party ) on Communists . These latter two parties feel greatly encouraged by Premier Joseph Stalin 's reply to Winston Churchill . his lavish praise of the present Polish Government and of Communist policy generally . Several weeks ago they were willing to offer Mr. Mikolajczyk 's party 25 per cent of the seats in the Government and might have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made in a rash and too generous mood . Headquarters Raided A sudden Vice raid on the headquarters and newspaper offices of the Polish Reasant Party here has aggravated still further the political situation and may cause even greater anger among Mr. Mikolajczyk 's followers . The raid is said to have been made by about 300 armed members of the Polish security police and to have lasted from about four in the morning till midday . The building housing the party and editorial offices of the Gazeta Ludowa , Peasant Party daily situated in the vicinity of the United States and British Embassies here , was searched from top to bottom . As a result , six persons were arrested , including one woman party official , and a number of documents were taken away . Most of those arrested have been released , but the documents stir are being examined by the police . According to official circles here , the raid , admittedly an unusual step , considering the Peasant Party has its representatives in the Government , was made to discover whether any relations might possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland . P*1101111LIAS Linked to Outrages There have been some unconfirmed reports that terrorists are helped by the peasants and that peasant youths have participated in outrages . So far , no news of the police raid and arrests has been allowed to appear in the Polish press , but the peasants have somehoW learned of the event and in protest have begun slowing down supplies of their produce to the towns in Warsaw , Lodz , and other big cities , a sudden , scarcity of potatoes , butter , and flour has been experienced , and prices are soaring rapidly . Though regarding this as a temporary hardship which might pass when the peasants cool down . the Government can not but feel perturbed and is taking energetic measures to remedy the food shortage . Flour is being rushed to Warsaw from the provinces in special trains . Three meatless and cakeless days have ? been introduced . go meat now is served in Poland on Tuesday , Wednesday , and Thursday , and cakes can be eaten only on Saturdays , Sundays , and Mondays . Midweek is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other measures still planned by the Government may somewhat remedy the difficult situation . But the political situation needs more delicate handling . In spite of pressure , Mr. Mikolajczyk still insists on 75 per cent of the seats in the national council . Numerous attempts to bring about some understanding between him and other parties have failed . It is rumored that in his determination to abide by his insistence on 75 per cent of the seats and his refusal to enter an electoral bloc with other parties , the Peasant Party leader was " encouraged " by the British Embassy here . The British Ambassador is reported to have made it clear that a single bloc would not be acceptable to his Government and not considered as a sufficiently democratic method . The American Ambassador is said to have kept clear of the Polish electoral issues .                     