@@711011

txt Drastic revision of the Administration 's European Recovery Program by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee appeared certain today as Democratic members insisted on a more clearly defined administrative organization and challenged some basic specifications of the proposal . Senators Tom Connally of Texas and Walter F. George of Georgia , ranking Democratic committeemen , asserted that the program presented by the Executive branch would raise western Europe 's industrial production above pre-war levels and create a new system of state trading by foreign nations . Senator George called the administrative system proposed " an impossible arrangement . " While the veteran legislators continued their criticisms of the bill , another Democratic member , Senator Elbert Thomas of Utah , denounced its administrative provisions in toto and said he would propose placing the whole program and its operation within the State Department . Checks and Balances Urged Secretary of State George C. Marshall told the committee earlier that he had resisted direct State Department administration of the program because it would involve additional personnel and because he preferred the " checks and balances " resulting from having the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time he insisted on over-all State Department direction and control . Senator Arthur H. Vandenburg. chairman of the committee , warned the State Department yesterday through Lewis W. Douglas , Ambassador to Great Britain , that unless " a new element of business responsibility " was injected into the administration of the ERP it would lack public confidence and would be " sunk without a trace . " Re-emphasizing the position . taken by Secretary Marshall that " there can not be two Secretaries of State , " Mr. Douglas told the committee that this would inevitably result from creating an independent administrative agency to operate a program which was to become the principal instrument of our foreign policy . Revision Now Is Urged " I think , " said Senator Thomas , " that the channel of direction in the administrative organization proposed here is so confusing that it will lead to constant misunderstandings . It ought to be cleared up , and if it is not cleared up in the bill it never will be . " It is all very well to say , as it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretaries of State . I say you ca n't have two administrators . You invite other departments into the discussion of the . prograin , ha ' I say you ca n't have tVvo . Secretaries-of the Treas-1 ury or two Secretaries of Commerce . The channel of direction , must be so clear there can be no misunderstanding , or we will have nothing but confusion from the start . " Mr. Douglas had testified earlier that it was necessary for the 161 participating nations , of Western ) Europe to raise their production levels above pre-war figures under the recovery program to compensate the loss of pre-war " invisible income " from the investments and services in the amount of $2,000 , - 000,000 . He pointed out that Britain , exports 75 per cen above 1938 . " This is a temporary program , " said Senator Connally . " We ca n't go on supporting these people for the rest of their lives . Why is it our responsibility to raise their level of production above pre-war . It ' is not our obligation to restore all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Douglas agreed . " But their foreign investments was one of the sources of their foreign exchange and a determining factor in their ability to buy for their national economies and to the extent that their foreign investments have been impaired their ability to buy has been impaired . " Revision Moves Outlined Senator Connally was not satisfied with the explanation and insisted that the United States was being asked to provide funds to enable foreign countries to regain last investments abroad . In the end Senator Connally said he would insist on a provision in the bill preventing disbursement of funds under the ERP to enable foreign participants in the program to pay off their foreign debts . Chairman Vandenberg reminded Mr. Douglas that he would insist ? on some , categorical language in the bill Conditions , a continuation of United , States ' aid ' tinder : the ERP upon a continuation of the Mutual , aid . and ? self-help , commitments by the participating nations . I Senator George opened up a new , line of questioning with ' an inquiry Whether the : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measured by one-Sixth to oneseventh of total disbursements under , the plan for capital equipment investments in the form of administrative loins . Mr .. Douglas said this was not necessarily so since several EuroTeen countries were expected to show a capacity to repay regardless of the type of aid furnished by this country . Mr. Douglas said the measure contemplated the least possible disturbance of international trade under private auspices . Turning to administrative features , Senator George Said . that the proposal to place an administrator in full charge of the program , except in matters of foreign policy , which would be under direction of the Secretary of State seemed too him " an impossible arrangement . " The Senator argued that foreign policy would affect all parts of the program in the final analysis and suggested there would be a continuing ' conflict between the administrator and the Secretary of State or " the Administration ! will be reduced to the status of I robot . " For Responsibility to Congress " I hope you will pardon me if I raise a very serious question of doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George continued . " It seems - to me ' , that the faith of the American people in this program depends ona full I confidence in the proper administration of funds and that means , it must be administered by some- ' One whom Congress can hold directly responsible . " It was at this point that Mr. ! Douglas again emphasized the impossibilty of having two Secretaries of State . " Not necessarily so , " Senator George rejoined . " I think the pol , icy In these matters is set here in ? - - , - ? tile- legislative ? branch in consultation with the . Secretary of State ' and I'think something-better than the plan submitted by the ? State Department can - be worked out . " Senator liandenberg ! s ? question of . Mr. Douglas brought out that it was . estimated the United States might recover , up to $2 ; 800,000,000 Of the-$6,800,000,000 asked for the first fifteen ? monthi through loan repayments .. The Senator ' recalled earlier testimony and asked the witness whether it was true that the eventual . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by $1,300,000,000 to $2,800 , - 000,000. through-repayments . " That is correct , " replied Mr. Douglas . Senator Alexander Wiley , Republican , of Wisconsin , wanted to know whether the police state had been successfully ' resisted . " behind the Iron Curtain in such countries as Yugoslavia , Belgium and . Finland . " " Behind the iron curtain , " said Mr. Douglas , " the totalitarian conception of society is growing , not waning . It is true that comniunism has been withstood gallantly in Belgium and in some other countries like France and Italy . But the capacity and determination to resist is derived from the interim aid program and the prospects of Congressional approval of this recovery program . " Senator Wiley inquired whether the French people were getting " pretty fed up with this Communist stuff or are they still amenable . " , Mr. Douglas said that communism in France had moved in " waves " as in other countries but - that there had been a stiffening of the French attitude recently . A gradual revival of trade between western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Mr. Douglas . He said . Poland was expected to supply 23,000,000 tons of coal to the western countries by the spring and that England was to receive grain-from Russia under a recent trade agreement . .                     