@@705388

txt Can American industry quickly turn $23,000,000,000 of the taxpayerk hard-earned money into planes , ships , and guns without it seriously affecting the living costs and ? living comforts of everybody ? Can something like $5,000,000 , - 000 worth of British lend-lease orders be superimposed upon the present vast defense effort without it substantially cutting into most everything the housewife is accustomed to buy , from electric refrigerators to cooking utensils ? What , in short , are the economic consequences , now and after the war , affecting labor , consumer , and employer , if America is to become the virtually unlimited arsenal of democracy ? These are the questions posed by a careful and scholarly study of the social and industrial problems involved in making the lend-lease bill really operative just completed by the America First Committee headed by Brig . Gen. Robert E. Wood . This committee is strongly opposed to the lend-lease bill and the information it has produced underlines , in the judgment of the committee , its reasons for concluding that the United States either should not or can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself at the same time . Command Attention But apart from its conclusions , which form part of the basis of the minority 's argument against the measure , the opinions and the facts which the America First Committee offers command attention here because they throw a good deal of light on the very practical problems which will have to . be worked out when the bill becomes law . Thus the research staff of the committee doubts whether American industry can produce all the defense material required by the nation 's own defense program without serious dislocations in the economic system . It questions whether the extra requirements of the British defense needs can be superimposed without multiplying the " distort- ing effects of over-expansion upon the economy . " It sees an expected rise of food prices running from 10 to 20 per cent and the cost of industrial materials and finished defense supplies going up even more sharply . " The faster the expansion of defense expenditures , the sharper the rise will prove . " It anticipates serious sacrifices by labor as well as benefits . particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make way for armaments . The result , it holds , will be that hundreds of thousands of persons will be without work for an indefinite period and the assimilation of these workers in defense plants will be by no means as simple as it appears . Bound to Be Reduced It concludes that the consumers ' real income in the United States is bound to be reduced not only by priorities . by increased taxes bearing on consumption , forced savings and rising prices but by the probable curtailment of many normal government services , Those who see the present crisis in different terms than the isolationist view of the America First Committee do not particularly dispute the fact that the task of defending the nation 's freedom on every front will involve deep sacrifices and the solution of hard problems . They are prepared to make those sacrifices and are as eager as the America First Committee to examine the effects as well as the purpose of the lend-lease bill and how these effects can best be controlled . Viewed in this perspective , the committee 's study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suture , which concern all parties to the lend-lease bill debate . In effect , this report presents problems which supporters of the bill are prepared to face and which opponents of the bill wish to avoid . On the subject of the limits of American industry 's capacity to produce for defense , the report states : " From an economic point of view the chief objection to the proposal that an enlarged arms program for the British be superimposed upon the existing American program is that the combined programs will prove too great . Reached Bottlenecks " By January we had already reached bottlenecks of capacity and skilled labor in various fields . While these bottlenecks can be eased as time goes on , it is significant that at a time when defense expenditures are far below the level required to fulfill the American defense program serious difficulties are already being encountered in production . " While it is true that defense production can be increased month by month by new plant construction and widening priorities , the conclusion is inescapable that the total supply is definitely limited . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sufficient to share with the British and whether the United States should underwrite the costs for the British Empire without requiring further liquidation of their assets here and elsewhere . " On the costs of production and threat of inflation : " In the present situation , if the attempt is made to force the program before capacity is expanded in the critical sectors of the economy , prices will rise but not production . The cost to the government will be multiplied without any comparable advance in the defense effort . " This is the meaning of the threat of inflation in the present situation . It need not take place . It can occur only if a sharp rise in prices in the defense industries causes speculative behavior in all parts of the economy . This is a degnite possibility that would not only increase the cost of the defense program but would lead to the familiar disruptive effects throughout the whole economic system . " On the effects upon labor : " There is no gainsaying the fact that priorities affecting consumer goods industries will create unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process is a cumulative one . Unemployment in the automobile industry , for example , will have effects upon the sellers and producers of a long list of other goods , because of the decrease in purchasing power on . the part of the men laid off . The consequences will then be multiplied as prOduction in these fields is curtailed . " The shortages of skilled labor already developing at a time when the defense program is still in its infancy will becothe a more acute problem as time goes on . The larger the defense expenditures , the more serious the problem . Unless there is to be conscription of labor , one solution of the shortage , apart from training programs ( which take time ) , is for industry to break down the industrial process into more simple operations . This dilution of labor skills is a matter of serious concern to labor . " Dealing with the possible effects of " arsenal " defense production on consumers , the report concludes : " Automobiles , refrigerators , other electrical and household appliances . metallic articles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of smaller items are likely to be affected . For the standard of living of the American family this means that they will be forced to spend their incomes on second choices , and not in the way that they would most prefer . This represents a reduction of their real consumption in the same way that a general rise in prices would reduce the level of their real income . " If the defense program is inflated , along lines suggested by the lease-lend legislation . novel proposals will be presented in imitation of Mr Keynes suggestion for England as a means of preventing inflation by sterilizing consumer incomes . These plans may call for the forced savings of all overtime or of increases resulting from advances in hourly rates of pay that may take place , or for an arbitrary percentage of all wages and salaries . " While it is not possible to estimate the rise in the cost of living that may occur in the present emergency period , it has already been indicated that a defense program that exceeds the maximum compatible with our economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in consumer goods , If not extreme inflation throughout the whole economy . "                     