@@705194

txt A greatly expedited delivers of combat planes both for the Army and Navy , as well as Great Britain , was declared assured today by the Priorities Board of the National Defense Advisory Commission following agreement ny private aircraft interests to turn over to the commission an undisclosed number of new engines recentls , delivered to them . The .. cminercial lines represented by the Air Transport Association of America , also relinquishes voluntarily to the commission about $7,500,000 worth or equipment which they had ordered with a view to maintaining ana expanding their scheduled services . The act of the A. T. A. , headed by Colonel Edgar S. Gorrell , its president , was commended in government circles as a patriotic sacrifice paving the way for immediate acceleration of combat plane deliver ies . The release of engines and other equipment could be translated into figures only as to the amount of money involved informed circles said , oecause the Army and Navy were able to furnish figures only as Lo the actual number of combat planes which would come off the assembly lines soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engines . The action of the private airplane groups prompted an announcement of policies by the Defense Commission 's Priorities Board , whose administrator , Donald M. Nelson , said that t spirit or cooperation had been manifested by all concerned in the negotiations which lea to today 's Agreements . Need Is Told to Airlines Merrill C. Meigs , chief of the Aircraft production Division of the Defense Commission , met with the A. T. A. and other groups today , outlining the need for immediate deliveries of combat planes . Afterward Mr. Nelson issued the statement setting forth the Priorities , Board 's policies . " A spirit of cooperation was mani , fested by all concerned , " Mr. Nelson said . " The scheduled airlines , by agreeing to give to the Air Corps these new engines , have greatly expedited equipment of additional combat aircraft . A program is being developed in cooperation with the airlines and the manufacturers which will permit release to military services during 1941 of approximately $7,500,000 worth of equipment , part of which the airlines had planned to use in expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued to airplane and engine manufacturers . While expediting equipment for military use , these instructions also are deLigned to assure maintenance of present services and normal replacement of existing equipment . " Ways and means are being studied by the committee to permit delivery of additional planes to the airlines during 1941 and to permit continuation of current technical development activities . " Gorrell Explains the Move Later Colonel Gorrell issued a statement saying that the plan agreed upon would permit these things : " The transfer to the Army Air Corps of certain aircraft engines recently delivered to the airlines . " The release to the military services of aircraft now on order for the airlines of the approximate value of $7,500,000 . " Allocation of aircraft engines for aircraft to be delivered to the airlines during the early Summer of 1941 . " Allocation to the airlines of Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . necessary spare and replacement parts for the efficient operation of air transportation . " The continuation of the program for the further development of modern aircraft for use by the airlines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cognizant of the immediate requirements of the military services and desire to cooperate fully in the attainment of an adequate program for the national defense . " He said that the airlines ' representatives were continuing their talks here , " for the purpose of completing further plans for the more effective scheduling of aircraft now operated . " The carriers expected increased transportation requirements to come from the national defense program , he added , and still felt that they could meet these demands Today 's agreements followed by eight days a disclosure that the War Department had asked the Defense Commission 's Priorities Board to stop production and commercial transport planes nd . see that the factories used for their fabrication were devoted to the building of war planes . The board subsequently was reported to be unable to reach a decision on the War Department request and to have put the matter up to President Roosevelt .                     