@@712247

txt NEW HAMPSHIRE  --  Enrollment A continued rise in college enrollment , despite the fact that most veterans have completed their education , was predicted last week by Dr. Arthur S. Adams , president of the University of New Hampshire . Originally , he said , educators believed that the post-war enrollment increase  --  from 1,300,000 in 1940 to 2,410,000 at present  --  was only temporary . Now , he added , " those who examine the trends predict that the only prospect of significant change is a slight rise . " VASSA.R  --  Contemporary Society The two-year-old experimental course " Contemporary Society " has proved so successful that it will be continued on a permanent basis at Vassar College . The course has been elected for next year by approximately 100 freshmen and sophomores . The course covers intensively a number of social problems and is taught by four collaborating instructors of economics , anthropology , sociology and political science . At weekly staff meetings the instructors plan the week 's work and agree on a common presentation of subject matter which draws on the techniques of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bowling Green ( Ohio ) State University this fall will have some of their classes in the Speech and Fine Arts Buildings , which are being completed this summer . These are the first new permanent classroom structures built by the school since 1931 . Also under construction are two dormitories , a chemistry building and a new central heating plant . During the coming year work will begin on a chapel and an addition to the library . ILLINOIS  --  Agriculture A research d conference in agricultural education will be held from Aug. 10 to 13 at the University of Illinois . A tentative program which will be modified to meet the needs of the conference will include committee reports on research work in the fields of student ' teaching , identifying and evaluating the objectives of future farmers , functions of state supervision , developments In course planning , supervised farming and criteria for selection of teachers . SO . CALIFORNIA  --  Doctorate A three-year program of graduate work leading to the degree of Doctor of Public Administration will be inaugurated beginning with the September term by the University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this degree on the West Coast . Designed to develop leadership in public administration , the program carries requirements that are comparable to those of the Doctor of Philosophy degree . The graduate program includes work in Government organization , management , administrative analysis , personnel and financial administration . KANSAS  --  Human Relations The University of Kansas School of Business will offer two graduate fellowships next year for study and research in the field of human relations . Each fellowship will pay from $1,200 to $1,800 . Applicants must hold at least a bachelor 's degree and may be candidates for advanced degrees in sociology , economics , political science , business administration or social psychology . AMERICAN U. ? " Selling " To teach business and industrialmanagement students that American enterprise depends upon " selling , " the American University , Washington , D. C. , will now require students to do part-time selling during the freshman year . By this requirement the university hopes to make students aware that the real pavane of both business Adults Are Advised to Give Adolescents'Respect ' Adolescents are the outcasts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are of no particular use to our society . We do not use them economically , politically or socially . These are the contentions of Mrs. Bernice L. Neugarten , a University of Chicago psychologist , who addressed the recent conference on the teaching of social problems , held on the university campus . She charged that adults were inconsistent in their attitude toward adolescents . " In the area of physical and sexual development , " she said , " the adolescent is likely to meet silence  --  often shocked silence . In the area of moral and social values , the teen-ager faces complexity and confusion multiplied . " AU youth asks , she asserted , are " two very simple things  --  understanding and respect for their personality . " and industry is to supply goods and services and that the sales process is " difficult , basic and intensely human . " MARIETTA  --  Preferences Forty-seven per cent of the 2,627 students who have enrolled in modernlanguage courses at Marietta ( Ohio ) College since 1946 have favored German over four other languages . Next in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 23 per cent . Russian and Italian courses drew the smallest enrollments . MINNESOTA  --  Drafting To meet the increasing demand for skilled draftsmen , the University of Minnesota 's Institute of Technology will introduce next fall a new two-year I , technical aide course in engineering drafting . The course will be open to men and women high school graduates who have had at least two years of high school mathematics . INDIANA  --  Slavic Studies Indiana University has established a new department of Slavic Studies to offer courses about Eastern Europe . The university offers a Bachelor of Art degree in Slavic Studies with allied courses in the departments of anthropology , geography , history , economics , sociology and linguistics . HEBREW . UNION  --  Ph . The Ohio State Department of Education has authorized the Hebrew Union College , Cincinnati , to offer the Doctor of Philosophy degree for work done in Hebraic and cognate studies . The college , according to a spokesman , is the first Jewish seminary in the United States to offer this degree in philosophy . HARDEN-SIMMONS  --  Teachers ' To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of higher education , Hardin-Simmons University , Abilene , Tex. , will include a complete curriculum of night classes when the 1949 fall semester begins . Teachers and other interested scholars may take courses in education , English , psychology , history , Bible and business administration . DUKE  --  Inauguration Dr. Hollis Edens will be inaugurated as president of Duke University on Oct. 22 . A three-day program has been arranged beginning Oct. 21 . Part of the program will be the formal opening of the university 's new physics building and library addition . Delegates from many colleges , universities and learned societies are expected to attend . GEORGE WASHINGTON  --  Drama George Washington University , in Washington , will offer a Master of Arts degree in dramatic arts beginning with the 1949 fall semester . The course in theatre management , begun last year , will be expanded to a two-semester unit . Courses in period techniques in acting and awns design will also be totroduetd.                     