@@710024

txt Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov has made an important concession to the AmericanBritish-French concept of a free press  --  a concept that hereto . fore has been anathema to the rulers of Russia . . In inviting the Big Four Council of Foreign Ministers to meet in Moscow on March 10 to begin the vital task of drafting peace treaties for Germany and Austria , Mr. Molotov agreed to permit Allied correspondents to enter Russia and to provide them with the same facilities for covering the meeting that were provided in Paris and New York . Presumably this means that American , British , and French participants in the Council 's meetings will be permitted to " brief " the correspondents at the end of each session , which was the practice in Paris and which has been followed here . Presumably it also means that American , British , and French writers will be able to send dispatches from Moscow without first , submitting them to censorship , a precedent-making development . Secretary of State James F. Byrnes asked for assurances that the Allied press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a precondition of his acceptance of the Russian invitation to meet in the Soviet Capital . And Mr. Molotov agreed without equivocation to provide such assurances . Mr. Molotov told Mr. Byrnes : " The Soviet Government will be happy to see the representatives of the United States , France , and Great Britain , and everything will he done in spite of the difficult housing conditions in Moscow to provide accommodations for the press , as well as to create conditions " favorable to their press activities . Correspondents will be able to report from Moscow just as they were able to report from Paris and New York on proceedings of the conference . " No Curbs on Reporters ? Sources close to the American delegation said they had interpreted Mr. IN.Iplotov 's statement to mean that no censorship or restrictions of any kind would be imposed upon the Allied reporters . Mr. Molotov 's remarks also were assumed to imply that the Molotov Bends on Deputies Both British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin and French Deputy Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville strongly supported Mr. Byrnes , Mr. Molotov , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment of deputies until ' tile Foreign Ministers themselves - first had discussed and agreed on the fundamentals of the German treaty , said he now is willing to reconsider the idea . M. Couve de Murville joined . Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Molotov in submitting a draft agenda N. the German discussions to the Couri= cil yesterday , but little actual work was done on a program , since each of the ministers was working from a different paper . The French agenda differs little in essentials from the drafts previously offered by Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Molotov .                     