@@704697

txt WASHINGTON , April 26 ? Assurances have been given by the British and French Governments in conversations just concluded here by their economic representatives that they will do what they feel they can , in view of the necessities of their war problems , to diminish inconveniences caused to the United States by their contraband control and other economic policies incident to the prosecution of the war . Announcement to this effect was made by the State Department tonight at the end of discussions that have been held with State , Treasury , Commerce and other officials since March 6 by Professor Charles Rist , economic adviser to the French Ministry of Blockade , and Frank Ashton-Gwatkin , adviser on policy to the British Ministry of Economic Warfare . The two experts , who came here to assist their embassies in deliberations with United States officials over neutrality and other problems on the economic front , left the announcement of the results to the State Department . They have prepared to return to their own countries . Old Cases to Be Reconsidered Specifically , the Allied governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for United States importers of goods purchased in Germany but held there by reason of the Allied blockade against German exports . The State Department said it did not have available data concerning the total value of the goods involved . Applications for re-examination of the cases must be filed with French or British consular officers in this country before dune 1 . In addition , the Allies agreed to receive applications for exemption of categories of goods affected by the blockade that merit special consideration and are not obtainable except from Germany . The French and British experts , in stating that their purchases // ALLIES YIELD TO U.S. IN WAR TRADE TALK // from the United States would be concentrated first on essential war materials , said they would endeavor to maintain their purchases of agricultural and other commodities at as high a level as possible . They expect their total import trade from this country to continue to increase , while they promised that the whole question of their purchases from the United States " will continue to be the subject of discussions in Paris , London and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of their governments to Secretary of State Cordell Hull 's liberal trade policies and said they would return as soon as may be possible to the normal peacetime commercial policy laid down in Mr. Hull 's reciprocal trade agreements program . They referred in this connection to statements along that line by Prime Minister Chamberlain , former Premier Edouard Daladier and Premier Paul Reynaud . For her part , the United States reiterated her reservatfbn made early in the war of all rights under international law and declared that she " is not to be understood as accepting any principle of interference with bona fide neutral trade . " The State Department stood on its statement without amplification , nor would it comment on the omission from the statement of topics that have caused friction and were understood to have been touched upon in the conversations . These included , British censorship of United States mails , a wide range of shipping problems , including the operation of the contraband control system by the Allies , under which United States ships are searched for contraband at control points such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American exporters to the effect that the British have in many instances been arbitrary in refusing navicerts for United States shipments of goods to Europe . London Hails Mission Work Special Cable to l'Eat NEW YORK TIMES . LONDON , , April ** belief in official quarters here is that the Ashton-Gwatkin-Rist Mission has done good work in clearing up various disputes between the United States and Great Britain over economic warfare . While the Briiisn are most reticent over the statement issued in Washington , it was obvious that they regarded the mission as a success . The very fact that the State Department is most laconic is taken as an indication that the conversations have been happy and that the two nations now understand each other better . As to the trade angle , the British insist their position is clear . They want to trade with the United States , but while their supply of dollars is limited they simply can not afford to spend money they need for armaments and munitions c a cash-and-carry basis for comparative luxuries such as tobacco . This also applies to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renew this trade , the British say , but meanwhile a vital part 01 their war against Germany is conserving their financial resources in the United States . It is apparent here that the British feel many questions in dispute between the two nations have been settled for all time not only to the satisfaction of the State Department but of business firms as well , In this connection it is emphasized here that the British have found real hardship caused to some United States firms by the restriction on German exports . It is said these have been relaxed , largely on machinery , but that the relaxation will not mean a great many dollars in Germany 's pockets .                     