@@705516

txt Operating in the Greek theatre of war under the direct command of their supreme leader , Adolf Hitler , the German forces were believed here tonight to have forced an important break in the enemy 's line of defense and to have pushed their wedge between the main bodies of the Greek and British forces . German units were reported to have broken through the British defenses in the Thessalian Mountains , and it was said the capture of Kalabaka was imminent . They appeared to threaten directly the strategically important Trikkala , a major point in the line of communications between Yanina and Larissa . If they advanced eastward in a pincer movement they would expose the first-line British forces in the Mount Olympus sector to encirclement . Once the German forces had taken Kalabaka they would be able to operate on relatively flat terrain and to employ to best advantage their motorised and tank units , the rapidity of whose movements was unquestionably retarded by mountainous topography The possibility would then exist of advancing westward from Trikkala and trapping part of the Greek forces between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Command communique today declared merely that the battles in North Greece were continuing to develop successfully in spite of most difficult terrain and most inclement weather , as well as the destruction of numerous roadways . It was thought , however , that the German advance was beginning to gather momentum again following the first contact with the entrenched defenders several days ago . More than 17,000 prisoners have already been captured , it was officially stated , and numerous cannon , twenty-five of which are of heavy caliber , taken . In addition , the German command said , twelve British armored reconnaissance automobiles have been destroyed . With the capitulation of Yugoslavia the Germans can now throw the bulk of their forces that have been operating in that theatre into the Greek conflict , while at the same time employing the transportation facilities of that land for supplies . The German military potential for the fighting in Greece is thought to be much superior to any force that the British and Greeks can muster and supply . Should the Germans successfully conclude their Greek campaign , it is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released as a special gesture on the part of Herr Hitler . It is emphasized in this connection that in his proclamation issued the day the Balkan campaign began Herr Hitler explicitly asserted that the Reich was not fighting in Greece against the Greek people but against Britain . No Pause Is Planned Informed quarters here declared that the conclusion of the Greek campaign would'not mean the initiation of a pause in military activity , such as followed the campaigns in Poland , Norway and France . The fighting in Greece , it was said , represents only part of the campaign for the domination of the Mediterranean . It may not , authoritative quarters asserted , be considered as separate from the action in North Africa , and the military activities in the southern theater , just as the battle in the major theater of war , the British Isles , may be expected to continue unabated until a final decision has been reached . Of great importance for the " pauseless " continuation of the war in the Mediterranean sector , German quarters assert , is the domination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian air forces . The repeated attacks of German bombers on Malta , it is added here , have already in a large measure erased the importance of that naval base and assured the Axis powers a vital advantage in this sector . The occupation of the remaining parts of Serbia by German and Italian forces is officially declared to be almost concluded . The number of prisoners and amount of booty taken , however , the German High Command declares , can not yet be given . D. N. B. , official German news agency , declares that the number of Greeks captured when the Greek I forces operating east of the Vardar capitulated , following the German occupation of Salonika , exceeds the number originally announced . Approximately five Greek divisions were dispersed in the fighting in this sector , D. N. B. asserts .                     