@@711325

txt The Senate passed the stop-gap selective draft bill today by a 78-to-10. vote . The measure calls for theinduction , for two years of milttary service , of up to 250,000 men , . 19 through 25 years of age , during the fiscal year starting July 1 . The bill , sent to the House for its decision , also contains a first ? step toward the objectives of the universal military training pro -- gram , which , as such had been rejected , at least for this election year . This step would permit up to 161,000 youths 18 years of age to enlist voluntarily in the armed services for one year for training as future reserves and thus escape liability for a two-year draft when they became 19 . Whether the House would act on the draft was still uncertain . Speaker Joseph W. Martin Jr . expressed hope that the House 's own ( Andrews ) draft bill would undergo floor consideration next week , which is scheduled to be the last one of the Eightieth Congress . Allen to Call Committee Representative Leo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , declined to predict whether that body would permit the draft question to go to whole House consideration . He said he would call his committee together next Monday for a decision . Mr. Allen opposes the proposed draft . So , apparently , does a majority of his committee . In past voting tests the decision has been seven to five to keep the Andrews Bill locked up at least until after the Senate had acted . Mr. Allen conceded that the 78-10 vote of the Senate this afternoon might ' prevent a blocking of the measure by his committee . He announced at the same time , however , that he would vote not to let the House ? consider it . In the Senate , passage of the draft bill after six days and three nights of hot controversy came with that body divided as follows : For passage  --  Republicans , 37 ; Democrats , 41 . Against passage  --  Republicans , 8 , including Bricker of Ohio , Brooks of Illinois , Butler of Nebraska , Langer of North Dakota , Moore of Oklahoma , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson of Iowa and Young of North Dakota ; and Democrats , 2 , including Chavez of New M , exico and Taylor of Idaho , running mate with Henry A. Wallace . on the third-party ticket . Delay Is Voted Down Before taking its decisive final vote , the Senate spent an hour passing on a flurry of amendments that had been rushed in for decision . In most part , the voting reflected Senate mood toward efforts to delay the draft , cut down its service time , inject civil rights involvement and let small , as well as large business , participate in production for the defense program . Principal decisions included these : By a vote of 69-20 , the Senate rejected a proposal by Senator Chapman Revercomb , Republican , of West Virginia , that the drafting be withheld pending another six months of trial of the voluntary enlistment system . To spur enlistments , he proposed an easing of aptitude tests for qualification from the present mark of 80 points to 59 , which obtained during a part of World War H. It had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age who had passed the fifth grade in grammar school could make at least 80 points . Although the Senate early today had rejected in a voice vote a proposal of Senatir Wayne Morse , Republican , of Oregon , that the ac- tive military service of inductees ' be reduced from two years to eighteen months , a second recorded test was made today . The Senate voted 66-22 to leave the proposed training and serviced on the two-year schedule . Senator W. Lee O'Daniel , Democrat , of Texas , proposed that the draft be held in a state of suspended animation until Conrgess enacted a law to lay a tax of 100 per cent upon abnormal defense ' cofitract profits . This proposal won the votes of eight members , while eighty-one opposed it . In the face of repeated futile efforts by Senator Langer to inject President Truman 's civil rights program into the draft bill , another counter-proposal was offered by Senator Burnet R. Maybank , Democrat , of South Carolina . Senator Maybank , proposed a provision in the draft law that no Federal official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the amendment did not mention race or color ) which would compose a state 's units of the National Guard . This amendment was defeated by a voice vote . Senator Wherry sought to kill an amendment , backed unanimously by the Armed Services Committee , headed by Senator Chan Gurney of South Dakota , that would subject industry , as well as men , to " drafting . " His attempt was defeated decisively by a voice vote . Senator Harry P. Cain , Republican ; of Washington , proposed that the draft 's general . management be - nut into civilian . rather than military , hands . A standing . vote beat his suggestion . Then the final vote was taken on the basis of what had been heard in committee and transmitted to the whole Senate from the time hearings began , within two hours after President Truman , on March 17 , had asked a joint session of Congress for both the stop-gap draft and enactment of the UMT . ' As the draft question went to I the House , the Senate was found Ito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : As to purpose , the Senate had approved increases in strength of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps and Air Force to a total of 1,956 , - 000 from a current strength of 1,446,000 , in the ' face of heavy losses through expiring enlistments . The proposed increase includes the 161,000 eighteen-yearolds for reserve training-110,000 in the Army , 36,000 in the Navy and Marine Corps and 15,000 in the Air Force . Another prime purpose would be to raise the strength of the organized reserves ? a target of the original UMT  --  from 1,066,000 to 1,520,000 . The first effort , under the bill , would be , however , to build and hold the Army , where voluntary enlistments lag , at " security strength . " All male citizens ( including aliens ) would be required to register if they were in the 18 through 25 year age group . An alien could refuse to register , but by such a refusal he would cut himself off from possible future citizenship . Service.Set at Two Years Those picked would be inducted for . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unless they were in ' categories receiving specific exemption or &-; ferment . It has been estimated that two of every three left eligible for induction ? urrmarried , physically fit , etc. ? would be inducted . Draftees would get the same pay and benefits as volunteers now in service . Eighteen-year-old youths who volunteered for one year of training would pass after active service , wholly within the United States , into reserve units for from four to six years . When vacancies occurred in available organized reserve units they would be expected to join them for four years . If not , they would enter unorganized reserves with a month of each year spent in active training .. A veteran with more than ' eighteen months of World War II service behind him would be exempt from the peacetime draft . One who had had at least ninety days of service before V-J Day could escape induction by joining the National Guard or another recognized reserve unit or by going to the military or naval academies . Members of organized reserve units before enactment of the draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or candidates might be exempted or deferred , according to local draft board ruling . As- in. the Draft Law of 1940 , elected Federal ' and state-wide officials , ministers and ministerial . students would be deferred , but ' they would be required to register , as would all other males between the ages of 18 and 25 inclusive . Deferment Authority Provided The President would have broad authority to defer " necessary " men in industry , agriculture , research work and other fields , if their pursuits were in the interest Of " national health , safety or interest . " The measure provides for a special registration of , and call for , members of the medical and dental professions up to the age of 45 . Their military service would depend on their local draft boards , with the law making it clear that no doctor or dentist should be called from'a community in which the local board determined that the induction would jeopardize the health of the/community . Married men , with or without children , would have their eligibility to draft decided on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , debate indicated , was on the side of deferment . Draftees of the 19 through 25 year age group would leave their two years of service with further obligations . They could clear them up by serving an additional year , or by joining active reserves for two years or unorganized reserves for five years . High school students would be deferred until they completed their courses , or until they were 20 ' years of age , unless they flunked examinations so as to delay their graftation . College students would be deferred until they completed a current year , already started , when their call came . Conscientious objectors could be exempted or assigned to nonmilitary or noncombatant work , according to draft board decision , subject to appeal . Poll Tax Exemption Voted Those in active service would be allowed to vote by absentee ballot , and be relieved of paying poll taxes in poll-tax states . This was the only gain in the attempts to introduce the civil rights program into the draft . Enlisted youths and inductees would receive the benefits of the soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GIbill-of-rights benefits , such as college tuitions . Up to 25,000 aliens could be enlisted here and abroad , aged 18 to 35 , for occupational and other military duties abroad . These aliens would be eligible for citizenship after five years of honorable service . The bill also would reform the present court martial system as it applies to the Army and Air Force . It would pertnit enlisted men and warrant officers to sit as judges in cases involving enlisted men , if they requested it . Duration of actual drafting would be limited to two years from date of enactment .                     