@@709652

txt Snowballing rapidly into activity , although split along certain iines , New Englanders  --  after two weeks without OPA  --  today were exercising true Yankee ingenuity in their endeavors to combat raising prices by the organization of consumers ' guilds , buyers ' strikes , and veterans ' demonstrations . Even as Congress continues to toss the ball of price control back and forth , higher prices for milk , butter , bread , meats , fruits , and dozens of other food commodities brought varied reactions from consumers . The second week end without . price control , which , incidentally brought some increases in butter and meat supplies , saw " hot dog " sandwiches go up to , 20 cents , . arinheardLof high foe " the Guild Organized The week end also saw the formation of a Consumers ' Guild of America by a determined group of Greater Boston housewives who halie embarked on an investigation of food costs . " There 'll be absolutely no rabble-rousing whatsoever , " asserted Mrs. Mary E. Higgins of Mattapan , mother of five children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Through the medium of newspapers and radio talks , twice a week at the start , we hope to get housewives to realize what a really big asset they constitute in keeping food prices down , " said Mrs. Higgins . " Homemakers need an organization that will balance the power of such groups as the National Association of Manufacturers , the Communists , and the American Meat Institute , " she added . Price Survey Set Chief objective of the group will be to check prices of various food items and compare these prices with Dun &; Bradstreet 's index of 30 basic commodities , it was pointed out . " We do not think that buyers ' strikes are the whole answer to the problem , since we would be striking against our corner grocers , who also have wives and families , and their clerks , who also are consumers , like ourselves . " No , the trouble lies further back , and we are out to trace the source of the higher wholesalers ' and producers ' prices . We are not out after price control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . " Next week , Mrs. Higgins added , plans will be made for headquarters for the Guild , which at present , she said , is operating from her home at 44 Faunce Road , Mattapan . Second ' Tea Party ' Meantime , last-minute details were being whipped into shape for the second " Boston Tea Party , " to be staged tomorrow night , following a rally in the Old South Meeting House , by members of the American Veterans Committee . The aim of the demonstration is establishment of strong price control . Strong indorsements of the Tea Party were received today from . one senator and two representatives in Congress , according to Arnold Rivkin , A. V. C. director in Boston . This is what Senator Glen Taylor ( D ) of Idaho wired : " We are watching your Tea Party . We need the people 's support in this OPA fight , and you have to give it to us . My colleagues on the fence are watching , too , and the people can push them onto the OPA side by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My enthusiastic congratulations to New England Regional Office of the American Veterans Committee and to its chairman , Arnold W. Rivkin for making this rally possible . " From Senator Claude Pepper ( D ) of Florida , the message read : " We are looking for a vigorous A. V. C.-save-OPA rally Tuesday night . A successful meeting will help immeasurably the conference committee . Best wishes for an overwhelmingly successful meet , ing , A , V. C. and its New England office are to be commended . " From Representative Chase Going Woodhouse ( D ) of Connecticut , the following endorsement was received : " I must stay in Washington to fight for the type of OPA the American Veterans Committee wants . You can strengthen my hands by a huge success Tuesday night , at your Boston OPA tea party . You can push the doubtful congressmen our way if the Boston population makes a rousing success . My best wishes for a successful meeting . This is important . " Bakers Pay More Removal of Government subsidies on wheat , plus an increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this area must ray an increase of $1.70 a hundredweight for flour , said Robert E. Sullivan , Executive Secretary of the New England Bakers Association . " With the removal of these subsidies and the conversion of an indirect tax into a direct tax , this will mean consumers will have to pay more for the finished product . " he added . " Bakers are reluctant to increase prices . " he said , " but they are faced with added costs for flour . shortening , and transportation . "                     