@@711857

txt President Truman said today he is still as strong as ever for a $4,000,000,000 tax . increase and for stand-by wage and price controls . The President 's call for more money was made at his news conference just after John W. Snyder . Secretary of the Treasury , had told Congress it is " essential " that the increase be granted " as Soon as possible . " By Richard L. Strout Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington Two great forces in Washington which might be described as " New Dealers " and " Anti-New Dealers " are lining up on hostile sides over the question of recent price declines , what they mean , and what to do about them . There is some prospect that before long this will be the biggest issue in Washington , cutting across many other issues , domestic or international . Secretary of the Treasury . John W. Snyder went to bat today on the administration , or " New Deal . " side in making a flat advocacy of immediate higher taxes in accordance with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservatives like Senator Walter F. George ( D ) of Georgia . chairman of the Senate Finance Committee ; Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio , head of the Senate GOP Policy Committee , and Representative Robert L. Doughton ( D ) of North Carolina , head of the House Ways and Means Committee , that new taxes ought to be postponed because of the unstable economy . " I feel it to be essential that a tax program as suggested by the President be enacted by the Congress as soon as possible , " Mr. Snyder told the Congressional Joint Economic Committee . Capital Divided It is significant that the big new issue is dividing Washington irrespective of party lines . The tax controversy is only one aspect of it . It branches out into the question of slumping markets for farm goods , the degree of administra , tion controls , the rate of corporation profits and union wages , use of American dollars to buy Economic Cooperation Administration food products abroad and the Marshall Plan . The issue boils down to almost diametrically opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's two most important economic spokesmen  --  Leon S. Keyserling , vice-chairman of the Council of the Economic Advisers , and John D. Clark , member of the council  --  have testified that inflation is still the big problem facing the nation though acknowledging that " mixed trends " are developing and that farm prices are going down while certain key industrial prices still are headed up . On the other hand , antiadministration forces are advancing the argument that the inflation is over and that consequently most of the elaborate Truman " New Deal " program is out of date . New Deal ' Thesis The Keyserling-Clark " New Deal " thesis is that higher corporation taxes are still needed to curb inflationary profits and spending power , that government intervention in industries like steel is required to assure capac ity for continued maximum production , and that various other balancing features are needed which require federal action . Opponents of the view retort , as did Representative Jesse P. Wolcott ( R ) of Michigan , that - the Truman spokesmen are " making out a case for a managed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation is different , the two sides can not agree what to do about it . The most immediate dispute relates to taxes , with those anti-Truman forces which have opposed higher taxes from the start being quick to seize the new conditions to oppose them . On one thing all unite : There has been a serious slump in wholesale farm commodities . Secretary of Agriculture Charles F. Brannan argued Feb. 9 that 