@@704507

txt LONDON , Feb. ** Finland 's crisis rapidly approaching , the government acted today to make good Prime Minister Chamberlain 's pledge that this country 's help to the little nation imperilled by the aggressor would be more than an empty gesture . With the Soviet Ambassador , Ivan M. Maisky frowning down from the diplomatic gallery , Osbert Peake , Under Secretary for Home Affairs , informed the House of Commons that the law that had pre- . vented volunteers from going to Ethiopia or Spain was being lifted . At the same time the news was cabled here from New York that one Canadian , one Polish and one French division were soon going to Finland to help the tired defending army with its dwindling supplies of munitions and inadequate number of fighter planes . This crept into print and caused something of a dither hi official circles , which suppressed the story in later editions . However , today 's developments in the Commons are not the only indication that the government is preparing to extend real and tangible help to the country that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western civilization . " Heavy Guns to Be Sent Heavy guns , ammunition and fighter planes , of which the Finns are running short , will soon be made available by the British and French in as great ' volume as can be spared from the main theatre of war on the Western Front or the concentration point of another large Allied army in the Near East . It became known today that more than the approach of Spring is rendering the Finns ' plight desperate . They have been using German artillery ammunition to a large extent and now find themselves running short of ammunition since its source has closed down . It is the task of the Allies now not only to supply ammunition but guns as well if the Finnish defense positions are to be held . In this the British are handicapped somewhat because of the emphasis that has been laid on the building of antiaircraft guns recently . While decisive action was being taken in Parliament and elsewhere toward supplying men and guns for Finland , it was announced also that the National Council of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an urgent appeal for funds to help the Finnish people in their stand against overwhelming odds . This was decided upon when Sir Walter Citrine , Philip J. Noel Baker and John Downie reported on their recent visit to Finland . They agreed unanimously that immediate supplies of war material , especially heavy guns and planes , were absolutely essential if the Finns were to hold the Mannerheim Line against the numerically superior Russians . Now that the Pollyanna reports of repeated Finnish victories  --  the defenders were reported for a time to be wiping out almost a , division daily  --  have given place to more realistic accounts of the situation along the Mannerheim Line , there is anxiety here lest the help may come too late and in insufficient volume at that . Otherwise , Mr. Peake 's statement of the government 's position appeared to find favor in all quarters of the House of Commons except in the seat occupied by Mr. Maisky , that of William Gallacher , lone Communist member , and that of D. N. Pritt , the member whose question prompted it . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland had for years been in the grip of a Fascist despotism from which the Soviets sought to free her peoples , is regarded as one of the leading Russian apologists here . Raises Question Under Law Today he asked if the government were aware that an organization was working in London to enable volunteers to proceed to Finland and that the government had been advised by the law officers of the Crown in 1937 that the Foreign Enlistment Act of 1870 made it illegal for a British subject to serve in the armed forces of a foreign State against a nation with which Britain was at peace . In this light Mr. Pritt wanted to know whether the government intended to prosecute those responsible for the violation of this ancient law . In replying Mr. Peake said : " The government has carefully considered this matter in the light of the resolution passed by the Assembly of the League of Nations on the 14th of December last , on the subject of the provision of assistance for Finland . " It would , in their view , be inconsistent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British subjects who wish to volunteer for service . in Finland should be hindered by the provisions of the Foreign Enlistment Act , seeing that that act contains the power to grant dispensations . " Accordingly a general license has been granted to British subjects to enlist in the Finnish forces and a license has been granted to the recruiting organization that has been established in London . " Order to Be Published It was understood that the necessary order t council would be published in the Official Gazette on Friday and that no objection would be offered to the enlistment of men over the age of 27 , not engaged in essential occupations . Provision for their transportation to Finland , it was understood , was to be made by the Finnish Legation here and their formal enlistment in the Finnish Army would await their arrival in Finland . The act that the government has decided to waive in Finland 's case became a law a fortnight after the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 . That expedited its passage but was not the reason for its adoption . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the war between the States in America and was eager to avoid a repetition . During the Spanish civil war the definition of " foreign state " was stretched to include General Francisco Franco , whom the British had not recognized and to whom they had not given belligerent rights . The validity of this application was challenged , but the government held that it was legally entitled to apply , the prohibition to both sides . There were colorful scenes around , the Finnish recruiting center in an old mansion near the legation after the announcement in the Commons . Large numbers of volunteers flocked there to register , but among them were many women , girls and middle-aged and elderly men . as well as men of military age . A spokesman for the legation said that the number who had registered since the hostilities broke out between Finland and the Soviet did not exceed 2.000 , and that many of these would not prove fit for service because of age or other disabilities . Near the " recruiting " office groups of young men in riding , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Upon inquiry they described themselves as volunteers from Hungary . Their contingent , they said , numbered 350 , a figure that was confirmed by the spokesman at the le ' gation . At the " recruiting " office it was said that the volunteers would wear green uniforms . Because of language difficulties , it was said , British volunteers would probably be placed in an international brigade with Finnish-speaking soldiers assigned to liaison work . Twenty Fliers to Go From Canada TORONTO , Feb. 14 UP  --  A. Kingsley Graham , Finnish Consul in Toronto , announced today that twenty Canadian airmen would sail within the next few weeks to fight with the Finns against Russia . None of the fliers actually has been accepted as yet because qualifications still are being checked . The fifty men who volunteered said they attempted to join the Royal Canadian Air Force without success .                     