@@706327

txt An example of the kind of statement that no responsible public official should make today is that of L. Metcalfe Walling , recently appointed administrator of the wage and hour division of the United States Department of Labor . Mr. Walling declared that " The Nazi propaganda machine is behind this whole movement to do away with wage and hour standards , although I can not cite chapter and verse , and the newspapers have been taken in . " Mr. Walling went on to declare that our enemies " know the technique of dividing us . " Could any technique of dividing us be more effective than that of Americans accusing other Americans who disagree with them on some social question of being either the agents or the dupes of Nazi propaganda ? Are those who urge a change in certain governmental policies to do so only at the risk of being accused , either directly or by implication , of being Nazis or fools taken in by Nazis ? It is obvious that such controversial methods can only create internal division and bitterness , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies we ought to follow . The irresponsibility of Mr. Walling 's comment is exceeded only by its inherent silliness . We are asked to believe , apparently , that Hitler is behind the movement to lengthen the American working week to turn out more goods to beat the Axis . Presumably , also , the industrial relations section of the Department of Economics and Social Institutions of Princeton University is a dupe of the Nazis in reaching the conclusion that peak efficiency of the individual employe engaged in prolonged war production can be best maintained by a forty-eight-hour work week . Mr. Walling is apparently one of those who believe that the forty-hour week must be defended by any argument that comes to hand , regardless of whether or not it contradicts the argument that has just preceded it . He declares , for example , " The forty-hour week does n't exist any more , except as the basis for overtime . " He immediately adds , however : " This extra pay for working an individual beyond forty hours has encouraged the second and third shifts which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is this but a way of saying that the forty-hour week forces the employer to use more men to do the same amount of work ? While Mr. Walling is busy telling us that " the forty-hour week does n't exist any more , " Frieda S. Miller , the New York State Industrial Commissioner , recommends the four-crew rather than the three-crew system not only on grounds of " efficiency " but also because it maintains the forty-hour week . The defenders of the forty-hour week had better get together to decide whether it does or does n't limit individual working hours , whether it does or does n't use more men to do the same amount of work , and hence mean less work from the same number of men . And they might explain why average hours per week per wageearner in twenty-five manufacturing industries were only 42.4 in January , while in 1923 , when the country was not at war , they were 49.2.                     