@@709645

txt h ? continuing deadlock . between the executive and legislative branches of the United States Government over postwar price controls . has plunged the nation into uncertainty , produced one of the sharp . est consumer price rises in history . threatened a new interval of labor unrest , and is approachirig a constitutional crisis . Alone among great powers , the United States suddenly abandoned wartime economic controls before the difficult transition to a balanced supply and demand had been achieved . A stalemate under the American constitutional system between the White House and Congress has given the nation a fortnight with no price controls whatever . It must be stated that even now , with no immediate sign of reconciling executive and legislative differences , the proipect of effective price controls are dim . " - Senator Alben W. Barkley , Senate . Majority Leader , indicated Congress is making its final effort to pass OPA revival legislation by telling reporters he hopes for adjournment by July 27 , according to the Associated Press . Senator Barkley 's statement was made at the White /House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Truman . It promptly was interpreted at the Capitol as a sign that , if Mr. Truman does not sign the bill next sent him by Congress , no further effort will be made to extend OPA 's general authority . Price Barometer Up Meanwhile , popular agitation among white collar workers and trade-unionists is rising , buyers ' strikes are beginning , and the most sensitive spot check price barometer of the Bureau of Labor Statistics has jumped right out of its normal frame of ? reference . Two weeks ago the Bureau 's spot check index of 28 ? commodities stood at 199.7 . At the end of last week it stood at 244.6 , an increase of 44.9 points . This is an increase of 22.7 per cent in a fortnight . While consumer agitation already has been noted , the high prices reflected in the B. L. S. figures so far have been handed on to the public only in part . Retail distributors have attempted , - in some cases heroically , to " hold the line " until new Office of Price Administration legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will find prices have been advanced in many commodities and must pass them on to the public . Control Hopes Ebb It becomes increasingly difficult to believe , here in Washington , that effective retroactive price control legislation will be enacted , even if ? an agreement is reached finally between the President and Congress . The specific situation as the third week starts without OPA is as follows : The Senate has passed a substitute . for the first vetoed OPA extension bill . President Truman charged the first bill was a sham , designed to deceive the public into thinking there was a real safeguard against rising prices when actually there was none . The new Senate OPA version drops the Taft and Wherry profit-fixing amendments of the original bill which Mr. Truman particularly opposed . But it includes a list of articles exempted from price control which favor special interest groups , and particularly benefit meat , poultry , grain , and cotton producers . New Bill . Assailed The New York Times calls new Senate version an " economic and political monstrosity . " The Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman , welcoming Secretary of State James F. Byrnes back from Paris , and asked how OPA stood , remarked : " In terrible shape . It could n't be worse . "                     