@@710266

txt The War and Navy Departments and the Army Air Forces appeared in united front.today as James Forrestal , Secretary of the Navy , testified as their first proponent for a single Department of National Defense . As the curtain-raiser before the Senate Armed Services Committee , Mr. Forrestal gave the hearing special significance . Gone was the bitter Navy resistance to last year 's debate of the issue as the committee began its study of the compromise Administration bill . It - soon became evident , however , that some Senators had strong doubts about the new bill . The searching inteirogation. ? of Mr. Forrestal by Senator Styles Bridges , Republican , of New Hampshire , prevented Robert P. Patterson , Secretary of War , from giving a detailed appreciation of the new plan . As a service now come of . age , the Army Air Forces was to have had its advocate today in a bid for independence in a separate department . But W. Stuart Symington , Assistant Secretary of War for Air , also was unable to give his scheduled testimony . Differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testimony of the Navy Secretary gave strong impact to the new unification effort . Mr. Forrestal declared that the new bill would not only enable the country to thrust its full power against any enemy , but , more important , would permit the integration of military policy with foreign policy ; " These differences have been resolved , " asserted Mr. Forrestal in reference to inter-service disputes over last year 's bill . " The War and Navy Departments are in agreement that the bill before you , considered in its entirety , is a sound and workable accommodation between three points of view : " One , of the Army  --  that there should be a single department in which the three services  --  Air , Navy and Ground Forces  --  should be divisions or branches . " Two , of the Air Forces  --  that they are entitled to be placed on // a parity with the other two older services . Right to Appeal Stressed " Three , of the Navy  --  that actual physical consolidation would decrease efficiency , that it would destroy the morale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patterns of the discredited Japanese and German organizations for war . " Mr. Forrestal said he would be less than candid if he did not admit that the bill was a compromise , but one providing , as President Truman has stated , " a sound and workable solution . " " The bill makes it quite clear that each department shall be administered as an individual unit by the Secretary , who shall have the right of appeal to the President , " Mr. Forrestal continued . " We have the assurance of a uniform policy for all services with the Secretary of National Defense supervising and controlling while each individual service under its Secretary remains autonomous with respect to internal administration . " After a discussion showing how the armed forces would be integrated with all phases of the nation 's economy and productive strength in peace and war , Mr. Forrestal emphasized the dovetailing of foreign and military policy . " Fear of a Dictator " Cited The Secretary warned of the danger of " a foreign policy of firmness without the means at hand to back up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obviate that danger in. this bill through the establishment of the National Security Council . This organization , composed of the Secretary of State , the Secretary of National Defense , the three service Secretaries , and the chairman of the National Security Resources Board , provides us with a working copartnership of foreign policy , military policy , national resources and productive capacity . " Provision is made in the bill for the seating of such otiventembers as the President may from time to time designate . " Senator Bridges expressed fear that the " super-de-luxe " Secretary of National Defense could become a dictator with " power of the purse , power of the dollar , power to destroy . " Secretary Forrestal denied the bill permitted this and pointed out there were sufficient checks and balances in Congress and elsewhere in the Government to prevent a stupid or an ambitious man to abuse the high office . Of fears that the Marine Corps could still be wiped out by the Secretary of National Defense , Secretary Forrestal smiled and said : " I 'd have to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I do n't think he could . " Asked why ' he opposed merger legislation last year and now supports the present plan , Mr. Forrestal stated that the measure in the last session failed to preserve the Navy 's independence . Mr. Forrestal said it was his belief that no great economies should be expected immediately1 after unification , though economies would be substantial in wartime . This feature especially interested Senators Bridges and Harry F. Byrd , Democrat , of Virginia . The witness outlined currentl economy-making joint operations ) between the Army and Navy , such as port facilities , and promised a memoranda on the whole subject . ' Senator Millard Tydings , Democrat , of Maryland , also asked for a memorandum on why the secretaries for the separate services should not be given Cabinet status . Senator Byrd asked for one showing how these services had some policy-making authority , independent of the Secretary of National Defense , which he doubted .                     