@@708269

txt Drafting of men aged 26 to 37 was ' ordered increased tonight to provide replacements for soldiers and sailors released to war plants short a man power . War Mobilization Director Byrnes asked this step as the government drove to get 300,000 needed workers into war industries and bring lagging production o ' critical materials up to schedule . In another move , the army asked and obtained an agreement for a seven day work week for four months in plants manufacturing truck tires and tubes , products which the army lists among its most important shortages . Demands Increasing .. Byrnes said in a statement that the army and navy had released " several thousand " men to war plants and that the demands for such releases were increasing . " In order that these men may be replaced , " he said , " It is deemed necessary to increase the number of calls , by selective service for men between the ages of 26 and 37 who are not now doing their part to contribute to the war effort . " ? He made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group who would be affected by the ruling . Byrnes said he had asked Selectfvo Service Director Hershey to amend his regulations to provide for Induction of such men and also to provide for reclassification of those in the 26.37 age group . who now have occupational deferment and who leave essential Industry . ? row Have- Boon Drafted . Draft boards never have been formally ordered to halt induction of.men over 26 but few have been drafted since last September when Hershey advised draft boards that it appeared needs of the armed services for the rest of this year could be met from men under that age . Both the army and navy said they were unable to give exact figures tonight on tho number of men they have released to war , industries . About 800 were recently released from the army to the tire industry . Releases also have been made to logging and lumbering , foundries and forges , aircraft and ammunition plants and , earlier in the war , to nonferrous mining . Principal Worries . Byrnes ! action appeared calculated , however , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing movement , , by workers to leave war jobs and seek employment they could be assured would continue after peace returns . The agreement for a seven day work week in the truck and tire industry was announced after a meeting of officials of most of the rubber companies with Lt. Gen. Somervell , commanding general a the . army 's service forces . Sherman H. Dalrymple , president of the CIO United Rubber Workers , asked that all union members " give all-out effort " to the program . Most Plants Idle Sundays . Some " bottleneck " operations In rubber plants have been on a seven day schedule , but most of the industry has shut down on Sunday , officials said . The program will Involve a seven day work week for most workers , because the industry has found the rotation of employes unsatisfactory for the most part . ' Workers averaged 46% hours a week In September , the last month , for which ? figures were available here . ? Workers will receive pay at the rate of time and a half for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordance with their contracts . On the basis of present allocations , Gen. Somervell said , the army will be 472,000 tires short of its requirements for the first quarter of 1945 unless production is stepped up . At the present time , he said , 500. - 000 rubber tire vehicles are in operation on the western front . 