@@705479

txt " A million trees for Kansas " is the slogan of the Kansas Junior Chamber of Commerce , which , in co-operation with the Kansas Association of Nurserymen , observed Arbor Day by providing little trees at a penny apiece to anyone in the State . More than 60.000 seedlings were sold by the Hutchinson Junior Chamber alone , the object being to replace trees lost through drought and other causes . In commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the University of Kansas . alumni in various parts of the State have held tree-planting ceremonies , looking forward to similar gatherings under the same trees 25 years hence at the University 's one-hundredth anniversary . The department of geology at the University furnished markers tired from Kansas clay to place under the trees . The Kansas Federation of Women 's Clubs held numerous tree-planting programs . In Independence the City Federation arranged . without cost to property owners , to replace all trees lost during the past few years in parkings throughout the city . The Mayor furnished trucks for hauling , and the County Commissioners provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the students in the general science classes of the Manhattan Junior high school , seeking a project that would benefit the community , began a study of trees and soils . They tested seeds for germination , and 21 volunteer students enlisted to care for the plantings during the summer . As a result of this nursery program , 1,500 seedlings are being transplanted this spring onto Manhattan school and home sites . Moisture conditions are more favorable for planting than for several years . Federally sponsored shelter belts in central and western Kansas have stimulated residents of those sections to enlist in tree planting on a large scale , according to Russell Reitz , State Director of Forest Service . During the past six years the Federal Government has planted in Kansas nearly 29. - 000,000 trees , of which about 65 per cent have survived . Best results so far were in 1940 , due partly to good rainfall and also to increased interest and care of plantings by the farmers . Many farmers report beneficial results in wheat and corn yields . Shelter belts of five or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are found to keep the snow from drifting and blocking the roads . A " shelter-belt snow-fence " bill giving landowners an 80 per cent reduction in tax assessment valuation on land occupied by tree and shrub wind breaks near highways was signed March 7 by Gov . Payne Ratner . This puts tree culture in the same class with water conservation , since there was already a law reducing valuation for water acreage in Kansas .                     