@@707972

txt Gov . Dewey announced this afternoon he is going to spend Tuesday of next week in Springfield , Ill . He will be the guest there of Gov . Green before proceeding to St. Louis for a conference Aug. 2 and 3 of all 26 Republican ' governors . In Springfield , Dewey will meet with Sen. Brooks and Richard Lyons , Republican candidate for the United States senate , and with Illinois ' Republican congressmen and candidates for congress , This is in furtherance of his policy of soliciting advice and seeking harmony in the campaign , a policy he hopes to continue into a Republican administration in Washington , D. C. It will be the nominee 's first visit to the midwest since he was named fiagbearer in the fight against the New Deal . For four weeks , he has been in almost daily sessions with New England and New York national legislators and political lead . ers , ireceiving counsel from the seaboard branch of the Republican party . No Speeches Planned . In Springfield , Dewey will place a wreath on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the western trip . However , plans are still somewhat tentative since they are awaiting approval of the Vice Presidential candidate , Gov . Bricker of Ohio , who will arrive hero on Wednesday with Mrs. Bricker . Dewey and Bricker are working as a team . They have been in telephonic communication almost daily since the convention . The site for the governors ' conference , in ' the home state of Sen. Truman , the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee , was selected before the senator 's nomination . Missouri Is a doubtful state in the November election . Robert E. Hannegan , man of the Democratic national committee , is a former city hall boss in St. Louis . Illinois Trip Moved Up . The stop in Illinois , originally considered for the return trip , was advanced to Tuesday so that Dewey will not be in Missouri while the Dolls are open for a primary election there , Dewey , on the telephone , asked Green to invite Illinois leaders in labor , agriculture , and industry to meet with him in Springfield . The candidate wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude of the state toward national and international issues involved in the campaign . Ho wants as much information from as many people as possible before he launches a speaking schedule , probably starting shortly after Labor day and continuing until the November election . Another such meeting is scheduled for next Monday in Pittsburgh with Gov . Martin of Pennsylvania arranging the day 's program .                     