@@710752

txt A former Communist today testified that he was one of six American Communists trained in Moscow by Red army officers on the best techniques for waging armed insurrection in capitalistic countries and that he later used the knowledge in teaching " combat units " in New York City . The disclosure was made by Joseph Zack Kornfeder , now a building supply salesman in Detroit . As an expert on communism , he was q government witness at the deportation hearing against John Santo , organizational director of the CIO Transport Workers ' union . The government is seeking to deport the Romanian born defendant as a Communist . It was disclosed that government witnesses at the hearing have asked permission to carry firearms to protect themselves against possible reprisal . ? Seeks to Hide Address Kornfeder refused to " trust " Santo 's attorney , Harry Sacher , with his home address , which was writ . ten on his subpena . In refusing the attorney 's request to show the subpena , Kornfeder said : " My home address is on it . It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your goons there . " Sacher replied by calling Kornfader a " stool pigeon " and " police spy . " " I consider it an honor to work for the United States government , not for Stalin  --  that 's your job , " Kornfeder retorted . When the witness finally produced the subpena upon the request of Presiding Inspector Arthur Phelan , Sacher contended that threats of violence had been made by telephone to him and his wife . " Well , if that 's so I want to get this into the record , " said Government Prosecutor John P. Boyd . " Witnesses have to carry firearms In order to protect themselves as government witnesses . " Reds Paid for Trip Kornfeder listed the numerous offices he held in the Communist party from its formation in 1919 until he left it in 1934 . He said he was a member of the Anglo-American secretariat of the Communist Internationale when he went to Moscow in 1927 to attend the Lenin school . The Moscow trip , the witness said , was paid for by the Communist party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years in Russia . At the Lenin school , which was conducted by the Communist Internationale , he was taught the theory of revolution and its practical application , Kornfeder related . Organized Combat Unit " Part of the , teachings . " he said , " were the necessity of overthrowing all capitalist governments by the organization in its final stages1 of armed insurrection . " " Did the Communist party of the United States teach the overthrow of the government of the United States while you were a member al the party ? " the prosecutor asked . ' " Yes , " Kornfeder replied , and added that his answer was based on his experience as a high official of the party and his teachings at the Moscow school . 