@@709675

txt Acting on instructions announced by Secretary Byrnes after his return from Paris , General , American commander in Germany , has now submitted to the Allied Control Council in Berlin the American plan for the administrative and economic unification of Germany . This plan calls for the fulfillment of the Potsdam Agreement , which , in turn , provided that ( pending the creation of a German Government and the final peace settlement ) Germany should be treated as a single economic unit ; though decentralized politically and economically , nevertheless " certain essential central German administrative departments , headed by State Secretaries , shall be established , particularly in the fields of finance , transport , communications , foreign trade and industry , " to act under direction of the Control Council , The Potsdam Agreement , by which the victors abolished German sovereignty and transferred it to themselves , is at present the only German Constitution there is . It is , also the fundamental legal basis for Allied cooperation in both Germany and Europe , where all world problems meet . Despite this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by France , who have pursued their own separate policies in their own occupation zones without regard to either the qualified unification agreed upon at Potsdam or the interests of the other zones and the Powers occupying them . The importance of the American move lies in the fact that it now calls for a showdown on this situation . What it does in effect is to serve notice that the Potsdam Agreement will either be enforced as a whole or not be enforced at all . And the consequences of the Allied answer on that point are likely to be even more important , for better or for worse , than the peripheral peace treaties with Germany 's satellites to be considered by the peace conference next week . The American plan is modest enough in its terms . It proposes to join the American occupation zone with any or all of the other zones  --  British , French and Russian  --  to form a single eco- ; nomic unit . It does so because , as General said , " Germany can no longer be administered in four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to result . " Such economic paralysis would not only mean the economic collapse of Germany , and therewith the collapse of our efforts to bring her back to democracy . It would also threaten economic paralysis throughout Europe , and an increased drain on the American and British resources , already subjected to a loss exceeding half a billion dollars a year . In principle , the , American proposal has already been accepted by Britain , France and Russia . Indeed , Russia has proclaimed herself as the great champion of German unification . But only Britain has thus far made serious efforts to reach agreement on putting the American plan into effect . Our move is thus a test of Russian and French intentions , and we must hope that agreement on it can be reached . For refusal would mean the division of Germany into rival sections , each of which would have to do its utmost to achieve self-support . This would not only put an end to reparations , including coal deliveries to France ; it would also invite the reindustrialization of western Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food . That would mean not only the violation of all the pledges of the victors , but also the end of One World , the definite splitting up of Europe and an inevitable rivalry among the Powers for the pieces . It is difficult to see what France , and in the long run even Russia , would gain from this .                     