@@708301

txt A report has been made public by the War Contracts subcommittee of the Senate Military Affairs Committee proposing a new kind of Federal budget , a " job budget . " The whole document is instructive because it accepts nearly all the popular economic slogans that have lately been drifting about in the air , and attempts to enact them all together in a single bill . The report pays generous lip service to the encouragement of free private enterprise , but what the subcommittee does not seem to recognize is that the proposal it puts forward would in fact involve a completely planned economy . This necessarily follows from any " guarantee " by the Government of " full employment . " It necessarily follows also when a Government seeks to attain specific preconceived goals of national income and employment . As for the preconceived goals themselves , there are the strongest reasons for thinking that the " 60,000,000 job " slogan is unrealistic ; but the attempt to achieve it could be made the excuse for endless governmental spending . I Nothing could be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advance , as the committee thinks it should , at a preconceived figure of national income . Under the proposed " job budget " the President would be directed to prepare estimates of the number of jobs needed in the following fiscal year or years , the " dollar volume of gross national product , " the price level , the private volume of investment and consumer expenditures , State and local expenditures , the volume of Federal Government expenditures needed to supplement these to supply the preconceived number of jobs , and so on . All this reflects the current faith in the magic of " official estimates . " But it must be pointed out in candor that these estimates would be little better than guesses , often mere stabs in the dark . The past record of the Government in this respect ought to be a little sobering . To cite only one of scores of such miscalculations in recent years , on May 6 , 1942 . Leon Henderson , then Price Administrator , predicted that " in the next twelve to fifteen months we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the low of all lows during the depression . " It would be hard to find a prediction wider of the mark . So far from being able to predict what private industry is going to do , or what State and local expenditures are going to be , our Federal Government has difficulty enough in figuring its own expenditures , even a year ahead . Thus , even in peacetimes , Government expenditures in the fiscal year 1935 were 14 per cent greater than the President 's budget estimate ; in the 1937 fiscal year they were 30 per cent greater ; in 1938 they were 32 per cent greater ; in 1939 , 27 per cent greater . If the Federal Government , in peacetime , can not accurately forecast even the expenditures within its own control , how much accuracy or helpfulness can we expect from it in the estimate of private expenditures ? Instead of trying to estimate and plan all private industry , it would be far better if the Federal Government would try to do well what it has hitherto done so incompetently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require the adoption of a true executive budget system such as the British have , instead of the mere pretense of such a budget system under which we have been operating . The most useful part of the subcommittee 's present report , in fact , lies in its recognition that " there is no single body within either house of the Congress which considers , in a comprehensive manner , the general contents of the President 's regular Budget Message . " The most dangerous aspect of the present report is its basic assumption that all unemployment , regardless of its cause , can be cured by pouring more Government money into the spending stream . But today this is like trying to put out a fire with gasoline . For the greatest single economic problem that will face Governments everywhere after the war will be to prevent an uncontrolled inflation . This can only be done by reducing their expenditures and trying to restore budgets to balance by courageous tax policies that will still permit private enterprise to function . When the great threat is inflation , these planners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The real problem , in brief , is the precise opposite of what their plans assume it to be .                     