@@708965

txt Letters to The Times Moderation in Japan Urged Publisher Regards Stern Policy as a Mistake on Our Part To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Part of this letter was written immediately after the publication of your editorial of Sept. 11 , " Allied Policy in Japan . " Still more of it was written after your editorial of Sept. 13 , ' ' Cleaning Up Japan . " It is now written for a third time after reading your editorial of Sept. 20 , " Re-education of Japan . " It is so distressing to me to see the one great paper that stands so consistently for the intelligent moderation of a high moral standard advocate policies that can only add to the burdens and disillusionment of our people that I am writing this letter . Moreover , your editorials deal with a subject on which I have a written record of being pretty well informed , On Nov. 28 , 1941 , I printed an editorial warning about the certainty of a Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor . In April , 1945 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Japan in this year and forecasting exactly the way the surrender was brought about . Witnessed Occupation and Surrender I have just returned from spending two months with the Third Fleet , and I was an eyewitness to the initial Japanese occupation and official surrender . Because I am more concerned about the fate of civilization than anything else , I am asking you to review the policy you now advocate in connection with Japan . It compares so much with the " radical " policy adopted by enraged people of the North following the War Between the Slates . Is there anyone today who will question the harm that policy did ? Those who advocated the stern policy against the South are either loathed or forgotten , while the one man who stood for moderation , Abraham Lincoln , is loved and respected in the South as well as in the North . You explain the necessity of curbing the role of Shintoism as a religion in Japan . Since the time of the first pharaohs religions have thrived upon the blood of martyrs . We . shall he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force the religion in any country . Question of Policy You say we can not pursue one policy in Europe and another in Japan ; that our policy in Japan falls short of the severity we have used in Germany and even in Italy . Japan surrendered in response to our call . Germany refused to surrender and fought to the point of distintegration . You insist that the present arrangement whereby the imperial authority is imposed by General is wrong . You recommend that we put in a far-reaching military government such as we have in Germany that displaces the existing civil government Japansurrendered with her government intact . In Japan civilian groups risked their lives in persuading ' the Emperor to sign the surrender . In Japan , the army , the navy and the entire people have been obeying . Our occupation has proceeded peacefully with comparatively few troops . In Italy only a portion of the people obeyed . We had to fight a long , bloody campaign . You say there is no plan or attempt to re-educate the Japanese people and to encourage democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attempting to " re-educate " the Japanese people . Let . us not make the false assumption that a democratic society is a peaceful society ; that democratic people are peace loving people . Such hopes switch us off on the wrong track . We simply must wake up to the unpleasant fact . that we face a permanent military job , or call it a fire department job , in the Orient and in keeping Japan disarmed . No matter what kind of society Japan has it will remain disarmed only as long as we impose disarmament . Near-By Force Recommended That does not mean that we have to occupy the main islands of Japan permanently . It means that we must thoroughly disarm Japan and then maintain a combat team in a near-by place , like Okinawa , to use in case Japan starts rearming . Of course , such organizations as the Japanese General Staff , the Black Dragon Society and many other chauvinistic political organizations must he disbanded . They can be disbanded only by our firmly expressed intention to use force against their reorganization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own sake we should avoid discrediting those civilians who risked their lives to secure the surrender and who today are securing the prompt obedience of all the people through General 's orders to the Emperor . Just a word from the Emperor to the Japanese people ordering them to resist to the bitter end and there would have been at least another year of war . And God alone knows what that additional year , with its transcending destruction , would have meant to civilization . Assassinations Caused War When we are inclined to distrust many of those civilians who happen to have been a part of the recent Government in Japan , let us not forget the assassinations of 1936 . Those Cabinet members were assassinated or wounded because they were considered too " peace loving . " Many are the civilians , fine , honorable men , who were intimidated by those assassinations . Let us help them instead of hindering them now . This same thing goes for many of the industrialists who had to go along in the war . I know many of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose word is just as good as that of anybody in the world . And they took advantage of the first opening they had to bring an end to the war . Still another factor is involved in the course you recommend . It answers the prayers of those who seem to gloat in the fomenting of racial hatred . As one who has been on the spot with the Third Fleet and with the armed forces in the western Pacific , I can say that what you recommend is exactly what those who champion race hatred want . Can we turn that hatred off and on like a water faucet and confine It to one race ? I do n't think so . Points to Consider Permit me to make just a few direct points that we must consider as a part of the consequences of this great victory we have won . I. There are still more than 70,000 , - 000 Japanese living in an area not as large as California . How they will he able . to live is of direct concern to us . Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " forget . that we fought a war because we insisted that what the Japanese did was some of our business . 2 . No temporary harshness , as dletinguished from firmness , will relieve us of our future responsibility in the Pacific . So many who advocate an extreme policy seem to think it will relieve us of future responsibility . 3 . Instead of arousing false hopes by specious plans of reforming the Japanese people , let us frankly admit that . we face a permanent military task in the Orient as a result of winning this war . 4 . Let us keep honor rather than expediency as a guiding star . That , it took a. soldier like General , who by his deeds has won the right , to speak , first to use the word " honor " as a guiding principle is a glorious tribute to the moral standards of our old Army ideals . It is , however , a sad reflection on us civilians . Without honor there can he no civilization fit to live in . Wherever honer may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MATnEws , Edit or and Publisher , The Arizona Daily Star . Tucson , Ariz. , Sept. 24 , 1945 . Editorial comment On this letter appears clsewherr rot this page . Senator Connally Is Chided His Remarks 10 Miss Strauss Arouse Indignation and Mirth To TIE EDITOR or THE New Theis Tim vs : I. am divided between rage and helpless laughter after reading the . article in Tur TIMES of Sept. 27 , " Woman Is Rebuked on Senate ' Insult . ' " So Senator Connally upbraided Miss Anna Lord Strauss , president of the National League of Women Voters , at a Judiciary Committee hearing on the two-thirds treaty rule , and for whet ? Miss Strauss had said that some Senators had voted against . treaties " presented by the Opposite party regardless of the merits of the treaty . " No wonder Miss Strauss vas " a bit flustered . " Otherwise she could have answered Mr. Connally 's " Name one " with " Henry Cabot Lodge , " with perfect truth and without offense to the august gentlemen present .. But Senator Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're coining up with a statement that we 're all a , bunch of crooks . " That Miss Strauss had said no such thing did not interfere with the Senator 's oratory . He . reached his peak when he accused her of " bulldozing . " There must have been a good many handkerchiefs stuffed into mouths and a lot . of choking noises in the audience at . that point . Can you see the picture ? Big Senator Connally , his long hair flying , shaking his finger and roaring " Bulldozer ! " at the stn riled woman . Who 's a bulldozer ? I hope Senator Connally will apologize to Miss Strauss . When I saw them together on the platform at the twenty-fifth anniversary celebration of the League of Women Voters all was sweetness and light . It . would be sad to see the end of a beautiful friendship . MARV DUERR . New York , Sept. 28 , 1945 . Columbia 's Acting President To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES editorial on the change to President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made in referring to me as now " acting president of Columbia . " No acting president of Columbia has yet been appointed since none has been needed . At their regular October meeting Monday the trustees of Columbia University will doubtless appoint an acting president . The error apparently came from a misunderstanding of the rule of the university that in the absence or disability of the president the dean of the graduate faculties , if he is available , serves as acting president until the trustees have opportunity to take action . GEORGE . B. PEGRAM , New York , Sept. 30 , 1945.                     