@@709502

txt The chairmen of the senate and the house navy committees stepped into the armynavy merger argument today with a statement Sen. Ni'alsb that " congress will not approve " a plan for a single department . In a letter to vi " ' " " . Navy Secretary Forrestal , Sen. Walsh D. , Mass. and Rep. Vinson D. , Ga. advised Forrestal against entering " any compromise ' with War Secretary Patterson in conflict with their views . President Truman recently directed his war and navy cabinet members to iron out their differences over unification of the forces . This action came after the senate military committee recommended senate passage of a bill that would abolish the present war and navy departments and set up one new- department with land , sea , and air branches . " Major Defects " Listed Forrestal and all other navy leaders have continued to oppose the plan during recent hearings by the senate naval affairs committee . After listing eight " major defects " of this bill , the congressional navy leaders told Forrestal at three places in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe the bill accentuates the differences between the services , " the latter said . " Its enactment would not heal the breach which now exists . Instead , it would widen the breach since naval officers are firmly convinced , as a result of their recent war experiences , that naval aviation and amphibious operations played a great part in winning the war . They are also convinced that in the foresee- ! able future naval aviation and amphibious forces will play a major role in preventing any potential enemy from bringing war to our shores . " Concede " Some Weakness " Conceding that " some weaknesses in our defense organization were revealed during the war , " Walsh and Vinson said these could " be corrected without completely disorganizing the defense structure which was so successful in bringing the war to a favorable conclusion . " They said the army and the navy are in agreement on nine points I that could be put into immediate , effect by legislation , and listed ' these as : 1 . Organized means for the integration of foreign and military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobilization and for reconciling such mobilization with natural resources . 3 . An organization to insure both sound strategic planning and unified command in operations . 4 . A more efficient organization for the translation of strategic requirements into requirements for material and personnel . 5 . Adequate means for the elimination of waste and duplication in and between the military depart . ments in the procurement and distribution of material and personnel . 6 . An efficient coordinated intelligence organization serving all government departments and agencies . 7 . An organized means for fostering scientific research and development within the military departments and among civilian organizations . 8 . A possible closer integration of military education and training . 9 . Full opportunity of each branch of the military services to develop its specialty and at the same time facilitate inter-service training and operational unity when employed jointly . Points of Disagreement The navy chairmen said congress would not approve legislation that included these five points , on which they said the army and navy disagree : 1 . A single department of common ' defense with a single secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single military officer in supreme command of all the forces . 3 . Divesting the marine corps of its function of maintaining a fleet marine force to support fleet operations . 4 . Transferring functions of naval aviation to the army air forces or to a separate air corps. 5 . Removing from the war secretary and the navy secretary responsibility for initiating the budget of their respective departments and supporting these budgets before congress . Proposals for a separate air force , including a new department with cabinet representation , were passed over with a warning that this should not touch naval or marine aviation . 