@@706622

txt Hudson county police forcibly barred five new members of the Hudson county tax board from entering their offices in the Jersey City court-1 house today in the latest phase of a bitter Democratic party feud between1 Gov . Charles Edison and Mayor Frankl I am the Law Hague of Jersey City . The new members were appointed Yesterday by Gov . Edison and confirmed by the state senate after the governor had ousted the old board , which was favorable to Mayor Hague , on charges of dereliction of duty . Under Boss Hague 's rule , the tax rate for Jersey City is one of the highest In the country for a city of its size . Police Block Entrance . After being sworn in by Judge James R. Erwin in a nearby courtroom , the new appointees immediately appeared at their courthouse offices . They found the doorway blocked by four county police officers under the command of Chief Patrick Dolan . " You ca n't go in , " announced the chief , pushing back the first member to approach , while a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enter and each was repulsed . " Do you know , " Commissioner Leo Rosenblum asked Dolan , " that the members of the Hudson county tax board are state officers and not subject to control of the county police ? " Called " Matter for Courts . " The chief replied that he was " not answering any questions . " He said he was acting on the orders of J. Emil Waischeid , county counsel , w h o watched the proceedings from behind a crowd of 50 persons . Waischeld 's only comment was that " all this is unnecessary as it is a matter for the courts . " " This is the first time In the history of the state , " an aid of the.governor said , " when a state agency has been barred from functioning by city and county officials . " More violent opponents of Democratic Boss Hague urged the governor to counter this show of force by ordering the state police to conduct the new tax commissioners past the county police guard . However it was said at the governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , that Edison almost certainly would go to the courts instead of using force . Old Board Accused . In discharging the old county tax board , Gov . Edison charged the members with wilful disregard of their lawful responsibilities . He said they had used different bases for assessing property and had discriminated between taxpayers on appeal . The governor declared he had found that in five all day hearings , at which the tax board members refused to appear , they " frequently had acted upon the orders of and as directed by the officials of Jersey City , and thereby abdicated to those officials the board 's power and duty to see that property in that city is properly assessed . " 