@@707498

txt The Republican Party is heading for trouble . . Despite surface harmony , within the top ranks of the national Orr ganization , and despite the soothing trend of recent . election re , turns , serious diSsensiOn over . policy and prospective presidential candidates .. can not and , it can . be said authoritatively ; will not be concealed much longer . , The main source of disagreement within the Party is the behind-the-scene maneuvering which appears directed toward putting over a hand-picked candidate on the nominating : convention a la Harding in 1920 . The charges that forces behind the G. 0 . P. organization are more concerned with smart political manipulation than with picking a nominee who will represent the real choice of Republican voters are definitely going to be brought out into the open . They will , in fact , be given a vigorous , public airing this week end as the members of the Republican National . Committee gather in Chicago to decide the date and place of the National Convention . From Republican Mainstay The occasion for this explosion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. Wills of Vermont will deliver Saturday night , on the eve of the Chicago meeting , and which  --  will offer the country  --  and the Party  --  some exceedingly plain talk by a head of a State which has elected a Republican Governor , a Republican Senator and a Republican Representative-ever since Republicanism ' came into being . ' The clue to the outspoken and . nne can fairly suggest .. combustible ' - content C.V. , : Governor Wills ' speech is the sensational title which he himself has given it : " Will the Repdblicari Party Commit Suicide in 1944 ? " Mr. Wills , one of ' the forceful figures among the increasingly influential group of G. 0 . P. Governors , has for - some-  time been asking this question of his Republican organization colleagues , and it seems evident that the answer which some of them have been giving has been far from satisfactory or reassuring to him . In consequence , Governor Wills is now going ' lc ask this same pointed question of Republican voters and potential voters throughout the country and thus take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the living room . It seems apparent that the purpose which Governor Wills has in mind is to bring into the open , for view and criticism , the back-stage candidate-manipulating which looks to him and others like a plan to thwart a free choice of the nominee at the National Convention . With this purpose in mind , those who know Governor Wills are safely assuming that he is not going to bring this disturbing issue a little out into the open , but plainly and bluntly out into the open ; that he is not going to hint at his views but is going to spell them out in terms which will be more candid than subtle . The political impact of Governor Wills ' speech can not be fully calculated in advance , but since he has let it be known that he is going to bring from under cover one of the burning inner-party controversies , there is no doubt that in order to do so he will : 1 . Prick the bubble of what he considers the rosy Republican dream that the G. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old platform in 1944. 2 . Put the spotlight on the ganging-up methods which , in the Governor 's view are already being put into motion to impose a smoke-filled room choice on a pre-arranged convention . 3 . Name the names of the G. 0 . P. politicians who are alleged to be the principal manipulators of this scheme . GrOvernors Hold Balance of Power 4 . Stress the potential political power which the 28 Republican Governors throughout the country are capable of exercising , with the clear implication that they will constitute a practically united bloc against advance jockeying of delegate strength to rig the convention either for or against a particular candidate . 5 . Offer the country and the party a particularly outspoken analysis of the available Republican presidential timber . Governor Wills has nottlisclosed how fully he will , declare his own support of a particular candidate at this time , although he is not one to be vague . However , everyone familiar with politics recognizes that the criticisms of party maneuvering which he is known to believe gravely endanger G. 0 . P. prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made by various backers of Wendell L. Willkie . But wherever the Vermont Governor throws his support , the oratorical bomb which he has ready for the air waves this Saturday evening is.certain to cause ? an explosion in the ranks of Republican organization leaders. ,                     