@@708057

txt The research committee of the Committee for Economic Development , a private organization composed mainly of leaders in business and industry , has brought forward a proposed postwar tax plan that deserves-the most serious study . In many ways it is an outstanding contribution to the subject . It is , to begin with , remarkably disinterested , drafted primarily not from the standpoint of " business " but from that of the national welfare as a whole . It rests on sound basic principles : First , " the tax system must impose the least possible restriction upon an expansion of production and employment " ; second , " taxes should be fair among persons , " and third , " taxes must be adequate . " While most persons would accept these basic principles , they lead to some important conclusions that were not embodied in our tax laws before the war . " We must see that enough revenue is raised , in order to Instill justifiable confidence in the integrity of the Federal Government , in the soundness of the dollar , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , * * * This committee is convinced that the fifteen years of uninterrupted Federal deficits should be brought to an end after the war . " The committee believes that heavy taxation of corporate earnings is extremely and peculiarly damaging to employment , because it takes vital and enormous funds out of the stream of business operations just when they are most likely to be used and where they can most effectually be used to increase production and create more jobs . It proposes , in order to avoid double taxation , that the post-war tax rate on corporate earnings be no more nor less than the normal rate on individual incomes ( which the committee places at from 16 to 20 per cent ) , and that this tax be regarded as a tax withheld by . the corporation on behalf of its stockholders . The committee 's aim is a tax system under which all corporate earnings would come finally to be subjected to taxes just as heavy and no heavier than is placed upon all other types of personal income . Among some of the important proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow all business to carry forward losses and apply them against subsequent earnings for a period of six years , and to adopt some incomeaveraging device to remove the inequity suffered by individuals who , for one reason or another , have fluctuating incomes from year to year . On so complex and controversial a subject as taxes , questions will necessarily be raised concerning some of the committee 's premises and proposals . A $140,000,000,000 average national income ( at 1943 prices ) in the years immediately after the war , while possible , seems unduly optimistic as a basis for . calculations . While a strong case in logic and in equity can be made for the method proposed by the committee for harmonizing- corporation and personal income taxation , it has the disadvantage , which members of the committee themselves recognize , that it may raise the question once more of penalty taxes on undistributed profits to prevent " undue " accumulations . Yet it is almost impossible to frame a legal definition of these that would be fair to all corporations and not discouragelmaximum industrial expansion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be made for the committee's. proposal eventually to treat capital gains and losses like other income , provided the taxpayer can average out this income as well as his gains and losses , the proposal involves administrative complications and would increase the violence of fluctuations in Government revenues . The committee 's plan too lightly puts , aside the case for sales taxes and even for many existing excise taxes . Most of the arguments used against these would be valid only if they were being proposed in isolation and not , as they are , simply as an integral part of a total tax system including heavy progressive income taxes . The question may be-raised , indeed , whether the C. E. D. plan would not exempt from direct and even substantial indirect taxation too large a pro- portion of the country 's income and voters . Out of its expected U40,000 , - 000,000 national income the plan contemplates that the major part , $77,600 , - 000,000 , will consist of personal income not paying any tax at all . This would place an excessive economic burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the same time as it would tend politically to encourage expenditures rather than economies . But all these questions and possible reservations merely point to the great inherent difficulties in the problem with which the C. E. D. research committee has attempted to grapple . The plan marks a definite contribution to the subject . We are likely to have a much better post-war tax plan than would have been possible if this and other thoughtful private studies had not been made .                     