@@710184

txt BIIITAIN TO FIX TIME TO CUT INDIA LOOSE Attempt to Break Impasse by Affirming Independence in About One Year By HERBERT L. MATTHEWS 1 - special to Tar NEW Yoait Timms . LONDON , Feb. ** indications tonight are that Britain is about to cut the Gordian knot of India and break loose from her great eastern empire as she is now breaking loose from Palestine . And Britain is apparently prepared to set a definite time limit for the process . Parliament will be notified of an extremely important decision with regard to India on Thursday or Fri1 day . Barring a last minute change in plans it means handing India back to the Indians , once and for all . This does not mean that any very sudden withdrawal is to be expected any more than Britain could shake loose from her Palestinian mandate without going through a complicated process extending over a certain length of time . It does mean , however , that the Labor Government is determined to place before all Indians  --  Hindus , Moslems and Princes  --  the ineluctable fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thatl when the British delegates stated last May that Britain was prepared to grant independence to India they meant what they said . Indian Parties at Odds Hindus and Moslems remain thoroughly at odds . As things stand now , Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru , on behalf of the Congress party , has asked the Viceroy to expel the Moslem League members from the Interim-Government . The Moslem Leaguers , on the other hand , in their Karachi resolution of Jan. 31 accused the Congress party of seeking to break the terms of the British Cabinet mission 's plan of May 16 , 1946 . As is always the way , both sides are appealing to the British in the hope of forcing the Government to come down on one side // or the other . They will be disappointed . The British do not propose to hand the baby to either one , nor will they , like Solomon , threaten to cut it into two by setting up a Hindustan and a Moslem Pakistan . They will stand by their original plan of last May , because they feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and orderly transfer of power to Indian hands . Moreover , they do not see any alternative to it . The British Government is still convinced  --  as it stated on Dec. 6 after abortive conversations with , Indians in London  --  that there is no hope for any Indian Consituent Assembly except ont he basis of agreed procedure between Hindus and Moslems . They also continue to feel that they can not be expected to force any solution upon India that would be against the wishes of either of the major communities , Hindu or Moslem . This , in short , means that Britain has no intention of turning India over to the Congress party , with its predominantly Hindu composition . However , the conviction has been growing here that one overriding factor is bedeviling the whole effort at a solution . This is the persistence , in spite of everything , of Indian distrust and Indian unwillingness to believe or concede that when the British said that they intended to grant Indian independence they really meant it . The British Cabinet met this morning and made its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commons by Prime Minister Attlee and to the House of Lords by Lord Pethick Lawrence , 1 Secretary of State for India , on , Thursday or at the latest on Friday . The details of this announce-I ment remain secret , but its general tenor seems clear enough . It will start from the premise that so long as Indians lack positive evidence that Britain intends to hand responsibility over to the Indians they will not either put their faith in British good-will or themselves face the almost overwhelming fact that it is really up to them to get together and settle the future of their country . Consequently it can be expected that the Labor Government will ' set a time limit for the British withdrawal from India and for the end of the Viceroy 's powers . At a guess one might say that this limit will be one year , more or less . There has always been a school of thought here that contends that so long as either community in India believes it has a chance of getting exclusive British backing , or even playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can happen . Once faced with the great responsibility of settling their own , fate , it is felt that the Indians will have to get together , or , as a last resort . fight it out among themselves . This last is a solution that the British , of course , would hate to see . All this will be set forth . in a Government statement or White Paper . If all goes well the Indian Interim Government will continue , the Constituent Assembly will meet again in April , with both the Congress party and the Moslem League represented , and the British , sometime after that , will withdraw once and for all from their Indian Empire .                     