@@705133

txt Strong satisfaction is being felt at the State Department today over word that France is determined to preserve a measure of freedom before German demands and that Vichy will not , for the time being at least , permit the Axis to use French colonies as bases of operation against Great Britain . Speaking unofficially , Department officials said that yesterday 's note to President Roosevelt from Profiler Henri-Philippe P ? tain of France assured this country that France would not go to war against Britain , that its fleet would remain inactive and that French colonial bases in all parts of the world would continue to be closed to both the Axis Powers and Britain . It is learned that the Petam reply met satisfactorily most of the points raised by President Roosevelt in his recent , personal note to the head of the French Vichy regime . In that note the President is said to have told Vichy in blunt terms that any further French co-operation with Germany would cause that country to forfeit American friendship , that it might cause a rupture of Franco-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to establish control over all French new-world possessions . Verifies Earlier Report This word from State Department sources corroborates a story printed a week ago in The Christian Science Monitor declaring authoritatively that Vichy had refused to accede to German demands for military co-operation against Britain and that any French co-operation with'the Axis at this time would be limited to economic matters . Although officials here admit that they . are in the dark as to the exact amount of understanding now existing between Vichy and Rome-Berlin , there is a tendency here to view the President 's note to Premier Petain as a contributing factor to the French refusal to surrender further to Germany at this time . This interpretation is strengthened by the admission of French officials both here and in France that the latter wishes to do everything in its Italy Risks Africa In War on Greece Has Italy " lost Africa " by attacking Greece The effect of the Halo-Greek campaign upon Italy 's operations in Egypt may be more far-reaching than developments have yet disclosed . By giving the British navy the opportunity to sieze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers in their North African campaign . A Christian Science Monitor correspondent in Cairo surveys the new aspects of Eastern Mediterranean strategy : Page 4. power to maintain its traditional friendship with the United States . One version of the POtain note says that it contains an appeal for American friendship , inspired , it is said , by a realization in Vichy that France is facing a hard winter and that the United States is one of the few nations capable of extending it any significant aid  --  perhaps through an agreement with Britain for shipment into France of foodstuffs. ? France a Prostrate Foe For saint-. time , the French Ambassador in Washington , Gaston Henri-Haye , has made it clear that France , although obviously subject to pressure from Berlin , has made every effort to preserve as much independence of movement and decision as in compatible with the Franco-German armistice . M. Henri-Haye on several occasions is reported to have assured Secretary of State Cordell Hull that France 's position toward Germany is that of a prostrate foe rather than of a satellite or a collaborator . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here recall that a considerable number of American warships and seaplanes are now known to be cruising in the immediate vicinity of the French West Indian Islands of Martinique and Guadaloupe and that this could hardly be the result of coincidence . The American naval and air de- Minister Winston Churchill , in his first statement to the house of Commons since Italy invaded Greece , today pledged Britain 's " utmost " aid to the little kingdom and called upon his own Nation to look forward to " the campaigns of 1943 and 1944 . " He placed the British fatalities from air raids at 14,000 civilians and " scarcely 300 soldiers " and said Britain had more to fear from mounting ship sinkings by submarines than from the air siege . Reviewing the war position , Mr , Churchill made the following main points : 1 . A naval and air base has been established in Crete and " I can only say now we shall do our best . " 2 . Rise in U-boat sinkings is " more serious than air raids " and the inability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " upon the Navy . 3 . The 50 United States destroyers are coming , into service " when most needed " and merchant tonnage is still " very nearly " what iV was at the outbreak of war . Britain Left Alone 4 . " Unhappily " the Vichy Government is engaged in " sincere and loyal collaboration with Hitler " and Britain is " therefore left alone . " 5 . Vigilance has changed the invasion danger to the " invasion scare . " 6 . Although sea and air are the main elements of war effort , " we must have a strong Army to avoid a disastrous stalemate . " 7 . On the home front and in the Mediterranean " we are far better off " than could be pre. - dieted four or five months ago . The Prime Minister called the ratio of one British casualty to each 20 Italians in North Africa " a good augury for the greater battles which certainly will develop , if not in the winter , certainly in the spring . " Harder Raids on Italy In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Italian cities and bases in South Italy " will continue on an ever-growing scale . " German air raids have done " very little " damage to British munitions and aircraft production and no utility in the gi eat cities " has broken down , " although transport has been " a greater difficulty , " Mr Churchill declared . He said shelters are being " multiplied and improved . " Germany 's failure to invade " when we stood alone " consti- I Lutes " one of the historic victories i of British Isles  --  and is a monumental milestone of our forward march , ! Mr. Churchill declared . The Prime , Minister said the weekly average casualties in September was , 4,500 and in October 2,500 , but the Royal Air Force was destroying . " three enemy machines " to : each British loss and the enemy was losing from six to ten pilots , to one for . Britain . Looks to 1943 and 1944 Air power , " the Indispensable precursor of victory , " and sea powert.which will move " considerable armies " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I personally , have no doubt whatever that we shall make our way through all right . " Britain 's large Army , " improved in equipment and training , " must be " constantly imbued with a spirit of co'interattack , " he added , and nothing be done to " retard or impair " its development . For what it lacks in numbers compared with " Nazi or Fascist hosts " it must make up in " quality and equipment , " Mr. Churchill asserted . Britain has 1,700,000 men in the Home Guard , " all of whom will be in uniform by the end of the year " and nearly a million have rifles and machine guns , he announced . Foreign Secretary Viscount in a similar war review to the House of Lords , said Germany 's " recently redoubled efforts to starve us into surrender " would fail , that Britain has made " the cause of Greece our own " and that " Turkey constitutes a very solid barrier against aggression . " 