@@704725

txt WASHINGTON , May 10 ? President Roosevelt twice today condemned Germany 's invasion of Belgium , Holland and Luxembourg as an unwarranted aggression on neutral countries and as threatening the cultural and scientific civilization of the world . Speaking indirectly but with obvious reference to developments of the past twentyfour hours , the Chief Executive pictured Nazi aggression as a definite threat to the security of the Americas . On both occasions the President impressed his determination to keep America at peace and safeguard the nation 's neutrality . But each time he raised a question whether the country could long stand idly by " if all the other continents embrace by preference or by compulsion a wholly different principle of life . " As a self-styled " pacifist , " in common with citizens of the twentyone American republics , President Roosevelt told the eighth American Scientific Congress in an internationally broadcast address that the time had come to apply commonsense principles to the situation now confronting the Americas . After emphasizing the pacific instincts of all Western Hemisphere republics , he said : " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you and I , in the long run and if it be necessary , you and I will act together to protect , to defend by every means , to protect and defend our science , our culture , our American freedom and our civilization . " At his regular press conference earlier in the day the President gave his full endorsement to last night 's proclamation by Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands condemning Germany 's invasion of Dutch neutrality . At the same time he notified the nation the ' there was no reason to believe this nation was any closer to involvement In the European struggle as a result of Germany 's unprovoked aggression against the low countries . Weary from loss of sleep last night and the strain of intermittent telephone conversations with American diplomatic representatives in the war zone , the President faced his press conference with grim countenance . Expressing his " full sympathy " with the " flaming protest " of Queen Wilhelmina against the Nazi violation of Dutch neutrality , the into the conflict . Reporters doing so would be writing themselves out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Pointing out that " this very day three more independent nations have been cruelly invaded by force of arms , " the Chief Executive declared in his address before the scientific congress tonight that the American people were shocked " and angered by the tragic news from Belgium and the Netherlands and Luxembourg . " Mr. Roosevelt told the scientists that the continuance of the series of attacks of " conquest and war and bloodshed " in so many places during these later years presented " a definite challenge to the continuance of the type of civilization to which all of us in the three Americas have been accustomed . " " We , and most of the people in the world , believe in a civilization of construction and not of destruction , " the President declared . " We , and most of the people in the world , believe that men and women have an inherent right to hew out the patterns of their own individual lives , just so long as they as indi-. viduals do not harm their fellow beings . We call this by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual liberty , we call it civil liverty , we call it democracy . " Mr. Roosevelt contrasted the courses of life in the democracies and in the totalitarian States . The peoples of the Americas are taking part in a great and exciting adventure , " building human progress by conquering disease and poverty and discomfort , and by improving science and culture , removworld , teachers and scholars are not permitted to search for truth lest the truth when made known might not suit the designs of their masters , " he continued . Because truth might make men free , teachers and scholars become " objects sive White House activity . Between fifteen-minute meetings with diplomatic representatives of Belgium , the Netherlands and Denmark the Chief Executive found time to sign an executive order " freezing " more than $1,000,000,000 of commercial balances and liquid investments by the three countries . The President also gave his pertion to consider whether it would be necessary to hold Congress in session beyond the scheduled adjournment in June . President Roosevelt , in a letter to Secretary Hull published in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , states that some nations have spurned the path to peace and prosperity held open to all by science and still cling to " archaic standards of human conduct " that were prevalent before the dawn of science . " The path of the scientist and the scholar , " the President wrote , " is the path to peace and prosperity which lies open to all nations and all peoples but which unfortunately has recently been spurned by some who still cling to the archaic standards of human conduct prevalent before the very dawn of science . " Our debt to the men and women of science defies computation . The generous contributions which scholars and technicians have made to our twentieth-century civilization have earned for them a position of influence and respect unparalleled in any other period of the world 's history . " It is hardly necessary to delineate here the obvious benefits resulting from a meeting of these unselfish benefactors of mankind in an atmosphere of true fraternity such as the eighth American Scientific Congress offers ' . I sincerely hope that professional leaders in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share the experiences and friendship of their colleagues throughout the hemisphere . " RECORD SCIENCE MEETING Washington Congress the Largest American Gathering Special to Tee Naw Yon TIMES . WASHINGTON , May 10 ? The eighth American Scientific Congress , in which every country in North and South America is represented by official delegates designated by their governments , is the largest of its kind ever held since the first congress in Buenos Aires in 1898 . The succeeding congresses and their dates were held as follows : Montevideo , 1901 ; Rio de Janeiro , 1905 ; Santiago de Chile , 1908 ; Washington , 1915-16 ; Lima , 1924-25 , and Mexico , 1935 . Official delegates from Latin America already registered number more than 300 . and there are about 1,200 registered delegates from the United States . A total attendance of 2,500 to 3,000 is expected . The congress will conclude its scientific sessions here on Friday , May 17 . II Saturday , May 18 , will be devoted to visits to Old Point Comfort , York ; town and Colonial Williamsburg , Va. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mary . Monday , May 20 , the delegates will be guests of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia . The following day the congress will conclude with a visit to the New York World 's Fair . The congress will meet in eleven separate sections , representing the physical , biological and accial sciences . These sections will deal with the following subjects : Anthropological sciences ; biological sciences ; geological sciences ; agriculture and conservation ; public health and medicine ; physical and chemical sciences ; statistics ; history and geography ; international law , public law and jurisprudence ; economics and sociology ; education . Invitations on behalf of the President were extended by Secretary Hull several months ago to the governments of the other American republics . Leading educational institutions and scientific organizations throughout the twenty-one American republics have been invited by the organizing committee to par-ticipate , " The response to these invitations , " Secretary Hull stated , " has been most encouraging and has indicated a genuine interest in the congress on the part of the governments and of the scientific leaders throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months have projected in sharp relief the desirability of closer interAmerican cooperation in all fields of human endeavor . It is believed that the congress will afford a notable opportunity for leaders in the learned professions throughout all of the twenty-one American republics to reinforce their bonds of friendship and to experience a clearer realization of the practical value of inter-American collaboration in peacetime scientific endeavors. "                     