@@711381

txt PHILADELPHIA , July 10 ? An angry and divided California delegation to the Democratic National Convention avoided a direct showdown today both on whether it would ' support President Truman on the first ballot or ask the resignation of James Roosevelt as national committeeman for his part in the " Stop Truman " movement . The motion to ccemmit California 's fifty-four votes to Mr. Truman was withdrawn by its sponsor after delegates asked more time to see what happened between today and voting time . The demand for the ouster of Mr. Roosevelt , eldest son of the late President , was shelved on a 40-to-7 vote by a parliamentary maneuver to lay the question " on the table " instead of voting directly on its merits . The California group 's stormy caucus , it seemed to most observers , was a symbol in miniature of the convention as a whole . Some of its principal leaders , although instructed to vote for Mr. Truman , had been active in the move to draft Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , which collapsed with the general 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under any conditions . These leaders , including Mr. Roosevelt , are now reconciled to the inevitability of Mr. Truman 's renomination , but , with other delegates , they would welcome any development between now and Wednesday night which might offer . hope that another strong candidate would be chosen . Until then they do not want to commit the whole of their delegation to the renomination of the President . John P. of San Jose , vice chairman of the California State Committee , offered the motion demanding Mr. Roosevelt 's ouster , asserting that the latter was a " hypocrite " who had shown // " bad faith all the way through . " Mr. Roosevelt 's part in the " Stop Truman " movement was called a " damnable disgrace " by Mr. , who said that , although he and Mr. Roosevelt had been friendly in the past , he had now reached the point where he almost " despised " him . This speech touched off a debate in which tempers soared to a degree matching the temperature of the two small rooms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were crowded . Mr. Roosevelt , lounging against a radiator beside an open window , took no part in the debate on the propriety of his actions , and , on the move to shelve the demand for his resignation , announced that he " passed " when his vote was re1 quested by the chairman , John F. Shelley of San , Francisco , a lead ' ing candidate for the interim post of Secretary of Labor in President Truman 's Cabinet . Mr. protested the ac ' tions of Mr. Roosevelt , after , he said , the California delegation had been chosen on condition that it vote for Mr. Truman in the convention and return to California to work hard for his nomination . Mr. Roosevelt 's action in trying to start an Eisenhower bandwagon move , he said , had hurt Mr. Truman 's chances all over the country . California Democrats , he said , did not wish to be tied to the conservative Southerners , the Kelly-Nash machine of Chicago , or the Hague machine in New Jersey . Mr. Roosevelt 's actions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discord . " He said that he did not see how some members of the California delegation could live with their consciences . There was no clear defense made of Mr. Roosevelt , but on the motion to evade the issue for the present he won an easy victory . It would be wrong , however , to think his margin of support in the California delegation was as strong as the 40-to-7 vote would indicate , because many of Mr. Truman 's most ardent supporters wanted to avoid a further divisive influence in the party at this time . When the challenge to Mr. Roosevelt had been disposed of , William P. Malone of San Francisco , former California state chairman , proposed that the delegation record its intention to vote for Mr. Truman on the first ballot . A number of delegates , including Will Rogers Jr. , former Representative and son of the late humorist , objected , asking that no action be taken until the voting hour approached . There was an inconclusive legal wrangle as to whether the California delegates already were instructed to vote for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this pledge . Again the California tempers matched the heat of their Golden State , which would win no prizes in Philadelphia today , and again the delegates got involved in a parliamentary muddle . Finally , so the caucus could come to its weary end , Mr. Malone asked and received permission to withdraw his motion . But even that action was challenged on a point of order , which Chairman Shelley overruled . Still the debate went on after the chairman 's action was appealed from the floor . Finally he was sustained . Round Two of the battle for California . now is scheduled for Monday at 9 A. M.                     