@@707475

txt The first full story of the struggle put up by the Yugoslav Partisans under Marshal Tito against the Nazi invaders , as reported by C. L. Sulzberger in this paper yesterday , must have thrilled everyone who read it . It is an epic tale of heroism and daring , of sacrifice , suffering and death , which place it on a level with the most heroic chapters of this war  --  with El Alamein , Stalingrad and Tarawa , with the fight of the Russian guerrillas and the whole European underground , with the battle of the Warsaw Ghetto and with the struggle of Marshal Tito 's own rival , General Mikhailovitch . And it loses none of its validity because it was released after a conference between Tito 's representatives and the Allied military command at Alexandria , the full significance of which remains to be determined . Some reports declare that , contrary to previous official announcements , Tito is to be now the sole recipient of Allied aid . No political opportunism or division can detract from the valor of living men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their faith . But the story , especially in its asides , is also dramatic testimony to the tragedy that nas engulfed Yugoslavia , has spread to Greece , and threatens to plunge all European countries into fratricidal strife . For Tito and Mikhailovitch fight not only the Germans and traitorous collaborationists within their own country ; they also fight each other in a civil war in which traditional Balkans savagery and the inherent bitterness of civil strife unite to produce even greater casualties than the common enemy can inflict . It appears to be well established that both sides use " levies , " or conscription of the population for their cause , and that Tito 's Partisans in particular are addicted to a policy of exterminating all their opponents in which they indulge all the more freely because their range of operations is wider than that of Mikhailovitch . This adds , to the gruesome massacres already inflicted on the hapless population by the Germans and the collaborationist Croat Ustashis , new slaughter for which the enemy , in turn , exacts more lives from among the most substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandon a place . There is no doubt that ever since this spring the Allied Governments have been switching both aid and sympathy from Mikhailovitch to Tito . This switch is now said to be complete as a result of the Teheran conference . The reason given is that Tito 's Partisans are now far stronger and much more active than are Mikhailovitch 's Chetniks . But this raises many questions of both war and post-war policy . Mikhailovitch is War Minister in King Peter 's Government , which all the Allies still recognize . His main strength is in Serbia proper , for the 8,000,000 Serbs are fiercely loyal to their dynasty . He claims to have an army of 250,000 men ready to spring to arms to open a path for the Allied invasion , but keeps only a small nucleus for actual operations . And he confines these operations in the main to lines he can hold in conformity with Allied advice not to strike prematurely , and also to avoid German reprisals , which are especially savage against the Serbians . Tito likewise claims an army of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consists mainly of Croats and Slovenes , with only a sprinkling of Serbians and these mostly from the Croatian northwest . He gained greatly by the collapse of Italy , whose troops occupied the regions in which he operated . But it is still a question whether he got increasing Allied aid because his forces grew , or whether his forces grew because he got most of the Allied aid . In any case , all the national and ideological conflicts that plague Europe are now let loose in the country . They are likely to precipitate more bloodshed once the enemy is expelled . Since Al ' lied policies must inevitably affect the outcome of this struggle , not only Russia and Great Britain but also the United States will have to accept part of the responsibility for seeing to it that the outcome conforms to their professions .                     