@@706828

txt Britain and all the exiled Governments in London are celebrating the Allied breakthrough near El Alamein as a great victory . This means that . the British Eighth Army under General Montgomery breached the Axis line in North Africa and Mar. shal Rommel could not close it . The Nazi leader , therefore , can have no hope of reforming the present line , and his troops are in full flight to some point  --  Sidi Barrani , Halfaya Pass , or somewhere in Libya  --  where there may be a prepared pc ) ? sition . Judging from the fact that the British have captured Gen. Ritter von Thoma , leader of the German Afrika Korps , while Gen. George von Stumma , Marshal Rommel 's second in command , is known to have been killed , the prospects of retrieving the German-Italian armies in good order seems doubtful . The Italians refer to fighting in progress up to Fuka , 70 miles west of the El Alamein line . There are indications that some new British tactics took the German commander by surprise . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantry and artillery preparation , during which mine fields were cleared and the ground properly prepared . The breakthrough , when it finally came , found some of the defenses unmanned and the Nazis obviously unprepared . The fact that more than 9,000 prisoners were taken within 24 hours , with 260 tanks captured or destroyed , indicates the extent of defeat . One of the great . contributing elements to the Allied success has been command of the air . It has given the Allies freedom of reconnaissance ove ? ' the Nazi lines , while Marshal Rommel 's airmen were rigidly kept away from the Allied lines and so could not observe their movements . Moreover , the constant bombing of all supplies headed , by land or sea , for Marshal Rommel 's men has severely dislocated his plans , as also has the merciless shattering of his now fleeing forces and equipment . If German reports are true ? as they may well be  --  a British naval force has assembled at Gibraltar , There have been repeated signs of the Mediterranean Fleet operating along the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may corm be found cooperating with General Alexander in some new operation of im. portance . In the Southern Pacific , the fact that the Jamnese last Saturday landed reinforcements east of the American base on Guadalcanal in the Solomons appears not to have halted the American advance westward . The Japanese newcomers have not yet put in an appearance . Capture of ma. chine guns and two light-artillery pieces indicates the Ameri. cans are pusiung on toward the Japanese base to the west , although in jungle fighting progress is naturally slow . Similarly , in New Guinea , General 's men continue their , progress toward Buna across the narrow 120. mile waist of the east end of the island . At the same time , heavy bombers continue destructive raids against the Japanese at Buna , at Lae 175 miles farther up the island , and also at Timor to the west . In Russia , the Germans do not appear to have made any gains . Whether they are sending three or four divisions from the front to help Marshal Rommel , as reports from Athens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the moment the front seems stabilized at Stalingrad , on the Black Sea , and in the Caucasus . Rommel in Flight : British Forces Spread Havoc Across Desert Weakened by the loss of thou . sands of men captured , killed , wounded , or isolated in their desert strongpoints , the Axis Army was in full flight today across western WA.                     