@@707407

txt The people of Greece , Yugoslavia:and Spain could look forward today to a vastly improved prospect of free political choice in their own , affairs as a result of recent statements and actions emanating from London and Washington . In all three cases events of the past week indicate a new " hands-off " policy resulting from the Mosdow conference under which pressures exercised in the past in restraint of such freedom have been abandOned . Prime Minister Winston Churchill took Britain 's hands off of Greece in a statement in the Commons 3 esterdar , in which he stressed the absence of commitments to King George of Greece in the postwar period and declared the Greek people will choose the government of their preference , Previously Anglo-American policy toward Greece had taken its cue from Mr. Churchill 's recent public expressions of hope that the King of Greece would be restored to his throne . On the same day General Sir Henry Maitland-Wilson , British Commander in the Middle East , administered a arm public rebuke to Chetnik groups serving under General Mihailovic , " principally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would be branded as traitors to their country if they persisted in opposing true Yugoslavian patriots . Thus , in effect , Britain shifted its position vis-a-vis the two rival factions in Yugo - slavia from one of primary association with the Mihailovic forces to one of impartiality between the two . On the same day London an- nounced the seizure of contraband from five Spanish ships , thereby in effect joining with the State Department in Washington in taking public action against Generalissimo Franco of Spain who had , only the previous ? day , urged members of the Spanish Blue Legion to enlist in the German Army . The State Department had previously addressed a strong protest to the Spanish regime over its message of congratulation to the new Japanese puppet regime set up in Manila and received a reply which weaseled out of the affair by calling it a routine " courtesy . " The State Department is not expected to let the matter rest at that point . Both the London and Washington actions marked a sharp departure from previous policy of putting " silent " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved in making such actions public . People Come First It is understood that contraband has been taken from Spanish ships on many previous occasions , without ' benefit ? of publicity , and it is known that the State Department has on many occasions within the past year addressed protests and complaints to Madrid , also without benefit of publicity . Thus in the past there has been a careful avoidance of any appearance of a public break with the Franco regime which could be interpreted as an attack on its prestige in Spain itself . There was always the surface appearance of friendly relations , an appearance of considerable value to the regime in its domestic position . With both governments now not only putting pressure on General Franco , but also talking about it , this truce is broken in the negative sense that they withdraw their seeming acceptance , if not support , of the regime .. Thus within recent days the regimes of King George of Greece , of King Peter of Yugoslavia , whom General Mihailovic represents as Minister of War , and of Dictator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them up to this time by Anglo-American policy . That support , because of the power which lay behind it , was in effect , no matter how well-intentioned , an infringement of free political choice in the countries concerned and was becoming increasingly resented as such . Expected Results The following results of these various actions are now expected in ' diplomatic quarters : 1 . King George of Greece will be forced to submit to the decisioris of a Greek plebiscite to be taken before he returns to Greece personally , not six months thereafter as he had been intending . 2 . If King Peter is to return to his throne it will only be after a complete reconstitution of his " government in exile " which would be satisfactory to the Partisans of General " Tito . " Whether such a reconstitution is possible is as yet highly speculative . 3 . General Franco is expected to either depart or be driven from Madrid in the very near future . rime Minister , Winston Churchill , in his Mansion House speech of yesterday , is believed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have long been urging the British Government to greater haste in preparing for peace , His pledge of immediate legislation , aimed at providing " food , work , and home " for the people of Britain when peace comes , is held here as an inescapable and binding commitment upon the Churchill Government to act in than sphere with greater urgency than has been shown hitherto . Taken in conjunction with today 's opening in Atlantic City of the . Allied Relief and Rehabilitation Committee , it marks the beginning of a vital new phase in world reconstruction . Contrast With 1918 It is recalled here today how , a quarter of a century ago , Mr. David Lloyd George , Britain 's renowned Premier of World War I , delayed his corresponding Mansion House speech  --  hoping for last-minute news . The War Cabinet of that time knew how close German collapse was , but the public had little idea of-it . Today the situation seems reversed . A great part of the people of the United Nations half expect German collapse at . any time . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his warning against overoptimism . He is very seriously concerned at the damaging effect overoptimism in Britain and the United States might have on the course of the war . . ? ' The Premier made a sharp retort to the recent protest of the trade union leader , Sir Walter Citrine , ' who deplored what he called the colossal waste of time by Britain 's home guard and fire watchers who are guarding Britain today as meticulously and ceaselessly as when all the world-thought Britain completely at the Germans ' mercy . There is a lot of public support here for the Citrine view that much of this home defense is senseless and imposes an unnecessary strain on an already war-weary nation . Guard Against Attack But Mr. Churchill takes a different view , and he warned . the Mansion House audience , " We can not exclude the possibility of new forms of attacks upon this island . We have been vigilantly watching for many months past for every sign of preparation for such an attack . " On the postwar world Mr. Churchill was more categorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food , work , and homes is favorably compared with the " land fit for heroes " slogan of World War I. The . conservative Daily Express much prefers Mr. Churchill 's practical land fit for working men -- meaning all persons who work . He made it sound yesterday as if it was he who had been in the forefront urging that peace should be planned while war was still being waged . Of course , he said in effect , we must plan peace now , after all are n't war plans made in peacetime ? That 's what Progressive and Left wing elements have been pressing on the Government for months past . ? Change in Attitude Many of the workers in this country have thought it was Mr. Churchill and the Conservatives who have been holding up postwar planning . They saw evidence of this in Government hesitation over the Beveridge recommendations for social security and . in Mr. Churchill 's own declaration as recently as this summer that the question of nationalization of coal mines was too controversial for wartime decision . Now the Premier declares that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that planning is vital to reconstruction . This is taken to mean that ownership of coal mines is put back by the Premier into the field of permitted politics . That is taken as Mr. Churchill 's meaning by newspapers today of boht Right and Left opinion . It represents a far-reaching change of Government policy on reconstruction and is welcomed here as such . Allies Adopt Hands-Off Policy For Greece , Yugoslavia , Spain                     