@@706987

txt Mme. Chiang Kai-shek , addressing sessions of the House of Representatives and the Senate today , challenged " the prevailing opinion " that the defeat of the Japanese was of " relative unimportance , " while the smashing of Hitler was our " first concern . " The repeated applause which the legislators gave to her remarks and the enthusiastic comments which they made later left no doubt that the American-educated First Lady of China had made many converts to the cause of China who would campaign actively for greater assistance to her country , which has been resisting Japan alone for five years . She spoke not only of the war and the necessity for striking decisively against Japan before that country could consolidate its gains but she also pictured a post-war world in which active collaboration of the freedom-loving peoples would insure that the Four Freedoms proclaimed by President Roosevelt nould be a reality and not- " an empty phrase . " ** Have Better World " Mme. Chiang told Congress that the people " in China , like you , want a better world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we must have it . " Because she was the first private citizen to address Congress the occasion was a historic one . She spoke to the Senate extemporaneously , but in the House later she read a prepared manuscript which was broadcast nationally . Going directly to Capitol Hill from the White House , where she is the personal guest of the President and Mrs. Roosevelt , Mme. Chiang did not hesitate to strike directly at the common belief that the President and Prime Minister Churchill had decided that the elimination of Germany and Italy must have the No. 1 priority and that the defeat of Japan must follow victory in Europe . " The prevailing opinion seems to consider the defeat of the Japanese as of relative unimportance and that Hitler is our first concern , " said Mme. Chiang . " This is not borne out by actual facts , nor is it to the interests of the United Nations as a whole to allow Japan to continue not only as a vital potential threat but as a waiting sword of Damocles , ready to descend at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which started on the Republican side of the House swept swiftly around the chamber and the members rose to their feet smiling at the woman who had been introduced to them by Speaker Rayburn as " one of the outstanding women of all the earth " and " the helpmeet and co-worker of one of the outstanding figures of the world , " Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . " Let us not forget that Japan in her occupied areas today has greater resources at her command than Germany , " she went on . " Let us not forget that the longer Japan is left in undisputed possession of these resources the stronger she must become . Each passing day takes more toll in lives of both Americans and Chinese . " Let us not forget that the Japanese are an intransigent people . " Let us not forget that during the first four and a half years of total aggression China has borne Japan 's sadistic fury unaided and alone . " Significantly , since Russia is not - at war with Japan , she included . Soviet Russia an-long " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of righteousness and justice . " In her informal speech to the Senate , Mme. Chiang drew on her early education in America to make herself " at home " and to establish a common bond with the Senators . She told the story of one of General James H. Doolittle 's fliers who had bombed Tokyo and later when he bailed out in China shouted to an admiring populace the only Chinese word he knew " lVIei-Kuo " ? which means " America " or " beautiful country . " Speaking of her education here , and her feeling that she knew not only the language but the heart of America , the visitor declared that " coming here today I feel that I am also coming home . " If the Chinese people could speak to us , she went on , they would tell us that " basically and fundamentally we are fighting for the same cause ; that we have identity of ideals ; that the Four Freedoms which your President proclaimed to the world resound throughout our vast land as the gong of freedom , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knell of the aggressors . " Mine . Chiang recited an ancient Chinese story of how the Father Prior had taught a young acolyte that he could no more acquire grace by merely chanting " AmitaBuddha " than the Father Prior could transform a brick into a mirror by rubbing it against stone . " So , my friends , I feel that it is necessary for us not only to have ideals and to proclaim that we have them ; it is necessary that we act to implement them , " she declared with emphasis . " And so to you gentlemen of the Senate , and to you ladies and gentlemen in the galleries , I say that without the active help of all of us , our leaders can not implement these ideals . "                     