@@709395

txt The United Nations failed yesterday to surmount complex problems involved in establishing a temporary headquarters for the next three to five years . Secretary General Trygve Lie said last night , after a special meeting with representatives of the Commission on Headquarters , that it was " impossible to say " when a decision might be reached . A. two-hour conference earlier.in the day with members of the Security Council likewise yielded no basis for determining the location of the General Assembly , the Secretariat and affiliated bodies . Confronted with a stalemate , officials admitted that whether the U. N. would remain at Hunter College in the Bronx , move to the Sperry Gyroscope Company plant at Lake Success , Nassau County , or arrange to have the General Assembly meet in midtown Manhattan on Sept. 3 , all remained open questions . A. H. Feller , general counsel to Mr. Lie , said at a news conference last night that a reason for the delay was the necessity of reaching a decision with respect to the General Assembly , " because it is tied up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Hunter or went to Lake Success , it would have to erect an auditorium for the Assembly at an estimated cost of $1,000,000 , he indicated . If , on the other hand , the organization found space in Manhattan , the Rockefeller Center Theatre at 1260 Avenue of the Americas would be considered for use as an auditorium . The situation seemed to have reached an impasse . While officials preferred to meet in midtown , they recognized the absence of adequate facilities . Mr. Feller acknowledged that the Center Theatre offered little space for press , radio , documentary and other facilities required for the General Assembly . Office space in the Empire State Building suggested for the Secretariat , he said , is occupied by Government agencies and scattered from the third to the sixty-fifth floor . Their work requires that they be situated in Manhattan , he explained . It was his opinion that the alternative for the General Assembly meeting was to build an auditorium either at Hunter College or at the Sperry plant , or possibly to reconstruct the City Building on the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Assistant Secretary General in charge of Administration and Financial Affairs ; Andrew W. Cordier , executive assistant to Mr. Lie and a representative of the Netherlands , reinspected the city building , now used as a roller-skating rink , yesterday . Mr. Feller pointed out that it was not suitable because it lacked space for a cafeteria , press and radio rooms . It had been suggested as an interim site by F. H. La Guardie , Director General of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration . At a closed morning session with the Security Council at 610 Fifth Avenue , Mr. Lie exchanged informal views regarding the question of a temporary site . He presented information on the Sperry site , which he is said to favor , but made it clear that the decision must be made by him . In the fairly amorphous discussion that followed at least one delegate asked why the United States Government could not help the U. N. find a place . Edward R. Stettinius Jr. , this country 's permanent representative to the U. N. , promised all possible assistance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of legal problems that might be involved in displacing residents . 41 . S. Seeks Not to Interfere It was felt inadvisable , also , to " barge into " localities , where the U. N. might not be welcomed unless an understanding was established with local authorities . In this connection , however , it was known that the U. N. would receive a cordial reception from Nassau County officials should it be decided to move to the Sperry plant . The Russian Ambassador , Andrei A. Gromyko informed his colleagues he was favorably impressed with the site . With Park Commissioner Robert A. Moses and Grover A. Whalen lhandling the site problems for the city , Mayor O'Dwyer was known to be willing to give the U. N. whatever it wanted at Hunter College , where a contract with the city and the Board of Higher Education expires on May 15 . Mr. Lie conferred with the Commission on Headquarters , set up by the Assembly to deal with a permanent site and also with problems related to a temporary site . Attending were Paul Hasluck of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United Kingdom . Secretariat officers present in addition to Mr. Lie and Mr. Feller were the Messrs . Cordier and Hutson , David K. Owen , Assistant Secretary General of the Department of Economics , and David B. Vaughan , Executive Officer . 1 Dissatisfied delegates have refused to make public their views , but the Australians still favored their original choice , San Francisco . The entire history of the site question was reviewed yesterday by the Security Council members and there was no substantial agreement . Observers felt the whole question might be reopened when the General Assembly met here , unless Federal and city authorities offered more satisfactory accommodations . Upon the solution of interim site problems may depend the question of a permanent home . Westchester Site Approved . The Assembly has approved recommendation of the WestchesterFairfield County area , from which a tract varying in size from two to forty square miles would be selected for a permanent headquarters . If local opposition continues , however , the Assembly might change its mind and go elsewhere , it was believed . The U. N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a realistic recognition of the many diff ; eulties of housing , transportation and distance involved . In view of the complexity of the situation , it seemed doubtful that any immediate deadline could be set for a decision . It was announced meanwhile at Hunter College that all employes of the Secretariat would retain their jobs on a temporary basis until Aug. 15 . Basil Capella , U. N. personnel director , said until then a recruitment procedure would be established for selection and appointment of a permanent Secretariat . The approximately 500 employes will be placed on a competitive list with new job applicants , he reported , and the list will be divided into job classifications and graded.                     