@@708010

txt President Roosevelt in a dramatic journey following immediately upon his acceptance of the nomination has just completed a visit to the scenes of the outbreak of the war in December , 1941 , to confer with his Pacific war leaders . Here in the bustling area where the heart of the gigantic Pacific offensive remains despite the increasing distance between it and the battle lines in the western seas , he has discussed with Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , Gen. Douglas , - Admiral William F. Halsey and ? others plans for intensified action against the JapaInese . The President greeted General with a cordial " Hello , Doug , " The Associated , Press said . While the visit , which ' ended tonight , lasted only four days or a little less , the President managed to cram into the period many visits to war installations and talks with the men who devise better and better means to meet the already battered Japanese . A Wide Open Secret The President 's visit here had been one of those wide open secrets for several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . afternoon ( July 26 ) on the cruiser that brought him from the West Coast . The President told newspaper correspondents that the only terms open to the Japanese were the same as those offered to European enemies after the Casablanca conference  --  unconditional surrender . A score of correspondents gath- ered around Mr. Roosevelt this afternoon on the grassy terrace of the former Chris Holmes estate in Waikiki . President Roosevelt said he had not seen his former Chief of the Army Staff , General , for seven years . The day left Corregidor , he made the statement that he would return . It was ' a correct statement , the President said . He recalled assuring General at the time that he would go back . How we are going to get the Philippines back , or when , can not be told now , declared the President , and added that General would go back and would take part in the operations . By coincidence the visit came ten years to the day after his last visit here in 1934 when Hawaii @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our principal naval bases  --  the principal Pacific base . But the President was not prepared for the tremendous alteration which he observed in the appearance , the atmosphere and the whole picture of Hawaii as the main distribution , point for the great war-making machine still gathering impetus in the Pacific . He said it was " the most amazing change in one place I have ever seen . " In the Presidential party were Admiral William D. Leahy , chief of staff ; Vice Admiral ? Ross T. , surgeon general of the Navy , and the President 's personal physician ; Rear Admiral Wilson Brown , naval aide ; Maj. Gen. E. M. Watson , military aide ; Elmer Davis , chief of the Office of War Information ; Judge Samuel I. Rosenman , special counsel to the President , and Capt . Chester C. Wood , assistant naval aide . Fala Kept Aboard Ship One other member of the party was Fala , his Scottie , but Fala has to stay on shipboard because of quarantine requirements . The President said he had had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They had been extremely successful , he said , and while he divulged nothing of talks with Admiral Nimitz , Ad-I miral William F. Halsey , Admiral ) Leahy and General on strategy and future plans , mem bers of his party said the main conference , which took place yesterday morning ( Friday , July 28 ) at the President 's headquarters , was second in importance to no other conference of the war . The President inspected Army encampments , including Schofield , one of the biggest and most important in the world , naval air stations , hospitals , the big Pearl Harbor Navy Yard , Hickam Field and other war areas which have come back to new and unprecedented strength after the devastating blows they took on Dec. 7 , 1941 . One of the highlights of the visit was the review of the Seventh Army Division on the parade ground of Schofield Barracks day before yesterday . There he greeted one of the Pacific 's most famous divisions , already the victor in two major engagements with the enemy . Wherever he has gone the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , marines and civilian workers who are carrying out their individual roles in the greatest mass effort of the nation 's history . To them all he carried collective greetings from home , and the gratitude of those at home for their fighting men overseas . Message to Fighting Men Through Admiral Nimitz and General he has sent the message to all fighting men that they are not forgotten and that they will be brought back home as soon as the ' safety of the nation permits . The President was asked whether the high command of the United Nations would hold Japan to the same inflexible terms of unconditional surrender laid down at Casablanca for the European enemies . At Casablanca with Prime Minister Winston Churchill , they made no differentiation , the President said . The goal with Japan was unconditional surrender , he declared , as it was for Germany . The famous story of the surrender discussion between Gens . Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox has often been told as illustrative of the American conception of unconditional surrender as it still holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who believe that the Germans might be more inclined to surrender if the United Nations terms were more lenient . Lee , when he came before Grant , spoke of his men , of their need for food , of the horses owned by the men and needed back home for plowing . After each mention of his problems and worries , the victorious general replied " Unconditional surrender , " until , at the end , General Lee was forced to capitulate . When he did , according to the story as it is sometimes told , General Grant then proceeded to implement the surrender according to his understanding , arranging for food , sending the Confederate officers and men home with their badly needed horses . As victors the United Nations will undoubtedly assume certain responsibilities in the physical reconstruction of vanquished nations , the President explained . Logistics Problems Cited President Roosevelt greeted correspondents in the middle of the garden , at a point where he could look out across the hidden reefs to deep water where ships were passing . Directly off shore and not very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions and millions of tons of war materials have passed as our war strength grew . He asked several newspaper representatives , remembering them from other days in New York and Washington , if they were permanently assigned here , and he seemed surprised to find so many who were ; He said he had come to Hawaii , no longer the outpost , the furthest fortified point in the Pacific , so he and Admiral Leahy could discuss future plans with Admiral Nimitz and General , who came here ' for the meeting .. Obviously any operation planned on the grand . scale which Pacific geography requires has to be planned far ahead of time . The logistics problems involved are terrific , he said , adding that the four of them had an exceedingly good conference on these questions , including new offensives in the making . Will these be soon ? The President replied that soon is always a relative matter . It is a fair assumption , that the Pacific offensive , which has been one of actions in quick succession , will continue without let-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American soldier has been able to beat the Japanese at his own game , in atoll or jungle warfare ? And the President replied that it was the " difference between our type of civilization and our type of fellow , " and their type of civilization and their type of fellow . " Perhaps , " he said , " it sounds a little bit like boasting but we will take them on at any game , war or pleasure , and beat them at it . " The Persident at Hickam Field saw some Saipan wounded brought in by plane , and several of the men were brought alongside for a personal greeting . He pointed out how the development of our air power had made many things possible that would have been impossible only a few years ago . He praised the quick recovery of the fleet after Pearl Harbor and stressed several times the speed with which things get done in this area . This area , he said , had shown more inventive genius than any other . On Wednesday the Presidential party , following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly to the Waikiki home , which was until several days ago a rest home for naval aviators . Prior to his arrival the arterial highway along the area was blocked off and surrounded by barbed wire . Motorists and all other traffic were rerouted and a strong marine guard established . On Thursday the party visited a Marine air station , the naval air station , and went to Schofield for the principal military event , the review . Prior to the review there was a luncheon at the officers ' club at which the President said he wished the people at home could see what was going on out here . ! He praised close co-ordination of the air arms of the three services , Navy , Army and Marines . After the Schofield review he went to a Seabee camp , and returned to the home for dinner with Admirals Nimitz , Halsey and Leahy and General . On the way he drove through the spacious grounds of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel , speaking a word of greeting to seamen there . Friday morning came the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luncheon period . Pictures were taken of this ' meeting . Then he visited the jungle training center , another naval air station across the island at Kaneche , and returned home where Walter F. and Harold Dillingham , brothers , and Harvard classmates , called . Today he saw Hickham Field , two naval hospitals , the submarine base , the Navy Yard and the big naval air station of Honolulu , The President , who appeared to be in excellent health after his restful voyage from the West Coast , said he would leave tonight ; that he would report on his observations to the American people within the next six months .                     