@@711526

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 18 ? Admiral W. H. Standley , retired , has told the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities that when he was Ambassador to Russia , President Roosevelt used the Navy 's secret codes to send some messages to him because the security of the State Department codes could not be trusted . Admiral Standley . : was Ambassador during most of 1942 and 1943 . He said it was " common knowledge " in the diplomatic service that State Department leaks had occurred : At one point in his testimony he said the President was not sure that the State Department code had been broken but that , whatever the cause , leaks had occurred . The nature of the leaks was not disclosed , but the Admiral said : , " Ordinarily it was thought that . the information irt the:President 's messages would aid  --  either aid the Germans or result in lessening our own war effort . In one instance a message came to me Which stated that the message should be read by the decoding officer and Ambassador only . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern the Russians . and they were taking every possible step to avoid its being given out . " ' The Secretary of State knew of the President 's use of the Navy codes on all these Occasions , the Admiral said . Cordell Hull was Secretary at that tinae. - Admiral Standley testified on Thursday in . Los Angeles before Representative . Richard M. Nixon , Republican , or California , who sat // as a subcommittee of the House Committee of Un-American Activiities . The committee released today the transcript of the testimony . Admiral Standley , ' who is 76 , is living in retirement at San Diego . The hearing was set up after Mr. Nixon received a letter from the retired naval officer and diplomat offering to supplement the testimony of Adolf Berle , former As sistant Secretary of State , who has told the committee he worried ; about problems of ? security in the department . " These instances of secret mesI sages , " Admiral Standley testified , " coming through naval secret codes and the conditions surrounding them were recalled to mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the matters in the State Department concerning the Communistic situation , or specifically the situation involving Mr. ( Alger ) Hiss led me to believe that this information in regard toy the secret code might aid in throwing some light on that situation , and I felt that might be of some aid and assistance to the committee . That was the reason for my letter . " Recalls Change in Code The Admiral 's letter to the committee also said : " It looks , as if the investigation is having the effect of , arousing the American people to the dangers of the communistic influence . " He said in his letter that when he protested that the use of the Navy 's codes would confuse the continuity of State Department records , " I was led to believe that the President was concerned over leaks ' of information from the ' State Department , and that the trust the security of the State Department codes . " In his oral testimony the Admiral said , " I can not recall just how I received the information back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not trust the State Department code , that there were leaks of news from the State Department and that the State Department code was a possible source of such leaks ; provided those codes had been broken ; and for that reason the President was sending secret messages to me in the Navy secret code , which at that time had never been broken and probably has not to this day . " Says Code May Have Been Broken Answering questions of Representative Nixon , the former Ambassador said : " It was common knowledge at that time that there were leaks from the State Department . It was also common gossip that the State Department codes were insecure ; and I can not recall just how that confirmation of gossip or knowledge came to me , whether by letter or cable or by some secretary that came out of the department , but that information is the answer I got back . " The Admiral agreed with Mr. 1Nixon that the President would not have used the Navy codes unless leaks actually had Occurred in using the State Department code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have two causes . " True , " said Admiral Standley . " It could have come back either through ? disloyal personnel or a leak in the code . What I mean by that is the Russians themselves breaking the code or the Germans breaking the code and giving it The Committee on ' Un-American Activities ' will go to New York on Wednesday ' to question Mrs. Oksena Kasenkina , Russian teacher whose leap from a window of the Russian Consulate in . New York led to the recall of Soviet Consul General Jacob M. Lomakin . Mrs. Kasenkina is still in Roosevelt Hospital as a result of her leap. - Committee members also planned a closed meeting on Monday to question Louise Brausten of New York , whom previous ' witnesses have mentioned as . an occasional hostess of prominent Russians in this country .                     