@@707256

txt Our Attitude Is Questioned France Is Held Not to Have Been Wholly on the Receiving End in This War To THE EDITOR OF ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : The official American attitude toward the French is hard for me to understand . We ( as shown in F. W. Emery 's letter in THE Tams today ) like to think of ourselves as a generous , altruistic nation , rather like Santa Claus , leaving our safe shores out of the goodness of our heart to go and rescue the poor French nation from the Germans , which they could not possibly do themselves without us . We do not understand why they do not fall on their knees with appreciation and gratitude . We never seem to dwell for ari instant on the thought of our difficulties in trying to free ourselves and the British from the terror of the Nazi menace if we did not have a sympathetic and friendly people helping us in North Africa and France i'ielf . We by no means give everything and receive nothing , as official Washington would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French through de Gaulle , as he is a respected and loved symbol to them of the liberty they long for ) are one of the most important elements in our fight to reach Berlin . We can not do without them and their goodwill any more than we can do without the Russians , and we should think of this before continually inflicting wounds on their national pride . We hear a great deal about the gratitude the British have a right to expect from de Gaulle because of the facilities placed at his disposal by them to broad- cast to France and to outfit his Fighting French Army . We hear little of the gratitude owed to de Gaulle for having been the only French mouthpiece through which the ideals of freedom and democracy and truth could be rekindled in the hearts of that imprisoned people . An Englishman would hardly have had the same reception at a time when the French were being poisoned against the British by Vichy And German propaganda . Nor do we hear much of the lives and heroic example of the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materiel would have been useless and who by their bravery have saved many British and American lives . I 'm afraid we have a tendency to want to dictate to people the kind of freedom we in our superior enlightenment think best for them . DOROTHY CARMODY . Middlebury , Conn. , July 30 , 1943.                     