@@710057

txt New York 's butter market lost its false bottom yesterday , dropping retail prices nine cents a pound and bringing demands for Federal and State investigations of manipulations in the , wholesale market which allegedly kept butter prices unduly high and may add $15,000,000 to the lacal bill for January milk . Wholesale butter prices in the local market plummeted 10 cents a pound from what they had been on Tuesday , the last day on which they could influence the price which dairymen serving the metropolitan area will get for January milk under the Federal-State pricefixing formula . Dr. Charles J. Blanford , milk marketing administrator , on Tuesday had fixed the January milk price to producers at $5.46 a hundredweight , unchanged from November . Shortly after retail merchants and consumers had charged a plot by dairy interests to rig prices and had demanded Government inquiries , the Dairymen 's League Cooperati . -e Association announced that it had been buying butter to " protect dairy farmers ' milk prices from a threatened drop in January . " The association , a producers ' group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices . Butter prices have been declining steadily in other parts of the country in the last few weeks , along with prices on several other foods and cost-of-living items , according to a survey by The Associated Press . In various cities canned citrus juices were off onethird ; lard and meat were down about 10 cents a pound , and stores were advertising reductions of one-quarter to one-half in prices of clothing , shoes and furs . A spokesman for a retail group estimated that the butter purchases by the dairymen to sustain prices at an artificial level would add $15,000,000 to the January milk pool paid to producers in the // six-State milkshed serving this city . If the law of supply and demand had been permitted to operate freely in the butter trade during the last two weeks , he said , the drop in . January milk prices would have totaled $15,000,000 . Attorney General Tom C. Clark in Washington ordered Department of Justice aides to look into the situation . immediately and find if a full-scale investigation was warranted . He acted after he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asking for " an immediate investigation and prosecution of parties responsible for this flagrant violation of the anti-trust laws . " A similar telegram was sent to State Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein , according to Jeanette S. Turner , executive secretary of the Consumer Council . , A spokesman for Mr. Goldstein said the telegram had not been received . He said the Attorney General had nothing to say at present . Alfred Rich , business manager of the Butter and Egg Merchants Association , had laid responsibility for continuing high prices of butter upon heavy buying by the dairy intereats , whose normal function it is to sell , not buy . He said they had bought to keep milk prices from declining . Dr , Blanford was not available for comment but a spokesman said the milk price would not be revised by the local office even if it were found to have been based on articially stimulated butter prices . It was said that the producers ' milk price is established under Federal-State marketing orders by a formula based on the previous month 's wholesale price in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powder . It was said at Dr. Blanford 's office that he could not deviate from the formula . With the milk-pricing period running from the twenty-fifth of one month to the twenty-fourth of the following month , the end of butter buying by the dairymen was noticeable as soon as local markets opened yesterday . After wholesale prices had fallen 10 cents , the A. &; P. food stores and Gristede Brothers announced that the retail price of butter would be reduced today in their stores from 89 to 80 cents a pound . A defense of the producers ' manipulations was offered by Henry H. Rathbun , president of the Dairymen 's League . Declaring that the milk producers went into the butter market " to stabilize it " when " butter prices became erratic toward the end of the ( milk ) marketing month , " Mr. Rathbun con-tinued : " This action was taken by the Dairymen 's League in the interest of both milk producers and the millions of consumers who depend on them for milk . It will require no rise in the consumers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of milk supplies to other markets . " Mr. Rathbun said that if milk prices for New York had been permitted to decline producers would have diverted their milk to other areas where prices are higher . He pointed out that the January price for fluid milk in Boston was $5.44 a hundredweight . Although Mr. Rathbun failed to mention the fact , Federal and State penalties are provided to keep producers in this milkshed from diverting their milk to other consuming areas . " Even had producers ' milk prices peen allowed to drop for January , " said Mr. Rathbun , " there is no guarantee that consumers could lave bought milk cheaper . A de:tline of 22 cents a hundred pounds mounts to less than one-half cent quart , even if this would have been passed on to consumers . "                     