@@707267

txt A blueprint for Interna COnt . I 01 over pricer. and supplies of essential commodities and raw ma terials which move in world trade has been roughed no t within the Treasury Department . The object is a post-war world in which the supply ( adequate for all i of economic essentials foodstuffs and minerals , for example - would be balanced evenly against demand with the result that the ups and downs which accompany periods of gluts and scarcities can he avoided The plan , still in the tentative . idea-exchanging stage . has these highlights ? To regulate the flow and prices of essential materials in world trade , an international Commodity Stabilization Corp with wide pow era to buy and sell in world markets , would be created This corporation %mild buy tip excess production in fat years , release its holdings in lean years For all practical purposes , it is the Wallace el . er-norrnal granary idea expanded to global measurements The task of adding to the production of essential raw materials which are not considered adequate to meet the needs of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corp This agency would be what its name implies  --  a development company For example . it could finance a mineral development or a power development in China under conditions that would not attract private capital . Subsidiaries of International Bank These corporations . it was disclosed , would be set up as subsidiaries of the international bank which S and British experts believe should be created to provide capital for postwar reconstruction and rehabilitation . The official position is that the International Bank , along with an agency for international currency stabilization , will be necessary to meet the capital and trade requirements of the world after the war is over . The tentative American and British plans for currency stabilization were made public early in April . The official statements at the time made it clear that agencies to supply capital and stabilize prices on an international scale should be considered , but haft these matters for later consideration . The Treasury , it now develops , has worked out in considerable detail plans for the International Bank , which would make loans for reconstruction and rehabilitation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prices of basic commodities and raw materials . These plans , like those for the international currency stabilization fund , were prepared by Harry White . Treasury economist . Also like the currency plans , they call for joint action among the nations of the world . The job of trying to make certain that adequate supplies of essential commodities and raw materials are available , and at stable prices , to the countries of the world would fall on the subsidiaries of the bank  --  the International Commodity Stabilization Corp and the International Essential Raw Material Development Corp . which would correspond in their purposes to the Commodity Credit Corp . and the Reconstruction Finance Corp . Functions of the Corporations The Commodity Stabilization unit would buy and sell commodities For example , it would buy the excess portion of a surplus wheat crop at a price that would make certain producers got a fair return It would hold this grain until a year of low production and feed it into the world markets to keep prices from going too high Similar operations in the case of other commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention of it , this phase of the corporation 's activities would tie in with other proposals under consideration for a ? Norld food pro gram The idea is not nea It was involved in the discussions of an international wheat agreement a few years ago and at that time ' was coupled with production controls through quotas for exporting nations Also , it folloias on an international scale the ever-normal granar:i plan of Vice President Wallace which was put into operation a few years ago through the Commodity Credit Corp . loans to farmers The International Essential Raw Material Development Corp would , under the Treasury plan be created " for the purpose of increasing the world supply of essential raw materials and assuring member countries an adequate supply at reasonable prices " Fur example , this country would develop mineral resources in areas of the world which are not attractive to private capital because i of extreme risks . Also it might supply the capital for a power plant or a railroad in undeveloped regions . such as the interior of China . These corporations would be financed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion subscribed by the countries holding membership in it .                     