@@711067

txt BIG AID TO WALLACE IS SEEN IN VICTORY OF BRONX PROTEGE Truman Held Likely - to Lose State  --  Vote Viewed as - Help to Taft , Bad for Dewey FLYNN LEADERSHIP SCORED Albany Democrats Reluctant About City Fare Rise Because of Republican Threat By JAMES A. HAGERTY The election of former Assemblyman Leo Isacson , American Labor party candidate for Representative in the Twenty-fourth Congressional District in the Bronx , by a plurality of 16,119 over Karl Propper , Democratic nominee , in Tuesday 's special election , had many repercussions yesterday . Of these , the most important politically ' were realization among leaders of all political parties that Henry A. Wallace , as a third party candidate for President , would poll a much larger vote than had been expected by any except his most ardent supporters , and acknowledgment that President Truman had little , if any , chance of winning the forty-seven electoral votes of New York State at the November election . In Washmgton , Mr. Isacson 's victory was seen as a boost for Mr. Wallace 's candidacy- in other states and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional seats and local offices . The Washington viewpoint wag that Mr. Isacson 's victory had lessened the chance of Governor Dewey for the Republican Presidential nomination and had increased the chance of the nomination of Senator Robert A. Taft- , on the kround ' that , - with New York State regarded as certain to be-carried by any . Republican Presidential candidate , one of the main arguments for the nomination of Governor Dewey had been eliminated . The overwhelming defeat of Mr. Propper was a bad setback for Edward J. Flynn , Democratic National Committeeman , and the Bronx Democratic organization , which he heads . It led to suggestions , previously advanced by James A. Farley , former Democratic National Chairman , that the party in this state should be reorganized by the retirement of both Mr. Flynn and Paul E. Fitzpatrick , Democratic State Chairman . In Albany , Democratic members of the Legislature , who will come up for re-election in November , // balked on support of legislation for an increased transit fare in New York City . Alarmed at the defection from the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Elmer F. Quinn and Assemblyman Irwin Steingut , the Democratic legislative leaders , to appeal to Mayor O'Dwyer to withhold introduction of his increased fare bill this year . The American Labor party has taken a stand against the fare increase . Lightness of Vote Noted In Washington , Senator J. Howard , of Rhode Island , said : " It was a light vote and the Democratic party never benefits from a light vote . " This explanation , however , failed to dispel the ominous shadow that the result of the special election , heralded as a test of strength for Mr. Wallace 's candidacy , has cast over the Democrats ' big JeffersonJackson dinner , to be held in Washington tonight . Nor did it still bitter criticism of Mr. Flynn 's Bronx Democratic organization for " not doing a job . " " It is evident that the fight against Communism on the left and toryism on the right can not be won unless every Democrat resolves to get out and vote , " Senator said . " The results in the Bronx indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the vote participated . In 1944 , there were approximately 120,000 votes cast in the district . In 1946 about 89,000 voted . On Tuesday , approximately 40,000 persons voted . " The moral is an obvious one . Democrats must have the courage to work and the will to vote if we are to carry , out a successful fight for Democratic principles . " Senator added that the Democratic party would make a grave mistake if it failed to learn a lesson from the result of the special election . Later , in a radio speech over the Columbia Broadcasting System , Senator said he believed Mr. Wallace was sincere in his desire for peace and prosperity . In what was in the nature of an invitation to Mr. Wallace to return to the Democratic party , Senator said : " But the fact that the loudest applause for Henry Wallace comes from Communists , Communist fellow-travelers and reactionary Republicans causes me to believe that the bulk of Henry Wallace 's support is coming from those whose basic allegiance is not to the American way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize that unscrupulous forces who look to Moscow for inspiration and guidance see in his candidacy a chance to disrupt the normal activities of our two-party system and bring about the chaos and confusion of splinter parties that have sent so many nations of Europe . into governmental collapse . " I hope that Henry Wallace will repudiate the supporters of his cause whose only real hope is that they can defeat the Democratic party 's program of practical liberalism in 1948 and turn the Government over to reactionaries and isolationists . " In view of the criticism of Mr. Flynn 's generalship in the Bronx election contest , it may be said that he called on President Truman a week ago Monday to ask the " Administration to take forceful action on the partition of Palestine and end current warfare there . Whether President Truman will change his position could not be learned , and there is keen interest in the speech he will make at the fund-raising dinner of the Democratic National Committee in Washington tonight . Carroll Reece , Republican National Chairman , in commenting on the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace candidate in New York 's Twenty-fourth Congressional District is additional evidence that much of the political strength of the so-called Democratic party in recent years has not been Democratic at all . It has been supplied by the various splinter ' parties , such as the ALP in New York . " Isacson Surprised by Big Margin Mr. Isacson , at his home at 180 East 210th Street , the Bronx , said he was surprised at the size of his vote and had expected election only by a small margin . He said he would go to Washington at the earliest possible moment to be sworn in as a Representative after he receives his certificate of election . He will be the second Labor party member of the House , joining Representative Vito Marcantonio . A dispatch from Detroit said Mr. Isacson had been invited to attend a meeting of supporters of Mr. Wallace in Lansing , Mich. , on Saturday to organize to put Mr. Wallace on the ballot in Michigan . Mr. Isacson said he had not yet received such an invitations The Isacson victory stimulated Wallace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Press , Wallace supporters announced that Mr. Wallace certainly would be entered on the ballot in Illinois and New Hampshire . " In Miami Beach , Fla. , Mr. Wallace announced that more than enough signatures had been obtained in California to enter him there . He said his party was referred to as the " new " party , rather than the " third " party . Commenting in Spokane , Wash. , on the victory of Mr. Isacson , Harold E. Stassen , candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination , declared it meant " large numbers of working people will not support President Truman . " Mr. Stassen , who started his campaign in  --  that state as part of a West Coast tour , noted that the Bronx vote had shown that the President had lost the backing of large groups in the labor movement that formerly supported the late President Roosevelt . A large percentage of that labor vote , he said , could be won next November by the Republicans with " a progressivev , humanitarian program . " Supporters of Mr. Isacson and Mr. Wallace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outstanding triumph . Arthur Schutzer , state executive secretary of the Labor party , said the party would begin an organization drive at once and expected to add several thousand members to the party . Mr. Schutzer also sent identical telegrams to President Truman and Attorney General Tom C. Clark demanding , in the name of the Labor party , immediate release on bail of Ferdinand Smith , Gerhart Eisler and John Williamson , now held without bail by the Federal authorities pending proceedings to deport them as Communists illegally in the United States . The telegrams said : " The election returns from the Twenty-fourth Congressional District reflect the people 's mandate to you to free Ferdinand Smith , national NMU National Maritime Union leader , and others who have been unlawfully arrested and are being detained without bail as part of your witch-hunt . " The technique of arrest and confinement without bail is a menace to every individual in America . It nullifies protection of laws , ignores the Constitution and introduces the Truman police state as our form of government . We demand immediate release on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Palestine Issue According to political workers in the Congressional district , dissatisfaction with President Truman 's handling of the Palestine situation was a major factor in switching Democratic votes to Mr. Isacson . The Congressional district , usually strongly Democratic , was estimated by one person with an intimate knowledge of all its neighborhoods as about 35 per tent Jewish ; 15 per cent each Irish , Negro , Italian and miscelIlaneous , with 5 per cent of Puerto Ricans . In one election district , in which 220 votes were cast , the enrollment of those voting was 175 Democrats , 15 Republicans and 25 members of the Labor party . Mr. Propper received only 85 votes there to 120 for Mr. Isacson . The vote for Mr. Isacson was particularly heavy in Jewish election districts that in previous elections have returned large Democratic pluralities . Mr. Wallace 's assertion that President Truman " talks Jewish and acts Arab , " made in his speech on Sunday at Hunt 's Point Palace , was said to have been very effective in getting votes for Mr. Isacson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweeping victory for the Labor party candidate were opposition to the Marshall Plan and universal military training . In discussing this phase of the election , City Councilman Eugene P. Connolly , secretary of the New York County Committee of the Labor party , said : " In Isacson 's victory , the people have repudiated the Truman betrayal of Roosevelt policies . They are moving to recapture American democracy from the Wall Street military domination of both old parties . The people have given clear evidence of opposition to anti-labor legislation , the suppression of our civil liberties , the failure to curb inflation , the cold war against the Soviet Union , the sellout of the Jewish people and the drive for compulsory military service . " The Democratic party moves like a figure in a Greek tragedy to self-destruction , propelled by men like Flynn , Rankin and the hosts of reactionaries within that party over whose secret opposition Roosevelt built the New Deal . These men are escaping the enforced captivity imposed upon them by the times and the inspired leadership of F.D.R. " A party responsive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is doomed . Progressive , forward - looking elements within the Democratic party and the Republican party as well will be drawn irresistibly to the support of Mr. Wallace . Mr. Wallace will lead a victorious new party in 1948 . " The reaction among the Democratic leaders in the Bronx was bitter . Mr. Flynn is understood to have prepared a victory statement to be given out after the returns indicated Mr. Propper 's election , a point ? that was never reached . There was strong resentment expressed over the light Democratic vote and intimations that Democratic officeholders , Federal , city and borough , who did not bother to go to the polls , would be called upon for explanations . It was reported that the Democratic Assembly district leaders in the Congressional district would be asked to explain their failure to get out a larger Democratic vote to Mr. Flynn . Dean Alfange , defeated Liberal party opponent of Mr : Isacson , charged that the latter 's supporters had " scraped the bottom of indecency and immorality in their campaign , and even had accused him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " After the results of the election were in , " he said , " a band of Communist rowdies rushed into the Liberal party headquarters and poured vile insults on the women who were tabulating results . . I never imagined a campaign could descend to such-depths of infamy. "                     