@@710084

txt A 1917 composed mostly of farmers returned a verdict of guilty tonight in the trial of 14 striking members of an AFL electrical workers ' union on charges of . rioting . The defend . ants attacked and beat a utility crew at near-by Athensville last November 14 . The maximum penalty they face is six months in jail , a 5200 fine , or both . The jury , composed of 11 men and a woman , deliberated three and a half hours , including dinner time . and arrived at its verdict on the first ballot . Vincent Becker , Carrollton farmer and jury foreman , said evidence in the case established beyond a doubt that the strikers were guilty of attacking 12 members of a repair crew of the Illinois Rural Electric company , a cooperative , as they were about to start work under the direcHon of Stanley Faris , company manager . Trailed Group 36 Miles Evidence presented by witnesses for the defense and prosecution  --  all of whom save one were engaged in the fight  --  showed the strikers trail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in a free-for-ail fight with them . The only major difference in testimony for both sides was over how the fight started . Faris and other employes con. tended that Gordon Prather of Winchester , union steward and a striker , attacked Basil Taylor , a line foreman .. without provocation . The defense contended that Warren Dun . ham , a crew member , had shoved -- digging tools in the face of Prather . Prosecution witnesses said Dunham had tried to hand the tools to Prather . Called Signal for Attack The trial attracted intense interest in this Greene county commun. ity where labor violence Is almost un know n . Prosecution witnesses testified that Prather , alighting from one of three cars used to trail the work crew , had asked them , " Are you fellows going to work ? " Faris answered , " Yes , " and Prather answered , , " So are we then . " The strikers then attacked and several workers were severely beaten . State 's Atty . L. A. Merhoff , who was assisted by Sam G. Jenkins . company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the attack . Defense Atty . Gilbert Hutchens , brother of the presiding judge , was granted 10 days in which to Die a motion for a new trial and the court delayed sentence pending the filing . Tells of Threat The 14 found guilty In the slugging went on strike last Sept. 26 , when contract negotiations collapsed over a union demand for a closed shop . They are members of local 1351 of the AFL International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers . Some members of the crew they attacked are nonstriking members of the union , not now in good standing with the union , and some were unorganized . The strike is still going on . Floyd Coultas of Barry . Pike county , a company employe in that county , testified that Roscoe To ! . liver , an assistant business agent , visited him the day after the fight and threatened him with -a broken head if he did not quit working . Tolliver bragged that Faris had been beaten the day before , Coultas testified . Farts suffered a scalp wound in the light which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relative of Gordon Prather , admitted on cross-examination that he had slugged Faris . " Whenever I saw anybody I gave ' 61 a thump , " he testified . Six days after the fight night vandals cut poles and guy wires supporting a 7,200 volt line near Winchester , Scott county , and near Jacksonville In adjoining Morgan county . Approximately 3,600 indignant farmers who are members of the REA cooperative , organized to patrol the power lines .                     