@@707068

txt Butchers- Cut Point Values Under Rule on Spoilage Warned by OPA They Will Be Dealt With Severely if They Are Violating Law  --  New Meatless Dishes in City 's Hotels By JEr ISARSON G. BELL Food dealers of New York City began slashing ration-point values lof meats yesterday . In different boroughs some dealers took point readjustments into their own hands under an Office of Price Administration regulation permitting them to lower points on any foods " in imminent danger of spoilage . " The efforts of dealers to dispose of slow-moving commodities immediately brought a stern warning from OPA headquarters in Washington that violators would be severely punished . Meanwhile , New York City continued to replenish its scant meat supplies . In some quarters it was predicted that luxury items , such as steaks and roasts , would accumulate rapidly with no takers among housewives who are conserving their red coupons and who choose butter over meats , since they ca n't well afford both . As some members of the food trade wondered whether a pointration cut-rate war was in the making , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its 5,000 members I were faced by a difficult liverwurst problem . A. F. Gucken ' Berger , executive secretary of the association , explained that liverwurst was the most perishable I item handled by delicatessen members . They know that they are au , thorized by the OPA rationing order to lower points to move it before it spoils , but none wishes to assume responsibility for lowering points . The delicatessen wing of the association is on the verge of appealing to OPA to cut points to move liverwurst . Markets Commissioner Daniel P. Woolley released his weekly survey of food prices and supply conditions showing that before overquota allotments of meats began // Butchers Cut Point Values to Promote Sale of Meat They Fear Will Spoil arriving here to ease the meat crisis . 40 per cent of the stores throughout the city had no beef at all . Up to March 30 only 6 per cent had a satisfactory supply as against 14 per cent last week and 43 per cent in February . The local office of the Food Distribution Administration announced that the Federal Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1943 canned salmon , pilchard , mackerel and Atlantic sea herring pack to be set aside for the armed forces , lend-lease , etc . Last year the government took the whole salmon pack , but later released for civilian needs 40 per cent . Under the new allotment civilians gain 5 per cent more . Furthermore , the United States Department of Agriculture held out additional hope for the civilian market when it announced that the Army would require only 70 , - 000,000 pounds of this year 's pack of quick-frozen vegetables estimated at between 240,000,000 and 260,000,000 pounds . Last year , the Army took 13,000,000 pounds of a total pack of 162,000,000 . Innovations in Menus Adding meatless Fridays to meatless Tuesdays , hotels and restaurants of this city introduced a number of menu innovations to their patrons yesterday . Besides regular meatless day items such as fish , chicken , omelet and lobster , the Hotel Commodore offered " vegetarian hamburger steak . " The Hotel Pennsylvania produced a soybean choplet and " matelot of eels . " The Biltmore conjured up " spinach on toast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " poached eggs on potato cakes . " Corn and cheese souffles and " oxtail spaetzle " also made appearances . Reports that food dealers had begun to cut ration point values on meats reached district OPA headquarters in the Empire State Building in mid-afternoon . Complaints were made by customers . Later the OPA announced that its investigators who had been sent to two stores in Manhattan had reported that there was no justification for lowering point values . They ordered the two dealers to remove signs announcing the point reductions and to post signs with the original point values . The OPA explained that the two dealers apparently had acted under Section 6.10 of the rationing order which states : Reductions Must Be Posted " Up to May 31 , 1943 , a retailer may sell at lower point value foods in imminent danger of spoilage . " The order requires the dealer to post a notice showing the reductions and among other things to file a report with his local War Price and Rationing Board . While district OPA offices did not divulge the names of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Engert , 5706 Eighth Avenue , Brooklyn , was revealed by customers as a dealer who had dropped point values . Mr. Engert explained that he had taken advantage of the OPA order permitting reductions to move chopped meat , sausages , liverwurst , bologna and calves ' liver that he feared would spoil on his hands . Asked how long he could keep the supplies without danger of spoilage , Mr. Engert replied that he could keep them until Saturday night . " Business went down to onethird of normal after point rationing of meats , " Mr. Engert explained . " We did n't expect that . We have all this meat on our hands and we either sell it or it spoils . e tell customers : ' Here 's a chance to get meats without points . We 'll report it to OPA . " Asked ' how much of each item he had had on hand and how much he had sold , Mr. Engert disclosed that of 150 pounds of chopped meat , he had sold about 15 pounds ; that he had reduced his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 15 pounds of liverwurst and bologna he had sold about 3 pounds and that he had reduced his 6-pound supply of calves ' liver by 1 pound . The district OPA office announced that in future it would investigate all reports from consumers concerning point-value reductions by dealers . The ration order permitting reductions more specifically declares : " Spoilage " to Be Considered " If any foods covered by this order which a retailer has in his inventory are in imminent danger of spoilage and he finds in good faith that he can not dispose of them at their regular point value quickly enough so that they can be used before they are spoiled , he may sell them at less than their regular point value . " Larger food store chains reported that while meats were still short they expected supplies to be greatly improved next week . A tour of some of the super markets disclosed that less emphasis was being put on show-case displays of pigs tails , ears and feet , and that chops , leg of lamb , steaks and roasts were beginning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies Markets Commissioner Woolley reported : " Retail stocks of meat , both kosher and non-kosher , took the sharpest drop yet encountered in any single week , reaching what appears to be the lowest point in many years , until Wednesday , when a marked increase took place . " However , prices held at about the same level , due , no doubt to the fact that consumers were cautiously holding back their red stamps , possibly for week-end purchases . Market observers are anxiously awaiting public and trade reaction on new uniform dollarsand-cents pork ceilings . " Dressed poultry stocks also showed an extreme decrease while prices increased on an average of 11/2 , cents a pound . The live and fresh killed poultry situation was unchanged . Fairly low stocks continued , selling at last week 's high prices . " Supplies of non-kosher delicatessen dropped off 33 1-3 per cent from last week 's figure to a new low , falling in line with the general meat situation . The high prices were unchanged . Kosher delicatessen stocks decreased about 25 per cent , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Good Mr. Woolley reported further that fresh 7nd frozen fish supplies continued good , with prices " much more reasona ' : le as a rule " ; that " stocks of canned gcods , whether processed fruits and vegetables , or canned meats and fish , definitely were not moving ; that " unrationed and rationed dairy products , with the usual exception of butter , continued in excellent supply ; that fresh fruits continue to be ample , and that " the fresh-vegetable market , with few exceptions , was reasonably well supplied . " Snap beans , cabbage and potatoes were among those items which were in low supply , according to Commissioner Woolley . In announcing that the meat situation had been eased by overquota shipments by packers , Sylvan L. Joseph . Regional OPA Administrator , appealed to the public not to trade at meat shops where the new dollar and cents ceiling prices on pork have not been posted . " Failure to show and obey these pork price ceilings , " Mr. Joseph declared , " constitute serious sabotage of the war effort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to post pork ceilings . Representatives of Wilson &; Co. , Chicago packer who was authorized a week ago today to ship 1,250,000 pounds of meats over quota to ease the meat stringency in New York , advised Regional OPA that 150,000 pounds of that allowance had been received yesterday and that 100,000 pounds expected today would complete the original allotment . Paul S. Willis , speaking for Grocery Manufacturers of America , expressed the belief that the food situation would be " greatly eased " as OPA readjusts points to articulate somewhat with supply and demand .                     