@@706973

txt A Congressional storm blew up today over the appearance of " Victory , " the new magazine of the Office of War Information . In the Senate a full investigation of ' all " government propaganda ventures " was promised by Senator Byrd , . chairman of the Joint Committee on Reduction of Nonessential Federal Expenditures , while in the House the OWI publication was both assailed and defended . There were repercussions away from Capitol Hill . also , as Elmer Davis , OWI director , devoted part of his press conference to answering criticisms of " Victory , " which now is headed for at least two Congressional committee investigations . Mr. Davis disclosed figures on the cost of the magazine , which an OWI representative in New York City had refused yesterday to reveal . The first blast at " Victory " had come in the Senate earlier when Senator Holman of Oregon , declaring that it appeared as if the official publication was attempting to boom President Roosevelt for a fourth term through a highly laudatory article , introduced a resolution calling for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would-be pressed vigorously within the committee . Economy Committee in Action Prospects of a second investigation developed when Senator Byrd , after an executive session of his Joint Economy Committee this morning , said that the members had passed a resolution authorizing an investigation of the costs and purposes of . the new OWI publication . He added : " We also understand that there are numerous other government publications afoot or in prospect , and we intend to have a look into the entire propaganda field , to see just what is being done and what is being spent . " One member of the committee has a report that another magazine with an even larger prospective circulation than that of " Victory " is contemplated , and the committee intends to find out if this is true , Mr. Byrd said . The cost , purpose and accomplishments of some of the official publications ' aimed to reach South America also will come under the committee 's scrutiny , hevadded . " Victory , " published under the imprint of the United States Government , is a handsomely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published every two months . A circulation of more than 500,000 copies is planned and , after free distribution of . the first two issues , it will be sold for 25 cents a copy . OWI says it will be circulated abroad only . Already , however , Mr. Davis had disclosed - the figure at his press conference . . The first issue of 230 , - 000 copies cost *63,929 , and the second issue , scheduled for March 10 publication , will cost $135,000 for 540,000 copies in six languages . They will be " distributed through our outposts , " he added . Taking up the article concerning President Roosevelt printed in " Victory , " in which his opponents were called " reactionaries , " and the New Deal was praised , Mr. Davis said he had read the article for the first time today . He conceded that this perhaps was " culpable negligence " on his part , and he added that , in his opinion , the article could have been better done . " The magazine is designed for foreign countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss the war effort of this country , you have to say something about the President of the United States . What was said could have been better selected . " The current issue was sent only to England , Australia , Egypt , " some to Hawaii , " and to 5,000 troops in England at the request of the Army , Mr. Davis said . Word on Fourth-Term Charge Commenting on Senator Holman 's charge that the article boomed Mr. Roosevelt for a fourth term , Mr. Davis said : - " If the President is going to run for a fourth term , and I have no idea whether he will or not , I do not see how it is possible to elect a President by votes from South Africa , Egypt , Spain or Portugal . " Concerning the amount of shipping space to vital areas that " Victory " , will take up , Mr. Davis said the yearly total would be only 800 tons . Prospective advertising in the magazine , another source of controversy , will be " limited " to five pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury , Mr. Davis stated . He said advertising would make Victory " look more like a magazine . " Representative Celler brought up the issue in the House when he criticized Arthur Krock 's column in yesterday 's NEW YORK TIMES dealing with t he magazine . He said he considered the column unfair . He added that the magazine was aimed at foreign , not domestic , circulation and , in his opinion , could do a valuable propaganda job in countries where America 's prestige should be strengthened . As for the article on Mr. Roosevelt and another article by Vice President Wallace , Mr. Celler defended these on the ground that personalities were important to European psychology . He expressed the hope , however , that the OWI would decide not to include advertisements in the magazine . Representative Rankin of Mississippi immediately took issue with the New York Representative . He said " Victory " and a previous OWI publication called " Negroes and the War " both were " useless expenditures . " The United States has the press and radio to give news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Mississippian said . He declared he particularly opposed permitting advertisements to be sold in the Government publication . Representative Taber also attacked the OWI publication , describing the activity as " criminal . " He said the shipping space better could be used in carrying bombs and bullets to the war fronts . Mr. Taber charged that the venture placed the Government " in. the publishing business where they are soliciting advertising at the rate of $3,000 a page from the companies having war contracts and which have no other way to pay for the advertising except to charge it back to the Government in the cost of the products which they sell to the Government . "                     