@@712372

txt A new East-West struggle in the United Nations is expected to develop from the Soviet Union 's recognition of Communist China and its break with the Nationalists , announced today by the Moscow ' radio . The next step , it is believed , will ' be an application by - the Chinese Communist regime , supported by the Soviet Union , for recognition as the legitimate representative of China in the United Nations . This would undoubtedly produce a bitter conflict , with Russia and her satellites probably standing alone against the rest of the members . Russia has already tried unsuccessfully to have an observer from the Government of North Korea admitted to this session of the General Assembly . There is apparently no specific provision in United Nations procedure for dealing with a case such as would arise if Communist China applied for United Nations membership . A legal expert of the United Nations Secretariat said tonight : " No case remotely approaching it has arisen . " When the Communists took con1:rol of Czechoslovakia , it was a case of a revolution within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was " an exile government , " the right of the new regime to represent Czecho- slovakia in the Assembly never was really challenged . Applications for membership would have to take the form of a message from the Communist authorities of China to the General Assembly asserting their position as the rightful government , stating that they did not recognize the present Chinese delegates , and presenting the names of new ones . The Credentials Committee of the General Assembly would discuss ' this application and make a recommendation to the Assembly , which would then vote on it . Security Unit Seat Is at Stake If the Assembly were not in session , Secretary General Trygve Lie would have the power to decide which was the rightful delegation . It is considered unlikely that in such an important case he would make that decision without consulting the Assembly . While it is obvious that most countries would vote against the change unless they had already transferred their recognition from the Nationalists to the Communists , it is entirely possible , the United Nations legal officer said , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its country has not recognized , but such approval would not constitute recognition . One of the more important effects of Chinese Communist representation would be to give the Communists two of the five permanent seats on the Security Council , as China is one of the permanent members . In theory , the Security Council passes on the qualifications of delegates independently of the General Assembly , but it is doubtful whether it could refuse a Chinese delegation sent by the government that was recognized by a majority of the Assembly as the legal government of China ? if the Communists achieved that recognition . What is abundantly evident tonight is that nobody is sure what would happen if an application were received and that nearly everybody is convinced that one soon will be received . Dr. T. F. Tsiang , Chinese chief delegate , said tonight : " The so-called people 's republic of China , being the child of the U.S.S.R. , would naturally be recognized by its father . " He declined to make any further comment , until further pending developments . Assembly to Hear Charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is responsible for the present Chinese civil war are due to be heard soon before the General Assembly . It was widely believed that they were to be presented at this time in an effort to forestall just such a move as the Russians announced today . The question of accepting delegates of Communist China would be put before the General Assembly , where each delegation 's vote would depend on its Government 's attitude . Russia is the only Government that ' has yet recognized the Chinese Communist regime , though the Soviet satellites are expected to follow suit at once . Yugoslavia , Communist but at odds with Russia , remains a problematical quantity . A United States spokesman said last night that the question of recognition was a concern of Washington and that no statement could be made by the delegation . A spokesman for the British delegation said the view of the British Government was that China already had a legitimate government and that even if it ceased to exist London Would still have to study the conduct of a new one before recognizing that . Ile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly among the Atlantic Treaty states . "                     