@@710110

txt ? Why has Russia insisted upon joint . or at least simultaneous , consideration of atomic disarmament and general disarmament ? The reasons advanced by hussia 's representatives , both here and in Moscow , are now well enough known , Andrei A. Gromyko , for example , has asserted again and again that his country has no ulterior motive in its present position ; that in the ultimate analysis the atomic bomb is-merely another weapon of war and that , therefore , it can not really be considered apart from other weapons . He also has asserted that the General Assembly 's Dec. 14 disarmament resolution makes no provision for separate consideration . This is a reasonable enough case and in many quarters there is a disposition to accept it at face value . Motives Questioned However , there is little such disposition on the part of the United States delegation to the United Nations . The United States delegates have made no effort to hide their belief that there may be other purposes behind the Soviet policy . They have suspected from the beginning that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of the Atomic Energy Commission . Whether this is justified future events alone will tell . But as the Security Council returns again to the disarmament question , the Russian position and Soviet policy generally are being subjected to analysis and dissection from every possible angle . So far as can be determined , a majority of the Council 's members are sufficiently impressed with the logic of the Russian argument to vote against giving priority to a discussion of atomic control , as desired by the United States . This does not necessarily mean that they accept the Russian statements in full . Suspicion of Russia 's motives hardly can be confined to the Unitell States . What Does Soviet Want ? But they do find it difficult to see why Russia should have any specific desire to delay the setting up of an atomic control authority at this time . They . believe there is one all-compelling reason why Russia should want an atomic control board as soon as possible . Russia does not possess an atomic bomb ; the United States does . In the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motives with a large number of authoritative observers here at Lake Success . Most of them are convinced that Russia sincerely desires to see a general disarmament program which would include the atomic bomb , implemented at once . And interestingly enough , they have arrived at this conclusion from a variety of starting points , ranging all the way from an idealistic effort to apply the precepts of the Golden Rule to the extremely cynical view that every move the Soviet Union makes is dictated by narrow self-interest , Advantage to Russia One opinion advanced by a number of outstanding authorities is worth considering , whether one agrees with it or not , It is particularly popular with some British observers , This view can be summarized as follows : From the standpoint of power it is to Russia 's best interest to have the world disarm as completely and as quickly as practicable . In its present stage of industrial and natural scientific development , say the proponents of this postulate , Russia can not hope to compete with its great natural rivals , the western powers , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mass destruction . There is , howeVer , one great advantage which Russia has over the western powers . It has an almost unlimited supply of rigidly disciplined manpower literally ready to march at a moment 's notice . A sharp curb on the use and manufacture of implements of mass destruction would in no way interfere with Russia 's advantage in this respect . Therefore , it is argued , it is greatly to Russia 's long-range benefit to have its rivals lay down the things in which they excel , while the Red Army retains that in which it has the edge . How Plan Will Work In other words , it is held that Russia is trying to put itself in the best possible position to make its power felt Within the United Nations , and in the best military situation in the event of a U. N. breakdown . Should worse come to worst and a war develop , Russia 's vast manpower , it is pointed out , could easily seize all of the European Continent before its rivals could begin to turn out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thesis may or may not be true , the point is that even the extreme cynics think Russia 's current insistence on general disarmament is sincere . Meanwhile , there are indications that the United States delegation has decided to drop its campaign to have the machinery of atomic control decided upon before general disarmament is discussed in detail . Such a development had been expected more or less , in view of the strong opposition which the American proposal has drawn from other members of the Security Council . Baruch Move Fails In addition , some members of the American delegation now are said to feel that it is futile to press for consideration of the Atomic Energy Commission 's report in the light of the abstentions of Russia and Poland . Bernard M. Baruch and his associates in the United States delegation to the Atomic Energy Corn-mission hoped that by forcing the Commission to vote 10 to 0 for the report they could bring the weight of world opinion to bear on Russia 's opposition . This has not proved to be the case . If anything , world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many expect the Security Council to vote to delay . all disarmament discussions until Feb. 4 , as requested by United States Delegate Warren R. Austin .                     