@@707040

txt Frederick W. Teichmann Jr. , 15-year-old son of the pastor of Christ Evangelical Lutheran Church , 153d Street , east of Broadway , was stabbed several times at 9:45 o'clock last night by a gang of Negro youths who set upon him and two girl companions at 147th Street , between Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway , as they were walking home from a church meeting . The boy , who is in Lutheran Hospital in a serious condition with a wound under the heart and cuts on the hands , held his attackers at bay while the girls escaped harm . The gang , said to have numbered at least ten , disappeared before police arrived . Coincident with the attack on the boy came the disclosure that the police had established a special motorcycle patrol along principal thoroughfares in Manhattan , the Bronx , Brooklyn and Queens to cut down the rising number of " muggings , " assaults , and armed robberies at nighttime . The new unit , known officially as the Motorcycle Pursuit Patrol and comprising sixty-four men , was formed lasts Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John O'Connell . The men work in ' shifts from 4 P. M. to midnight and from midnight to 8 A. M. Young Teiclunasm had been attending a young people 's " meet-mg at his father 's church and was on his way to his home at 546 West 153d Street . Accompanying him were Florence Mather , 15 , of 605 West 141st Street and Edith Buda , 15 , of 501 West 140th Street . The boy told detectives that the attackers , some of whom brandished knives , crowded him and the girls against a building . He fought out against them while the girls ran , screaming , down the street . One Hundred Forty-seventh Street is unusually dark at that point and , apparently , no one witnessed the attack , aid coming only after the thugs had left their victim on the sidewalk . The Rev , Dr. Teichmann , who visited his son at the hospital , expressed alarm over the attack and said he planned to visit Mayor La Guardia to " talk over the deplorable conditions " of the neighborhood . Emphasizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble , " he pointed out that his congregation numbered several " decent , upstanding Negroes . " He said , however , that " something will have to be done . " " Another boy was stabbed recently in this neighborhood , " he said . " He belonged/to the parish of the St. Catherine of Genoa Roman Catholic Church , a block from our church . I intend to ask the pastor of that church to join me in forming a committee to see the Mayor when he is better . " The new motor cycle patrol is I under the command of Deputy Inspector Hugo 0 . Wunsche . Twenty-eight men are assigned each to Manhattan and Brooklyn and four to the Bronx and Queens . It is understood that some of the motor cycles are equipped with side cars and short-wave radios . Among the thoroughfares in Manhattan that the new unit will patrol are Fifth Avenue from Thirty-fourth to 120th Street , Sixth Avenue from Thirty-fourth to Sixty-ninth Street , Madison Avenue from Fifty-ninth to 138th Street , Seventh and Eighth Ave , nues from 110th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 125th to 162d Street , Broadway and Riverside Drive from 122d to 125th Street , East End Avenue from Seventy-ninth to Eighty ninth Street , and the entire length of Lenox Avenue . In Brooklyn the patrol will cover Throop , Myrtle , Stuyvesant and Franklin Avenues and Fulton Street , while in the Bronx Jackson , Forest and Westchester Avenues will be watched . The locations in Queens were not disclosed .                     