@@707406

txt OMAHA , Neb. , Nov. 6 ? Generally speaking , Middle Western farmu.s are opposed to subsidies to stimulate or maintain production . Not so militantly , perhaps , as some of the leading farm organizations and the farm bloc in Congress , but they just do not see the sense in subsidies with things the way they are now . Prices are high enough , they tell you , so that they do not need any incentive to produce . Farmers as a rule are antagonized by the word subsidy without attempting to analyze its purpose and effect . This may sound cock ' eyed considering that 80 to 85 per cent of Middle Western farmers have been regularly accepting Government subsidies for the past ten years , but the case has become different now . Subsidies , but Not in Name The purpose of the AAA subsidies was , of course , quite different from that sought to be achieved now . They were not meant to keep the price of farm products low to the consumer . On the contrary , they were presumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production to near the level of effective demand or made in the form of loans to hold surplus production off the market . Complaints against rising food prices do not much move the farmer at this time . He has heard ever been . While advancing prices are in part responsible for this fact they are quite aware that it is also because they have been outdoing themselves to turn out record production . In spite of the concession that the farm is making good money these days , the farmers are not particularly worried for fear that prices will get too high . A few quite frankly would like to see the lid off and prices allowed to rise to whatever point the public would pay to get food . Fewer still are genuinely disturbed over the prosIpect of rising prices , a consequent land boom and inflation in general . too much about the high wages paid in defense industries , has observed that too many strikes were settled with wage increases , and has noted how the demand for industrial labor has drained the country and the small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Cornhusker Wage For another thing , farmers are more sensitive nowadays to the taxation effect of expenditures from the Federal Treasury . Until the past two or three years only a small minority of wealthy farmers paid an income tax or even made a tax return . Now , what with lower exemptions and better incomes , a majority of them have become Federal taxpayers . Although farmers are inclined to shy away from the subsidy method , it is not wholly from a feeling that they are perfectly satisfied , with what they are getting and do n't want any more . They find it a little hard to get together on what are reasonable prices . While there may be specific complaint against ceilings , ' where they are imposed , most farmers will concede that they have been doing pretty well just as farm prices stand now . They could hardly do otherwise , with farm income in this section at the highest it has                     