@@709971

txt  - -  A declaration resenting and rejecting attempted interference by the Communists and other political parties was adopted by delegates to the Congress of Industrial Organizations convention today after Philip Murray , their president , exhorted them to act promptly without debate . Two delegates who rose in opposition receded from their posi- ! tion a few minutes later and Mr. ! , Murray announced the action was ! unanimous . The oppositionists were Joseph Stack and Howard , vice ' presidents of the National Mari- , time Union and Communist party , members . A third delegate who ! was on his feet went unnoticed by the chair . He identified himself to reporters as Enoch R. Rust , chairman of the Kanawha Valley Industrial Union Council , Charleston , W. Va. , and said the declaration was not strong enough to suit him . The delegates ' gaze was focused on Mr. Stack , who wore a red shirt , and Mr. , who stood close by . Joseph Selly , president of the American Communications Association , classified with the Left Wing , immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was announced a few minutes later . A few delegates were seen to remain in their chairs while the standing vote was taken . This apparently concluded action on the principal controversial issue before the convention , but still another Left-Right conflict appeared to be in the making . Some of the more powerful leaders of the Right have decided to support 0 . A. Knight for the CIO vice presidency now held by Reid Robinson , president of the Mine , Mill and Smelter Workers . Opposition to Mr. Robinson is grounded ostensibly on allegations that he borrowed $5,000 from an employer of his union 's members and not on his association with the Communist element . If the Knight supporters go through with their plan , and Mr. Robinson decides to stand for reelection , a spirited contest is certain . The election is scheduled for Friday morning . Soviet Flag " Vanishes " As the convention got under way in the Chelsea Hotel ballroom , bedecked with flags of the United Nations , news men notice that the Soviet flag had disappeared . The flag hung from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official attention was paid to the incident , which some Right Wing delegates interpreted as a " gag . " Mr. Murray 's keynote speech at ' the morning session reviewed the wage struggles of CIO unions in the last year . After luncheon he laid the declaration of policy before the convention with an extemporaneous introduction in which he charged that a " deluge " of newspaper articles about Communists in the CIO had created " a kind of hysteria . " He said many candidates for public office took advantage of " these misrepresentations and slandered this organization of ours to win votes at the polls . " There was resounding applause as the CIO president declared : " This organization is not and must not be Communist-controlled and inspired . " He said he had laid the subject before the executive board on his own initiative , " without advice , counsel and assistance , " and denounced as " untrue " printed statements that he had been forced by pressure to act . He said there was no disagreement in the executive board and added : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pressure legislation . The matter of legislation is one which becomes the exclusive property of the individual union . " The statement is designed to chart a course of the over-all con duct of international inions . It should not be misconstrued as of a repressive nature . It is not calculated to do things of a repressive nature . It does provide certain charts and certain courses . " Then Mr. Murray said the policy " should be , and in fact must be , adhered to within the councils of the national CIO and its affiliates . " He added that suggestions had been made that the organization indulge in extraordinary repressive legislation . " As president of this organization , " he continued , " I am definitely opposed to any form of repression in this movement of ours . " This statement drew applause . " On the other hand , " he proceeded , " there should be a distinct understanding that through democratic processes there should be strict adherence to the policy . " He contended the declaration " will undoubtedly constitute an answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization has been subjected . " " It portrays rather vividly our allegiance to one country  --  that is , the United States of America , " he remarked . Another round of applause interrupted him . " It portrays another outstanding fact , that this is a trade union movement * * * it does not care to be bothered with , and will not , tolerate interference by , not only the Communist but other political parties , and I should like to emphasize that . " He ended by saying that he hoped the delegates " will respond with a rising vote of thanks " to the executive board . " That will obviate needless debate , because that has already been taken care of , " he said . He invited a motion to adopt , which was offered . Scarcely pausing , and without asking if there was discussion , he asked for a standing vote . The great mass of the delegates rose with applause . In his morning speech Mr. Murray said the most important matter for the consideration of the convention would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are bound to ensue in conferences of many of our international organizations " soon . He accused industry of responsibility for the major CIO strikes because of its refusal to accept the mediation proposals of President Truman and his factinding boards . He cited the steel and General Motors strikes specifically and said " that public press which in too many instances has resorted to the use of diabolical slander and misrepresentation should now take occasion to tell the truth and nothing but the pure , unadulterated truth . " " Not a single solitary organization affiliated with this CIO movement in the early part of 1946 of its own volition precipitated a strike , " he asserted . He made a brief reference to the Communist issue in his discussion of wages and profits . He said that Government statistics indicated that 1946 " can reap for American corporate interests a $15,000,000 , - 000 profit , predicated upon the rate for the last quarter , " compared with $5,000,000,000 in 1939 . " It is asserted that certain interests here in the United States threaten our institutions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular reference to allegations made concerning the Communist party , " Mr. Murray went on . " But what could constitute a graver threat to the perpetuity of our free existence in the United States of America , our democratic way of life in America , than this fiscal picture that I have taken the privilege of presenting to you here ? " Referring to the possibility of restrictive labor legislation , he said : " Is there anyone in this convention hall , or any sincere thinking individual anywhere in the United States of America , who could believe in the innermost recesses of his heart , his conscience , his mind , that the voters of the United States of America gave to the Republican party a mandate to put a cross on the back of labor , march it to Capitol Hill , and there in public gaze witness the actual crucifixion of American labor ? ? " Can anybody believe that ? Does the Republican party believe that ? Do the leaders of that party believe that ? If they do , they are making a , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the American people . " Another point Mr. Murray touches on briefly  --  and inexplicably to some of the delegates  --  was discrimination in United States assistance to foreign peoples . " I often wonder , " he said , " why it is that people in many other lands , following the recent election , view with a degree of suspicion the motives of certain people here in the United States of America  --  why there is belief in many quarters that our money is being utilized for the purpose of changing the thinking of people in many countries , in the distribution of relief , in the lending of money and in other ways . " It would indeed be regrettable and most unfortunate if the lending , gift-giving propensities of the American Government should be utilized for the purpose of forcing our way of thinking down the throats of many people all over this world . " I make this assertion because that kind of thinking is going on in many places throughout the world . It is the business , it is the , duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American people to the dangers which might very well beset us as a result of the promotion of such foolhardy policies . " He did not develop this point further , Mr. Murray read a letter from President Truman in which the President sent his greetings to CIO , members and urged them " to prove , as they did during the war , that their aims and purposes are the common property of all who labor . " " These are exciting and dangerous times , " Mr. Truman wrote . " For if the months ahead usher hi a period of inaction or reaction , if we again put profits above people , we will jeopardize the very structure of our free society . If we write a social contract which violates the moral code or endangers the economic balance , we shall invite disaster . "                     