@@707334

txt Mr. Churchill 's frank account of the events and negotiations leading up to the Italian surrender disposes of many of the assumptions on which criticisms of Allied policy were based . To those who knew anything of the revulsion against fascism that has been taking place in all classes in Italy in recent years it was clear from the outset that Mussolini was overthrown and the Badoglio Government set up for the purpose of getting rid of the Fascist octopus and making peace with the Allies . Starting from that premise , it followed that every action of what Mr. Churchill calls " that unhappy Government " was directed toward obtaining an armistice at the earliest possible moment and keeping the ubiquitous Germans in the dark as to its intentions until the surrender was arranged . The Prime Minister reveals that this is what happened . In a dramatic story of the secret parleys for capitulation he testified to the good faith of Badoglio and his envoys , and asserted that " every effort " has since been made by the Italian Government and its forces to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Churchill is strongly in favor of strengthening this Government , not merely against the remnants of fascism , the " Nazi-Quisling gang " that has tried in vain to rally the people with its worn-out slogans , but as an ally in the cause of liberation . Not the least significant part of the speech is the emphasis he places on the active proof the Italians are giving of their pro-Allied sentiments . In a ringing challenge to critics who manifested their ignorance of the real facts by insisting that the new regime is as Fascist as the old . he declared that " it is necessary in the general interest as well as that of Italy that all the surviving forces in Italy 's national life should be rallied around their Government and that the King and Marshal Badoglio should be supported " by everybody . including liberal and leftwing elements , until the nation is freed to " make what arrangement it chooses for the future government of the country on democratic lines . " The Italian people and their Government are now , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrillas and saboteurs , but to the limit of their capacity they are obeying Badoglio 's orders to drive out the Germans . We learn from Mr. Churchill that the first , emissaries who came from Rome seeking peace asked how Italy could join the United Nations in the war against Germany . They were prepared to join , they said , when the Allies landed in Italy . The explanation for our delay in landing , a delay which permitted the Nazis to consolidate and reinforce their position , is unquestionable on Military grounds . The time of the attack had been fixed without reference to developments in Italy and the physical pipparations for the main landing could not be hastened to catch up with events . No layman can dispute the necessity of that lag , which Mr. Churchill did his best to shorten , but for a long time there will be debate on the political judgment which insisted only on unconditional surrender instead of making capital out of the offer to switch to our side . The weakness of the Italian military force makes it doubtful whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been ordered then to resist disarmament and oppose by every possible means the incoming hordes of Germans . But it is hard to see how anything could have been lost . In his statement at Quebec following the collapse of the Fascist regime . Mr. Churchill hoped that the Allied armies would be spared the burden of occupying " mile by mile " the whole peninsula . It will never be known whether this highly desirable end could have been achieved by a different political decision , but the speculation will certainly haunt the history books .                     