@@710854

txt Mayor O'Dwyer yesterday took his longest step toward ending the fivecent fare on the ailing New York City transit system . He proposes to carry to the Legislature , as part of his 1948 legislative program , a request for amendment of law that will place in the Board of Transportation the power to set a fare to meet operating expenses . He would , however , reserve to the Board of Estimate the power to fix a fare high enough to cover debt service as well as operating expenses . This may seem to some to be a devious route to a desirable end , and yet when the politics of the situation is considered it may turn out to be the speediest and most direct route . If the Mayor asks for such legislation , and it is introduced under Democratic auspices , we believe that he can count on Legislative approval at Albany . Jn the other hand , if he attempted to proceed under present transit law there is every reason to suppose that the City Council would insist  --  though knowing full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fare rise to a public referendum . There the issue would certainly become a political football ; the outcome would depend to a large extent on how well a. campaign of education was carried on , and on the attitude of labor unions and the political parties . The unions and the politicians have not distinguished themselves thus far in their position on the fare , although there have been some hints lately that some might be beginning to shift ground . One of the criticisms of the present transit set-up has been that the Board of Transportation did not have the autonomous powers necessary to do its job well . It lacked incentive for efficient operation because no matter how well it ran its affairs it could never hop , : to come out at ? ear 's end with anything but a deficit . The proposal to put limited fare authority within its powers would meet that criticism , and would stop the practice of running to City Hall for help . As long as the Board of Estimate must answer the question where money for pay rises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Board of Estimate that is really running the transit systems . The plan suggested by the Mayor is still inferior to authority operation , which would have to cover debt service , cost of new construction , rehabilitation and operational costs . It may be difficult to define explicitly in legislation just what is covered by operational costs . The city 's urgent need for money  --  emphasized by the Mayor 's other legislative proposals mentioned yesterday , for increased borrowing powers ? requires that the transit legislation be carefully drawn so that there can be no later dispute on this point which will create excuse for continued dipping into capital funds . We congratulate the Mayor on his courage if , as we hope , he has at long last finally set out on a course from which he will make no turning .                     