@@712232

txt The difficulties within the Fusion ranks , . which have led to threats of a split city ticket being presented in opposition to that presented by Mayor O'Dwyer and the Democrats , appeared yesterday to have melted away . Heated tempers , caused by the insistence of the Liberal party that it was entitled to endorse Robert F. Wagner Jr . for Borough President of Manhattan if he obtained the Democratic nomination for that office , cooled off , and substantial unity behind the citywide ticket headed by Newbold Morris for Mayor appeared assured again . Meanwhile , as the deadline for filing of nominating petitions was reached yesterday afternoon at the Board of Elections , a tally disclosed that the O'Dwyer ticket , including Lazarus Joseph for Controller and Vincent R. Impellitteri for President of the City Council , had accumulated 193,923 signatures from the five boroughs . The Morris ticket was backed by 45,204 Republican and 11,888 Liberal party signers , and the American Labor party ticket , headed by Vito Marcantonio and including Paul Ross for Controller and Mrs. Minneola Ingersoll for President of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Threat In the background of the Fusion fight , which yesterday was dwindling in importance , was the fact that Thomas J. Curran , New York Republican County Chairman , indicated on Monday that he would drop Harry Uviller , Fusion nominee for Controller , from the Republican part of the Fusion ticket if the Liberals insisted on backitv Mr. Wagner for Manhattan Borough President . The Liberals in turn had retorted that if Mr. Curran did so they would drop from their ticket Justice Matthew J. Diserio , Republican , running for President of the City Council . Yesterday Mr. Curran was understood to have taken the attitude that even though he regarded the Liberal party as wrong in backing a Republican for Mayor and a Democrat for Borough President , he had given his word on the citywide ticket , and could not go back on it . The Liberal party , independently , indicated it now felt it would nominate Mr. Diserio , and keep its word , even if Mr. Curran succeeded in dropping Mr. Uviller . It appeared to insure that by Friday , the deadline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consent allowing Mr. Uviller to enter its primary , and the Liberals would allow Mr. Diserio in theirs . Most of this came about through the intervention of Newbold Morris , the Fusion nominee for Mayor , who took the role of mediator late Monday night and succeeded in cooling off the contestants . No Agreement on Candidate It did not produce , however , any agreement between the Liberals and the Republicans on a designee for Borough President of Manhatt21. the post the coalition would have the best chance of capturing if agreement could be reached on a joint candidate . The Republican nominee is Oren Root Jr. , who issued a statement yesterday saying he would withdraw if that would help , but could not see that it would , and therefore was in the fight to stay . Meanwhile , usually well-informed Tammany sources indicated that Tammany would accept Mr. Wagner as its candidate for Borough President , thus capitulating further to the demands of independent groups whose drive in that direction was originated by Mayor O'Dwyer . This information had not reached the Liberal party last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding Mr. Wagner 's nomination by the Democrats , and announcing its refusal to take " dictation " from the Republicans . " We agreed to fusion but not to Republican transfusion , " Alex Rose , one of the party 's principal spokesmen , announced . " Our agreement with the Republicans is confined to the city // wide ticket . We are not dictating to the Republicans whom they should nominate on their local ticket and we will never permit them to dictate to us . We are not prepared to consider every Democrat a Tammany man nor are we prepared to consider every Repub-I lican a good-government man . Last year the Liberal party carried on its Truman ticket Frankenthaler and Javits and this year we are prepared to carry on our fusion ticket Robert F. Wagner Jr . George Frankenthaler , New York Surrogate , and Representative Jacob K. Javits , Republican , were elected . " The public will judge whether our nonpartisan policy in selecting the best qualified candidates irrespective of parties is in the best interests of the city . " The Liberal party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and Tammany will withdraw Jo-1 seph Zaretski , its original " stopgap " designee . Announcement Awaited It is not certain when Tammany will announce its reliably reported decision to back Mr. Wagner , whose candidacy has been accompanied by the declaration that he will accept the nomination only if he gets a free hand in the office . Tammany sources indicated that they regarded Mr. Wagner as their strongest candidate , in view of the pledged Liberal party support , and had to be content with his future judgment as to whether their recommendations for office-holding met his requirements . Mr. Root , in his statement , after deploring the rift in the Fusion ranks , and demanding unity to win the election , said : " If my withdrawal as a candidate could contribute to that end , I would consider it a privilege to make that sacrifice for the people of this city for the cause of good government . Since the present controversy does not seem to have anything to do with my personal qualifications it does not now appear that my withdrawal would help clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he got the Liberal party endorsement he would " appeal with all the vigor at my command to the rank and file of all parties . " The executive committee of the City Fusion party sent telegrams last night to Mr. Curran and Mr. Rose urging that they both continue support of the MorrisUviller-Diserio ticket . Discord would only tend to help the FlynnTammany-Cashmore machine , the telegrams said .                     