@@709241

txt Letters to The Times MICHAEL H. KENT.CORNEIL RIDDERHOF.PHILIP V. MOHAN.BEN GERINGER.WALDEMAR KAEMP ... Letters to The Times Hosiery Shortage Explained Price Regulations Prevent the Makers From Obtaining Materials To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your women readers , who have been trying to buy hosiery , may be interested to know that the present shortage is purely synthetic and could be eliminated overnight by Government officials . Furthermore , fantastic published statements that the stocking shortage will disappear in a couple of months have no basis of fact . The top estimated production of nylon yarn by du Pont , for 1946 , is expected to supply 57 per , cent of the demand . How can hose be plentiful ? During the war the Government prevented hosiery manufacturers from using silk and nylon . As a result , Regulation M-37-D was put into effect by the WPB , forcing rayon manufacturers to give 17 per cent of their'production to hosiery- mills . The mills , with the aid of this regulation , produced about 3 1/3 million dozen pairs monthly of full-fashioned stockings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Regulation M-37-D was dead . The hosiery mills could buy all the rayon yarn they want  --  if they could get it . In a free economy , these mills would outbid , for example , the tire manufacturers and would obtain rayon yarn to supplement the nylon production . This is impossible with price regulations . As a result almost ' all rayon yarn manufacturers now refuse to sell yarn to hosiery mills because they know that these mills will not make future customers for them . The probable rayon hosiery production in 1946 is expected to be no more than half a million dozen pairs a month , or about 85 per cent less than during the war years . It is doubtful if the total production in 1946 , including both rayon and nylon , will exceed 68 per cent of the demand . Unless something is done about this condition the hosiery shortage will be with us until 1947 . Revised Rule Suggested The only solution is a revised M-37-D allocating perhaps 9 per cent of the rayon yarn production to hosiery manufacturers . This should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rayon hose monthly . This added to the two and a half million dozen monthly nylon production expected would make a total of four million dozen monthly , Then , and only then , will the hosiery shortage be eliminated . Suoh a revised regulation by the Civilian Production Administration would be needed for just about a year , at which time increased nylon production would fill the gap . Tire manufacturers , who never used rayon for tires before the war , would not suffer if some of the rayon went into hosiery , because they could still make mighty good tires with cotton . On the other hand , hosiery manufacturers have no such alternative and unless they obtain silk or nylon no other yarn is available for the production of sheer hosiery except rayon . MICHAEL H. KENT . Brooklyn , Jan. 30 , 1946 . Correct Language Held Need Misuse of English Viewed as Indicating Lack of Intelligence To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One sentence stands out in your Jan. 20 editorihl " Neglected Heritage , " and it is this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a reasonable competence with the mother tongue . " I suggest that this is putting it too mildly , since the experience of students of intelligence and its development has been that there is such a close correlation between language growth and development of the intelligence that progress in one is evidence of progress in the other . And on that basis the inevitable conclusion is that intelligence is declining , at least in our educational institutions . Only recently a friend received from a college he contemplates entering a letter containing several grammatical errors . And last week a teacher in the grades , complaining of the unteachableness of his pupils , concluded with " You ca n't learn those kids anything ! " Since the correct , lucid ' use of English has thus declined , we hear all sorts of arguments for its corruption , the most common being that language is a living thing , constantly changing , and that the so-called errors of today become the good usage of tomorrow . Well and good ; but the aforementioned students of intelligence and its development are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not concomitants . They have it from experience that a person who , for instance , indulges in the double negative is never intelligent , but at most has a crude sort of common sense . CORNEIL RIDDERHOF . San Diego , Calif , Jan. 25 , 1946 . Praise for a Bureau To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With some trepidation , yesterday I visited the Veterans ' Administration Office at 252 Seventh Avenue , New York City , to make application under provisions of the GI Bill of Rights for tuition allowance for my final year of night law school at Fordham University ( hastily severed in 1941 ) . Today I pay tribute to the most alert and efficient group of young men and women I have ever encountered . They were friendly , considerate and courteous . I left in less than an hour , letter of authority in hand , a resurgence of faith in bureaucratic admistration in heart . Expecting something akin to a slow-motion scene from " Alice in Wonderland , " I was expertly interviewed by a contact man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand in a matter of minutes . Small wonder  --  he , merely acted in a manner befitting the ribbon he wore , the Congressional Medal a Honor . Veterans who pass through this " mill " will take new heart and reach new highs . PHILIP V. MOHAN . North Tarrytown , N. Y. , Jan. 26,194e , Orientation Called Faulty Lack of Information Seen as Cause of Much Unrest in Army To THE EDITOR OF TECO NEW YORK TIMESV I am an ex-GI who served in France , Luxembourg and Germany . Perhaps the following calendar of " orientation " ' to which our battalion was exposed in the States and overseas will cast some light on the activities and attitudes - of our men overseas , which most observers find so deplorable . During our training at Camp Edwards , Mass. , and Fort Bragg , N. C.4 we heard occasional talks by the oiientation officer on current events and military developments . Most of these talks were fifteen minutes in length ? there was no more attempt to explain issues or our relationship to what was happening than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " Why We Fight " films were shown with no more corn . ' ment or discussion than attended the showing of the training films on the " Care of the Gas Mask " and " Sighting and Aiming the Ml Rifle . " Attendance at the talks was , to say , the least , incomplete . If one had a " detail , " or any excuse to be elsewhere , no one cared . In July , 1944 , we spent three weeks at a port of embarkation . Our training program consisted of hikes , drill , recreation , and , to fill out the day , orientation . We were shown all the " Why We Fight " films , as many as three in ' a single day . They were splendid , but did you ever sit through four hours of citing , thought-provoking film . aid commentary in a crowded , hot theatre ? The effect was deadening . We had discussions , too . The first was led by an EM who completed his survey of news events with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the wife of  --  a member of the Don Cossack Choir that Stalin intended to run riot and communize Europe as soon as Germany was defeated . This at a time when the Russians were making their great sweep to Warsaw and we were engaged in the desperate battles in Normandy . In the discussion that followed , I mentioned the danger of this viewpoint to Allied unity at the time . Our battery commander later invited me to lead the discussion the following day . My virtues as discussion leader are less than startling , but the next few days revealed an intense interest on the part of the men in knowing the reasons for the war , and their personal role and stake in victory . Then we sailed . From July , 1944-April , 1945 , when I left the battalion , the only attempt to discuss war issues occurred in December , 1944 , in a forum on nonfraternization . Our men were not at fault . Nearly every member of the battery participated in the discussions we had with serious , intelligent questions and comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be resumed . I believe my experience was typical of that of millions . We won a just war , and smashed an evil that could have destroyed us , but we did not win it because our men knew " Why We Fight . " We had the best equipped , the best fed , the best entertained Army in the world , but not the best informed . That is the bald truth behind the GI demonstrations , the black-market dealings of American soldiers and the reports of nasty incidents involving our troops in the liberated countries . BEN GESINGER . New York , Jan. 30 , 1946 . Dogs Were Necessary To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Cecile Preston states in her letter published Feb. 1 that " Dr. Goldberger discovered the cause and cure of pellagra in Alabama about 1915 " and that experiments with dogs did not point the way . She is wrong if she means that Dr. Goldberger discovered the efficacy of nicotinic acid , one of the " B " complex of vitamins . Dr. Goldberger concluded from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he called " P.P. " ( pellagra preventive factor ) pellagra resulted . He also showed that black tongue in dogs and pellagra in man are ' the same . Later Dr. Conrad Elvehjem proved that black tongue in dogs could be cured with nicotinic acid . Thereupon clinicians used nicotinic acid on human pellagrins with the known results . Experimentation with dogs was essential before nicotinic acid could be used clinically . WALDEMAR KAEMPFFERF . New York , Feb. 1 , 1946.                     