@@706669

txt The Senate Finance Committee completed its public hearings today on the $6,271,000,000 tax bill passed by the House and took a recess until Aug. 24 , when executive consideration of proposed amendments to the measure win begin . After today 's hearing , Senator George , committee chairman , told reporters that he hoped to have his committee 's draft of the measure ready for Senate consideration early in September . If the general form of the House measure is followed , he said , the Senate draft might be ready for Senate action by the first week of next month . If drastic revisions in this draft are adopted by the committee , he added , both the report and Senate consideration would probably come later than this . Mr. George said the committee hearings had demonstrated to him that some form of tax relief should be given to individuals and corporations which incurred heavy debts previous to American entrance into the war and to investors in war savings bonds . He said that the hearings had demonstrated that the high rates in the bill justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their solvency and make it possible for them to reconvert to peacetime production when the war ends . Tax on Spending Advocated A plea to these general ends was made before the committee today by Professor Irving Fisher , Yale economist , along with appeals from a variety ofointerests for changes in various special taxes contained in the House bill or in the present law . Mr. Fisher made two chief points , first , that the committee should recommend a special tax on that part of personal income which is spent and , second , that it should propose reduction or even repeal of all taxes on those parts of both personal and corporate incomes which are saved . In taxing savings and undivided profits , he said , the government is killing the goose that lays the golden eggs . " We may thereby get a little more tax revenue this year , " he added , " but we are killing revenues in future years which will be even more needed then than now . To tax spendings would be an incentive to spend less and to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . That is the soundest of sound wartime economics . " Urged as Check on Inflation His specific immediate proposal , he said , would provide exemptions of poo for expenditures of single persons and $1,000 for those of married couples , plus deductions for dependents , which meant that only the middle classes and the rich would bear the tax . This made it not a sales tax , he held , but a luxury tax , which would be superimposed on present individual income tax schedules . " In war times , " he said , " we are shooting away our savings and can not afford to tax them away besides . In particular I stress not so much war taxes as war loans out of savings as a means of financing the war . I do not object to a 90 or 94 per cent tax so far as it applies to income spent , in the highest bracket . In many ways the proposed measure would help combat inflation . " Mr. Fisher held that by exempting savings , corporate or individual , from taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged spendings which could be taxed in the future , but that the present contrary policy threatened to lead the country into State socialism after the war . John L. Connally , speaking for the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Corporation of St. Paul , asked the committee to recom- mend repeal of the war contract re-negotiation act passed last Spring , holding that it had worked out unsatisfactorily because the Army , Navy and Maritime Commission each had different methods of determining what constitutes fair profits on war contracts . George Favors 6% Profit Limit Senator George said he agreed that the act did not work well and voiced the view that an over-all limitation on war contracts profits was a better solution . He held that a profit ceiling of 6 per cent of invested capital after payment of taxes , as a supplement to excess profits taxes , would eliminate the necessity of re-negotiating individual contracts of war contractors and would protect the government against unconscionable profits . Homer K. Capehart , Indianapolis manufacturer , asked for relief for newly formed corporations or those which were inactive between 1936 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He suggested that profit limitations on war contracts should be based on a percentage of sales rather than on invested capital , as Senator George had proposed . Harry B. Straus , North Carolina manufacturer , said the 90 per cent tax on excess profits contained in the House bill would make it impossible for firms with large debts to meet these obligations . He suggested that to such corporations be given an excess profits tax credit for a portion of their fixed obligations if the 90 per cent rate is approved . Samuel Robinson , Los Angeles pinball game operators ' spokesman , in presenting an appeal for reversal of a Treasury decision that such games are gambling devices taxable at $50 each instead of $10 , offered to give the committee a list of other similar " amusement devices . " now untaxed ; which would produce $30,000,000 or more of revenues if taxed at the $10 rate . 