@@707329

txt A divided Government after next year 's presidential elections is political probability . That is the consensus among members of Congress who have Just returned from a two months ' visit with their constituents and now are busily engaged comparing political notes . Discussions in the Capitol cloakrooms of both parties follow this general pattern : President Roosevelt is a candidate for a fourth term He is certain of the nomination His chances for reelection are setter than even . In the House . the Republicans will break the power the Democrats have held since the elections of 1930 and take control In the Senate , the division will be close , but the Republicans will hold the edge . Much Depend% on Mar'ssProgrects While this appears as the predominant opinion when views of both Democrats and Republicans are lumped together . it-is hedged with " ifs. ' all tied to the progress of the war and the man who heads the Republican slate . It is based largely ? on home town sentiment as of today . It is speculative . A political division in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens only rarely . but it 's sure to cause excitement . in 1916. when President Wilson was elected to his second term , the Republicans won a ' numerical majority in the House . Rupture 's in Republican ranks , however , enabled the Democrats to organize the House and gain control . The Republicans took over in the Congressional elections in 1919 In 1979 , during the hectic Tilden-Hayes race . the Democrats won the House while the Republicans elected a President . Roosevelt 's ' Nomination Assumed Returning Democrats and Republicans alike report the people at home just assume that Mr Roosevelt is a candidate and that he will get the Democratic nomination without opposition worthy of the name . There is no such unanimity , however , on his chances of election . Among the Democrats . a large majority Liel:eve Mr. Roosevelt will be reelected without difficulty and have no hesitancy in saying so . The general opinion of Republicans . expressed in private discussions and not for quotation is that if the war is still on . Mr Roosevelt will he more than hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1944 , they give the Republican candidate , whoever he may be , an even chance . 31artin Is More Optimictie House Minority Leader Martin . however , more optimistic than nanny of his colleagues He comments " I am confident of a Repub.ican clean-up next year . It will be a little more difficult , however , if the war is still gong ' ? Getting away from the presidential question . many Democrats are willing to concede the Republicans an edge . In such states as New York . Pennsylvania . Illinois , Kentucky , aliasouri , Michigan and Wisconsin . Republican strength is said to be growing and it is in these areas that the Democrats may lose House seats The Republicans need only a net gain of 12 seats to have a majority in the House . In the Senate , the Republicans need a net gain of 11 seats to get control The reasons given for the belief among republicans and , to a lesser degree . Democrats , that Piesident Roosevelt can be reelected and Congress still go Republican are interesting Members report that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributed to the check it has exercised on home front issues The people . members say , express a eecire for a strong hand in th " White House to deal with foreign affairs and a Congress that will resist dictation on home front issues This is advanced largely among Republicans . Democrats take the position that Office of Price Administration . manpower and other Government iegulationa have irritated too many people and that the voters arc more likelt to slims resentment by voting against Democrats in Congrese than by voting against Ali Rooecvelt At . home . members say , the man in the street la mine likely to blame the bureaucrats and Congiesa for allowing them to operate than the President , who is really re -- Tonsible for administration Conservative southern Democrats who have given the President considerable trouble on home front ' Issues . price control and high taxes . for example , are confident of re-election They ' discount reports that the South will go against Mr Roosevelt next year It is their conviction that the southern states will support Mr. Roosevelt and , at the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Georgia . and Sumners of Texas to serve as a check on the White House . Women workers now comprise perhaps as much as 65% of cotton mill payrolls , compared with a pre-war situation in which male workers were in a 60% majority . With use of raw recruits , efficiency has declined . Scott Russell , president of Bibb Manufacturing Co. , one of the world 's large textile concerns , recently testified before a House committee that his firm 's plants need 3.000 more workers to operate three shifts than were used in normal times . More and more mills are going off three shift operation  --  for lack of workers . Mill men report many women operatives quit because tax deductions make their pay envelopes unattractive . And they walk out . too , because wartime housekeeping is a full time job Some big mills are striving to overcome this by providing day nurseries , loan funds , transportation facilities , easy shopping arrangements , and vacations with pay . But they complain that such steps boast production costs without a compensating increase in ceiling prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery , employment of inspectors to see that specifications on Government orders are met . Industry members also complain that the need for extra clerical help to handle Federal forms is a not inconsiderable burden . A Smaller Share of Smaller Production If the more pessimistic estimates of textile men come true the civilian will get a diminishing share of a diminishing production . Last year the nation 's cotton textile mills turned out a record-breaking total of 12.5 billion square yards of goods . Output this year . textile men say . could slump to between 11.7 and 11.5 billion yards . a drop of 6% or 13S . This year 's production rate will grant about 35 square yards of cotton goods to each civilian , compared with about 70 ydrds before the war . But as the civilian allotment declines , the pinch on many civilians tightens because " essential " civilian requirements must be taken care of with little reduction . After allowances for manufacture of flags , work gloves , crop cultivation fabrics . surgical dressings. plastic products , dairy supplies . industrial tape and men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may find pretty much of a bare cloact . A symptom of ' the increasing tightness in civilian clothing is a report from industry sources that the War Production Board is preparing to grant the production of children 's garments a priority equal to that of military clothing . In some cities the supply of youngsters ' apparel is critically short . But granting it a high priority will not divert textiles from Government use : it will reduce the quantity available for other civilian use . Because of quirks in the pricing . production and distribution system , cotton textile shortages are " spotty " They are worse in some cities and in certain prodgcts . For ex ample . ? department stores throughout the country are acutely short of sheets and pillow cases . Some . especially in war-boomed towns . have none at all . More and more stores have adopted a policy of keeping sheets and pillow cases under the shelf - and selling only on request . The Services ' Requirements The armed forces are using 11,000 different items coming from the cotton looms . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no question about filling all military demands completely . Thousands of soldiers participating in the African and Italian campaigns have had to be refitted from head to toe asiter battling over rocky terrain . But some expect the biggest call for cotton goods to come from the Pacific , where the conflict is called a " cotton war . " Huge quantities of cloth are needed for netting and gloves to baffle the malariacarrying mosquito , for bags for water purification and food preservation , for camouflage uniforms , hammocks and hospital supplies . Rot-proof , rain-proof and vermin-proof materials have been developed . The size of the textile shipments which must be sent to liberated Europe as the Allied armies progress is yet unknown . But the industry is preparing for " enormous " orders . In addition to this task , and besides supplying our fighting allies , the textile industry has some other strategic duties to perform . It is reported that negotiations are proceeding to trade cotton textiles for tin from the Belgian Congo , for instance . Large scale production of cotton goods in British India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope for easing some of the strain on domestic production . This year India is expected to produce over a billion yards of cotton war textiles . The India Government early in June announced its intention to place the cotton-textile industry there under national control and to increase production next year to 2 billion yards of standard type of cloth Diversion of part of this production to the Southeast and southeast Pacific areas could operate . it is hoped , as lend-lease in reverse . WASHINGTON ( , Pi  --  The Census Bureau reported that cotton consumed during September totaled 872.109 bales of lint and 110,640 bales of linters. compared with 959,7 .. 2 of lint and 114,954 of linters during September last year Cotton oil hand September 30 was reported held as follows : In consuming - establishments 1,930,298 bales of lint and 440.391 bales of linters. compared with 1.786,153 on lint and 335.311 of linters on September 30 last year . In public storage and at compresses , 10 , - 432.611 bales of lint and 40,422 bales of linters , compared with 9 713,415 of lint and 71.277 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during September numbered 22.631.338. compared with 22,988-254 during September last year .                     