@@710849

txt Gov . Horace A. Hildreth has asked Secretary of Defense James Forrestal for " skeleton plans " in speeding permanent " disaster organizations " for the State of Maine . Page 41 Mayor Jasper of Bridgeport. , Conn. , was re-elected to his eighth consecutive term . Page 6 . Hundreds of multiple unit dwellings would be constructed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts through a ** bond issue proposed in a bill filed with the Senate Clerk by State Senator J. Elmer Callahan ( R ) of Salem . Hopes for modification of power rationing in northern Maine were raised by assignment by the Navy of the DE Maloy to produce electric power for the drought-stricken area . At present , the Maine Public Service Company is serving customers on a twohours-on , two-hours-off basis . Washington : Wilson Cites ' Outside Pressure ' Charles E. Wilson said that " outside pressure " in 1943 prevented his efforts to stop construction of Howard Hughes ' big flying boat . The Federal Security Agency approved the first grant of funds under a new law which permits the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved by state agencies and the U. S. Public Health Service . Strike of crewmen aboard the Queen Mary delayed the sailing of the Cunard White Star liner , scheduled to leave Southampton today . The ship is expected to sail for New York tomorrow . Approximately 90 per cent of German war plants in the American occupation zone have been dismantled by German laborers , a Berlin dispatch said . Zoltan Pfeiffer , leader of the Hungarian Independent Party , is reported to have fled Budapest for Vienna . Pfeiffer , an anti-Communist , is accused by the State of . alleged election frauds , and of having released an arrested member of the Hungarian SS brigade . National : Round-World Fliers Plan Next Hop The round-the-world fliers , George Truman and Clifford Evans , enthused by their reception in Naknek , Alaska , planned to fly three miles today from Elmendorf Field to Merrill Field , Anchorage municipal airport , for servicing of their planes . A request for a congressional investigation of grain trading and the grain situation was made by the nation 's three leading grain exchanges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kansas City , and Minneapolis Grain Exchanges . Europe : Political Crisis Arises in Slovakia A Communist-directed political crisis in Slovakia has deadlocked action by Czechoslovakia 's coalition Government , now in session attempting to mend a widening rift between right and left factions . Stanislaw Mikolajczyk has been ousted from his Polish Peasant Party , now controlled by leftwingers , a Warsaw . dispatch said . The Polish leader recently fled his country to England . A Yugoslav patrol of about 20 soldiers is reported to have penetrated a half mile into free state territory of Trieste and to have withdrawn after an exchange of shots with State police . Resignation of Danish Premier Knud Kristensen was submitted to King Frederik , it is announced in Copenhagen . The Premier , however , agrees to keep his coalition Government in office until a new Cabinet is approved . The Kristensen Government failed to clear a mandate in the Oct. 28 elections .                     