@@711595

txt Gov . Thomas E. Dewey returned to the state capital tonight from his second Presidential campaign trip convinced that it 's all over but the voting . " There is n't anything more I could say to you , " he told his audience at Buffalo when his " Victory Special " made a stop on the way from Michigan . " You are all going to vote for me anyway or I could n't persuade you . " That was the Governor 's theme as the train moved eastward through Rochester and Syracuse and turned south into the Mohawk Valley toward the Hudson . And that was the chorus , toO , of his confident staff . Members of the staff were already working on the two speeches the Governor will deliver in New York City this week and his four speeches for the final week of the campaign .. They were of the opinion that the current trip had been a success and would help elect Tom Dewey President of the United States two weeks from tomorrow . In his four speeches today ? bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized , not why he should be elected , but what he intended to do when he was elected . " First of all , " he told 12.000 at Buffalo , " it is my earnest hope and prayer that with a new Administration we can begin to unite the American people . We must build the nation so strongly that the world will know that America is again competent to govern itself , that America is strong enough to mobilize its immense strength , and that America is in truth so strong that no dictator will again dare to attack us . " He then turned to a subject which is popular with the large population in Buffalo sympathetic to the cause of Poland . In the last six years , he said , 200,000,000 people in Central Europe " have lost the last vestige of freedom to the onrushing forces of Soviet totalitarianism . " Part of this tragedy , he asserted , had tier curred as a result of concessions made by the present Administration in Washington . When the country is united and fortified under a- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out hope to those who have been enslaved in recent years , " adding : " We can then start developing a foreign policy that is consistent and which does not wobble from side to side , making concessions to totalitarianism one day and standing up stoutly against it the next . " Stresses Strength and Unity Mr. Dewey told his audience at Syracuse that " it 's time we got a government that knows how to meet " the expansionist policy of the Soviet Union . " The way to meet it , " he added , " is to restore our strength , to -- restore our unity . " At Buffalo and Syracuse he gave some indication of his attitude toward American support for the , free nations of Europe and the western hemisphere . " We must have a foreign policy , " he declared . at Syracuse , " In which we once again lead from strength and not from weakness , 1 a foreign policy which makes it clear to every one of the free peoples of the world . that America stands together with the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of North Americ .. and ' of South America and of elsewhere in the world . " We outnumber the slave peoples many to one . If we can unite I our strength and draw together with all the people who ' believe with us in peace with honor and justice we can become a force so great that no one will continue making aggressive moves against our people . " In each city the Dewey train was met by good crowds and serenaded by musicians of varying ability . Top honors in the musical division went to the Women 's Republican Club of Rochester , which whooped a parody on the old song , " Oh Mr. Dooley . " New Mr. Dooley Version The modern version , which sounded somewhat better than it , reads , went : " Why Mr. Dewey , our Mr. Dewey , For he 's the gent to pull our country through This tribulation and head our nation , Oh , Mr. Dewey , ewey , ewey , 000 . " The Governor was apparently so intrigued by the warbling of this ditty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began speaking about how glad he was to be in Syracuse , but the crowd soon bawled a protest and he reversed his field . In all his talks today Mr. Dewey argued that what was needed in Washington was the kind of government that existed in the State of New York . " One of the things I most hope to do in your next national administration , " he said in RocheSter , " is to bring to the government some of the warmth and social progress that we have made in our state during the last six years , accompanied by  --  and this will be a substantial change  --  a sense of competence and a sense of personal interest in the welfare of the people . " It might have occurred to some members of his audience , the Governor said in Rochester , that they had n't heard any quarreling or bickering between the heads of the state departments and the executive or between the executive and the Legislature . " We arrive at agreement the hard way , through constant private discussion , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to make so much progress . " At Syracuse a boy tossed a tomato . Mr. Dewey , after the missile went past his head , quipped , With a reference to the flowers which had been presented to Mrs. Dewey , " We 've got enough flowers up here already . " The 46-year-old candidate helped celebrate his son John 's 13th birthday at a party at the Governor 's mansion this evening . At the end of the eight-day trip , which was marked by major speeches in Pittsburgh , Louisville , Oklahoma City , Kansas City and St. Paul , and many back-platform speeches in Pennsylvania , Kentucky , Illinois , Missouri , Oklahoma , Kansas , Minnesota , Indiana , Michigan and New York , aides of tile Governor summed up the ? trip about like this : 1 . Mr. Dewey contributed to the unity of the party in all ten states , but particularly in Indiana , where he visited the House majority leader , Charles A. Halleck , and in Minnesota , where the party organization led by Harold Stassen has been divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three of these ten states , the three being Kentucky , Missouri and Minnesota , and in these three he probably gained , some advantage by his visits . Views on Key Senate Races . 3 . His principal contribution was probably in the Senatorial races in Kentucky , Oklahoma and Minnesota , where the Republican candidates are having some trouble . In Kentucky Senator John Sherman Cooper is doing all right against a Democratic opponent , Representative Virgil Chapman , who does not have very enthusiastic support even frorn , his own party , but in Minnesota Senator Joseph H. Ball and the Republican candidate in , Oklahoma , Representative Ross Rizley , are running behind their opponents .                     