@@704930

txt The National Association of Manufacturers last night urged Congress to remove a " serious bottleneck " to the national defense program by separating , if necessary for speedy passage , the special amortization plan for new defense plants from the exce-ss profits tax bill . This request runs directly counter to the recommendation of the special tax subcommittee which has reported alternate proposals for an excess profits tax and recommendation of a five-year amortization period for defense facilit , es to the full House ways and means Committee , which will begin its deliberations this week President Roosevelt also is on record against : separation of these two parts of the hill which also is schedued in remove the existing profit limitations on naval vessels and aircraft contracts Both Mr. Roosevelt and the tax subcommittee said , in effect , that the three parts of the pending measure should be considered together . Prior to Mr. Roosevelt 's declaration In favor of keeping the bill intact , it is understood that officials of the War and Navy departments and Defense Advisory Commission were behind a move to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a separate bill in order to speed up the aircraft procurement program . The Chief Executive 's position has led defense officials to seek other methods of getting this program under way  --  efforts which are reflected in the current negotiations with the airplane manufacturers for contracts on a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee basis . Holding Up Program However , it is considered possible that if a separate bill were introduced in Congress to consider the amortization problem first it might gain considerable support in view of the contention that indecision on this subject is holding up the defense program and the likelihood that the excess profits tax provisions may run into considerable controversy , which means lengthy debate . Also some Administration officials who have opposed separation of the amortization plan have qualified their objection with the proviso that if the revenue bill gets bogged down in the legislative process , they woulo drop their opposition to separate consideration . It may be assumed that the Administration will endeavor to keep the three provisions part and parcel of the same bill , but it also is possible that a move to separate them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would have the tacit backing of defense officials It is understood , for instance , that representatives of the aircraft industry intend to make public , possibly to the ways and means committee when it begins open hearings , their views on amortization allowances and to couple their suggestions with a request that this matter be considered separately by Congress . It is known that at least one member of the House military affairs committee has been considering the introduction of such a resolution Cites " Bottleneck " Transmitting the views of the Manufacturers ' Association to the ways and means committee . NAM President H. W. Prentts , Jr . said that immediate passage of the new law to permit companies to recover the cost of needed new defense facilities and to prevent " profiteering ' would remove a " serious bottleneck " to the defense program . But he added that if the complex nature of the excess profits tax legislation precluded the possibility of speedy action on that measure , the amortization part should be separated and sped through Congress . Mr. Prentis said it was generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the tax upon excess profits will both apply to 1940 earnings so that they need not necessarily be linked together in a single bill . In setting forth the principles that it feels should govern amortization of defense plants . the NAM approved the five-year period advocated by the Roosevelt administration as " fair and reasonable " . A tentative annual deduction from taxable income should be permitted equal to 20% of the cost of the new defense facilities , the association stated , but if the emergency period should end in less than five years . these deductions should be adjusted to make possible a complete write-off of the cost of plant over the period during which profits were earned through defense business . The tax subcommittee recommended a fiveyear write-off period with depreciation taken in even installments of 20 each year . but made no provision for reopening the case in the event the emergency period did not last five I years However , it did recommend permission for a contractor to write off part of his plant on the five-year basis and then shift to the normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Manufacturers ' Association also asked that previous rulings providing for a compu tation of usable value at the end of the amortization period should be discarded . , It pointed out that no further depreciation ' of these properties would be permitted so that any saving in tax payments made possible through complete amortization over the emergency period would be offset by the inability to make further write-offs against future tax assessments . Other points made by the association included requests that the special amortization allowances should be granted not only to facilities directly utilized by defense orders but also to all other facilities used to support national defense work ( which was recommended by the tax subcommittee ) and that the allowances should be granted both for normal and excess profits tax purposes . As for excess profits taxes the Manufacturers ' Association sided with the tax experts of the joint congressional committee on internal revenue when it recommended that the excess profits imposts be applied against earnings above an average of annual earnigs in a predetermined prior period . The association suggested the same base period recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Favored by Treasury The Treasury Department , however , recommended a combination of average earnings over a prior period with the invested capital theory as a base for levying the new taxes . These are the alternative proposals made to the full committee for its study before beginning open hearings , possibly toward the end of this week , after which it will recommend a bill to Congress . In its recommendations to the ways and means committee , the NAM also urged special consideration for those companies which , during the selected base period , had either no earnings or low earnings in relation to their invested capital . Specifically the association requested that manufacturers in this category be granted the privilege of having their excess profits computed either on the past earnings or the invested capital basis The tax subcommittee recommended , without being specific , that some sort of provision be made to take care of companies with abnormally low earnings records Other points made by the manufacturers ' group was that the new excess profits tax law should apply only for two years ; that consolidated returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as required for excess profits tax purposes , and that intercorporate dividend should be relieved from multiple taxation under both the excess profits tax and the normal tax on corporate incomes . Commenting generally on the subject of the proposed new taxes and amortization allowances , the NAM said that there is a " dual advantage in reassuring manufacturers now that this special loss in defense facilities will be recognized for tax purposes . " First and foremost it will stimulate the rapid production of the equipment required for a modern , highly mechanized Army , Navy and Air corps Secondly , a sound amortization provision will stimulate business activity , put idle men to work , and produce badly needed revenue for the Federal Treasury in the present fiscal year . " A carefully guarded excess-profits tax law and a proper provision to cover the rapid depreciation of defense plants and equipment are particularly important so that the present record peacetime tax burden will not disorganize the economic structure of the United Statel nor the progress of the defense program , " the association wrote the Congressional committee . SACRAMENTO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has assessed 584.65 in state inheritance taxes against Buddy . a pet dog left 525 a month by the will of Emma C. lileard.                     