@@704745

txt Again improving their position in the race to the sea and Channel ports , German troops were announced as having today entered Antwerp , from whose Town Hall the Reich 's war flag again flies as it did in 1914 . The city had become untenable because of strong pressure from the German right flank , which yesterday achieved the entry into Brussels and Malines after sanguinary fighting involving heavy losses on both sides . In contrast to its reports of the new success in Belgium , which on the ninth day of the offensive finds herself half overrun by the invaders , the German High Command has little to say on the situation in France beyond a general statement that the wide pocket created Thursday by a breach in the Maubeuge sector is in process of being enlarged toward the upper reaches of the Oise River and is nearing the Somme , which would place the operations in the neighborhood of St. Quentin . The silence of the German High Command may mean , as it sometimes does , that it is on the eve of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it can , of course , just as well mean that the issue of the battle still hangs in the balance . Tighten Grip on Belgium With the capture of Antwerp , announced this afternoon , the Germans are considered to have clinched their iron grip on Belgium . That would further increase their threat to the Channel ports ( the Germans now stand less than seventy miles from Ostend ) irrespective of any widening of the pocket toward the Normandy coast their forces in France may have achieved since yesterday . In the words of one of their military writers , the German right flank is " strong , unbelievably strong , for it begins in Belgium and stretches across the Netherlands and Denmark to Trondheim in Norway . " Referring to the great German strategist , this writer adds : " Schlieffen 's word of counsel is being followed on a larger scale and with other weapons , it is true , but we remain true to him in spirit . " The capture of Brussels ' seemingly was bloodless . The Germans flanked the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the successor of the late Burgomaster Adolphe Max handed over charge of the capital . However , some of the bitterest fighting of this war occurred for possession of Malines and Louvain . The battle lines flowed back and forth in desperate attack and counter-attack ; both towns are reported as changing hands over and over before they were finally secured for the Reich 's troops . The Germans this time praise the conduct of the Belgian civilian population , which remained aloof from the severe street fighting that went on day and night . In 1914 civilians were charged by the invaders with having turned " franctireurs , " sniping from buildings and roofs . 4 contributing factor to the fall of Antwerp must have been what the Germans call mopping-up operations in the islands of the Netherland Zeeland Province . They claim that the commandant of the westernmost island , Walcheren , with the strategically important port of Flushing , has offered to surrender . On the islands of Schouwen and South Beveland , the Germans say , they captured 2,000 Netherland and French prisoners , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coastal batteries . The statement that these last have been manned would seem to indicate they are intact . The life and death struggle in the pocket into France , up to yesterday bounded by the Rivers Sambre , Oise and Aisne , seems to continue as the biggest encounter between tanks that the world has ever witnessed . Land dreadnaughts of both sides evidently are being sent crashing against each other , with guns blazing away , while drivers jockey for position and try to hit the enemy sidewise , making him roll over . Outside of tank guns and light field pieces , the only way effectively to stop a tank seems to he another tank . Whoever lands a sidewise or even a glancing blow is the winner . It is a costly game , almost like matching tanks , for the winner is about as certain to get killed or seriously wounded as the loser , but it is said to stop the enemy tank every time . Another feature is that planes can not intervene in these tank duels because they are liable to kill both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle , the Germans speak of having engaged several tank corps , which at a minimum of two divisions to each corp would mean at least six divisions or a total of well above 2,000 tanks of all sizes . In Friday 's air fighting , the Allies are said to have lost 108 planes , fifty-three of them in aerial encounters and the others by antiaircraft fire or destroyed on the ground . The loss of twenty-six German planes is admitted . The latest guess at the nature of Germany 's supposed secret weapon , based on what little has so far been published of its effects , has been advanced by a neutral military observer here who thinks it no secret at all but merely efficient German dive bombers and their extra heavy projectiles , between one and two tons . These bombs accurately dropped close to the forts of Liege are said to have stunned defenders by the concussion , similar to shellshock , for a period sufficient to allow parachute troops or troops subsequently landed in any other lashBACK FROM NORWAY Major Gen. Bernard C. Paget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Times Wide World , passed by British censor ion to force a passage into the fort , whose guns might also have been tilted out of alignment by the powerful explosion , further incapacitating the defense . In one official report written by Lieut . Col. Hesse , a German military writer with general headquarters , men from Eben Emael and the forts of Liege are being quoted as saying they found themselves unable to service their guns or that the guns would not function . The suggestion that gas was used to achieve this effect is rejected here because so far there is no record that any gas has been used in this war .                     