@@710622

txt Prime Minister Attlee 's statement to Parliament yesterday on the British " dollar crisis " followed closely in its general outlines the pattern forecast for it in advance news stories during the past few days . By and large the statement may be summed up by saying that it represented both a sober appraisal of Britain 's exchange problem and an earnest of the Government 's adherence to the spirit of the Marshall Plan , with its emphasis on self - reliance . While indicating that some concessions from the United States might be required to enable Britain to " stand on its own legs , " the Prime Minister , in a striking departure from the Government 's attitude in the Parliamentary debate -a month earlier , laid by far the greater stress on proposals by which Britain might " play its full part in the efforts started at the Paris conference to see how the countries of Europe cazi best help themselves and each other . " As a matter of fact , Mr. Attlee not only gave little time to the matter of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to minimize the importance , to date at least , of the much-discussed " convertibility " and " non-disirimina tion " provisions of the American Loan Agreement of December , 1945 . The " convertibility " provision is the provision which stipulated that within a year after the loan terms became effective sterling was to be made freely convertible into other moneys in the case of current exchange transactions . The gist of the non-discrimination provision , ? in its application to the present British problem , is that if the British Government , in the interest of conserving scarce dollars , should deem it desirable to curtail importations of certain American products , she would be bound to generalize such restrictions by applying them to similar products in . other countries . Touching on the " convertibility " provision , Mr. Attlee pointedly observed that the latter " is really a problem of the world shortage of dollars , rather than one arising particularly from-the loan agreement . " At any rate , to the extent that the provisions of the loan agreement have complicated the British problem , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be every reason to believe that the British can count upon cooperation from our Government in dealing realistically and generously with this aspect of the problem . " We suggested to the United States Government , " said Mr. Attlee , " that there should be official discussion of these matters . I am glad to ' be able to tell the House that Mr. Marshal immediately agreed to these discussions . " As to the program by which Britain is to intensify its effort at self-recovery , it has as its general objectives " thee.further development of that country 's resources " and increased production . New " targets " are set for coal output , transport , food and exports . In achieving these targets efforts will be directed toward bettering production both quantitatively and qualitatively  --  qualitatively in this case meaning with emphasis on products which justify themselves in terms of the recovery effort . This stimulation and direction of production implies a return to wartime controls over labor and management , with labor being subjected to what is the equivalent of our own proposed national service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which they reflect cooperation with the Government . This reimposition of wartime restrictions is defended in the program in terms of the export target . The Government has raised its sights in this field markedly , setting them at 140 per ' cent of the 1938 level by the end of the first half of 1948 and 150 per cent six months later . While seeking to accelerate exports , ? on the one hand , thus building up its supply of foreign exchange , the Gov- ernment - proposes to reduce the demand for exchange in two ways  --  first , by curtailing or halting its dollar ex , penditures in connection with German occupation and by reducing its armed forces abroad by some 40 per cent , and , second , curtailing imports of films , " petrol , " ' food , timber and numerous luxury items , and reducing 7oreign travel allowances . " Finally , in order to reduce consumption and the pressure on prices at home , the Government is appealing to labor to abstain from requests for wage increases and to business to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blueprint for recovery this program would seem to indicate an " allout " effort . Actually , it can be that or it can fall considerably short of it , depending upon the manner in which it is followed through . " Targets " do not , themselves , solve any problems , as we have unhappily seen in Britain 's case during the past two years . Moreover , when one turns to such a vital area as coal production and notes that the 5-day week is to be maintained under the program , modified only to the extent of asking the miners to - work , for a limited period , " an extra half hour a day , " one wonders how austere the new austerity plan really is going to be . However , this is no time for prejudgments . There is a realism in this plan of which there was little evidence as recently as a month ago . And there is a new courage in the declaration of Mr. Attlee that , while " the chain of events started by Secretary Marshall 's speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Old World , we can not and will not base our plans on that assumption . " .                     