@@704833

txt A last-hour fight to strengthen wavering lines and capture doubtful votes kept Republican Presidential candidates , their managers and strategists , official and unofficial , moving on the double quick today as delegates to the national convention prepared for the actual task of choosing the nominee . Headquarters of the candidates , to whom the name of former President Herbert Hoover was added by reason of an inferential statement of his own , were packed from the first hour until evening as delegates passed through on their seemingly never-ending " shopping expeditions . " " Pep talks " were the order of the day in several caucuses when a continued flood of telegrams from back home left uncertainty in the minds of some delegates as to whether they should stick to earlier commitments . While hotel lobbies buzzed with gossip that " deals " were in the making designed to keep Wendell L. Willkie in the ranks of the " also rans , " Senator Robert A. Taft , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Governor John W. Bricker of Ohio and Governor Arthur H. James of Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the headquarters hotel . Calls Described as " Social " Although all of the calls were described as " social , " mor. : than one candidate , " off the record , " sidestepped a direct answer to the question of whether Mr. Hoover 's aid was being sought in trying to stop Willkie . Not one of the " big four " candidates , Mr. Dewey , Senator Taft , Senator Vandenberg and Mr. Willkie , would admit his own strength had slipped in the last twenty-four hours . Mr. Dewey estimated that his was about the same , with the expectation of being nominated on the second or third ballot . Senator Vandenberg , still cagey about predictions , went so far as to say that if he could " hold the line for five or six ballots , anything might happen , " and that his chances for the nomination were " better than at any previous time . " Senator Taft 's spokesmen had lost none of their former confidence . Mr. Willkie added to his earlier claims by telling of " certain second-strength support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates , and claiming extensive backing from the Northwest . Mr. Willkie announced at his press conference that Governor Harold Stassen of Minnesota , the convention keynoter , was going to vote for him . Two other members of the Minnesota delegation , Thomas M. McCabe of Duluth and State Senator Donald 0 . Wright of Minneapolis , issued a statement soon after emphasizing that the Governor was speaking for himself and not for the delegation . Winkle Denies " Utility Pressure " Part of the Willkie press conference was devoted to the subject of telegrams , delegates having received a continuous wave demanding support of the President of the Commonwealth &; Southern Corpo ration . Some delegates were madel jittery by the measures , while others were irate over what they denounced as " public utility pressure , " and as an effort to " discred-11 it politicians " by persons who I heretofore had taken no interest in politics . Mr. Willkie said the reports of pressure by utilities and bankers were " pure romance , complete romance . " " There is no utility operator , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , " and I doubt if there are any here . Those are imaginative stories . There is no such thing as any organized movement of any kind . It has all been voluntary  --  voluntary and completely uncontrolled in any way . " Saying it was more or less obvious how the rumors were started , Mr. Willkie refused to budge from his announced refusal to speak disparagingly of any other candidate . Asked on what ballot he expected to be nominated , he replied with a laugh : " I am good but not that good . " He took in stride the question whether , if he failed of nomination , he would take his coat off and work for the Republican nominee . This question , he said , was " purely academic , purely hypothetical , " since there " wo n't be any problem of that kind . " When the laughter subsided , however , he said that of course he would support the nominee " to the extent that this party wants me to . " Mr. Willkie , in response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley Authority back to private utilities , but that the project " should be conducted under honest bookkeeping methods for the benefit of the people . " He termed " wholly unfeasible " the St. Lawrence Waterway project . Frank E. Gannett , Rochester publisher , at a press conference , pleaded that the convention nominate " a Republican , " and voiced the belief that this would come about " no matter how much organized pressure may be put on the delegates . " Asked whether his definition of " a Republican " would eliminate Mr. Willkie , the rival aspirant for the nomination replied : " I do n't Mention names , but the inference is there . " The subject of " inspired telegrams " played a part at a meeting of the Michigan delegation at Senator Vandenberg 's headquarters , where the delegates were told they " must not be discouraged if a ballot or two is taken without nominating Vandenberg . " Vandenberg Against Snake Dance The Vandenberg strategy , as outlined by Howard Lawrence , the Senator 's campaign manager , is to see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vandenberg makes his real showing . The Senator appealed to his Michigan delegation to refrain from starting a demonstration when his name was placed in nomination . " I feel that this is a critical time in American history , " he . said , " and to approach it with an ordinary snake dance and a brass band is utterly repugnant to me . Please do not feel disappointed if you see a snake dance for some one else and a prayer for myself . " Mr. Dewey wound up his day without holding a formal press conference , but he told reporters after addressing the Texas delegation that he had nothing specifid to add to his previous claims . In his talk to the Texans , who at a caucus had voted 25 to 1 to support Senator Taft until they were released from their pledge , Mr. Dewey stood in front of a large photograph of his Ohio rival . The one delegate who had fought for Dewey support in the Texas group and those among the alternates who may have had leanings to the New Yorker were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been carrying the battle for me are going to have more company than anybody else at the convention . " Applaud Dewey Attack on Roosevelt The Texans loudly applauded an attack by Mr. Dewey upon the Roosevelt foreign policy , which , he said , was " taking us toward war armed with two feather dusters , one on hand and the other on order . " The applause turned to cheers when he said he understood " the resignation of Madame Perkins is in process , " and the enthusiasm was maintained when he referred to " one fellow traveler and three incompetents " in the Roosevelt Cabinet . " Mr. Dewey , you do n't have to answer any questions ; you 're 100 per cent , " a delegate shouted at the end of his speech . The District Attorney did respond , however , to several questions about his experience and views on matters he had not touched upon in his informal talk . Senator Taft was too busy seeing visitors to hold a press conference , but his spokesman voiced optimism over the day 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers by the Kentucky delegation showed " a substantial majority for Taft . " Although no official at the Taft offices would discuss the conferences with former President Hoover , one spokesman said he did not see how Mr. Hoover could support " any candidate except Senator Taft . " It was assumed in some quarters that Governor Bricker , who has proclaimed himself " 1,000 per cent " for Senator Taft , had gone to see Mr. Hoover on behalf of the Senator . Mr. Hoover was occupying four rooms in the headquarters hotel , to which a constant . stream of party leaders flowed during the day .                     