@@706314

txt The railroad managements decided yesterday to rupture relations with the Office of Price Administration because of the OPA 's action in filing with the Interstate . Commerce Commission a petition for postponement of many of the general freight rate increases that are to take effect Wednesday . The railroads consider this action a violation of an agreement made at . the time the railroad unions obtained a $300,000,000 annual increase in wages through White House intervention . The OPA filed its petition Friday while its representatives were conferring with a committee of twenty-one railroad traffic officials . in the Pennsylvania Hotel here . The OPA delegation was headed by John E. Eisenhardt , head of the transport division of the OPA , and included several officials who were int : ** to the meeting as " rate experts . " Although most of the railroad officials present have done little for many years but study rates , few of them had ever heard of the government experts before . Refusal of Rises Demanded The climax of the meeting arrived when Dbxter M. Keezer , former president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrator of the OPA , demanded that the railroads refuse the increase in freight rates that the Interstate Commerce Commission has granted them and suggested that the government should subsidize railroads that might be thrown into financial difficulties by this step . Talk of government subsidies sent a shiver through most of the railroad men present , many of whom felt that this kind of " help " would be an entering wedge for government ownership . The reaction to Mr. Keezer 's declaration was hostile . Railroad men said yesterday they could see little sense in the OPA 's proposals . They pointed out that , while the freight rate on the movement of soft coal would be increased around 5 cents a ton by the latest decision of the commission , the rates charged to consumers of coal were increased around 20 cents in some cases late in 1941 . They pointed out that the 3 per cent increase in rates for the movement of farm products provided by the new tariffs is but a small fraction of the rises in prices for farm products in recent months . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hastily into conference and directed to prepare a reply to the petition filed with the I. C. C. by the OPA . These counsel are continue their work over the week-end with the purpose of having the statement in the hands of the commission tomorrow . It is against usage for the contents of statements to the commission to be made public before their filing , but it was allowed to be known that the reply would vigorously oppose the demand of the OPA . The formation of the - railroad committee that has been dealing with the OPA dates from the demand of the railroad unions for increased wages late last year . An emergency board appointed by President Roosevelt awarded to the unions part of their demands and directed the managements to offset the increases in wages by asking the commission for higher freight and passenger rates . The higher passenger rates already are in effect . The unions rejected the findings of the emergency board and threatened to strike . Thereupon the White House intervened and the controversy was settled by the award of $300,000,000 annually in increased wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased rates by the railroads would receive favorable consideration . After the unions had received their increased wages and while the railroads were preparing a petition for the increased rates promised them , it became apparent to the railroad men that increased freight rates might provide some problems for the OPA . There were conferences with Leon Henderson , chief of the OPA , and it was then agreed that the railroads would appoint a committee of twenty-one with full powers and that this corn- , mittee would confer with the OPA after the commission made known its decision in. the rate petition with a view to smoothing out individual irregularities that might arise as a result of the general rate increase . A few days ago Mr. Eisenhardt can Railroads to arrange the meetasked the Association of Ameriing held Friday . Mr. Henderson 's experts were particularly interested in the rates not only for scrap iron but for rubber and oil , it developed at the meeting . As one speaker succeeded another it became evident that the OPA wanted no increases and , if anything , desired decreases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the railway men 's viewpoint came when G. Lloyd Wilson , formerly Professor of Transport at the University of Pennsylvania and now in charge of the rate division of the Office of Defense Transportation , who accompanied the OPA. delegation , said that he was in agreement with Mr. Eisenhardt , that he wanted no increases and suggested decreases in rates for such commodities as sulphur . Mr. Wilson 's bureau is headed by Joseph B. Eastman , former chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission , and the railroad managements had been confident until now that their problems would be treated in the light of the long experience that Mr. Eastman has had in adjudicating their affairs .                     