@@705673

txt KERN DENOUNCES HITLER , NOT STALIN Repeats Denial of Communist Link , Defends Right to Take The Daily Worker Paul J. Kern , president of the Municipal Civil Service Commission , yesterday resisted for the second successive day attempts by the City Council committee investigating civil service to pin the label of Communist on him . lae was equally successful in avoiding a direct uncomplimentary reference to Joseph Stalin . the Soviet form of government or communism itself . Persistent questioning by Emil K. Ellis , counsel to the committee , in the Council chamber in City Hall , failed to shake Mr. Kern in his denial that he was or ever had been a Communist or a.knowing follower of the Communist party line . He refused to condemn Russia 's invasion of Finland , declaring the question was " purely academic now . " He had been opposed to Russia 's policy of neutrality toward Germany until the German declaration of war against that country , he said , but now he was inclined to follow the policy since enunciated by Winston Churchill and President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indifference toward the committee which he has exhibited since he first took the stand , Mr. Kern indulged in several verbal clashes with Mr. Ellis . At one point Councilman Anthony J. Di Giovanna , Brooklyn , Democrat , and a member 1 of the committee , warned the witness that the committee might be forced to go into executive session to consider whether Mr. Kern 's answers were as " responsive " as a Court of Appeals order has directed them to be . Mr. Kern 's views on the relative menace to democracy of communism and nazi-fascism came to light while Mr. Ellis was questioning him on his connections with various " United Front " organizations which had supported the Loyalist cause in the Spanish civil war . Professing ignorance of what the " United Front " constituted , " because I 'm not an expert on the Communist party line , " the witness said he had supported the pro-Loyalist groups because they were defending democracy against Fascist aggression . " A lot of . people felt that Mr. Hitler and Mr. Mussolini were in a class with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in the State ' Department differed with this view and we tried to persuade them that Mr. Hitler and Mr. Mussolini were not nice people , and it was quite a 11 job . " ' Were you also fighting Stalin ? " Mr. Ellis asked . " If Stalin had been an aggressor I would have , " Mr. Kern replied . Questioned About Finland Mr. Ellis asked whether , in view of Russia 's invasion of Finland , he did not consider Stalin an aggressor . " With the issues so complicated now and so confused , no one could say who was right or wrong , " the witness answered . " Never mind now , " pressed Mr. Ellis . " At the time , did you ever denounce the invasion of Finland as an act of aggression ? " " I do n't recall . I do n't form opin-ions on matters on which I have no information . " " But you 've formed an opinion about Hitler . " " I 've got a strong.opinion of - Mr . Hitler , all right . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russo-Finnish conflict was " purely academic now , " Mr. Kern said that " as of today " he found the situation " so confused that I am unable to follow all its implications . " " I am inclined to follow Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt , whose speeches I 've read carefully , " he added . " Were you against Stalin last week ? " inquired Mr. Ellis . " In a ditferent way from that in which . E was opposed to Hitler and 1 Mussolini , " Mr. Kern said . " Hitler , in ' Mein Kampf , ' expressed the determination to establish a world hegemony under the German race . Hitler is a direct menace to our own security Aere , possibly even to yours , Mr. Ellis . Russia is a country , regardless of how disagreeable we may consider its internal policies , which does not constitute a direct military threat to us . " Mr. Ellis again asked how Mr. Kern felt toward Stalin " last week " and the witness replied : " last week he was neutral in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against that . " 1 Mr. Kern denied knowing that Communism was a " world party dedicated to the overthrow of democracy by violence , " as it was pictured by Mr. Ellis , declaring he would be " surprised if the Communist party appeared on the ballot in New York State as an agitator for immediate world revolution . " In any event , he added , he did not believe that any such ideas had ever been " put into force . " " The Communist party submits its candidates in a democratic process , " he remarked . " I can see no reason for getting into a lather ' over the Communist party here . " Asked whether he believed the party was a " threat to our way of living , " Mr. Kern replied that he did not know enough about the Communist party to answer . Mr. Kern clashed with Mr. Ellis early in the nearing when the latter introduced into evidence checks of the commission president 's wife , Leona G. Kern , to support the contention that the Kerns had continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a longer period than Mr. Kern had admitted on Wednesday . Angrily denouncing the " shyster tactics " of Mr. Ellis , Mr. Kern defended his right to read such publications , remarking : " If I were n't permitted to read The Daily Worker , Mr. Ellis , neither you ) nor Councilman Cohen ( Louis Cohen , Bronx Democrat ) would be here to criticize it . " Mr. Kern denied that he had written to Borough President Stanley M. Isaacs of Manhattan soliciting a position for Simon W. Gerson , avowed Communist , who later became Mr. Isaacs 's confidential examiner . He said he had , however , recommended Mr. Gerson " highly " as a competent newspaper man . The inquiry will be resumed at 10 o'clock this morning .                     