@@711172

txt A sudden agreement on the third trustee for the disputed miners ' welfare fund laid the basis today for a possible early end of the four-week soft coal strike . With Speaker of the House Joseph W. Martin Jr . in the surprise role of peacemaker between John L. Lewis and Ezra Van Horn , the union and operator trustees , the job of trying to settle the miners ' pension issues was handed to Senator Styles Bridges , Republican , of New Hampshire . The announcement came from Speaker Martin 's office in the Capitol after a thirteen-minute meeting with Mr. Lewis and Mr. Van Horn . As chairman of the trustees , Mr. Lewis called a meeting for 10 A. M. tomorrow . Senator Bridges ' absence prevented an earlier start . The Speaker and the President of the United Mine Workers agreed that a solution of the pension fight was possible within 48 hours after trustees meet , thereby ending the strike . Prospects of an early settlement of the walkout in the coal industry brought about a lastminute rally in the stock market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steel , Bethlehem and National gained % point each . Youngstown Sheet and Tube was up 1 ; to 7714 and Republic was fractionally higher . Lewis Liable to Penalties Attorney General Tom C. Clark stated that the contempt proceedings against the union and its officers would go.forward on Monday as scheduled , as far as the Justice Department was concerned . Mr. Lewis is still liable to contempt penalties unless he can explain to Justice T. Alan Goldsborough why he did not instruct the miners to return as ordered by another member of the Federal District Court last Saturday night . What preceded the ostensibly simple solution in Speaker Martin 's office was still in the realm of pure conjecture , even among the industry negotiators . Interest centered on the political aspect , which went deep enough to provoke a sharp statement from Senator J. Howard , chairman of the Democratic National Committee . " The country , " said Chairman , " will be glad to see the miners return to work . The circumstances as related are obviously the result of an effort on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The forthright enforcement of the provisions of existing laws directed by the President forced Mr. Lewis to the point where he needed a satisfactory explanation for Judge Goldsborough on Monday . Says Lewis Flees to GOP " In his customary dramatic man-1 ner he has been able to get the cooperation of some members of the legislative branch of the Gov-1 ernment , thereby setting a dangerous precedent that makes more difficult the execution of the laws of Congress by the executive branch . " This device will fool no one and if Mr. Lewis gets any satisfaction from his vindictive attitude toward the administrative agencies of the Government he is welcome to it . " Mr. Lewis , driven to cover by a Democratic administration , fled for a ' . d and comfort to his own party . His union members suffered considerably so that Mr. Lewis might enjoy his Republican honeymoon . " Speaker Martin has been mentioned as a possible choice for first or second place on the Republican ticket . Announcement of the agreement came as an utter surprise to the industry negotiators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union officers. - Their . session was regarded as a gesture to collective bargaining . Some of these operators said they knew nothing about Senator Bridges ' views or attitude on economic or social questions and deContinued Glared they doubted whether Mr. Van Horn . did . They expressed the belief that Mr. Van Horn knew nothing about the meeting with Speaker Martin and Mr. Lewis until the Speaker called him this morning . What prevailed upon Mr. Van Horn under these circumstances to agree promptly to the selection of Senator Bridges was not explained . Speaker Martin said he talked to Senator Bridges about the job yesterday but did not discuss it with anybody else . One of the operators said , " I do n't know what it is or how it happened , but it has an awful strong smell . " Politics Is Charged Another remarked , " It 's Republican politics . That 's as plain as can be . " Neither , however , was critical of Mr. Van Horn personally . He declined to comment . Aside from the political aspect , an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal piles so much that Mr. Lewis already has a head start in his economic pressure for a new contract in July . The sequence of today 's events went about like this : Speaker Martin telephoned Mr. Van Horn and asked him to come to his office at 11 A. M. Mr. Van Horn agreed to be there if Mr. Lewis attended . He was assured , reportedly in a second conversation , that the union chief would attend . At the Capitol Speaker Martin asked Mr. Van Horn if he had proposed any names for the third trusteeship . Mr. Van Horn said he had submitted a list . The Speaker asked Mr. Lewis if he had proposed any candidates . Mr. Lewis said he had not but had considered some and intended to propose them . Mr. Martin then said he had a name , or names , to suggest . He mentioned Senator Bridges and asked Mr. Lewis if that choice was acceptable . As some operators related the story , Mr. Lewis acted " hard to get " at first , then accepted Mr. Bridges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed to the choice of the Senator . According to some versions , Mr. Martin called Senator Bridges in New York immediately and arranged for the trustees ' meeting tomorrow . After the thirteen-minute meeting , Mr. Martin said : " We hope that when the trustees meet tomorrow they will be able to reach an agreement and the men will be able to be back to work in forty-eight hours after the committee goes to work . " Mr. Lewis said ha joined the Speaker in that statement . Martin Praises Lewis , Van Born Speaker Martin said he had been thinking about a solution of the coal strike for some time . " It was disrupting our economy , " he said , " making it difficult to go through with our program of preparedness and to go through without our commitments to foreign countries . PlIAL/V11E3D , TO CCI , P , T , BOARD Senator Styles Bridges The Wes . Turk Times I thought I should try if possible to bring about peace . " He said both Mr. Lewis and Mr. Van Horn appeared " very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . " He described them as " generous " in a " desire to bring an end to ' the difficulty . " Senator Bridges , with whom Mr. Lewis is known to be personally acquainted , said in New York that the post " is a great responsibility . " " If , " he said , " 1 can be of service in this capacity to help settle the differences between the miners and the operators , which in turn would start coal mine operations again , I am glad to accept and do my best . " Early tonight Senator Bridges ' office reported that Speaker Martin would meet the Senator at 9:30 A. M. on his arrival at National Airport on his way to the trustees ' meeting . Pension Plan the Issue Mr. Van Home 's petition to the Federal District Court to appoint an umpire , or third trustee , will be withdrawn . He also has pending a petition for a declaratory judgment whereby the court would determine whether retired mine workers or employes of operators not signatories to the contract are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not know whether that petition would be withdrawn . The sole issue which led to the walkout of the soft coal miners four weeks ago is the drafting of a pension plan . A fund is available for pensions and other benefits , but it has not been activated because of the inability of Mr. Lewis and Mr. Van Horn to agree on terms . There was a general belief that Mr. Lewis would come out of the trustees ' meeting tomorrow with a signal ' to the miners to return to work . Anything Mr. Lewis does before 10 A. M. on Monday will affect his standing in court . Attorney General Clark said : " The case has been set by the court for hearing on Monday . We shall be there ready to proceed . "                     