@@710472

txt Have you noticed that your 49-cent hamburg is costing you 59 cents these days ? And that the top of the round has gone over last month 's top price of 79 cents to 89 cents , and up ? Or that chuck roasts have climbed from 59 to 63 cents ? And fancy brisket from 45 to 55 cents ? Well , you can blame part of this on the weather . The same " cold wet May " that is scheduled to bring " a barn full of hay " has contributed to rising meat prices in the Greater Boston markets . There are other reasons , too . But , it is elect that cooler weather has helped maintain a consumer demand for meats at a time when warmer , weather usually brings lessened purchases . And all this in the face of decreased arrivals of beef shipmerlts from the western producers . While May 's colder weather and rainy days contributed in part to the rise in the prices of beef , there are two other reasons . One of these is stepped-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps the chief reason for the greatly reduced shipments of primp western beef  --  and the consequently rising prices as supplies dwindle and as consumer demand is maintained ? is the fact that the western beef producers are in a better financial position than they have been for years . They have rio ? financial obligations to meet this year , as has been the case in years . gone by . Due to the profitable nature of their wartime operations , they are in an independent financial position today , and can hold their stock back from shipment to the slaughter houses , thereby maintaining practically their own price levels . Always in the past , history has shown that the cattle producers  --  the feeders who fatten range cattle for shipment to the packers ? have , not been able to withhold shipments of their cattle from the market for any great length of lime . The banks which had financed their purchases of range cattle for fattening were constantly pressing them to meet these obligations , and they were forced to sell their stock . No Obligations Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these producers have no outstanding obligations . There 's no pressure on them to sell . Consequently , when the market goes below a certain point , these producers are now in a position to hold onto their cattle . The net result is that today . these producers have complete control over the whole situation . It is , in effect , a producers market . And , until this position is changed , consumers most likely will have to continue to pay the higher prices for beef .                     