@@712111

txt Public presentation of any more case examples in the investigation of loyalty of Atomic Energy Commission employes was barred today by a 9-to-8 decision of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy . The committee instead will go behind closed doors for that phase of its consideration of charges of " incredible mismanagement " preferred against David E. Lilienthal , chairman of the commission , by Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper , Republican , of Iowa . Senator Hickenlooper assailed the action as " a complete block on the personnel phase of my case . " He said he was undecided on his future course of action . The issue was settled by a vote on which only one member , Senator Edwin C. Johnson , Democrat , of Colorado , crossed party lines . It came at the end of the fifth prolonged closed session held by the investigating committee on what its chairman , Senator Brien , Democrat , of Connecticut , called " this troublesome problem . " It was Mr. who made the motion to hear further case examples in executive session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ballot , all of the committee 's Republicans voted against the proposal . The minority members , it was understood , preferred to permit Senator Hickenlooper to go ahead with the presentation of fifteen or twenty personnel cases in the same manner that he brought out the first one Monday before being stopped pending a procedural decision by the committee . In Monday 's " Case A , " as he described it , Mr. Hickenlooper gave testimony against an employe without nam-1 ing him . Mr. Lilienthal immediately protested that the facts divulged had identified the individual , at least to his fellow employes , - and - that he should have an opportunity to reply , with all evidence in his defense publicized . As the result , the committee switched to other matters in the public hearings nntil it could decide the issue . At today 's meeting , Representative Charles H. Elston , Republican , of Ohio , moved to permit Mr. Hickenlooper to proceed in open hearings as he had started out to do , but adoption of Senator 's proposal , offered as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still to be decided is whether to hold a full public hearing on " Case A , " as Mr. Lilienthal demanded . The employe involved has asked to be heard , but Senator said a public hearing was not specified in the request . Report to Omit Names Under the procedure ' adopted , the committee will investigate the rest of Mr. Hickenlooper 's loyalty cases behind closed doors , " review all pertinent files " and if necessary " examine the subject himself , " Senator announced . The committee 's report of the investi ; ation will omit names , he added . Senator said that those supporting his motion based their position on a-letter he wrote : o Senator Hickenlooper yesterday , copies of which were distributed to committee members , " and be:muse they felt that one-eighth of , a hearing , as proposed by Senator Hickenlooper , was not only unfair to the public and the conunission , but really had no probative value . " The procedure proposed by Mr. ' Hickenlooper , according to the ' letter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission made its reply to the accusations , unless the case were to be judged on the basis of " selected evidence . " " You may conceivably take the position that the mere existence of derogatory information on a particular individual is sufficient to disqualify him for atomic energy employment , " the letter said . " But the law , as it now stands , permits the commission to exercise discretion , to weigh favorable against unfavorable data , " the letter added . " That being the case , the commission is clearly entitled to discuss any detail which would help vindicate it in its exercise of judgment . " To my mind , the individual involved in Case A has already been sufficiently identified to cause him genuine embarrassment . If discussion of other cases had the same result , the investigation might not redound to the committee 's credit ; and the effect on the morale of atomic energy employes might become serious , since no one of them could ever feel sure that a malicious anonymous informant would not cause a spotlight of adverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Libel Suit Threats Foreseen Mr. also foresaw the possibility of libel and perjury suits " of the Hiss-Chambers variety " and the creation of so much confusion that the American people could hardly be expected to formulate an ordered opinion as to the commission 's general record . " The Senator told reporters that the idea of a trial " in capsule form , " as he called the Hickenlooper plan , was " fantastic . " Mr. was asked if he had ' cast the vote that broke the tie and decided the issue . He said he had voted last , as was customary for the chairman , but would have voted the same way if he had cast the first ballot . A tie vote would have defeated the motion . Senator Hickenlooper was not present . He had announced previously that he would not participate in ' the decision .                     