@@710832

txt Plans for the rehabilitation of Maine 's fire-swept towns and timberlands were being pushed today even as thousands of firefighters continued to battle flames that , re far , have caused more than $25 , - 000,000 in property damage and made an estimated 2,500 persons homeless . Senator Owen Brewster ( R ) , of Maine , announced that Bar Harbor , famous summer resort , had been declared an emergency zone by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and would be eligible for disaster loans in rebuilding fire-devastated areas . It was assumed that other fire-swept localities would be able to receive similar aid . State officials estimated today that fcrest fires have destroyed about 1,000 homes and summer cottages . Aid for Timber Growers Equally important is the problem of restoring thousands of acres of commercial timberland and wooded recreational areas denuded by the forest fires that have been burning in Maine for the past week . Senator Brewster announced that he is preparing legislation to help Maine timber growers and farmers replace their devastated woodlands with government aid . Forest fires at latest estimates have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wooded land . While destruction to the fashionable summer resort at Bar Harbor attracted front-page attention yesterday , forest fires in the State marched on today , destroying the - modest homes of villagers and farmers with the same thproughness that they leveled the summer mansions of millionaires at Bar Harbor . The main danger point now is reported to be in Washington County , where weary firefighters are trying to curb a wind-swept blaze on a frOnt three miles southwest of- Machias . The onrushing flames have already destroyed 15 farms in that area . A general alarm has been sounded in Biddeford for a revived fire in that section . Vast Woodland Periled After a five-hour aerial inspection of Maine 's fire-blackened coast , Mai . Gen. Frank A. Keating , commanding general of the First Service Command , assesses the greatest forest fire menace now as the area south of Portland . Thousands of acres of woodland are in critical danger in that section , he said . Following his tour , General Keating urged an over-all plan for large-scale firefighting among the various states to forestall such conflagrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast Guard and Navy ships yesterday helped ? to evacuate many of Bar Harbor 's 4,300 townspeople , a large fire has been held incheck near Otter Creek but is reportedly moving slowly toward the town of Northeast Harbor . Two thirds of fashionable Bar Harbor has been destroyed , it was announced last night , with damage estimated at $10,000,000 . Estates of such famous people as Mary Roberts Rinehart , Walter Damrosch , and Atwater Kent , 4. , were destroyed here , but the principal sufferers were the year-round residents who find their employment during the summer months at this famous seaside resort . Arson Hinted As weather forecasts left little hope that rains would come along to curb the fire hazard , state inspectors in Maine today are investigating reports that some of the forest blazes have been deliberately set . In one instance two Girl Scouts discovered a candle placed in a woodland area made tinder-dry by lack of rain . Still menacing were fires in York County 's Sanford-Alfred districts , at Brownfield , and at Newfield . Gov . Horace Hildreth said the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the villages of Fortune 's Rock and Goose Rocks Beach were virtually destroyed , was typical of what many communities had suffered . Few buildings remained also in Brownfield , East Brownsfield , Waterboro , and Lyman . A news photographer of The Christian Science Monitor , flying over the Maine coastal area in an Army plane late yesterday , reported the whole coastal region covered by a pall of smoke so dense the plane had to fly at 8,000 feet at times to clear it . At Biddeford , he reported , flames could be seen licking at the countryside for miles around . Even Lawrence and ? Haverhill , Massachusetts , he said , were covered by the blanket of smoke , and from these towns north only isolated sections of the State could be seen at all . Wild Life Flees Blaze Wild life in Maine , it was reported today by George J. Stobie , seemed , to be escaping in great part the destructive forest blazes . Most of the wild game were keeping pace with the advancing flames , he said . The severely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worthless as havens for game for several years . Following a " mercy priority " issued by President Truman last night , the War Assets Administration spurred the dispatch of fire-fighting equipment to Maine 's hard-pressed forest fire front . Within a few hours , the WAA had dug into its stockpiles in a dozen East Coast warehouses and had dispatched thousands of feet of hose , nozzles , fire trucks , and other vitally needed fire-fighting equipment .                     