@@710168

txt In a decision of far-flung interest the Supreme Court by 5 to 4 ruled today that New Jersey public school funds raised by taxation can be used to pay for transportation of children to Catholic parochial schools . The controversy which the tribunal settled by this narrow margin revolved around the interpretation of the first amendment to the Constitution which forbids Congress to pass a law " respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . " For the majority , Justice Hygo L. Black held that a New Jersey law permitting the payments amounts to religious or public benefit legislation and that no person may be barred from these benefits because of , his religion . Justice Black was joined by Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson and Justices Stanley F. Reed , William 0 . Douglas and Frank Murphy . Every Form of Aid Opposed The minority view expressed by Justice Wiley Rutledge , held that the First Amendment 's purpose was to separate religious activity and civil authority by forbidding " every form " of public aid or support for religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Robert H. . Jackson and Harold H. Burton . Di an independent objection , Justice Jackson , supported by Mr Frankfurter , charged the ditbrity with living the clock 's hatids a backward turn , " because the prohibition against establishment of religion can not be circumvehted by a " subsidy , bonus or reimbursement . " The case , which required three opinions totaling seventy - three pages to dispose of , arose through a protest by Arch R. Everson , a taxpayer of Ewing Township . near Trenton in Mercer County . He contested the right of the township // Board of Education to reimburse parents of Catholic children for transportation to the parochial schools on regular buses . A State court supported his protest , but was reversed by the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals . which was upheld by the Supreme Court today . The Board of Education had authorized payment of $8,034 to be paid to parents of children for transportation to school , and of this $357.74 was reimbursed to the parents of the Catholic boys and girls . Typical expressions from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Majority , by Justice Black : " New Jersey can not exclude Catholics , Lutherans , Mohammedans , Baptists , Jews , Methodists , non-believers , Presbyterians , or the members of any other faith , because . of their faith or lack of it . We must be careful , in protecting the citizens of New Jersey against Stateestablished churches , to be sure that we do not inadvertently prohibit New Jersey from extending its general State law benefits to all its citizens without regard to their religious belief . " We can not say that the First Amendment prohibits New Jersey from spending tax-raised funds to pay the bus fares of parochial schools as a part of a general program under which it pays the fares of pupils attgnding public and other schools . The First Amendment has erected a wall between church and State . That wall must be kept high and impregnable . We could not approve the slightest breach . New Jersey has not breached it here . " Burden of Taxes Cited Minority , by Justice Rutledge : " No one conscious of religious values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts on parents who desire religious instruction mixed with secular for their children . But if those feelings should prevail , there would be an end to our historic constitutional policy and command . No more unjust or discriminatory is it in fact to deny attendants at religious schools the cost of their transportation than it is to deny them tuitions , sustenance for their teachers , or any other educational expense which others receive at public cost . " Two great drives are constantly in motion to abridge , in the name of education , the complete division of religion and civil authority which our forefathers made . One is to introduce religious education and observances into the public schools . The other , to obtain public funds for the aid and support of various private religious schools . In my opinion both avenues were closed by the Constitution . Neither should be opened by this court . " Independent dissent by Justice Jackson , with Justice Frankfurter : " Catholic education is the rock on which thee whole structure rests , and to render tax aid to its church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the church itself . The State can not maintain a church and it can no more tax its citizens to furnish free carriage to those who attend a church . The prohibition against establishment of religion can not be circumvented by a subsidy , bonus or reimbursement of expense to individuals for receiving religious instruction and indoctrination . " It ( the church ) does not leave the individual to pick up religion by chance . It relies on early and indelible indoctrination in the faith and order of the church by the word and example of persons consecrated to the task . The effect of the religious freedom amendment to our ? Constitution was to take every form of propagation of religion out of the realm of things which could be directly or inditiectly be made public business and thereby be supported in whole m in part at taxpayers ' expense . " In deciding this case , Justice Black dealt with two main attacke against the New Jersey practice . These were : 1 . That the State law and Board of Education resoluti , on take by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stow it upon others for private use , thus violating the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amend . ment 2 . That the law and resolu ? tion force persons to pay taxes te help support Catholic schools , thus , violating the First Amendment . Right Pass Beneficial Law As to the first contention , the ; majority spokesman held that Nev Jersey must not be precluded fron passing a law for the public bene. fit , and : " The fact that a State law , passed to satisfy a public need , co . incides with the personal desire ; of the individuals most directly of . fected is certainly an inadequate reason for us to say that a legis . lature has erroneously appraise ; the public need . " Justice Rutledge , in his forty seven-page dissent , described i detail the fight by Madison to seE arate church and state . New Jet sey 's action , he said . " exactly fit the type of exaction and the kin of evil at which Madison and Jet ferson struck . " Under the test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ th cost of transportation is no part c the cost of education or the ret gious instruction given . " The dissenting justice said a appropriation from the publi treasury to pay the cost of train portation to Sunday school , c weekday classes at the church c parish house or to meetings of young people 's religious societies such as the Y. M. C. A. , Y. W. C. A. , Y. M. H. A. or Epworth League " could not withstand the constitutional attack " brought against the New Jersey bus payments . In his lengthy objection , Justice Rutledge also stated : " The realm of religious training and belief remains as the amendment made it , the kingdom of the individual anan and his God . " Justice Jackson in his separate opinion said he originally wished  --  to join the majority . He said he had a sympathy " though not ideological " with Catholics who had to pay taxes for public schools and also felt it necessary to support schools for their own children . But , saying he had been forced to change his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertones ( of the majority ) opinion , " he added , " advocating complete and uncompromising separation of church from state seem utterly discordant with its conclusion yielding support to their comingling in education matters . " The Ewing Township Board of Education resolution authorized transportation of pupils from Ewing to " the Trenton and Pennington high schools and Catholic schools by way of public carrier . " The Catholic schools were St. Mary 's Cathedral high school , Trenton Catholic Boys high school , St. Hedwig 's parochial school and St. Francis school .                     