@@712047

txt The bill as it passed the House gives the President broad authority to start putting the Hoover recommendations into effect . He would have permanent authority to i earrange agencies subject only to disapproval by both houses of Congress within 60 days after the submission of a reorganization plan . Though it did not specifically exempt any agencies , it did require that separate plans be submitted far seven big ones . The Senate has received a bill but has not acted on it . It would give exemptions to none of the seven agencies mentioned under the House bill . Instead of giving the President permanent authority , it would end the matter April 1 , 1953 . Most important limitation on presidential authority under the Senate plan is that either House could kill a bill . ( The House bill specifies that a joint 1 . eto is necessary . ) The Hoox er " task forces " that blueprinted reorganization wrote almost 2,000.000 words . They studied 25 select problems , made 18 major reports . Their work has been called " the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Branded a ' Mess ' Summarizing what they found in the hodgepodge of government agencies , the verdict expressed succinctly is " a mess . " Typical examples : The army engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation duplicated each other 's survey of a proposed clam in Snake River , Idaho : each survey cost $230,000 . Only one was necessary . Sixty-five heads of agencies ai e required by law to report diectly to the President , a situation clearly impossible for , it he gave only an hour each week to each one , he would have no time left for matters of broad policy or affairs of state . Forty-five of the 60-odd top agencies of the executix e branch engage in operations affecting foreign policy and , due to lack of clear responsibility and integration , often step on each others ' toes or fail to winnow their information so the President gets pertinent facts . Typical Example In a typical case in Georgia , 47 employees attached to seven separate field services of the De , partment of Agriculture are operating in a cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in government is called vast . There ale 2.100,000 civilian employees , the budget reaches $42.000,000.000 , and taxes today take one dollar in five of the national income . The federal government has 1,812 separate departments , agencies , boards , and bureaus which have grown up in a hit-or-miss manner as Congress estab lished them or they broke off from other agencies by a process of fission . Every President since and including William H. Taft has been trying to get Congress to provide authority to weed this executive garden . The chances seem promising today , that is , provided Congress will act favorably and not make too many exemptions of favorite agencies . In his message to Congress , Mr. Truman praised former President Hoover highly , He emphasized that the reorganization program is " a complicated and difficult task . " No single bill passed by Congress will reorganize the government overnight , all sides point ou t Even if Mr. Truman should get the full authority which Mr. Hoover proposes ( Which is unlikely ) that would cover only part of the subject , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bureau in a tentative breakdown of Hoover recommendations concluded that 190 could be carried out by direct presidential order . Another 17 could be handled through appropriation bills . But 100 others v ould require supporting legislation from Congress . Citizens Committee Thus , for closer consolidation of the three armed services under the Secretary of Defense . Mr. Truman could do much , but Congress itself would have to pass a law demoting the three service secretaries to be undersecretaries without the right of direct appeal to Mr. Truman . A Citizens . Committee for Reorganization of the Executive Branch of the Government has been set up in New York to help push the program . Its head is Dr. Robert L. Johnson . president of Temple University . With him ale affiliated 1,000 prominent citizens , many of them connected with the Hoover task forces . The office is 15 West 46th Street . Branches are being established in major cities . One difficulty is that policy issues are involved in many decisions to merge or abolish agencies . Should the post office deficit be wiped out , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government subsidy to newspapers and magazines through low second-class postage rates . Another typical case is the objection of the Railway Labor Executives ' Association to any change being made in such agencies as the National Mediation Board , Railroad Adjustment Board and the like . Most government agencies think reorganization would be floc  --  for all but themselves . Nearly every agency has friends in Congress . That is why Congress never has been able to tackle the whole problem . There was too much logrolling by friends of one agency who combined with friends of another to block change . Only by presidential order , it now generally agreed , can sweeping and lasting reform come .                     