@@709524

txt WASHINGTON , June 2 . ? The fate of selective service may move toward definite decision in Congress this week . The Senate will take up the knotty problem of an extension of the draft law on Monday , having passed on to the House the equally controversial question of President Truman 's emergency anti-strike bill . Tonight , Senator Barkley , Majority Leader , and Senator Hill predicted that the Senate would approve extension of the draft , including the 18 and 19-year-olds . The House bill now before the Senate would exempt fathers , the teenagers , and place a moratorium on inductions until next fall , modifications which are not satisfactory to the Administration or the Army . Rise in Service Pay Expected However , despite Mr. Barkley 's prediction there appeared to be considerable opposition to a draft extension much stronger than that passed by the House , with even some support evident for , letting the law lapse after June 30 . It is expected that any extension of the draft would be accompanied by sizable increases in service pay . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed that enlisted men 's pay should be raised 30 per cent . Mr. Gurney , because of the expected absence of Senator Elbert D. Thomas , of Utah , chairman of the Military Affairs Committee , will be floor leader for the bill . A bipartisan group of Senators is backing a " strong " extension plus the pay increase . Senator Walter George , Democrat , of Georgia , indicated today that he would support the Administration 's view on draft extension , although he believes that the armed services " bungled " by trying to have both the draft and recruitment programs . ' Last week the Senate legislated // on the anti-strike bill until early Saturday morning when it was passed in an " emasculated " version , to use the President 's word . This sent the bill back to the House where two factors apparently will delay any further action at least until the end of the week . These are that the House has au agreement not to take up any con ? troversial legislation until Thursday because many members are in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is some disposition to wait for the President 's own decision on Congress ' own labor measure , the Case bill . It is predicted in many quarters that he will veto it . His decision is expected to have an effect on what the legislators do with his bill . In any event , the President 's bill will probably not be sent to conference until Thursday by the House . It is unlikely that the lower body will approve the Senate version which differs from the President 's request and the measure as it passed the House chiefly by the deletion of the provision that strikers could be drafted into the Army under certain conditions . Informal Hearing Planned Also , there was an indication of at least some stiffening of resistance to the bill in the House where it was passed 306 to 13 immediately after the President in person recommended it to a joint session a week ago Saturday . This was evident in the announcement by sixteen House members that they had arranged an informal hearing tomorrow at which William Green , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congress of Industrial Organizations , and other labor executives opposed to the measure will speak to House members . Representative Hugh De Lacy , Democrat , of Washington , one of the group , said the hearing was being staged to " stem the hysteria under which many had voted . " Others in the group are Representatives Vito Marcantonio , American Labor party , of New York and the following Democrats : Cleveland M. Bailey , West Virginia ; Emanuel Celler , New York ; Ned R. Healy , California ; Adam C. Powell Jr. , New York ; Augustine B. Kelley , Pennsylvania ; Matthew M. Neely , West Virginia ; Andrew J. Biemiller , Wisconsin ; John M. Coffee , Washington ; William J. Green Jr. , Pennsylvania ; John Kee , West Virginia ; Arthur Klein , New York ; Thomas E. Morgan , Pennsylvania ; Charles R. Savage , Washington , and Ellis E. Patterson , California . Atomic Bill in House Another problem which the Senate relayed to the House last week was over control of atomic energy . The controversial aspect here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yesterday the Senate passed the bill , which would give a five-man civilian commission on a full-time basis the chief control . There is disposition among some members of the House Military Affairs Committee to oppose the measure from the Senate and work instead for a bill which this committee approved some months ago and has the backing of the War Department . This , the May-Johnson bill , would create a commission of nine part-time members to be advised by the armed forces . This measure is before the Rules Committee , which has not reported it to the floor because of the opposition of its chairman , Representative Adolph J. Sabath of Illinois . Action on the atomic bill , like action on the President 's antistrike measure , will wait until Thursday at least because of the agreement postponing controversial subjects . Another important bit of legislating may reach the Senate this week  --  the extension of price control . Senator F. Robert Wagner , chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee , has asked his committee colleagues to be prepared by Tuesday to complete work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee to consider . As the bill stands now it would appear that it will be little more effective than the measure passed by the House , which Economic Stabilizer Chester Bowles has termed tantamount to an abandonment of price control . 