@@710630

txt AFI , DEFENDS STAND ON RIGHT TO STRIKE Exclusion of Contract Clause No Violation of Taft Law , General Counsel Holds By JOSEPH A. LOFTUS Spectal to THE Now YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Aug. 10 ? The office of the general counsel of the American Federation of Labor defended today its advocacy of the exclusion of " no-strike " clauses from agreements and rejected contentions that this policy was an evasion of the Taft-Hartley Law . The AFL statement , and expressions on the same general subject by the Congress of Industrial Organizations , the National Association of Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , were distributed by the United States Conciliation Service to staff members for their information . According to some authoritative opinion , the courts will not sustain union attempts to insulate their assets from damage suits by writing into contracts no-liability clauses for strikes . The arguments advanced against such attempts , said the AFL , are : " ( 1 ) That they constitute in effect evasions of the statute and ( 2 ) that a collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consideration . " The second point is the view of Gerard D. Reilly , former member Of the National Labor Relations Board and consultant to the Senate Labor Committee . " We believe both of these arguments to be wholly untenable , " // the AFL said . " The , Taft-Hartley Law does not compel any agreement , much less the specific clauses of any agreement . It merely provides a forum ( the Federal Courts ) wherein are resolved claims of breach of agreement ; it does not define what constitutes the breach and under elementary law it would not be a breach of agreement to strike where the striking party did not obligate himself to refrain from striking . " As to the argument respecting the necessity of a no-strike clause in order to give a collective agreement legal validity , that argument assumes what is not the fact , namely , that collective labor agreements are in all respects similar to ordinary contracts and subject to the ordinary rules of contract . " There are in existence today innumerable collective labor agreements which do not contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no more force to the contention that unions signing collective labor agreements automatically commit themselves to continuous , uninterrupted production for the period of the agreement than there would be to the opposite and equivalent contention that an employer signing a collective labor agreement is obliged to retain in his employment for the duration of the agreement all employes working for him at the time the agreement was executed . " Resistance Urged by NAM Raymond S. Smethurst , Washington counsel of the NAM , said : " Employers should resist attempts by labor organizations to escape legal ' responsibility for the contracts they make . The elimination of no-strike ' clauses or similar commitments from labor contracts can defeat the primary advantage of the collective bargaining agreement . " While it seems perfectly conI sistent with the spirit of the law for unions and employers to define the extent of their liability for contract violations resulting from acts beyond their control , insistence upon complete elimination of ' no-strike ' clauses goes far beyond such purposes . " Without agreement that the union will not call , authorize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union will cooperate in the event of unauthorized strikes , the employer obtains little or no value from a collective bargaining agreement . Disciplinary action against strikers or the termination of relations with the union , if not based on violation of an agreement , may prove to be uncertain and ineffective remedies , and always subject to challenge as unfair labor practices . " Mr. Smethurst 's objection to the exclusion of " no-strike " clauses I apparently is not absolute but carries a proviso that contracts should obligate the union to denounce unauthorized strikes and support justifiable disciplinary action . Steel Union Clause Cited This position is consistent in large degree with the views of Lee Pressman , CIO general counsel , who cited the clause proposed by the United Steel Workers . Under that clause the union 's liability is waived in case of a strike during ' the life of the agreement and " the ' , sole recourse and exclusive remedy for the employer in such event shall be to impose disciplinary measures upon the employes involved in accordance with the provisions of this agreement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An important difference in the two views may be the position which the union leadership is obligated to take in the event of such disciplinary action . " Prior to the passage of the raft-Hartley Act , " Mr. Pressman said , " it was the general understanding of the parties to collective bargaining agreements that the exclusive remedy of the employer for any alleged violation such as a stoppage of work was the discharge or discipline of the offending employes . The provision here in question requests of the I employer the assurance that this type of procedure , worked out I through collective bargaining , will ' , continue to prevail . " Obviously employers who reject such a clause have in mind a punitive damage suit as a device for harassing the union . "                     