@@709788

txt New England : Governors Call for U. N. Interest United Nations Week proclamations , calling for wide popular in .. , terest as the U. N. General Assembly opens in New York during the week beginning Sept. 22 , were issued by Governors of Maine , Massachusetts , and Vermont . Page 4 . Complete investigation of the Norwalk , Conn. , gchool system began under orders of Dr. Alonzo G. Grace , State Commissioner of Education ; who closed the schools yesterday until Sept. 9 after teachers struck for increased pay . Unable to obtain 500 more needed workers , the Winchester Repeating Arms Company plant at New Haven , Conn. , announced it will attain production equivalent to the output of these workers by temporarily increasing its work week from 40 to 45 hours . In Europe : U. S. ? Britain Agree on Zone Merger . American and British Military Governments have agreed in Berlin on the basic structure for economic merger of their occupation zones of Germany . The agreement includes a common standard of living , with uniform food rations , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa , is expected to fly from London Sept. 21 to attend the opening of the United Nations Assembly in New York on Sept. 23 . Strike of 3,000 meat handlers at London 's Smithfield Market has ended , it was officially announced . The workers have agreed to move the 1,500 tons of meat held up since Sept. 2 , and to leave their demand for a closed shop for settlement by the Government . United States Secretary of State Byrnes has arrived in Berlin from Paris en route to Stuttgart , where he is expected to deliver a speech on American aims in Germany . A new American radiocasting station for the German people is scheduled to begin operations in Berlin today . Lieut . Gen. Kurt Maeltzer , Commander of German forces in Rome during the occupation ? will go on trial Sept. 9 before an American military commission in Florence , Italy , on charges of subjecting American prisoners of war " to insults and acts of violence , " a Florence dispatch said . Washington : Yugoslays Yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the departure of three U. S. Army sergents detained in Belgrade since early February . American officials disclosed the Yugoslav Government finally had yielded to persistent U. S. Embassy demands that the men be granted safe conduct out of the country . Elimination of price ceilings on low-priced cosmetics and a new miscellaneous list of products was announced by the Office of Price Administration , which also promised a vigorous drive against " black markets " in meat . Page 9 . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower plans to leave for Europe probably late this month to inspect U. S. Army troops on the continent and at Atlantic bases . The War Department said the Chief of Staff also will visit England . A detailed itinerary has not been completed , officials said . President Truman conferred for more than 30 minutes with Myron Taylor , his personal representative to the Vatican . Sugar ceiling prices must go higher , Government officials said . They mentioned that a boost of one cent a pound at retail levels would add about 00,000,000 a year to consumer costs . National : Stock Market Rallies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past two days . Financial Page . The " Pacusan Dreamboat , " B-29 now poised at Hickam Field , Hawaii , for an attempted nonstop flight from Hawaii to Cairo , probto.bly will not be ready to take off until Saturday , the Seventh Army Air Force announced . Americas : Videla Claims Victory in Chile With a substantial lead accumulating on the basis of expanding returns , Radical-Communist Gabriel Gonzalez Videla claimed victory in Chile 's presidential election . Headquarters of Conservative runner-up Eduardo Cruz Coke maintained the issue had " not yet been decided " and must await the decision of a joint session of Congress 50 days hence . Under Chilean law , unless a candidate polls more votes than all other candidates combined , Congress must choose the winner from the two highest vote getters.                     