@@707966

txt Survey A study of higher - education in Ohio in terms - of - post- war-  needs and facilities will be made by the Ohio College Association this summer , according to announcement made by President Gordon K. Chalmers of Kenyon College , president of the association . Demobilization from industry and the operation of the bill to provide Federal aid for readjustment in civilian life of returning World War II veterans will undoubtedly increase the demand for post-high-school education in Ohio , said Dr. Chalmers . The purpose of the survey is to discover the probable extent of the demand and possible ways of expanding or adding to existing facilities to meet the demand . PENNSYLVANIA  --  Registration Registration at the Pennsylvania State College next semester will be on the basis of eight classes instead of the traditional four , according to Registrar William S. Hoffman , who predicts Universal adoption of the semester plan in post-war education . Steps to inaugurate the new system have already been taken . Penn State has been operating under the four-class system for eighty-nine years and , according to Registrar Hoffman , found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes that officials no longer find it feasible to rate students except on a semester basis . SYRACUSE  --  Speech Laboratory A new public service to the commu- : nity and State is. announced , by Syracuse University - with the opening of a remedial speech laboratory in the School of Nursing . In addition to its threefold service  --  to provide consultation , advisory , instructional and remedial services for all types of speech handicaps ; to conduct scientific research into the nature and causes of speech disorders , and to educate and train students for professional careers in corrective speech work  --  the laboratory will organize field service for public schools in the State requesting such aid . WESTERN RESERVE  --  Social Work Preparing social workers for wartime and post-war service is the aim of four special programs to be offered this summer at the School of Applied Social Science of Western Reserve University . An Institute in Housing Management Training will provide foundation training for responsible positions in public or private housing management . A summer program in recreation and group work will offer an Institute on Programs for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of public welfare services are part - of a summer workshop . Post-war preparation will be the theme of the program in rehabilitation services . RUSSIAN  --  Language Courses Courses in the Russian language or dealing with the Soviet Union have been introduced in nearly fifty colleges and universities throughout the country . Increased demand for the Russian language is reflected in courses offered in the regular sessions in such widely separated areas as the Universities of Illinois , Atlanta , Kansas , Louisiana State , Oregon and Oklahoma . Special work for teachers in this field is offered at Harvard , the University of Michigan , State Teachers College of Plattsburg , Teachers College of New York , Cornell University and Sarah Lawrence College . ILLINOIS NORMAL  --  Enrollment The inauguration of graduate work and an upswing in enrollment mark this as a significant summer session at Illinois State Normal University . In addition , two offcampus workshops offered by the extension division were the first extension classes ever given in the summertime . Programs for elementary and high school teachers , for instructors in special education , fort school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to the Master of Science in Education degree . IOWA  --  Commerce College Although the ratio of men to women students at the University of Iowa 's commerce college is one to five now , a wartime reversal from normal , the university has appointed a curriculum revision committee to prepare a program for the day when the men return to the campus . Changes in the curriculum that may benefit returning veterans are being considered . NEW SCHOOL  --  Legal Problems Legal problems of teachers in the New York City school system is the topic of a workshop course to be given at the New School for Social Research next fall by Theodore Fred Kuper , former law secretary of the Board of Education . The course will be practical arid non-legalistic and will include lectures , round-table discussions , clinical case histories and a study of pending legislation affecting schools and teachers . Mr. Kuper is also offering a course On Thomas Jefferson at the New School . RHODE ISLAND  --  English Courses To insure effective carry-over of English instruction to other departments , the English faculty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English " service designed specifically to help two classes of students ; those who seek assistance on 1 their own initiative in organizing and ' presenting papers and talks and those who are sent by their instructors because they are not using . English of an acceptable standard . A library of reference works and texts has been set up in the English Department for this counseling service . NURSERY SCHOOL  --  Seminar To help teachers of pre-school children cope with emotional problems accentuated by the times , a new seminar will be held next season at the Nursery Training School of Boston . Two evening meetings a month will be held from October to May , open to teachers with at least two years ' experience or to mature young women with ' one year 's teaching and other somewhat comparable experience . LAWRENCEVILLE -- Alumni Fund The Alumni Fund of the Lawrenceville School , completing its sixth year , has bettered all previous records with totals of $15,053.93 and 979 contributors . In its short history more than $71,000 has been contributed . The fund is used to assist qualified boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarships thus provided , and to date fifty-eight boys have benefitted .                     