@@708060

txt War Mobilization Director Byrnes. reporting plans are well advanced ' for a vast industrial reconv e r - sion after the defeat of Germ a n y , tonight recommended that it be accompanied by a general return to the 90 hour week and lifting or easing of many economic controls . In a 7.000 word report to President Roosevelt , he reviewed the plans made for a 90 per cent reduction in war production after V-E ( victory in Europe day and a shift of released workers and machines to output of goods for the home front . " It is necessary that the government plan now to spread the work , " he said , but declared fears of prolonged unemployment after V-E day are " exaggerated . " Higher Prices Expected . " We will speedily return to civilian production , " he declared . " The pent-up demand for goods will come from a people who have the money with which to buy them . " But prices of many of those civilian articles not now in production . such as autos , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher than in pro-war years because of increased labor and materials costs . Byrnes addtcl . He disclosed that officials are working on price ceilings for such articles and will calculate them on the basis of pre-war costs , plus a percentage price increase . The formula for determining the price Increase will be announced in about 10 dais . Less Pay In Sight Byrnes , whom an associate said tonight intends to quit as war mobilization director once congress completes demobilization legislation . made the following recommendations or forecasts in his report today : 1 . Return to the 40 hour week . " except to take care of production necessary to the war effort and some specially tight labor areas . " This would mean a sharp reduction in " take home " pay for thousands of workers now being paid at the rate of time and a half for work in excess of 40 hours a week . 2 . Abandonment of man power controls to facilitate transfer of workers from curtailed war programs to civilian production . 3 . Retention of existing price ceilings on civilian goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Removal of additional foods from the ration list " as soon as supplies justify removal " More Gasoline Urged . 5 . Increase of gasoline allowances for civilians in " certain areas . " as V-E day will reduce war needs but continuation of rationing . 6 . That congress appropriate up to 2 billion dollars to carry out the farm " support price " commitment Byrnes said V-E day would release approximately 8 million tons of food from the war time reserve for other uses and the reduced demand might bring market prices below the support price , forcing the government to " buy the surplus if it is going to support prices . " 7 . That congress announce its intention to drop the excess profits tax after the defeat of Japan and consider the advisability of allowing manufacturers to depreciate new machinery substantially in the years in which such machinery is purchased . Byrnes said the excess profits levy can not be lifted on V-E day because " we will still have war production and war profits " until the Pacific war is over . The depreciation clause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cut in U. S. Workers Proposed . 8 . Release of " many government workers " as federal control machinery is reduced . 9 . Beconsmeration oy congress ot the Byrnes proposal for a minimum weekly unemployment compensation of 520 for as long as 26 weeks . He said state unemployment systems have accumulated reserves of 5% billion dollars and they should " now act to liberalize the benefits and make the state systems serve their true purpose . " In discussing employment prospects . Byrnes observed that " the prosecution of the war against Japan will demand the continued production of great quantities of war materials " and said basic industries such as steel and textiles will not be affected " by the end of the Euro . peen war . Ile also Indicated isshlpyard employment will continue at a high level . saying " the maritime commission , like the navy . has a tremendous task to perform in the war of the Pacific . The surrender of Germany will not lessen the necesany for the construction of certain types of ships , but it will make posnem the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Jobs " Inevitable . " But . Byrnes continued , It is " inevitable that in some particular Industries and in ? some communities there should temporarily be reduced employment . This is more likely to occur where the curtailment is in government owned plants engaged entirely in war production and having no plans for civilian production . " To meet this situation Byrnes has appointed a committee which Is at work interviewing contractors to determine whether they will exercise their options to buy or lease government owned plants . In a seminar to explain his report to reporters . Byrnes said speed has been applied to that problem in the last week because " that 's where the trouble will come . " Altho many contractors are interested in buying or leasing plants , he said , it Is obvious restrictions on disposal of these facilities will delay their reconversion and cause unemployment . Given List of Plants . Ile said the war department has provided him with a list of plants that it probably will want kept in a " stand-by " condition after V-E day and anoth:r @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The lists thus far are secret , he said . He said in the defense plant corporation alone the government has 1,800 plants costing 18 billion dollars and that in the last year and a half 14 lessees have exercised their option to buy and have paid the government 25 million dollars . Byrnes said that since reductions began more than a year ago , procurement agencies have canceled more than 18 billion dollars of authorized expenditures . He added that Lt. Gen. Somerveil , commander of the army service forces , with the approval of Gen. Marshall , army chief of staff , has directed that authority be given him to suspend procurement immediately on up to 50 per cent of the materiel provided in the current strategic reserve . Saving Put at Billion . This reserve embraces supplies of initial- equipment for an additional million men , and Byrnes estimated the cut would save a billion dollars . He said the Somervell decision will not result in reduction of existing orders but in reducing by 50 per cent orders placed after this date for strategic reserves . Byrnes emphasized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for overcoming shortages in certain other critical supplies . " Reports continue of the short supply of certain artillery ammunition , requiring our officers to restrict the number of rounds fired per day , " he declared . " For the last week the conduct of the war , fortunately , has lessened the demand upon the supply of heavy artillery ammunition . But no one can tell when demands will again increase . The army can not gamble as to the day of surrender . " Accounting Plans Discussed . Byrnes reported that procurement agency representatives are conferring with contractors . agreeing in advance of termination as to methods of accounting , and settling such questions as the allotment of overhead expenses between war production and civilian production . " The agencies will notify their contractors by telegram , when the defeat of Germany is announced . of the curtailment of war production in the contractor 's plan , " he said . Byrnes concluded his report with an assertion that the " fear of timid people temporarily may retard our return to full production and full employment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , " he declared . " Today America is stronger than ever before . We should make the maintenance of the present national income and high level of employment our goal  --  and achieve that goal . "                     