@@705409

txt The Senate approved today an amendment to the British aid bill terminating the measure on July 1 , 1943 , or on any earlier date approved by a majority of both houses . A similar amendment had been adopted by the House , but the Senate Foreign Relations Committee offered its own amendment in an effort to make the language clearer . By Richard L. Strout Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , March 5 ? Two questions were at issue in the Senate today : whether the lend-lease bill to aid democracy abroad would pass , and whether the legislative functions of democracy at home could be made to work . With all signs indicating as big a majority for the measure in the Senate as that already put on record in the Rouse , the long delays in the Upper Chamber have raised again the question of the efficient functioning of the democratic process in Congress which is the very issue , incidentally , that Chancellor Hitler has raised in Europe . However , in the technical sense , no actual filibuster as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders are hopeful , today , as the second phase of the Senate debate began , that a final vote can be obtained before long . The Senate today theoretically passed from general debate on the bill itself to discussion of amendments . At the outset , however , there was little to distinguish this day 's debate from other days . An Extra Hour of Debate The Chamber met an hour earlier than usual , at 11 , in the same girder-re-enforced chamber ; there were the same packed galleries , and much the same type ' of set speeches , at the outset , that have reduced attendance of Senators in the past 10 days to a ' minimum . Yesterday , for long stretches at a time , the crowded galleries gathered from all parts of the country to listen in awe to a debate which they supposed was one of the great events of the century , looked down on an almost empty chamber . For : long stretches of time yesterday only four members were present . Senators frankly state their reason for this , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that they are frankly bored with the whole repetitious argument and uselessly protracted process . A - Summary to Date Unofficial polls indicate 52 votes for the bill , 32 against , and 11 uncertain . Allowing some margin in this poll either way , the passage of the bill seems assured , if only it can be brought to a vote . With debate entering a new phase on amendments today , it is possible to make a brief summary of the situation to date . Is there a filibuster ? In any effective sense , in which opponents prevent action as they wait for a specific time , like adjournment , no . Few lend-lease op- ponents really hope to defeat the measure . ' Then what do opponents gain by delay ? * Opponents , rightly or wrongly , believe they have made some Senate converts . Through delay they may also be better able to bargain for concessions and amendments , though the Administration seems uncompromising . There may be selfish motives too . A few men can center national attention on themselves at such a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is only natural to like the limelight . But primarily the purpose seems to be to dramatize the issue before the public back home , the issue which most opponents sincerely believe involved , the supposed danger of taking America into the war . Test on Isolationism Is this lend-lease bill a " war measure " as opponents charge ? This is the crux of the controversy . A middle ground would seem to be that it is the trend of the bill , not so much specific details , which arouses dispute . Advocates are increasingly will- ing to take risks of war in order to increase aid to Britain ; they argue it is a " peace " measure to keep Hitler on his side of the Atlantic . Opponents are alarmed at this trend . To them the bill is important beyond its actual details . If they can defeat it , they believe they can stop the trend . If they fail now , they believe the movement can not be stopped . In this sense the bill may be a major test . Many observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage an end of two decades of isolationism and cynicism that followed United States refusal to enter the League of Nations . Looking Backward Has the bill been skillfully by a concurrent resolution which does not reqUire presidential approval . Other events of the day follow : The Senate adopted , without objection , the Committee amendment which terminates on June 30. 1946 , the Army and Navy revolving fund created by the payment of foreign governments for war aid from the United States . Also it adopted ' another , inserting the usual clause declaring that if any part of the Act is declared unconstitutional it does not affect the validity of other sections . Controversial amendments were postponed at the start . One of these was the first committee amendment , designed to tighten . congressional control of purse strings . Senator Byrnes drafted a substitute to the original House substitute , and Senator Byrd is now drafting a substitute to the Byrnes formula , all dealing with the $1,300,000,000 limitation on transfer of equipment and supplies . One of the most controversial amendments is that of Senator Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment would prohibit use of navy convoys to deliver defense materials . Senator Gerald P. Nye ( R ) of North Dakota yesterday appealed to the Senate to defeat the lend-lease bill and thus prevent sacrificing " the solvency of our national treasury , the lives of our young men , and even our democratic form of government . " He denounced Britain as a " pseudo-democracy " and the greatest aggressor in world history . " managed ? Correspondents love to argue such a question . Some feel if President Roosevelt had included Republicans in his consultation at the outset he would have facilitated passage : also that Mr. Willkie 's proposed amendments should have been promptly adopted . There is no way of proving this . A nigh Republican leader stated confidentially at the outset that he expected 10 of the 28 Republican Senators to vote for the bill . This forecast still seems reasonable , and it is uncertain whether others could have been conciliated . Mr. Roosevelt 's calculated knockdown , drag-out assault on opposition leader Senator Burton K. Wheeler ( D ) of Montana seems from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolate the sharp-tongued Montanan . If ruthlessness pays in such a debate , Mr. Roosevelt 's tactics seem momentarily successful Insiders also believe that it was the threat of a public tongue-lashing from the White House , that brought opponents abruptly to terms yesterday , when they announced they were not filibustering , and that they would agree to end general debate and to take up amendments . Program Up to Date What progress did the bill make today ? The Senate adopted an amendment clarifying the right of Congress to terminate the bill 's powers before June 30 , 1943 , by-a-simple majority vote . This represented the first legislative progress made on the bill since the debate started . The amendment , supported by the Administration , revised a House amendment which had be -n opposed by Administration leaders in the Lower Chamber . Under the revised amendment , both houses may end the President 's powers                     