@@711113

txt Jan Masaryk , veteran non-party Foreign Minister of the nerve Communistdominated Czechoslovak Cabinet , jumped to his death at S o'clock this morning , the Prague Government announced at noon today . The statement said the 61-year , old son of the first ' President and liberator of the country , Dr. Thomas G. Masaryk , had leaped from the bathroom window of his third-floor apartment in the Foreign Ministry . It added that his body had been found about 6:25 A. M. on the stone courtyard below . Announcement of his death was said to have been delayed all morning while officials of the new Cabinet debated the reaction , though international press services had spread the news . M. Masaryk was to have made his first appearance before Parliament as a member of the new Cabinet of Communist Premier Klement Gottwald and the Communists were reported to be disturbed by the prospect of his empty chair . Blames Criticism Abroad Finally , Just before noon Communist Minister of the Interior Vaclav Nosek said that M. Masaryk had committed suicide and attributed his action to criticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist coup . Czechoslovak citizens and a close friend of M. Masaryk in London expressed doubt that he . had committed suicide . Dr. Jan . Papanek , head of the Czechoslovak mission to the United Nations , in a press conference at Lake Success , also said he could not believe the suicide report . In his announcement of M. Masaryk 's death , M. Nosek told Parliament : " That good man and patriot and friend of our people , that man who just a few days ago said he was going on by the side of the people , has voluntarily put an end to his life . " State Funeral Planned A great state funeral was announced immediately for Saturday afternoon . The Minister of Interior ordered public buildings to fly black streamers in a sign of mourning and ordered the national . flag flown everywhere at half staff . Premier Gottwald will deliver the funeral oration and Communist Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir . Clementis will deliver an address at the grave . In his statement to Parliament , M. Nosek said that " during the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegrams from his former friends in England and America full of reproaches about their disappointment over , his uncompromising attitude during the recent crisis . " The Government radio announcer said : " M. Masaryk was a sensitive man who suffered under the at : tacks of the foreign press . He had become the object of invectives and attacks and reproaches and accusations . The more painful and sorrowful is his loss to all of us . " ' The official description of the reported suicide emphasized that it , could have been only a deliberate act of self-destruction . Describing the bathroom , from which M. Masaryk was said to have jumped , it stated that in front of the window was a couch . To get out it would be necessary to climb up onto this couch to open the window and to climb over the edge , the Government announcement declared . M. Masaryk had instructed two servants , Vaclav Topenka , who had been with the Masaryk family for many years , and Bohumil Pricho -- da , not to return before 8:30 o'clock lin the morning ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner of chicken , roast potatoes and a glass of ' beer , they had cleared the dishes it added . He asked for : two bottles of mineral pater and that was the last time he was.seen , the Government report ? declared . ' After the discovery of the body this morning an.interne was called from a medical:aid:station who established that - M. Masaryk was dead . It is believed that he had been killed instantly . The official statement also emphasized that M. Masaryk had intended to ? raxisact business the following day . He told ' the cultural attache hi London to return the following day for certain correspondence that he was sending to London , the report said . He also half completed an address that was to be delivered this evening at a meeting of the PolishCzechoslovak Friendship Society , according to the report . The last chore that his secretary did for him was to bring him certain facts for use in preparing this address . However , the Czechoslovak public first learned of M. Masaryk 's death from foreign radio broadcasts and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any announcement here . Conferred With Benes M. Masaryk went to President Edward Benes ' residence at Sezimovo Usti with the new Polish Ambassador to Prague yesterday afternoon for the customary accreditation ceremony . He saw the President alone , afterward , according to the official announcement , and returned by car to Prague . In the evening he saw one of his cultural attaches , who gave some information of the developments in London , and signed some photographs the secretary brought in . Two guards , one of whom had been with his father , - brought his dinner to his apartment about 8 o'clock . They saw him for the last time about 8:30 . The official report indicates that after that time he was alone . Nothing more is known except for the statement of the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the police investigation . This report , as presented by the Communist Minister of the Interior , asserted that during M. Masaryk 's visit to the President he had been in a good mood . However , it added , that according to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they were able to sleep and complained of insomnia , expressing surprise that he had been able to sleep in the car for a while . Report Masaryk Was Nervous The report went on to say that he had been suffering for some time from nervous disorder , accompanied by insomnia . A United Press report said he recently had undergone an operation for cancer of the arm . ) The report declared in reference to last night : " A great number of cigarette stubs were found , indicating he had not slept all night . The depression culminated about 6 o'clock in the morning when the disturbance of his mind occurred . " A medical report was promised later . M. Masaryk apparently plunged feet first , since his head was not injured . The first communique issued by the Communist Ministry of Information just before noon said : " In consequence of his illness , combined with insomnia he resolved probably in a moment of nervous disorder to finish his life by jihnping out of the window of his official apartment into the courtyard of Cernin Palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evening hours Minister Masaryk did not show any marks of mental depression but on the contrary he was full ' of life , activity and his usual optimism . " The last official mention of M. Masaryk 's activities before that had been a single . statement concerning the ceremonies Sunday connected with the observation of the ninety-eighth anniversary of the birth of his father . These anniversaries are annual traditional occasions , during which Czechoslovakia reveres the first President of the democracy . After listing the delegation of dignitaries who visited Dr. Masaryk 's grave Sunday the Government 's statement : said : " In the evening Jan Masaryk came alone to visit his father 's grave . " No one knew , except possibly President Benes , what was on Jan Masaryk 's mind as he stood in the dark at Lany before the grave of his father and considered the trust that had been given to him with the great name that he bore . Defended Cabinet Seat Since he accepted office in the new Cabinet , M. Masaryk had made several statements justifying his action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official contention of the Communists that this Cabinet was " a Government of the people . " He was scheduled to appear in Parliament at 2 o'clock this afternoon . Before his empty seat was placed a spray of lilies and red poppies . At today 's meeting of Parlia-1 ment Deputies who had been ac-1 cepted in the . Government bloc supporting the Communists and their ' program sat in the front of the chamber . Those who had not been permitted to join the " national front " ' sat in back behind their parties . Up to this morning the Action Committee of Parliament had accepted 212 of the 229 nominated for the Government bloc . This assured the two-thirds majority necessary to vote through all legislation , including the so-called ' constitutional laws and the new constitution itself . About half of the Deputies banished to the " Opposition " seats in the back of the room appeared in Parliament today . Following the Minister of the Interior 's announcement of M. Masaryk 's death and the Government 's " sorrow , " a one-minute silence was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Gottwald presented his program of legislation for the coming weeks , including all the demands raised during the crisis for the practical completion of nationalization of industry , for the nationalization of all wholesale trade and all export and import , and a long list of other matters . He repeated in considerable detail the Communists ' version of what happened during the crisis and accused the parties overthrown of plotting against the Government . Parliament will meet again tomorrow when the " National Front " Deputies will be permitted to vote their confidence in the Cabinet . Much of authority in the Foreign Ministry already had passed into the hands of Vladimir Clementis , Communist deputy Foreign Minister . At a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Poland , Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia an incident characterized the position of M. Clementis in the Foreign Ministry here . At a press conference the three Foreign Ministers started to sit down next to each other , in the middle of a long table at the head of the room in front of microphones . However , M. Clementis steppedL in courteously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took his place in the middle , next to M. Masaryk. , The deputy Foreign Ministers ' from Poland and Yugoslavia were placed near the end of the table .                     