@@704769

txt The fall of Calais , reported in a special bulletin of the German High Command tonight , presages the beginning of the long prophesied German attack on the British Isles . With this second and most important Channel port in their hands , the Germans now are directly opposite Dover , with their guns not only able to cover a landing of German troops on British soil , but also in a position to ward off an attack by the only hindrance still standing between them and England , the British fleet . Special significance attached by authorized German military circles to bombing by German planes of numerous airports in Eastern and Southeastern England , moreover , indicates that Germany has launched a drive for air superiority over Britain , which is the most vital prerequisite for a modern offensive . Increasing activity in the war on British shipping , in which the long quiescent German U-boat arm is expected to play a major role , as predicted by authorized military circles tonight , strengthens a general belief that England is the next goal of the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Divide Allies The Germans now consider the fate of the trapped Allied armies in Artois and Flanders definitely sealed . With Calais captured , they are further cut off from England , their only remaining source of supply . The German armies southwest and northeast of Lille have started a drive that , if successful , would cut the Allied forces in two . Though the trapped armies are fighting with desperation and putting up strongest resistance , the time is drawing near when their ammunition , will give out and they will be forced to surrender , officials here assert . There still are three possibilities for the continuation of German operations in the west . One is an attack against England , which is now believed imminent . The second is a further southward drive on Paris . The third is an offensive from Luxembourg with the purpose of turning the Maginot Line . These three possibilities , it was authoritatively said tonight , remain open , but it was emphasized that ' ' the // DRIVE NEAR DOVER IS PUSHED BY NAZIS // goal of the German drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now is actually in sight of German troops on the Channel . The German divisions pouring into Northern France now are believed sufficiently strong not only to eradicate the trapped Allied forces in Artois and Flanders , Jut also to stem any attempt by the French Army to relieve England from her serious plight by a drive from the south . Double Drive Possible The possibility , however , can not he excluded that the German plan foresees a double drive for the near future that would be launched simultaneously against the British Isles and against Central France and Paris . For the drive to the coast , which has placed the Channel ports in German hands and trapped a huge Allied force in Artois and Flanders , also has served the purpose of driving a wedge between England and France . Communications across the Channel , the Germans claim , are becoming ever more precarious with the Germans now able to threaten them from land and air . In the course of this march to the sea , moreover , tiae Germans have established a line reaching from Luxembourg to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide base for launching an offensive southward while their landing parties by sea and air are engaged in occupying Britain . It is the belief of neutral observers who watched the troops marching through Belgium into Northern France that these forces are sufficiently strong to undertake such an offensive , while the drive against England presumably would be launched chiefly from Belgian and Netherland ports and air bases . Aerial Blows Expected Air superiority remains the most important factor in such Blitzkrieg tactics as have been recently followed by the Germans , and presumably they will be continued if the drive against England takes place . Air superiority over Belgium and France already is claimed by the Germans . The first and most important step in this , it was pointed out tonight by an authorized military commentator , is the bombardment of enemy home bases ? which has already taken place in England  --  as happened at the start of the offensive against Belgium , the Netherlands and France . Germany tonight published a renewed warning to all neutrals against sending ships in Allied convoys to Britain . This warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impending strong increase in German attacks on British shipping , above all by submarines . Reports of the fighting still raging in Artois and Flanders indicate that the Germans plan to pinch off a smaller pocket southeast of Lille , dividing the troops in this sector from those between Lille and the coast . Zeebrugge , Ostend and Dunkerque , the remaining Channel ports still in Allied hands , were bombed by German planes yesterday with resultant damage to both harbor appointments and supplies , it is claimed in Berlin . At Ostend , it is reported , a munitions depot as well as a naval depot were blown up . On the southern front along the Somme River and the Aisne-Oise Canal . German bombers continued to harry French troops , bombing railroads , troop concentrations and artillery emplacements . " Final Reckoning " Held Near BERLIN , May 26 ( UP ) ? Germany , claiming the capture of Calais , within sight of the English coast twenty-two miles away , warned the British tonight that the " final reckoning " , at hand , with German planes ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture of Calais after a " hard fight , " according to a special communiqu ? of the High Command , the Germans claimed to hold a seventy-five-mile stretch of France 's Channel coast from Abbeville to near Dunkerque at the closest possible " hopping-off " point for an invasion of the British Isles . Calais was captured , the High Command indicated , after Nazi motorized divisions stormed through Gravelines on the coast to the north , half way to Dunkerque . " Constantly stronger attacks can be expected against England , " said the official D. N. B. agency . D. N. B. told of fierce air attacks on the Channel ports of Dunkerque , Zeebrugge and Ostend north of Calais , toward which the Germans were driving across Belgium . Nazi leaders intimated that only one thing was holding up shattering attacks against Britain ? the closing of the steel trap tighter around 1,000,000 British , French and Belgian troops cut off by the German thrust to the sea . These 1,000,000 Allied troops tonight were . reported to be facing annihilation in a " trap within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Vimy Ridge to a point only twelve miles southwest of the great French industrial city of Lille . The French towns of Lens and Bethune , forming an arc southwest of Lille , have fallen to the Germans , D. N. B. reported . At this advance point , military spokesmen said , the German force was only nineteen miles from the German forces striking down along the Lys River from Courtrai . Military spokesmen said the thrust carried the Germans across the La Bassee Canal at the village of La Bassee . The strongest of the Allied motorized forces were said to be caught in the soutnern loop formed by the converging drives . The village of La Bassee is fifteen miles north of Vimy , where the Germans started hammering the wedge northward , and twenty-five miles south of Courtrai . If the ninteen-mile-wide gap were closed the advance Allied forces would be caught in a pocket at the lower end of the German encirclement , a pocket roughly bounded by Arras , Cambrai , Valenciennes , Courtrai , Roubaix and Lille . While the main battle was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Aisne-Oise Canal and thence westward appeared to be more or less stabilized for the time being . The German advance in the direction of Paris apparently had been halted . The High Command had " nothing in particular to report " concerning that region . Air bombing of troop concentrations and communications to the rear appeared to comprise the activity there . 