@@710331

txt Long distance workers and the American Telephone and Telegraph company agreed tonight on a basis for settlement of their pert of the nationwide strike , offering new hope for a general agreement soon . The basic agreement still must be submitted to the policy committee of the Independent National Federation of Telephone Workers , which is directing the strike a these and other telephone workers over the nation . A tentative settlement was announced at 11:30 p. m. tonight . Final Company Offer President John J. Moran of the American Union of Telephone Workers , long lines affiliate of the national federation , emphasized that the over-all policy committee still must pass on the proposals . He described the plan as the final offer of the A. T. &; T. in 10 days of solid negotiations under government auspices here . The announcement renewed general settlement hopes that had been dashed earlier In the night by the collapse of negotiations between the NFTW and the Southwestern Bell Telephone company , biggest A. T. &; T. affiliate , which also had been moved here . The long distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who expressed the hope that the " steady and tedious progress made in that phase of the negotiations will carry over into the many other bargaining sessions going on all over the country . " The NFTW , whose more than 300 , - 000 members across the nation have been on strike since Monday morning , has scheduled a meeting of its policy committee at 11 a. m. tomorrow . Settlement for All Moran in his statement said , " It should be understood that the union has been bargaining only for its members who are employed by the long lines department , " and that " this union 's members will not return to work until a settlement has been reached between all striking telephone unions in the national federation of telephone workers and their respective companies . " Despite Moran 's emphasis on the idea that the agreement applies only on long lines , government officials took encouragement from tile fact that a long lines settlement laid the groundwork for heading off a threatened strike last year . Leave for St. Louis The collapse in the negotiations between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the company left for St. Louis despite a request , of Labor Secretary Schwellenbach that they remain in Washington after a stalemate over arbitration of the union 's wage demands . The union is seeking a $12 a week raise . Later in St. Louis a company spokesman denied It had suspended the conferences , but Everett C. Cotter , general counsel for the Southwestern telephone union , an NFTW affiliate , told. , reporters : " We cbnsidec the company as havirIg broken off negotiations . " Southwestern Bell is the largest among the more than 20 Bell system subsidiaries .                     