@@711910

txt The President has moved quickly to strengthen the hand of his new Secretary of Defense by transmitting to Congress in a special message his recommendations for changes in the National Security Act of 1947 , under which the Department of National Defense was organized . As he had indicated at his press conference last Thursday , Mr. Truman followed closely the recommendations of the Hoover Commission , one of whose " task forces " made an exhaustive study of the Department . Mr. Forrestal , the retiring Secretary , also urged several of the changes in his first annual report . In two important instances the President makes valid criticism of the present organization but then stops somewhat short of the indicated remedies . He would strengthen the Secretary 's office by the addition of an Under-Secretary and three Assistant Secretaries , but he would leave civilian heads of the three services  --  Army , Navy and Air  --  full-fledged Secretaries . The Hoover Commission recommended by a split vote that those offices be reduced to Under-Secretaryships , with their holders responsible to the Defense Secretary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President or to the Director of the Budget . Mr. Truman 's proposal is a compromise . He would leave the service Secretaries with their titles but would strip them of the right of appeal to him and would remove them from the National Security Council , where they now hold the balance of power . The President apparently agrees with the minority of the Commission , of which Mr. Hoover is one of four , that retention of the title of Secretary was needed to attract better men to the post . Under this proposal , however , they would outrank the new Under-Secretary , who should be the real second man in the department . This might make for difficulties . The President goes along with a majority of the Hoover Commission in recommending merely the appointment of a Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . A minority of four of the Commission , including the present Secretary of State , Dean Acheson , urged that this " Chairman " be given the title of " Chief of Staff , " without cominand authority but with a clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Acheson-led minority outlined his duties , civilian control would remain paramount by making the uniformed Chief of Staff the principal adviser of the President and the Secretary of Defense , and only their spokesman at Joint Chiefs of Staff deliberations . Among the military , where rank is so important , it would seem to weaken the authority of the post to assign to it a non-military title such as " Chairman " or " Presiding Officer . " Mr. Truman would give the post the same authority proposed by the minority of the Hoover Commission , which follows almost exactly the terms of reference under which General Eisenhower now is operating on a temporary basis . Why net , then , give it a military title ? The inadequacies of the present Security Act in providing this country with a unified , efficient defense force have become so obvious that Congress undoubtedly is in a mood to act affirmatively . . Since it is in that mood , this would seem to be a good time to do a thorough job of overhauling the present organization . No political considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible of an efficient , unified Defense Department , with civilian control ' paramount and clearly defined . The program recommended by the President goes a long way toward that goal . Congress could go that far and even farther . The sooner this is done the better .                     