@@706884

txt The capture of Buna on the northern shore . of New Guinea 's eastern tip is a ' significant measure of how ' enormously the military situation in the Southwestern Pacific has improved ' since the grim days of late summer when Japanese forces were pushing down on Port Moresby from the crest of the Owen Stanley Mountains and Marines were clinging desperately to a tiny toehold in the southern Solomons. ? In the intervening months , the United Nations margin of safety has . been widened until it is no longer the JapaneSe who threaten to overwhelm - the allied supply lines and perhaps even Australia and NeW Zealand : In . September and  --  October ; there was -a very real question whether we would be able to hold those anchor points of our Pacific supply line and those outposts of Western civiliiation in the Far East . Todiy , forces - of the United Na- tions are making steady progress toward the " establishment of a really secure holding front in the Southwest Pacific . It is not yet completely secure and it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . But the net balance of motion across the battle lines is now northward instead of southward , which means that  --  the security of our position is ? steadily improving while the Japanese threat to our positions is dwindling . But the rate of progress is painfully slow and the steps ahead are many and incredibly difficult . It has taken the Navy four months to consolidate its position at Guadalcanal to the point where it has been possible to relieve the troops which made the initial landing and held against everything a resourceful and determined enemy could bring up to harass and plague them . And it is more than two months since Gen. Douglas 's Australians and Americans began the counterattack from Port Moresby which has now cleaned up everything in the Buna area except Buna Mission , . a relatively minor post which should fall very soon now that all United Nations forces in that area can concentrate against one point . The length of time required just to establish these positions and the extraordinary versatflity of the Japanese countermeasures prove that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the way ahead will be hard . The Japanese have been far from idle on their own defenses while we have been pushing ahead on Guadalcanal and New Guinea . Their latest move against our position in the Solomons has been to construct an advance air base at Munda on New Georgia Island , only 150 miles north of Guadalcanal , which has reached such a point of potential threat that United States bombers concentrated on it on Friday , Saturday , and Sunday . This has been only one item on the list of improvements in their Solomons position indicating that while they were attempting to drive out the Marines with their succession of naval attacks , they were simultaneously digging in along the whole length . of tly ? Island chain against the possjbility that the naval attacks might fail . ? The result is that they have delayed us so long at Guadalcanal that any further progress from there to Rabaul will have to be a process as methodical as the last month 's progress against Buna . It will mean going from island to island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long , long way from Guadalcanal to Rabaul now . The road will have to be trodden . But it will be a slow journey . In New Guinea it will be equally slow . The Japanese have overlooked no opportunity to delay the progress of General 's forces . At , the last moment , with Buna falling , they attempted landings up the coast at two points respectively 20 and 40 miles northwest to flank the Buna position and to impede any further United Nations progress from that point . Meanwhile , they have been improving their old positions at Lae and Salamaua , 175 miles up the coast toward the northwest . When Buna Mission is in United Nations hands and therefore all of the eastern tip of New Guinea , General will still be only one step toward his objective , which is Rabaul , He must force his way step by step along the jungle-fringed , roadless coast from Mina to Salamaua and he must . capture that point and then Lae before he can open his attack against the Island of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is enormously improved . Buna means an airfield on the northern coast of New Guinea for fighter planes . United Nations fighters will be able to engage Japanese planes over Lae and Salamaua with full tanks . Heretofore they either have had to fly over the Owen Stanley range or around its eastern extremity , with the result that they never had adequate gasoline reserves for real combat . It will be possible now for planes to base with relative safety at Port Moresby , fly across the mountains to Buna , and refuel for action . Our 1 bombers attacking Lae and Salamaua can be given a cover ? of fighter planes . Buna is an enormously important step forward . But it is only one step . In New Guinea , also , the road is long and hard , but it must be trodden .                     