@@705667

txt Evacuation of New England children from their parents and homes to places of safety outside city areas is something everyone hopes wo n't happen here . But if such an emergency should arise , people of Boston with its thickly populated defense sections will not be caught unprepared . At the Nursery Training School , 355 Marlborough Street , Boston , a special summer course  --  the first of its kind , so far as is known , in this country  --  has ' been developed to train volunteers in handling large groups of children . As a matter of fact , the nursery training school here was a product of the last World War . It was started in a suburb of London . Its purpose was - to care for the children of defense workers of London . The Founder Miss Margaret Macmillan was the founder , and her theory was that these children , emotionally over-excited by the horror of war , should have special treatment . They should be not only cared for but also quieted , and all the while their education should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and need , above all , for competent trained workers , is imperative . As Miss Norah M. Clancy , Director of the Summer Session of the School , put it , it is just as important as the training of air raid wardens , fire fighters and ambulance drivers . The course , which starts today and continues for three weeks , will consist of lectures by authorities on child care and training , including Dr. Martha Eliot , Associate Chief of the Children 's Bureau of the United States Department of Labor . She has just returned from England , where she made a special study of the child evacuation methods of the English . Other Lecturers " With the emergency upon us , and growing daily more acute , people must become more awake to the needs of little children and be prepared to meet them , " declared Miss Clancy . Conditions are already acute in some sections , she disclosed , particularly in Connecticut , where there are large defense populations with mothers and fathers employed in factories . The prob- lem of day care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a survey is already under way , the school Director said . to determine the location of training centers for workers . In addition to Dr. Eliot , who will come to Boston to give her lecture to the school on July 7 at 7:45 p. m .. the other lecturers will include Dr. Philip Solomon of the Harvard Medical School , Alfred Whitman of the Children 's Aid Association . Miss Martha H. Chandler , Director of the Ruggles Street Nursery School , and Dr. Mai ion L. Slemons of the New England Hospital for Women and Children . Women should become alert to the many important roles they can play in the defense program , Miss Clancy believes , including this very vital problem of child care in wartime . It is one of the practical ways in which the volunteer can make her services immediately availablein our national defense , she pointed out . Miss Chandler , who will discuss the ABC 's of child care during the course , emphasized the necessity of understanding the different play needs of children of varying ages . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not yet learned the co-ordination of group action , and that they must be dealt with primarily as individuals , she said . She spoke of the problem of evacuee children now in the United States . They came over here repressed and with a sense of insecurity . Their new freedom has caused them , in some instances , to break over the bounds , she stated . and they are just now reaching the point of holding their own with their school groups and becoming carefree and normal once more . An understanding of this reduces concern over " behavior problems , " Miss Chandler explained .                     