@@708783

txt DELIVERY STRIKERS EXPECTED TO DEFY WLB 'S ULTIMATUM Indications Are That the Union Will Refuse to Return to Work Today as Ordered SANCTIONS MAY BE APPLIED Waldman and Friendly Give Views of Union and Publishers Respectively by Radio Indications last night were that the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union , whose strike has paralyzed the distribution of New York 's major newspapers for eleven days , will refuse to abide by the ultimatum of the War Labor Board to return to work by 8 A. M. today , despite the drastic sanctions imposed by the board as a penalty for continuing the walkout . Imposition of these sanctions was expected today in the event the union failed to inform the board that the ultimatum had been complied with . They include elimination of the closed shop and the preferential hiring privilege enjoyed by the union under its old contract with the Publishers Association of New York City , as well as all retroactive benefits that might accrue to the strikers under any new contract approved by the board . In effect , the sanctions would imply the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the right of employers to hire other workers to fill the places of the 1,700 strikers . In its apparent determination to ignore the WLB 's ultimatum , the union also rejected another appeal by Mayor La Guardia , made through his labor adviser , Edward C. Maguire , that the strikers return to their jobs and abide by the directives of the WLB . Membership Meeting Not Called After receipt of the WLB 's ultimatum yesterday morning , the union officers took no steps to call a membership meeting to act upon it . Instead the officers met at the office of Louis Waldman , the union 's attorney , and after discussing the ultimatum proceeded to have an oral referendum taken by delegates among the membership in the union 's respective locals and on the picket lines . Mr. Waldman indicated that the result of this novel plebiscite might not become known until early this morning . Information made available last night was that the strikers were voting overwhelmingly to confirm their decision of last Sunday , which was " no contract , no work . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's position would be wired to the WLB by the time set for the expiration of its ultimatum , reports last night were that the union may ignore answering the ultimatum while continuing the walkout . Late last night several midtown police precincts were alerted for a possible effort by The Morning Telegraph to move trucks tonight . W. P. Gingold , circulation manager of The Telegraph , which is not a member of the Publishers Association , said , however , that no decision had been reached and that the paper 's action would be determined " by what develops tomorrow . " The police order said that if the drivers do not return to work at The Telegraph at 343 West Twenty-sixth Street between 7:30 and 10 o'clock tonight , The Telegraph // will send out six trucks to the Postoffice , Railway Express offices , the Pennsylvania Station and the Grand Central Terminal . Precincts affected are to take all necessary precautions . The respective sides of the controversy were presented to the public over Station WABC last night , with Mr. Waldman speaking for the union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the publishers . Each held the other side responsible for the strike , with Mr. Waldman insisting that the dispute be terminated by the consummation of a contract through resumption of direct negotiations , and Mr. Friendly emphasizing that the case was now entirely in the hands of the WLB . He accused the union and its leaders of " rebellious , illegal , and provocative tactics " in their repeated defiance of the WLB . Mr. Waldman called upon the publishers to " abandon their self-righteous attitude " and to " sit down and negotiate a fair and reasonable contract " and " give the newspapers back to the public . " Mr. Waldman did not touch upon the WLB 's ultimatum in his address . He indicated he would discuss it in another broadcast tonight . His failure to discuss the ultimatum was interpreted as evidence that the strikers planned to ignore it . In a later address over Station WQXR , Mr. Friendly replied to Mr. Waldman 's contention that the publishers alone have the power to end the strike . " A few hours ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the striking union , asserted that the publishers and the union should get together . That , he said , is the only way to end the strike . " Now Waldman knows  --  better than anyone in the union  --  that the dispute has gone beyond this point . " He knows that he has ten and one-half hours to tell Joseph Simons , president of the union , and every member of the union , that the very livelihood of each member and the very existence of the union are at stake unless the mandate of the War Labor Board  --  the highest Government authority in wartime labor disputes ? is obeyed and the men go back to work by 8 o'clock tomorrow morning . " Government Final Arbiter Mr. Friendly adde that " the Government is and must be the final arbiter in this dispute . " Announcement that the plebiscite of the union membership on the ultimatum would be taken in lieu of a formal membership meeting was made by Joseph Simons , president of the union , after yesterdays ' conference of union officials at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Waldman as follows : " The union officials will take the contents of the War Labor Board 's telegram containing the board 's ultimatum to the men on strike at the various locals and to the men on the picket lines . They will communicate this telegram to each worker and ascertain his wishes , and the workers themselves will have to decide what to do about it . When that decision is reached it will be communicated to the War Labor Board . " Mr. Waldman added that the union had learned that each of the 1,700 strikers had received telegrams from the publishers yesterday morning quoting the WLB directive to the men to return to work by 8 o'clock this morning . Mr. Waldman added he could not tell when the final result of the vote taken among the union members would become known . Neither would he say whether the union officials made any additional recommendations to the men in the light of their own position at the union meeting last Sunday , when they recommended obedience to the WLB 's directives to call off the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the strikers would be made clearly cognizant of the " consequences and everything else " arising from the WLB ultimatum . After adjournment of the meeting in Mr. Waldman 's office , he and the union officers proceeded to City Hall where they conferred for 45 minutes with Mr. Maguire . After this conference , Mr. Waldman said , " we had a friendly talk with Mr. Maguire . " His only other comment was " when a fellow asks you in for a drink , you do n't turn him down . " It was learned that the conference was at the invitation of Mr. Maguire upon the suggestion of Mayor La Guardia . Mr. Maguire said that he discussed with the union representatives the appeal made over the municipal radio station by the Mayor last Sunday urging the strikers to heed the WLB 's repeated directives to return to work , pending settlement of the , dispute by the board . " No decision was reached at the meeting , " Mr. Maguire announced . The strikers continued their usual picketing yesterday as hundreds of thousands of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMES , at its improvised counter at 229 West Forty-third Street , had the biggest week-day sale since the beginning of the strike . More than 90,000 copies were sold . Last night witnessed a repetition of the long lines extending for blocks as purchasers waited for the first editions of this morning 's papers to come off the Dresses . The Times sold 7,500 copies in the first 4 5 minutes . No serious disorders were reported by the police during the day .                     