@@707454

txt The General Motors Corporation has a post-war " master plan " that calls for the spending of $500,000 , - 000 for reconversion of its plants from war to automobile production , technological improvements and retooling for new cars , it was disclosed last night by Alfred P. Sloan Jr. , chairman of the board . Speaking at the annual dinner of the National Association of Manufacturers at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria , closing the NAM 's second War Congress of American Industry , Mr. Sloan explained the General Motors plan was based on the expectation of an annual national income of $100,000,000,000 , compared with $70,000,000,000 before the war . As far as NAM records show ? and NAM members are said to be responsible for 80 per cent of American war production  --  General Motors is the first big corporationthat has come out with a public announcement of its postwar spending program . Boom in Sales Predicted Mr. Sloan predicted a post-war boom in the sale of automobiles and other consumer goods whose production has been stopped or curtailed by the war , as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in wartime savings , which he estimated at $100,000,000,000 by the end of 1944 , but warned of the dangers of inflation . He said that price controls should be continued for a limited period to curb the inflationary tendencies of the wartime and post-war periods , but should be removed at " the earliest possible date . " Maximum post-war employment , he declared , depends upon American industry asserting its leadership to make sure of the preservation of the free " competitive " enterprise system , with reasonable profits as the incentive , and upon the Government substituting constructive policies toward business and industry for the " destructive " policies of the New Deal years . Warning industry that it must make good by providing plenty of jobs to a people who have seen what it can do in the way of employment , payrolls and other benefits during the war , or permit the enterprise system to be supplanted by some form of socialism , Mr. Sloan asserted that there are three " musts " in our national postwar program : Maximum employment , national defense policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade on a " twoway street " basis , " with no world WPA at the expense of the American taxpayer . " Faith in Future Needed To insure the realization of our national post-war goals of an expanding economy and a higher standard of living , Mr. Sloan said , business and industrial leaders must have " faith and confidence " in the future so that they will be encouraged to go full speed ahead for maximum production and employment . He listed nineteen points that he said were essential to the achievement of these goals . These advocated adoption of prompt and sound governmental policies for the reconversion of industry from war to peace production , for the termination of war contracts , for the disposal of surplus Government-owned property , for a tax system encouraging to capital and enterprise , for labor-management cooperation , for the incentive system with respect to both wages And profits , and others . The subject of Mr. Sloan 's address was " The Challenge . " He challenged industrialists to take an aggressive attitude toward increasing production and employment , tov-ard permanently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels , on a self-sustaining basis . General Motors has accepted the challenge , he declared . He asked industry if it was willing to accept the challenge with " an all-out effort along the whole productive front " or preferred to adopt a policy of letting " nature take its course . " " We must develop new things to produce , " he said . " We must produce existing things at lower prices . If we do not , there are certain to be fewer instead of more jobs available . " BUN for Employment Mr. Sloan said the public should realize that jobs do not make themselves and can not be brought into being by arbitrary theories or abstractions , but result from " a combination of capital , management and opportunity . " " The catalyst , " he said , " is possible profit . The foundation is confidence in the future of enterprise as determined by national economic policy . Expanding job opportunities are a social , political and economic ' must ' in the post-war era . The sole instrumentality by which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expanding system of enterprise . " Mr. Sloan said he had faith that the public had abandoned4 " something for nothing " and " rabbit out of the hat " theories of economic panaceas and that this would be reflected in new national economic policies , especially with respect to the attitude of the Government toward , without which , he said , no progress could be made . Saying there had been too much " Utopia " and too little realism in discussing post-war goals , he emphasized that people should realize that hard work , greater efficiency and much time will be required to repair the damage and make up the losses caused by the war . Transition Planning Urged Presiding at another NAM session on specific post-war problems , K. T. Keller , president of the Chrysler Corporation , declared that the nation must prepare for peace on the theory that unpreparedness for peace is as bad as unpreparedness for war . Every company and individual business man , he said , should plan how to smooth out the transition period between war and peacetime production , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the post-war derby hobbled . " Wilfred Sykes , president of the Inland Steel Company and chairman of the NAM post-war committee , in an address on " Post-War Industry and Jobs , " urged that Congress adopt a resolution recognizing the : need for maintaining private enterprise at home , as it did in adopting the Connally and Fuibright resolutions favoring international cooperation to maintain world peace . War Reparations Opposed Mr. Sykes said United Nations agreement to settle international disputes judicially should be accompanied by an agreement " not to impose war reparations on our defeated enemies , " and to provide for " writing off our own lend-lease balances in return for international fair trade agreements , including the international freedom of the world airways . " In a speech on " Taxes and Jobs , " Cheever Cowdin , chairman of the board of Universal Pictures Company , and chairman of the NAM committee on Government finance , urged the drastic reduction of taxes after the war , a simplification of the tax structure in favor of three or four levies " so simple that anyone can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced Federal . budget with drastic reduction in Government agencies and employes , and a plan for servicing and paying off the war debt starting immediately after the end of the war . Mr. Cowdin said the maximum peacetime cost of Government , Federal , State and local , should be I kept within $30,000,000,000 a year ? $21,000,000,000 for Federal . Federal income taxes , he said , should be reduced to one-third of the present rate , and there should be a single flat rate of 25 per cent on corporation income . He advocated " a special war debt tax levied on all transactions " at a 1 per cent rate , collected by use of stamps , to raise $9,000,000 , - 000 a year . His budget was based on an estimated $125,000,000,000 annual national income , considerably higher than Mr. Sloan 's esti ? mate for the basis of the G. M. " master plan . " Dr. Henry M. Wriston , president of Brown University , told the dinner audience that American business enterprise will not be really free again until the public " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said has been " so dominated by fear that concern for security , dread of unemployment , doubts about labor relations and worry over social tensions have overshadowed enthusiasm for freedom . " Robert M. Gaylord , president of the Ingersoll Milling Company of Rockford , Ill. , was elected president of the NAM to succeed Frederick C. Crawford , president of Thompson Products , Inc. , of Cleveland , who becomes chairman of the board of directors . The retiring chairman , William P. Witherow , president of Blew Knox Company of Pittsburgh , becomes chairman of the executive committee .                     