@@707941

txt The Government 's program for an early start in the reconversion of the automobile industry to civilian production suffered a setback today when nine leading concerns protested that they were too deepIy engaged in war work to permit them to make any preparations now for the manufacture of passenger cars at a future date . This decision , believed to have had something of the effect of a bombshell in War Production Board quarters , was reached unanimously at a meeting of the representatives of the automobile industry with officials of the WPB Automotive Division and other members of the board . The conference was called by the WPB to discuss a series of proposals . One , the " Blue Order , " which was to permit manufacturers to make commitments in advance for materials , parts and machinery for civilian production when the WPB gives the signal , was rejected . The possibility of quotas for the industry , understood yesterday to be one of the-reasons for the meeting , was dismissed as impracticable at this time , it was - said . Permission to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WPB thought would be helpful in the gradual readjustment of the auto industry to peacetime production , was discouraged by industry renzesentatives , who said they were experiencing a shortage of engineers and technicians , which would make experimentation difficult . The view was expressed , the WPB reported after the day 's session , " that they could therefore devote very little time , now at least , to the development of experimental I models or even to major design changes in their passenger cars . " Charles E. Wilson , WPB executive vice chairman , who has fought I preparations for reconversion at this time , said he found " particularly gratifying " the policy stated by the representatives of all the companies present " to prosecute their existing or future munitions contracts " to meet the " admittedly difficult " requirements of the armed services . Wilson Says Plan Is Vital Mr. Wilson added , however , that to be fully realistic it must be recognized that a day will come when it will be possible to resume the production of passenger automobiles . As far as could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was not much that could be done now in preparation for the reversion to peacetime production . But when Germany is knocked to her knees , as she will be , it would be less than prudent not to have done as much planning as possible . " We must have a complete , workable plan ready for the day when production of passenger au , tomobiles can be authorized , " he added . Other WPB officials described as " utterly hopeless " the desire of the automobile manufacturers to start simultaneously and on an equal footing in the manufacture of passenger cars . L. R. Boulware , WPB vice chairman for operations , reporting on the morning session , said that the manufacturers also agreed that it would be economically unsound to start the manufacture of passenger cars unless individual company quotas totaled at least two million to two and a half million automobiles . From 3,000 to 5,000 small firms now engaged largely in war work would have to supply parts for automobiles , and , he said , to clear these channels would present the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Offered Despite the pessimistic picture drdwn by the industry of the possibility of speedy reconversion on X-day , when Germany falls , other authorities appeared more hopeful . They speculated freely on the possibility that the nine concerns were overly modest at the meeting for tke benefit of their competitors , and that they were- hesitating to disclose too much of their post-war plans . Industry members attending the meeting were : Representing the Studebaker Company , H. S. Vance , chairman of the board , and Courtney Joluison , assistant to the chairman a the board ; Chrysler Corporation , K. T. Keller , president , and B. E. Hutchinson , vice president ) ; Packard Company , George T.C ; hristopher , president ; and J. H. Marks , vice president ; for Hudson , A. E. Barit , president , and S. G. Baits , vice president ; for Nash , George W. Mason , president , and A. M. Wibel , vice president ; General Motors , C. E. Wilson , president , and Albert Bradley , vice president ; Willys Overland , Chas . A. Sorenson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board ; for Ford , Henry Ford II , vice president , and R. R. Rausch , vice president ; for Crosley , Powell Crosley Jr. , president , and R. C. Cosgrove , vice president . The WPB reported that the representatives returned to their homes " to explore further , in the light of subsequent developments of the war , the starting rates that Might be applicable and appropriate at a future date . "                     