@@707837

txt Atty . Gen. Biddle , , under fire from members of a house committee 10 r his part in the federal seizure of Montgomery Ward &; Co. , conceded for the first time today that there is " room for disagreement " on the legality of Atty . Gem Biddle . the drastic government action . The attorney general , who rushed to Chicago last month to take part In the army 's takeover of Ward 's plant there , reiterated Ills opinion that the step was justified . But he hedged his position . If it was not legal under congressional statutes , he asserted , it was legal under the President 's war emergency powers . Biddle was subjected to an all-day Inquiry by the special committee set up by the house to investigate the legality of the seizure . Changes His View . In the face of searching questions by Republican members , he retreated from his unequivocal contention last month in the federal District court in Chicago . There he had argued that tile President 's power Is supreme and that " particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute its judgment for that of the executive . " Today Biddle said : ? " I realize , of course , that there Is room . for dIsagreement  --  on the legal aspects of the Ward case . But no attorney general in advising the President can do more than interprat the law as he sees it , trusting to the courts to correct him if he is wrong and to congress to make any changes which It deems wise . " I can only say that I believe now , as I did when I. gave the President my opinion , that he had the authority tot take ' over the Ward plant in Chicago and that the courts would sustain his authority . " Questioned on Withdrawal , Rep. Elston R. , ( ) . promptly asked Biddle why , if he was so confident of court backing , the administration had turned the plant back to Ward 's the very , day before the Chicago federal court had promised a ruling an the ease . Biddle denied the government withdrew from Ward 's for fear the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he assorted , because the immediate issue had been decided by all employes ' election . Biddle interspersed his testimony with frequent references to Sewell Avery , Ward 's chairman , who was bodily carried from his office into the street by two soldiers during the federal occupation of Ward 's . Drawing a parallel between Avery in the Ward case and John L. Lewis , mine union boss , in the coal strike last year , Biddle said " Mr. Avery and Mr. ' Lewis are nor cullarly alike in ninny respects . " Both , he elaborated , refused to obey orders from the war labor board . " Neither of them , " he said , " recognizes the government . " " Indirectly " a War Plant . Taking up the argument that Ward 's was not subject to federal annexation because it was not In war work , the attorney general contended the company was indirectly involved in the war program , and that the President could use his " judgment " in ; seizing it . " What you are actually contending , " Elston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review , can take over ' any property ho wants to , If ho decides it affects the war . " fiddle protested this was a tillsInterpretation . Rep. Ramspeck 1:1 ) . , Ca. ) , chair . man , said that the committee at tomorrow 's session will hear Wayne C. Taylor , undersecretary of con. coerce , who took possession of the Ward property for the government , and Torn C. Cargill , deputy first assistant postmaster general . The committee then plans to recess until June 6 , when Avery is scheduled to be heard . 