@@709488

txt BYRNES TO SPEAK ON PARLEY IN PARIS TOMORROW NIGHT Declines Comment on Return , Then Talks With President 2 Hours on Conference CONNALLY VOICES OPTIMISM AFL Condemns Russian Actions Since War 's End  --  Declares Moscow Has Used Force By BERTRAM D. HULEN Special to Tut NLw Yor.i : TIMES . WASHINGTON . May 18 ? Secretary of State James F. Byrnes returned this morning from the Paris conference of Foreign Ministers and announced that he would make a report on the conference to the American people over the radio Monday night . Mr. Byrnes drove from the National Airport to the State Department and from there went promptly to the White House , where he reported on the conference to President Truman for two hours . Both at the airport and in leaving the White House he had nothing to say concerning the conference . He reserved his remarks for his radio address . The White House made no comment . Byrnes Appears Subdued As Mr. Byrnes returned the executive council of the American Federation of Labor issued a statement in which it " viewed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a " tough policy " toward the Soviet Union and accused Moscow of having used " methods of aggression " in Asia and eastern Europe since the end of World War II . It has been the custom of Mr. Byrnes to report to the American people over the radio after he returns from important foreign conferences . Upon returning from the meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in London last October he reported that there had been some progress and refused to admit failure , He was more optimistic when he reported on the meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Big Three in Moscow over the radio on Dec. 30 last . He gave no indication today of the type of report he would make on Monday night . Senators May Not Return However , he and the members of his party appeared subdued when they alighted from their four-motor ATC Crescent Caravan plane , " The Diplomat . " Also , all were obviously tired after the grueling three-week conference and . the twenty-four-hour trip in the plane . Mr. Byrnes said they had had a smooth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bermuda . While nothing definite was said , there were indications that Senators Tom Connally . Democrat , of Texas , chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , and Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan . who accompanied Mr. Byrnes to the conference as advisers , might not return with him to the meeting of Foreign Ministers when they resume their sessions on June 15 . After all , it was remarked in informed quarters , they are only advisers and have Senatorial duties here . Developments in the mean // time may influence their final decision one way or the other . Senator Vandenberg would say nothing about the conference nor comment on the attack made on him by the Communist party newspaper Pravda . But he plans to speak on the conference to the Senate Tuesday . Senator Connally intends to follow with a Senate speech Wednesday . Senator Connally said today that Secretary Byrnes had " played a distinguished part " in the conference , but that the conference " did not accomplish all that we had hoped for . " " However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it is believed will help the next meeting on June 15 to agree upon treaties . " " There were so many vexing questions , many of which had varying aspects , that it was impossible to reach agreement between all of the Ministers upon all of the issues involved . " The conference , however , served a useful purpose . It acquainted all of those participating with the viewpoint of the representatives of other Governments and brought about a better understanding of the several questions involved . It is believed that the meeting in June will bring about agreement upon many of the questions considered . Relief for Italy Seen " The conference agreed on a revision of the Italian armistice terms . This change will enable , the present Italian Government to ' function more directly with its people , and , it is believed , will contribute to the recovery of Italian ' affairs . " The transport plane landed at the airport at 10:35 A. M. , Eastern Standard Time . Secretary Byrnes and his party were met by Dean Acheson , Under-Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French Ambassador , whose Government was host to the conference ; Assistant Secretary of State Donald S. Russell , Bernard M. Baruch , and a number of lesser State Department officials . Among those on the plane , in addition to Secretary Byrnes , the two Senators , and their wives , were Benjamin V. Cohen , counselor of the State Department , and a number of State Department official experts who had assisted Mr. Byrnes in Paris , including H. Freeman Matthews , Samuel Reber , Charles E. Bohlen and Michael J. . In its statement , the Executive Council of the AFL declared that the failure of the Paris conference was " grievously disappointing . " It considered " dangerous the deep cleavage in policy which has developed between Britain and the United States on the one hand and Soviet Russia on the other . " Condemns Actions of Soviet " The Executive Council is con. vinced that further delay and appeasement offer little hope of success and may only widen the breach , " the statement said . " We must reach a clear understanding with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ' tough , ' IVA must show her that we can get , tougher in our defense of basin principles . " The American Federation of . Labor unequivocally condemns the attitude taken by Soviet Russia since the war ended . In Europe and in Asia she has employed main . force instead of consultation with other powers . Russia has seized captured territory and she has brazenly sought to extend her influence and domain over most of Asia and Eastern Europe . " In pursuing this policy , Soviet Russia has employed the methods of aggression ( rather than selfdefense ) . She has trampled on the high principles proclaimed by the . United Nations , denying fundamental freedoms to the citizens of other countries and depriving them of self-determination . " The time has come to face these facts . We call upon the Government of the United States to insist that Russia observe her wartime commitments based on the Atlantic Charter . " Veterans Voice Concern The " grave concern of veterans over international diplomatic relations " was voiced by Jack W. Hardy , national commander of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " reconsideration of diplomatic approaches . " " It is all too obvious to most Americans , " he wrote , " that . we are rapidly losing our position of moral world leadership because of a lack of frankness and a clear and determined American foreign , policy , one understandable and understood by all nations . " Mr. Hardy urged that diplomatic positions by all nations be stated clearly and that the " traditions I double talk known as diplomatic language " be eliminated . " Let us , . the American people . " he said , " through our diplomatic representatives , declare firmly and unequivocally , so that all may hear , that we did not fight this war as a foundation for the repot don of earlier mistakes but . to carry world morality and ethics forward on a new plane so that all nations may live , prosper and advance in a world at peace . "                     