@@707157

txt Business men and industrialists must start planning now , boldly and intelligently , to meet the problems of post-war employment if the system of free economic enterprise is to be preserved in this country , Paul G. Hoffman , president of the Studebaker Corporation and chairman of the Committee for Economic Development , an organization set up by industry to help plan for reconstruction after victory , told the National Industrial Conference Board last night . Mr. Hoffman spoke at a dinner of the conference board in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , marking the close of its twenty-seventh annual meeting , at which specific problems of post-war rehabilitation were discussed at a series of . panels by representatives of industry , labor and government . Other speakers at the dinner were James B. Carey , secretarytreasurer of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , who urged close collaboration of government , management and labor in post-war planning , and Sir Norman Angell , who stressed the importance of permanent international collaboration for 7eace as the basis for world rehabilitation . Dr. Virgil Jor- dan , president of the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the planning now being done the concept of freedom as the foundation and objective of a free society either had been lost sight of or relegated to the background . " Freedom is the forgotten plan , " he said , " the forgotten plan that was made for the first time in America . ' Before embarking upon plans for the future , Dr. Jordan said , it was necessary to win the war by " conserving , sustaining and safeguarding the resources of the home front , " because in the final analysis " this is a war by and against civilians . " He charged that the Administration had failed miserably on the home front , declaring that in this respect its policies had been " compounded at best of political expediency and bureaucratic incompetence . " Jobs for 56,000,000 Declaring that " a high level of employment must be attained quickly after peace comes , because too much unemployment for too long is a direct invitation to dictatorship , " Mr. Hoffman said that the main burden of finding jobs , for 56,000,000 Americans when ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided " the busi ness climate in the post-war world is favorable to expansion of enterprise . " " We are not overly concerned about planning by the very large employers , " Mr. Hoffman said , speaking of the work of the Com mittee for Economic Development and pointing out that there are 3,000,000 business establishments in the country . " They have the re sources and the technical ability to do a first-class job of their own It is the smaller businesses  --  the approximately 2,000,000 actual em ployers and . the 1,000,000 self-em ployers  --  which need both encour agement and help in getting their programs under way . They are the grass roots from which our economy grows . They are the shock troops we must use to win our objective . They must start planning now , and they must plan boldly and they must plan intel ligently . " Three Proposals Offered If free enterprise is to remain the structural base of our national economy , Mr. Hoffman said , the following three things were necessary : " 1 ? There must be a restoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . Our tax laws must be so revised as to stimulate vigorously the entrance of venture-capital into productive enterprise ? where jobs can and will be created . " 2 ? Some solution must be founds for the special problems of small businesses . It has been too tough for small businesses to be born of late . Small business is the bedrock of the free enterprise system " 3 ? Both business and government must make every effort to see that competition is put back ' into the competitive system  --  to I the fullest extent possible . Competition is a stimulant for the enterpriser . Without it his initiative and resourcefulness can not be ' brought into play . " In his criticism of the Administration 's domestic policies , Dr. Jordan charged that " the official fight against the wasting fever of inflation has been phoney " and that " the labor and farm policies pursued have been at best only an elaborate piece of shadow boxing , and , at worst , a shifty and shabby political Punch and Judy show , played at the expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peril of our soldiers . " " You and I know , " he continued , " that the rationing and price control systems have not merely broken down but have blossomed into a massive and universal organization of smuggling , bootlegging and black markets such as America has not seen since colonial days . Not a single important problem on the home front , whether of fiscal policy , of food and fuel supply , of manpower mobilization , of management-labor relations , or of public information , has been faced so far with candor , courage and integrity , or handled with intelligence and competence by our public officials , for the primary and imperative purpose of supporting the civilian arm so vital to assure and speed the victorious end of the war . " Only the abundant resources and profound patriotism of the American people have postponed the painful consequences of these conditions . " Carey Speaks for Labor Expressing the viewpoint of organized labor , Mr. Carey warned that the present social and economic system would not endure unless the nation , through its cornpoiaent groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war a living for all on the basis of improved standards and social security , while retaining the opportunity for the business man to make profits . " Labor , like management , is deeply concerned with the post-war period , " Mr. Carey said . " The people now know the scope of our productivity and will never again accept poverty in the midst of plenty . Industry and agriculture must be used to capacity to provide decent living levels for everybody . A broad social security program must insure necessary goods and services even when the usual sources of income are removed . " Labor participation in determination of administrative policies must be continued and increased . Labor-management cooperation within the basic industries must also be extended . Public projects must be planned now to take up the slack if private enterprise proves insufficient to maintain full employment . " There must be planning now also for the disposal of government-owned plants and equipment , which are of vast extent . There must be extension of educational and health facilities for all the people . " In the international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with international cooperation to raise levels of living and to extend democratic institutions . A labor movement in every country will be the best way to guarantee these . There must , therefore , be acceptance and encouragement of the growth of collective bargaining and labor organizations . " Angell Wants Lasting Peace Sir Norman stressed the essential importance of establishing and maintaining peace through international collaboration as the foundation of all post-war building . " If that proposition is not accepted , a third world war is inevitable , " he warned . The task of establishing peace on an enduring basis as the prerequisite to world rehabilitation , Sir Norman declared , is coupled with the acceptance by the peoples of the truth that exchange of goods and economic collaboration are only second in importance . " Both propositions are mere truisms , undeniable , " he said . " They should be self-evident . But even today in our democracies political and economic illiteracy is such that both propositions are widely , angrily , passionately denied . While this remains true no stable reconstruction is possible . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from failure ' to solve the problem of post-war employment , Robert J. Watt , international representative of the American Federation of Labor , declared at a panel discussion in the afternoon on post-war labor problems that industry and labor should sit down together and plan a program " which will enable wage-earners to consume the goods and services created by capital and labor . " " A strong trade-union movement after the war will be a bulwark for the preservation of private property , " he said . " Unless standards of wages , hours and working conditions are maintained through strong trade unions the usual slump in the status of labor will so impair purchasing power and price values that the whole institution of private property will suffer . " The problems confronting industry after the war were summarized by ' Charles R. Hook of the Rustless Iron and Steel Corporation , who also spoke before the labor-problems panel . These problems , he said , are the creation of a satisfactory level of employment soon after the war , providing income to unemployed workers during the period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor that would result in better job-making policies and more jobs , and improvement of the human relations in industry . Other panel d'scussions dealt with reconstruction and transportation , readjustments in petroleum and mining after the war , the prospects in construction , readjustments in the utilities industries , planning in manufacturing industries , readjustments in banking aria investments and the handling of contract cancellation and termination after the war to facilitate the release of capital for new investment . S. Clay Williams , chairman of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Com ' pany , was elected chairman of the ( National Industrial Conference Board for 1943-44 by the trustees a+ yesterday 's meeting . Mr. Williams succeeds Fred I. Kent , president of the Council of New York University . Vice chairmen of the Conference Board , ' I elected for one year , are Neal Dow ' Becker , president of the Intertype ( Corporation ; Colonel J. F. Drake , president ef the Gulf Oil Corporation ; Edgar M. Queeny , chairman of the Monsanto Chemical Company , and Langbourne M. Williams Jr. , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and - hief executive officer of the board . James L. Madden , third : vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , was elected treasurer .                     