@@704460

txt It was probably too much to expect that the trade treaty negotiations with Argentina should succeed at this time . Their collapse is neither a reflection on the usefulness of the Hull trade policy nor a sign that other treaties will be equally stubborn to put through . It was just that circumstances  --  most of them unforeseen  --  proved too much for what was , and still is. a fruitful line of negotiation . If anything , the strategic retreat of the State Department is a sign that the Hull policy like a birch can bend in a wind. ? Presumably , like a birch , it can straighten out when the gale is ipent . It was many months ago , well before the European war , that Secretary Hull 's staff of economic conciliators went to work on this most delicate of Latin American trade talks . Even then , Argentina was aloof though courteous : very conscious of its position as the chief counterbalance to the United States in Latin American political affairs , and not a little hurt by the ban on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistently refused to moderate . Since the ground for negotiations was first surveyed , the European war has brought a score of new foreign exchange problems . The growing number of special groups In the United States who feel themselves chafed by trade agreements have ganged up on the Secretary of State and have threatened to block renewal of his cherished Reciprocal Trade Law . The United States has turned back somewhat to the older , and more militant , form of the Monroe Doctrine , seeking by its enlarged military power to insure that no hostile power gains a foothold in the Americas , and Argentina has showed signs of apprehension lest this new militancy be abused . Could n't Bring Home the Bacon There was nothing for the negotiators to do meanwhile except to forge ahead . But they must have felt that it was asking too much to expect them to bring home an agreement when they were , so to speak , forbidden to bring home the bacon . It is not at all difficult to see the Argentine point of view . Normally , the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentine sells more than it buys to Britain ; Britain sells more than it buys to the United Slates . This , of course , is what is meant by the phrase " triangular trade . " Enter n war upon the scene . Britain tells Argentina that , tinder the circumstances , trade henceforth has to be evened out . Britain ca n't buy as much from the Argentine unless it can sell more nearly a corresponding amount . This breaks the whole chain . Argentina has to turn around to the United States and hay something like this : " i3ritain insists that we must buy British . Therefore we can not continue to buy from the United States more than we sell there . Sorry , but that 's the situation and there is nothing we can do . " Basle Needed by U. S. From the United Stales ' point of view , It was necessary to make haste . Congress was clue to reconvene at the opening of the new year . It simply would n't do to make concessions to Argentina with Congress in session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of so much as a stick of fresh competing imports in an election year . Therefore the American negotiators offered as much as they could , set a deadline , and the deadline passed without a decision on the part of Argentina to sign . There are two hopeful developments : The negotiations for a new trade pact with Chile will go ahead on schedule , and the plan for study and development of non-competing products within the Americas has been formally adopted . The State Department is not going to stop fighting merely because one trade agreement , even though It bo a very itnportant one , did n't go through . Success in the Congressional struggle to renew the Trade Agreements Act might in itself provia enough momentum to reverse the tide in the Argentine case . In such an event , the breaking off of negotiations would prove to have been a postponement  --  a strategic retreat  --  and not a lasting failure . Saville R. Davis 