@@712130

txt Sixteen thousand persons from fifty-one countries applauded yesterday an emphatic assertion by Trygve Lie , Secretary General of the United Nations , that " no war of importance will ever be started while the General Assembly is in session . " Addressing the Rotary International Convention at Madison Square Garden , Mr. Lie said that was one thing of which he was sure ibecause " an aggressor just could not get away with it . " The Secretary-General had paved the way for his declaration of the positive strength of the United Nations with a recital of the world organization 's failure to realize Ithus far some of the objectives set ifour years ago , including reduction of national armaments , safeguards against use of atomic bombs and germ warfare , or creation of a United Nations military force . Despite " many , many disappointments , " Mr. Lie said , the United Nations had averted war in several ? explosive situations and had brought a halt to fighting between Jews and Arabs . He said the world should never forget that the " most dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was eased because discussions by United Nations delegates in the United Nations headquarters led to the agrement between the Western powers and the Soviet Union to lift the Berlin blockades and to set the Council of Foreign Ministers to work . " There is only one way , however , by which to prevent a third world war in the long run , " Mr. Lie declared . " The only way is to bring into the United Nations and to keep within the United Nations all the nations of the world and to make the United ' Nations work on a universal basis . " The Rotarians and their guests heard also an expression of faith in the United Nations by President Truman , whose message to the convention was read by Dan A. Kimball , Under-Secretary of the Navy . The President 's message said that in this country the Government and business were consulting on wide plans for a general advance in standards of living in the less fully developed areas of the , world and the United Nations wasl taking a leading part in making these plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Through the United Nations the governments of free peoples are being brought nearer together than ever before , " Mr. Truman 's message said . " I believe it is equally important to the world 's orderly1 progress that business leaders of all nations also have much closer ties than in the past , and certainly one of the greatest influences for bringing that about should be Rotary International . I am sure that it will be , for Rotary has always been at the forefront of any great movement for improving the welfare of people everywhere . " 58 Meetings Conducted A dramatic example of the exchange of ideas among business and professional men through the medium of Rotary was furnished yesterday morning when fiftyeight separate meetings were held simultaneously by Rotarians engaged in that number of occupations . Eighty-five Rotarians who are teachers or officials of elementary and secondary schools in six nations met at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel to talk over common interests . Those from colleges and universities met in another suite . Thirty hardware men met in a parlor at the New Yorker Hotel . Sixty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hotels were the scenes of similar gatherings on coal , coke , ice , flowers , public utilities , undertaking , architecture , religion , animal husbandry , law and alcoholic beverages . The industrial chemists , for instance , agreed that control of air and water pollution , caused by waste from their plants , deserved more study and action . The hardware men took a stand against " under-the-counter " transactions and secret discounts . They agreed that advertising should be morally honest . The men from the elementary and - econdary schools . meeting under the chairmanship of Raymond T. Barrier , Superintendent of Schools of Brownsville , Pa. , decided to make greater use of the plumbers , lawyers and men of other occupations in their local Rotary Clubs for their vocational guidance programs for young people . Women See Fashion Show While the men were talking shop , their wives saw a fashion show at the Garden . Style crea-1 tions by thirty-nine designers were displayed on the stage and along a runway built far out into the arena . A $40 ; 000 chinchilla stole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present . The registration committee 's re ; port , made at the plenary session , showed an attendance of 16,058 , of whom 8,920 are Rotary members . Of those registered at the convention 1,773 are from outside the United States , including 989 Rotarians . Tom J. Davis of Butte , Mont. , past international president , said the most important work Rotarians could do was to champion the ideas of good will , cooperation and peace in their home communities . That is the real foundation for world peace , he said . Mr. Kimball said that President Truman 's plan for the improvement of underdeveloped areas of the world , was " the first plan for world-wide development which does not include the age-old factor of coercion . " He urged greater private capital investment abroad to carry on this development .                     