@@705277

txt An elaborate $25,00,000 program to unravel the worst traffic snarls in eastern Massachusetts by building a system of speedy arterial highways through downtown Boston and providing expanded parking facilities in commercial districts , is proposed today in two officially-sponsored legislative measures filed at the State House . The bills propose : 1 . Establishment of a $6,000,000 system of City-owned " cage " garages to solve the parking problem in downtown Boston . The measure would authorize the City of Boston to borrow necessary funds to build these multi-stork &; skeleton structures in congested areas . This proposal was filed by Representative Patrick Gilbert Sullivan of Dorchester upon petition of Mayor Maurice J. Tobin and is sponsored by the City administration . 2 . Building a $10,500,000 skyway or Central Artery through the heart of downtown Boston to link the present Northern Artery , the North Shore Radial , the Charles River Memorial Drive and the South Shore trunk lines , all of which now carry fast traffic to the City limits and dump it there into crowded , crooked streets . With this project are six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which bring the aggregate cost to $19 , - 400,000 . Plans to Finance This bill , filed by Senator Arthur W. Hollis of Newton upon petition of 15 prominentsitizens of Greater Boston , provides for financing the program from the State highway fund by special grants of S1,250,000 annually to Boston until the total cost had been met . Meanwhile . Boston would borrow to finance construction . Based on the famous Whitten Thoroughfare Plan of a decade ago , this program was developed with the assistance of the Massachusetts State Planning Board , the Division of Metropolitan Planning , the City Planning Board , the Mayor 's Confeience on Traffic , and leading civic and business groups . The two measures are certainly the most important bills concerning Boston the Legislature will consider , and they are undoubtedly first in the legislative notebooks of City officials . Both of them seek to solve the Bay State 's worst traffic problem  --  confusion and congestion in downtown Boston . where much north-south " through " traffic is delayed , and where 72 per cent of the automobiles are operated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims at providing downtown , short-time parking facilities for as little as 10 cents an hour . Under the proposed legislation the City would acquire the property , build the garages , lease them to private firms or run them itself , and regulate the rates . Providing more than 2.500 additional parking spaces , the plan would help to clear Boston 's street , for moving traffic , stimulate business , and make it possible to enforce the parking laws .                     