@@708505

txt Prime MinIster Churchill may make personal r epr esentations to President Roosevelt against the proposed cut in lend-lease meat shipments to Britain , it was reported tonight . Food Minister J. J. Llewellin , who , according to dispatches from the United States , is preparing to visit Washington , D. C. , has been asked by the war cabinet to prepare an estimate of Britain 's minimum food require . ments for the next few months . Churchill , it was said , will inform the President " in no uncertain manner " that Britain has been severely rationed longer than any European country , and any further tightening of belts may cause widespread malnutrition , Predict National Protest . Some political observers predicted a ration cut would arouse the war 's worst storm in parliament and the country . On the other hand , British official quarters were reported convinced Mr. Roosevelt would adopt a sympathetic attitude , and the people of the United States might be called upon to make further food sacrifices for the sake of the allies . One suggestion made here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wastage both in the American and British fighting forces . The food minister is expected to make a statement on the nation 's meat position in commons Wednesday . Newspapers seemed agreed any cuts in the ration likely would be applied to hotels and restaurants before households and factory canteens would be affected . Help from Eire Ready . There is some criticism that the government is not making full use of all sources of meat supply . Eire was reported ready to send Britain 100,000 head of pigs and cattle in the next 12 months  --  double last year 's exports  --  subject to satisfactory arrangements regarding prices . William Mabane , parliamentary secretary in the ministry of food , is expected to visit Belfast Friday to consult with the Northern Ireland government on increased live stock shipments . Meanwhile , British farmers said that , given increased allocations of animal fad , they could restore the pig population to pre-war figures and double the present output of pork within six months . Others pointed to untapped sources of meat on islands off the coast of Britain , which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a claim by fishermen that they can provide abundant fish for all if authorities would release the necessary boats and men . The News Chronicle attributed the meat cut to the fact that war in the Pacific , as well as in Europe , has imposed a heavy strain on allied food and shipping resources .                     