@@708786

txt In an effort " to clear the air " of rumors of Japanese peace feelers , Joseph C. Grew , Acting Secretary of State , today issued a statement saying the United States had received no peace feelers from anyone who could speak for the Japanese Government . He reaffirmed this Government 's determination to crush Japanese militarism on the basis of unconditional surrender . secretary Grew cited several instances of soundings from Japanese sources aimed at getting a modification of the United States ' terms , but warned that feelers of this type were " familiar weapons of psychological warfare " by a defeated enemy . " No thinking American , recalling Pearl Harbor , Wake , Manila and Japanese ruthless aggression elsewhere , will give them credence , " he said . With regard to this Government 's insistence upon unconditional surrender , Mr. Grew explained that , as President Truman pointed out in his message of June 1 , it did not mean the destruction or enslavement of the Japanese people . He warned that acceptance of a compromise peace would only mean the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that this was the reason for our unwavering policy . " The policy of this Government , " he declared , " has been , is and will continue to be unconditional surrender as defined by the President . That is the best comment I can make upon peace feelers and rumors of peace feelers , of whatever origin . " Mr. Grew came to the press room in the State Department and read his statement to the correspondents there . He said he had prepared it in reply to rumors of alleged peace offers from Japan , and hoped to clear the air by making a formal statement . " We have received no peace offer from the Japanese Government , " he said , " either through official or unofficial channels . Conversations relating to peace have been reported to the department from various parts of the world , but in no case has an approach been made to this Government , di-1 rectly or indirectly , by a person who could establish his authority to speak for the Japanese Government , and in no case has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis upon which the Japanese Government would be prepared to conclude peace . " Types of Feelers Described Describing the type ' of feelers that had been received , Mr. Grew said that on one occasion " leading Japanese industrialists " were reported to have wanted to know the best possible conditions the Allies would advance for a compromise ' peace . On another occasion , he said , the representative in Tokyo of a neutral Government reported that he had been told by a Japanese in private life that the Japanese could not accept unconditional , surrender because it would mean , Joss of face . On still another occasion , he added , a member of the staff of the Japanese mission to a neutral country had intimated to an Amer-. ican citizen through a German newspaper man that real American interests in the Far East should ' lead the United States to abandon ' unconditional surrender and pro'pose terms for a negotiated peace . Finally , an unidentified person ' approached an American mission in a neutral country , claiming that he had been authorized , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government of the neutral country with a view to persuading the Allies to drop unconditional surrender and to propose terms . Split Among Allies Is Goal " It should be borne in mind , " commented Mr. Grew , " that the Japanese , like the Germans before them , rely principally upon the hope that they may be able to divide the Allies and to produce division of opinion within the Allied countries . To that end it would be to their interest , as they see their interest , to initiate a public discussion of the terms to be applied to Japan . This they have already attempted to do on several occasions through Radio Tokyo . " Secretary Grew said that the position of the Department of State remained as he defined it in a speech he made on Navy Day , Oct. 27 , 1944 , when he warned that " we must not under any circumstances accept a compromise peace with Japan , no matter how alluring such a peace may be , " for if we should relax our present determination to render the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans and prepare again for a future Armageddon . Unconditional surrender , Mr. Grew declared , had been defined by President Truman when he said : " It means the end of the war . It means the termination of the influence of the military leaders who have brought Japan to the present brink of disaster . It means provision for the return of soldiers and sailors to their families , their farms , their jobs . " 