@@708311

txt The best defense is offense . Since the exponents of the Hungarian Government in the United States because of the existing war between the United States and Hungary are unable to defend the Horthy regime openly , they discharge this duty by a concentrated attack against Czechoslovakia , particularly against its President , Dr. Eduard Benes . An example of such attacks is a letter published by your paper , on Dec. 9 , in which Eugene Havas tries to prove that the article of President Benes published in THE NEW YORK TIMES Magazine concerning the future of Europe is in contradiction of the foreign policy which President Benes actually pursued . There is no factual evidence submitted by Mr. Havas that President Benes is trying to build his future foreign policy " once more " on the narrow objectives of the Little hntente , nor that he is trying to forgive the sins of the Czech or the Slovak quislings . In his speeches to the Czechoslovak people as well as to the Czechoslovak State Council in London , President Benes reiterated many times the determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nazi oppressors . Thus , for instance , in his speech to the Czechoslovak State Council on Feb. 4 , 1944 , he declared : " There will , however , be an uncompromising elimination or punishment of those who have offended and betrayed , and who must not belong to the future public life of the republic . This applies to Czechs as well as to Slovaks and to our Carpatho-Ruthenian citizens . " Confusion of Names Mr. Havas goes so far as to confuse the name of the present " Prime Minister " of the " Protectorate " with that of the former chief of the general staff of the Czechoslovak Army , General Krejci , who was never a collaborator and about whom there is no news available , but in all probability he is being held by the Gestapo . Nor is there any basis to the assertion that Dr. Benes is preoccupied with the thought that with the help of a Little Entente he can regain the territories adjudicated to Czechoslovakia by the Treaties of St. Germain and Trianon . It is evident that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity of pre-Munich Czechoslovakia is expressly guaranteed by three great powers , and partly because only a Hitler supporter could be of the opinion that after the victory of the United Nations any country could retain part of the loot gained by its adherence to the Hitlerite camp . I do n't know of any declaration made by Dr. Benes as Foreign Minister in which he would have declared the Habsburgs as a greater evil than Hitler . But I do know of the speech on May 26 , 1943 , at the Overseas Press Club in New York in which he pointed out in great detail how between 1933 and 1937 Hitler 's plenipotentiaries approached him to sign a secret " nonaggression pact " and how he pursued a determined policy to stave off the threatening Hitlerite danger , not only for the sake of Czechoslovakia but also for all Europe . ( See Czechoslovak Sources and Documents , No. 4 , August , 1943 , pp. 98-103 . ) Hodza 's " Symbolic Gesture " It is a gross mistake to state that it is because of his resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these plans , Prime Minister Milan Hodza , since Dr. Hodza resigned in a symbolic gesture in protest against the Munich pact . It is indeed an underestimation , of the intelligence of American public opinion for a representative of a regime in whose country the murderers of Minister Barthou were trained , to reprimand President Benes for the destruction of Barthou 's plans and for their own anti-French policy . The connection between the Hungarian regime and the Marseille murder was clearly proved during the Geneva discussion . There were , indeed , certain even though not basic differences between the Czechs and the Slovaks , but I would like to point out a news item in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Oct. 19 in which it is evident that the delegates of the Slovak National Council declared their loyalty to the Czechoslovak Government and expressed their steadfast determination to work and live for a united Czechoslovak Republic . To the assertion that Dr. Benes , with Russian and Anglo-American help , is trying to gain a dominant position for the Czech people in Europe , there is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe and the great powers of absolute lack of self-assertion and impotence . Referendum Refused for Reasons The main attack of Mr. Havas ' letter is naturally directed against the solution of the Hungarian minority problem . He is right in stating that the separation of the Slovak territories occurred without a referendum , but in the peace treaties there was no reference to it . In a covering letter by Mr. Millerand , which was handed to the Hungarian peace delegation on May 6 , 1920 , he gives detailed reasons why the Allied Powers refused the request for such a referendum . ( See : Francis Deak , " Hungary at the Paris Peace Conference , " New York , 1942 , p. 552 . ) Mr. Haves ' reference to Czechoslovak imperialism in regard to national minorities , which he connects with the treatment of minorities by the former Hungarian regime and which , on the other hand , he does not consider as such , must also be considered a factual mistake . ' However , to explain the difference between the two , I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first World War the 1,967,972 people who declared themselves Slovak nationals , according to the Hungarian official statistics of 1910 , published in the Hungarian Statistical Yearbook UF . Mar , Budapest , 1916 , p. 15 ( and according to the same statistics , altogether 2,777,000 people spoke the Slovak language ) , had only two representatives in the Budapest Parliament and in the upper house , while in Czechoslovakia the interest of the 745,431 Hungarians was guarded by fourteen members of the Parliament and nine Senators in the Prague Parliament and Senate ; and , contrary to the Hungarian rule , they could defend these rights in their own Hungarian language . Schools for Hungarians Further , I would like to point out that in former Hungary on the whole territory inhabited by Slovaks these people had not a single Slovak high school and not a single state-supported elementary school , while in Czechoslovakia the 745,431 Hungarians had at their disposal one teachers ' college , eleven gymnasiums ( secondary schools of the junior college type ) , twenty-two high schools , twenty-four trade schools , nine schools for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I might also point out that President Masaryk donated one million to the Bratislava Hungarian Academy of Sciences , and that during the celebration of the centennial of the famous Hungarian novelist Morris Jokai the Czechoslovak Prime Minister was a principal speaker at Komarno , while when the Slovak people tried to celebrate their famous ' poet Hviezdoslav the Hungarian gendarmes imprisoned the celebrators because some time before that occasion the Hungarian Government had closed the only cultural institution of the Slovaks , the Slovenska Matica . IGNAC SCHULTZ . New York , Dec. 29 , 1944 . The writer of the foregoing letter is a member of the Czechoslovak Parliament representing the Czechoslovak Hungarian minority . Nurses Not Wholly to Blame Many Said to Be Seeking Duty With the Services Despite Delays To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Army and Navy did issue imperative calls for more nurses , 12,000 of them ; 2,000 from New York City , as the seven earnest ladies stated in their recent letter to THE TIMES . Many of these nurses are right here and waiting . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been rejected because of minor details , in spite of the fact that we have had good health records and can produce good recommendations . Some nurses have been waiting weeks for their final papers and assignments . If nurses are needed so badly , why does it take two to three months to enter the services ? Yes , a lot of us are doing private duty rather than general work , as we do have to earn a decent living , without having to work the long hours at much less pay . True , a lot of patients do not need special nurses , but most of those who do are people of means , who are the most selfish people . They resent having their private nurses helping out overworked floor nurses in emergencies . How about asking the nurse who is doing the actual work why she is not in the service , instead of dealing with committees and boards , which can only quote figures ? Certainly , many of the drafted soldiers have more wrong with them than some of us . If they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The desperate need for nurses to care for our boys in local military hospitals might be relieved and Army and Navy nurses enabled to go overseas if these hospitals would engage special duty nurses on somewhat the same basis as the civilian hospitals are now doing  --  setting up a service registry for this purpose . Many nurses who , due to home conditions , can not leave for long periods or are over-age for overseas duty are now giving many hours of valuable service in civilian hospitals . Hundreds of them , I am sure , would prefer caring for our boys in a group-nursing arrangement if military regulations would permit , and no doubt give many more days of their time in an effort to do their share . HELEN NIXON , R. N. New York , Dec. 27 , 1944 . Red Stamps for Blood Donors TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : TI1E TIMES of Dec. 27 carried an interesting article embodying dietary suggestions for rapid blood replenishment following donations . The procurement of protein foods , however , is not always simple , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customers by certain dealers in foodstuffs . May I suggest that blood banks be empowered to present donors with a twenty-point red stamp marked " Priority  --  Blood Donor . " This should provide at least a two-day haemoglobin pick-up , based on the seventy-fivegram per day estimate . This is not to be construed as a reward or an inducement for giving blood  --  which is a privilege  --  but purely as a reconstructive measure that will more quickly put donors in shape to give repeatedly .                     