@@706841

txt Prayers " for a victory and for a peace acceptable to God " were urged tonight by the Catholic Archbishops and Bishops of the United States in a " statement on victory and peace " which called for united support of the war effort and for a just and Christian peace . The document was approved by the Archbishops and Bishops at their annual general meeting here on Wednesday and Thursday , at which 102 members of the Amerit I can hierarchy were present . It was made public by the members of the administrative board of the National Catholic Welfare Conference and bore the signatures of ten Archbishops and Bishops . It asked that Tuesday , Dec. 8 , " the Feast of the Immaculate Conception of our Blessed Mother , thel Patroness of wir country , be set aside as a special day of prayerful supplication . " The Bishops expressed concern over the employment of " an unprecedented number of women in industry " because of the serious child care problems this might raise , and said that " every effort must be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment of mothers in industry , particularly young mothers . " " The health and moral welfare of mothers employed in industry , " it emphasized , " should be thoroughly safeguarded . " The statement also expressed concern over the drafting of ' teenage youths , and voiced the " hope that special moral safeguards will shield them . " It urged that " the rights of our minorities " should be respected , " particularly for our colored fellow-citizens . " " They should enjoy the full measure of economic opportunities and advantages which will enable them to realize their hope and ambition to join with us in preserving and expanding in changed and changing social conditions our national heritage . " The " satanic technique " with which peoples in oppressed and occupied countries were suffering religious and political persecution was denounced . " We feel a deep sense of revulsion against the cruel indignities heaped upon the Jews in conquered countries and upon defenseless people not of our faith . " We raise our voice in protest against despotic tyrants who have lost all sense of humanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries as acts of reprisal , by placing other thousands of innocent victims in concentration camps and by permitting unnumbered persons to die of starvation . " Compromise Impossible " The statement called for strong prosecution of the war and support of President Roosevelt in that effort , and made several suggestions on the peace to be made afterward in line with declarations previously made by Pope Pius XII . The war , it said , " involved unquestionably the most important moral issue of today  --  a deadly conflict directed to the issue of whether the world is to be free or slave  --  and one which makes compromise impossible . " It recalled the pledge of President Roosevelt that the United States has no designs of permanent conquest or sordid interest . " Priests and people have earnestly prayed that the Holy Spirit may guide our President and all who share with him the heavy responsibilities of directing the war efforts and of winning the victory from which all peoples will derive a just and lasting peace . " " Our people " were asked " to be united @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for a just and enduring peace through the victory of our armed forces . " In taking up the questions of peace , the statement declared that " secularism can not write a real and lasting peace ; that exploitation can not , nor totalitarianism , whether Nazi , Communist or Fascist , " but that " the spirit of Christianity can write a real and lasting peace in justice and charity to all nations , even to those not Christian . " In the post-war world , the Bishops maintained , " the profit element of industry and commerce must be made subservient to the common good of communities and nations if we are to have a lasting peace with justice and a sense of true brotherhood for all our neighbors . " They expressed gratification over " recent events which give a sincere promise of a better understanding by our country of the peoples of Mexico , Central and South America . " Recalling that Latin America was Catholic and joining in " cordial greetings to our brother Bishops of Latin America , " the statement expressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive to the dignity of our southern brothers , their culture and their religion , will not continue . "                     