@@707239

txt The Board of Education , bending to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia 's will , voted last night , 4 to 2 , to rid itself of its law secretary , Theodore Fred Kuper . The board stopped short of a complete capitulation by continuing Mr. Kuper , against whom none of its members voiced any criticism . on the payroll until Sept. 30 and abolishing the $7,500 position as of that date . The Mayor had wanted Mr. Kuper dropped at once . The vote , which caused James Marshall , one of those who voted against eliminating Mr. Kuper , to exclaim he was " not proud to be sitting here at this moment , " came after an extraordinary five and a half hour closed session at which the members were unable to reach an agreement . The decision to defer the severance until Sept. 30 was viewed as a minor compromise , but the failure to reach any further accord led to some fairly strong language at . the open meeting that followed . Only Mr. Marshall and Joseph D. Fackenthal , acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had been heralded widely as a test of the board 's independence . Mr. Marshall said he had been authorized by Ellsworth E. Buck , the board president , who is on leave recuperating from an operation , to say that Mr. Buck regarded the proposal to dismiss Mr. Kuper as " outrageous " and a " shameful thing . " Those who voted to eliminate Mr .. Kuper and his position were Miss Mary E. Dillon , George H. Chatfield , Alberto Bonaschi and Daniel H. Higgins . The elimination of the post , it was understood , bars the way to any lawsuit for Mr. Kuper 's reinstatement . That the board 's action will figure in the case that the City Council majority is seeking to build against the La Guardia administration was made patent even before the meeting began . Earlier in the day the Council investigating committee questioned Miss Dillon , Mr. Fackenthal , Mr. Chatfield and Thomas J. Patterson , the city Budget Director , about the Kuper case and three other Board of Education budget cases . The questioning , in private , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and committee chairman , and Councilman Louis Cohen , Bronx Democrat and committee vice chairman . " We questioned them for the purpose of determining whether there is a department of education in the City of New York or whether the Mayor is the Department of Education , " was the only comment Mr. Hart would make . The witnesses did not comment on the questioning . The Board of Education members went into executive session at 2 P. M. , at their headquarters , 110 Livingston Street , Brooklyn , to prepare for the open meeting which was scheduled for 4 o'clock . While representatives of teacher groups and taxpayer organizations who were opposed to the dismissal of Mr. Kuper waited in the board room downstairs , the educational heads failed to solve their problem upstairs . At 5:15 P. M. coffee and sandwiches were sent to the board members . It was 7:30 when they came down and the meeting began . In the next seventy-five minutes the board went through a calendar of 130 items , including added starters , with the Kuper item , however , taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a voting line-up identical with that in the Kuper case , killed a proposal by Mr. Marshall to grant five days ' vacation pay this Summer to all substitute teachers who had served 160 or more school days during the 1942-43 school year . Backs Mayor on Budget Miss Dillon met the issue of the Mayor 's wishes in the Kuper case squarely , in opening discussion of the major item on the calendar . " I believe the Mayor of the city of New York has a proper interest in the budget of the Board of Education , " she said . " There is only one issue before us . Shall the board sustain the action of the Mayor and the Board of Estimate . " Miss Dillon pointed out that the Board of Estimate had backed the Mayor in deleting Mr. Kuper 's salary line ? from the budget . Mr. Marshall and Mr. Fackenthal made the point , however , that after the Board of Estimate had set the total figure for the educational budget , it was the right and duty of the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best results in education . Mr. Marshall and Mr. Fackenthal said they felt that Mr. super 's work was essential to the most effective functioning of the educational system . Dr. John E. Wade , Superintendent of Schools , who sits with the board but has no vote , said he believed the abolition of the post would " hamper the work of this board , " and disclosed that during the long executive session he had " not heard a single statement that this position is unnecessary . " Spokesmen for teacher groups made brief but impassioned pleas for Mr. Kuper 's retention and for the board 's retention of its independence from what Dr. Abraham Lefkowitz , vice chairman of the Joint Committee of Teachers Organizations , called " political control . " Three minutes each were allowed Dr. Lefkowitz and Dr. Bella V. Dodd , legislative representative of the Teachers Union , and one minute was granted Charles Hendley , Teachers Union president , to present his case . Fascist Pressure Seen Dr. Dodd . who charged that " politics is behind this , " declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I might even say fascist elements  --  want to see Mr. Kuper out . " She said it could not be denied that there was antiSemitism and other evidence of fascist action in some of the schools . However , it was Mr. Marshall , whose words were less sensational than those of the teacher spokesmen , who raked with the deepest irony those of his colleagues who were about to vote out Mr. Kuper after an eleven-year career with the board , the last seven years as law secretary . " A few weeks ago , " Mr. Marshall said , " this board voted to promote to a school paying higher compensation a member of our custodial staff found guilty by this board of misappropriating property of the Board of Education . At about the same timethis board voted not to disqualify a contractor who had testified under oath that he had made a gift to a member of our custodial staff whose duty it was to report any failure on the part of the contractor to do his work properly . " " Now , we are asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peremptorily from our service Theodore Fred 1 who has loyally served this board for more than eleven years , " 1 Mr .. Marshall added . Listing many services , he said , the law secretary had performed , Mr. Marshall then tackled the political motive that has been attributed to the Mayor 's desire for the law secretary 's head . Mr. Marshall argued that the political picture was not as it had been represented and that " if the Mayor were to realize fully the facts of the case he would not favor the dismissal of Mr. Kuper . " Declaring that it was " difficult to believe that the grounds attributed to the Mayor for desiring to see the dismissal of Mr. Kuper would warrant his dismissal , " Mr. Marshall recounted the political case thus : " It is said that the Mayor deems improper alleged activities on the part of Mr. Kuper in bringing about the defeat of the so-called Supply Bill before the State Legislature last winter . But the bill never came before the Legislature for action because the City Council refused to adopt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if Mr. Kuper had acted to oppose the bill in Albany , it would have been in direct accord with the opinion of this board , which for two consecutive years opposed such legislation . " Mr. Marshall said that unless the board believed that Mr. Kuper had violated his official duties it was under no obligation to the Mayor to dismiss him but was , on the contrary , under a duty not to dismiss him . 