@@712342

txt The easiest way to appreciate what might have happened had the three-cornered BritishCanadian-American monetary talks of last week failed is to note what has happened since they succeeded . No sooner had American confidence in Britain , and British confidence in America , been restored in those talks ? as it was  --  than it became possible for Foreign Minister Bevin and Secretary of State Acheson to sit down together and have a friendly chat about China policy . They did not decide China policy . But because they already had been able to achieve a meeting of minds on the doctrine that there can not be a British crisis which is not also an American crisis , it became possible for them to explore the possibilities of reintegrating policies toward China which of recent months had been moving farther and farther apart . A A And from China the men meeting in Washington have since turned their attention to Indo-China and India , the Middle East . Yugoslavia . and Germany . Most important of all , they are able to see their way now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of atomic energy information . Britain , Canada . and the United States do still exchange some atomic energy information , but the flow is extremely restricted and it does not satisfy the British and Canadians . They take the position that there can not be a true partnership in world polic3 ? if the United States is going to continue to act as though it doe possess a monopoly on atomic bombs and atomic knowledge . What Americans should know , and must realize if they do n't know it , is that the British and Canadians possess their own atomic energy program , are well advanced with it , and can make atomic bombs of their own without any help from the United States . ? A The only " secrets " which the United States now holds exclusively are those secrets connected with the improvements in technique between the " Hiroshima " and " Bikini " bombs . The British are capable of producing a " Hiroshima " - type bomb now . They have all the technical information and engineering " know-how " necessary because their physical scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first bomb , and their atomic engineers participated in the original building and operating of the Los Alamos plant . This was their right since the very concept of atomic energy was a " combined operation " to which the British not only made a major contribution , but actually ' were the first to achieve the conviction that atomic energy could be developed as a major military weapon . They did not " Steal " those early " secrets . " They participated in the findings from the first . step through to the end result . The only thing they do n't have is the most recent engineering technique evolved in the American industry . Further , the main source of uranium for the American industry is Canada . not under American control , and the Belgium Congo where Britain and Canada have equal rights with America to its supplies . This being the case , they have raised the question : Does the United States wish to cooperate with them , or does the United States prefer to pursue its separate and exclusive path ? That question was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just at the time.Senator Hickenlooper was in the midst of his attempt to discredit the United States Atomic Energy Commission . It produced the Blair House meeting of July , and so many headline fireworks , that the subject was temporarily tabled . That subject now will be discussed in Washington as the last stage of the general survey of world problems of common interest to Britain , Canada , and the United States . Previous efforts to t et on with this business foundered on the popular American notion that America does possess an atomic energy monopoly .                     