@@705441

txt MAYOR TO APPOINT FACT-FINDING BODY IF BUS PLEA FAILS He Asks Union to Let Drivers Return to Work  --  Companies Accept Arbitration Plan MURRAY TO SEE HIM TODAY Dispute Is No Longer Simple Labor Row , La Guardia Says ? Public Interest Is Cited Mayor La Guardia , warning that the bus strike in Manhattan was no longer a simple labor dispute , told leaders of the Transport Workers Union and officials of the New York Omnibus Corporation and the Fifth Avenue Coach Company yesterday that unless they arbitrated their differences he would appoint a factfinding board to report publicly on the issues . In a statement to both sides in the Boaid of Estimate room at City Hall , the Mayor recalled that efforts to mediate the nine-day-old strike had failed , and expressed the conviction that the differences could be settled by an arbitrator chosen either by the two sides or by himself , with their approval , and that the men should meanwhile resume driving the buses . He submitted , " this time publicly , " what he called " a basis for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikers and the operators , whom he had summoned to City Hall . Visit Murray at Hotel Michael J. Quill , international president of the Transport Workers Union , a C. I. 0 . affiliate , and other union officials conferred for a few minutes and then left City Hall to see Philip Murray , national president of the C. I. 0. , at the Hotel Roosevelt . After an hour 's conference Mr. Murray announced it had been agreeed that he should meet with the Mayor this morning and that an appointment bad been made . He declined to say whether the union officials had agreed to the Mayor 's proposal . Meanwhile Mayor La Guardia had left City Hall to go to Washington . He said he would not announce the attitude of the operators until he had beard from the strikers . But there was little doubt that the bus company officials had accepted the Mayor 's proposal , as they have kept open their offer to mediate or arbitrate , and details of the Mayor 's basis for settlement are much the same as those of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both companies , whose 1,300 buses are tied up by the strike . That the Mayor had some hope that his proposal for arbitration and the return of the striking drivers would be promptly accepted was indicated by the fact that he had the city 's radio station , WNYC , I bring equipment to City Hall in readiness for a broadcast . In the past the Mayor has broadcast the news of settlement of important I labor disputes . Statement by Companies Shortly after 8 o'clock last night the acceptance by the companies of the Mayor 's proposal was announced at City Hall . The Mayor had just had time to reach Washington and get a report on the union leaders ' meeting with Mr. Murray . It was learned the answer of the bus officials had been typed and left at City Hall when they departed . The statement , signed by Mr. Ritchie , John E. McCarthy , president of both companies , and Boykin C. Wright , counsel , said : " We have given careful consideration to the proposal made today by the Mayor to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union and the two bus companies . We recognize that the Mayor of the City of New York is entitled to speak on behalf of the interest and welfare of the public of the city . We desire to announce we are willing to accept the proposal made by the Mayor . " Declaring in his statement to both sides in the Board of Estimate room that " I have asked both sides to come here today because this issue has now transcended a simple labor dispute between employers and employes , " the Mayor referred to the efforts to mediate made by Arthur S. Meyer , chairman of the State Board of Mediation , whom he had called from Florida , and subsequently by Mrs. Anna Rosenberg , regional director a social security . He made no mention , however , of the announcement Monday night by Police Commissioner Valentine that he was ready to provide adequate police protection , even to putting a patrolman on each bus , if the companies decided to operate the buses during the strike . Proposal Is Written He said he had reduced his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposal , as follows : " Once again I am submitting , this time publicly , a basis for a speedy settlement through the medium of arbitration . I have clarified the issues according to my understanding obtained through the many hours of conference from the parties directly involved and from the mediators . " In so far as the situation concerning the New York Omnibus Company is involved , the employes should return to work and the union demands submitted to arbitration . There are two questions involving working conditions that I am certain from what I have learned can be settled between the parties directly . " These tvo involve a formula which would provide sufficient men to man buses on holidays under the same terms of time-and-onehalf for work on holidays . The I other involves a formula on sick pay as to the exact date sick pay becomes effective . " From my talk with the representatives of the union , this question can easily be settled . Therefore , I repeat , it leaves , aside from these two questions , the union demands to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coach Company , there the situation is somewhat more involved . Even then , I can think of nothing that can not be settled through the medium of a fair and impartial arbitration . Chief Stumbling Block " The chief stumbling block , as I see it , seems to be the two-men crew on double-deckers . This question involves something more thanl the more satisfactory arrangement between the two parties . It concerns the public and the public safety and comfort . " As Mayor , I would eliminate this question from arbitration with the understanding that existing conditions be maintained for at least one year . That in that time studies may be made , first for the absorption of part of the men in other suitable work , and secondly , which concerns the city , is the submission to the city of plans for the equipment and arrangements during the night and early morning hours when one-man operation would be effective . Therefore , this question for a year at least is entirely eliminated . " Again , as I see it , there is little difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I again suggest either a settlement of this matter , or the submission of questions - Other than the two-man crew to arbitration , it being understood , of course , that the men return to work . It is also to be understood that any new conditions or terms as a result of arbitration would be effective as of the day the men return to work . " I believe the two parties can agree on an arbitrator . Failing to do that , the Mayor is ready to designate one acceptable to both sides . " In the event that these conditions are not accepted by one or the other party , or by both , the Mayor will appoint a fact-finding board of three members in whom this city will have complete confidence to ascertain the following : " 1 . Is- there any issue that is not arbitrable ? " 2 . Existing issues between the two parties to be defined by this board for submission to arbitration . 3 . Elimination of all issues that have been clarified and agreed upon between the two parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested arbitration to settle all disputes . Failing to accept that , a fact-finding body to make public the issues for direct settlement or for settlement by arbitration . " Board Would Act at Once The Mayor 's proposal seemed definitely to put off for several days any attempt by the companies to operate buses during the strike , which Mr. Quill and other union officials have warned would result in trouble in a strike that thus far has been peaceful . At the close of his statement the Mayor indicated he would be ready to appoint the fact-finding board as soon as his proposal was rejected by either side and that the board would go to work at once . The union leaders who accompanied Mr. Quill to City Hall and to the conference with Mr. Murray were Austin Hogan , New York president ; John Santo , international secretary-treasurer ; Matthias Kearns , bus division organizer ; Saul Mills , C. I. 0 . New York secretary ; Harry Sacher , counsel , and Allan S. Haywood , national C. I. 0 . organizer . Mr. Murray , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had an appointment to meet the Mayor at 9:30 o'clock this morning . Later it was announced at City Hall that the appointment had been set ahead to 9 o'clock . The special committee on industrial problems and relations of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York commended the Mayor in a statement yeesterday for his repeated efforts to settle the strike and asserted that " there seems no justification for not submitting the matters at issue to peaceful arbitration , as recommended by the Mayor . " The statement said that the strike has inconvenienced not only the 900,000 riders who use the buses daily but also millions more who use the subways , which are now seriously overcrowded . Mrs. Rosenberg sat with the May- , or when he read his proposal to both sides . Just before the Mayor left City Hall to take a. train to Washington he conferred with David Sarnoff , president of the Radio Corporation of America . Union officials said Mr. Sarnoff 's name had not been mentioned to them as arbitrator . Following a meeting last night at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint executive committee of all branches of the union , including the city transit employes who are members , it was announced by Mr. Quill that the committee had received " a report on recommendations on the strike and had unanimously approved the same . "                     