@@709061

txt Many voters yesterday , choosing among candidates whose names were often unknown to them , must have asked themselves if there is not some better method of selecting judges than the method which now prevails . Under the present elective system judicial candidates are in effect chosen by the leaders of the respective political parties , and their election is overshadowed by other issues and other candidates . The potential evils in such a system are well recognized . Is there any cure ? We think that there is one , originating from the best possible source , the members of the bar . A membership corporation has been organized by a number of the leaders of the bar under the name of the Citizens ' Committee on the Courts , Inc . One of its corporate purposes is specifically " to study ways and means of establishing a system for the selection of the judiciary in the State of New York free from political influence and to assure the adoption of such a system , if necessary , by an amendment of the Constitution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to do away with political control in the selection of judges and thus eradicate so far as reasonably possible any obligation of the judge to any individual . " Character and fitness must be the sole test of the qualifications of the judge . " The proposed plan combines the advantages of a responsible executive appointment and at the same time ultimate control in the people . The Governor is required to fill vacancies by appointment by and with the consent of the Senate . The Senate may not give its consent until the nomination has been on file for twenty days during a session of the Senate in order to afford an oppdrtunity to the public , the press and interested parties to inquire into the fitness of the candidate and present their views . Should the Governor make an interim appointment when the Senate is not in session , the appointment terminates at the end of the next session of the Senate unless such appointment is confirmed by the Senate at such session , after it has been on file for twenty days . A person so appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one year from the date of confirmation by the Senate . If the appointee gives the necessary notice of his willingness to stand for election , the only question submitted to the people at the polls is ? " Shall Judge Blank be retained in office ? " No nomination can be made of any opposition candidate . If a majority of the votes cast on the question are in favor of a nominee , he is elected for the full term of fourteen years as now provided for in the Constitution of the State . At the expiration of each term the judge may similarly seek retention in office by having his name submitted to the people without appointment by the Governor and without any nomination by a political party . The plan is not intended to apply to the Court of Appeals , or to judges holding office at the time the amendment takes effect for the balance of their respective terms . The proposal is designed to be optional in each judicial district so that the people in each part of the State may determine for themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which they desire to adopt it . The sound theory on which the plan is based is that the Governor , who is himself elected by the people , the Senate , which is elected by the people every two years , and the people themselves are obviously much better equipped to decide who is a fit person for the bench than are the leaders of the political parties . The problem of improving the method of the selection of judges should receive the interested and active support of every citizen . Lawyers alone can not achieve the objective . We urge all voters , while the matter is fresh in their minds as a result of the election this year , to do what they can to achieve this desirable reform .                     