@@709045

txt Letters to The Times JOSEPH T. DUNKIN , HUNTER GUTHRIE , TIBOR KEREKES , JOSEF SOLTERER , CHARLES C. T ... Letters to The Times Survey of Training Advised Group of Educators Would Have More Light on President 's Proposal To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : President Truman 's decisive step in placing before Congress a recommendation for universal compulsory military training is one which demands the most serious consideration of every American . The President is to be congratulated for his straightforward statement of the only reason for which compulsory military training might conceivably be introduced  --  the national security of the United States . The defense policy of the country is intimately connected with its foreign policy . Hence , the President must believe that for the foreseeable future this country is in danger from without . He must believe that this danger is so great as to warrant a departure not merely from an American convention but from an American ideal . For America has been , during the entire period of its national existence , a sanctuary for those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of conscription , are a direct menace to the ideal of the free citizen and the free state . Frank Statement Sought Our foreign policy is committed to the support of the United Nations Organization , which embraces virtually the entire world with the exception of our late enemies in the field . The United Nations Organization includes arrangements for military sanctions against possible aggressors and breakers of the peace . It is difficult to see any emergent threat from any of our Axis foes . It must follow , therefore , that the defense policy chosen by the President envisages the possibility of action against one or more of our Allies in the war which has just ended . This may be an altogether reasonable policy . We submit that it would be more welcome to the American people and more whole-heartedly accepted by them if this issue were placed frankly before them . But there are serious shortcomings in the policy itself . The President emphasized that compulsory training would be mainly training in the handling of weapons and not mere drill , as though that were a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be handled ? What skill in the handling of weapons so technical as those of the present moment is likely to be of more than transitory utility ? We have no assurance whatever that the weapons of ten or even of five years from now will be anything like the weapons whose use the young man of the present would be called on to learn . Again , the indiscriminate and unselective system of commencing the period of training at the age of 18 or at the end of high school will cause serious damage to the orderly completion of higher education and professional studies , a sacrifice which the country can ill afford . Time Limit Discounted There can be no reason why , if compulsory training is necessary , it can not be undergone at any time , say , between the ages of 18 and 24 . There has been too much waste already , during the war and in the interval since the victories over Germany and Japan , of the brains and characters of young men taken from college and graduate school to invite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dissipation of talent . As an example of this conspicuous waste , under present selective service regulations  --  and the President 's proposal would virtually continue these ? a student who has begun high school before his eighteenth birthday may have his induction deferred if he keeps his academic standing until his graduation or until he reaches his twentieth birthday , whichever comes earlier . A college student , however , under the same conditions may have his induction deferred only until the end of the semester or quarter in which he reaches his eighteenth birthday . There seems to be something sacrosanct about the nineteenth or even the twentieth year of the student whose progress in school has been so slow that his twentieth birthday finds him still in high school , whereas a college man is penalized for his more rapid advance in his studies by having them interrupted for the period of his military service . Full Survey Advised All these considerations suggest that Congress would be most ill-advised to act on any of the present proposals for compulsory training legislation , including the President 's , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the implications of our foreign policy and of the most efficient and equitable methods for organizing such service . Your military expert , Mr. Hanson Baldwin , and other competent students of military affairs have ' called for suoh a survey to be made by civilian leaders in education , business , industry and public life , with the aid of military and naval advisers . This should be our first step , and it should be taken immediately . It would avoid the great danger of the adoption of an ill-considered policy from which there could be hardly any retreat . The university with which we have the honor to be associated has always cooperated actively with the Government in measures for national defense . Our wartime record of over six thousand alumni in all branches of the service and of over 150 dead in the service of our country demonstrates the high tradition of patriotism and devotion to duty which Georgetown has inculcated during the 156 years of its history . These facts make it all the more important for us solemnly to call upon all those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also great , in the truest sense , urging them to forestall all hasty improvisations and to seek for the highest wisdom in a matter so vital as that of our national defense . JOSEPH T. DUNICIN , HUNTER GUTHRIE , TIBOR KEREKES , JOSEF SOLTERER , CHARLES C. TANSILL , GERARD F. YATES . Washington , Oct. 26 , 1945 . The signers of the foregoing letter are members of the faculty of the Graduate School , Georgetown University . Commuters Also Interested Thousands Who Work but Can not Live Here Seek Good Government To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : One of our Mayoralty candidates refers to contributions made to the campaign fund of another candidate by some " out-of-towners . " His remarks bring to mind a situation confronting many " out-of-towners " who are such merely because of the accident of residence outside the city limits and who , for that reason , are deprived of a voice in its affairs despite their intimate concern with those affairs . There must be many thousands of commuters whose interests in New York are personal and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those of us whose homes are in the town , they also need and should have decent city government . It is provincialism of the worst sort which sets them up as a class apart and denies to them the right to be heard in the choosing of that government . Some commuters were , of course , born in the city . Conceivably , many of these and others , too , never really establish roots in the adjacent communities in which they sleep and pay some of their taxes . The residence elsewhere of persons whose business activity lies in New York is , in the long run , necessary and helpful to the city , which could certainly not house everyone who works here . I have a , hazy recollection that in some other of the world 's large cities a nonresident actively employed or in business in the city does have a right to be heard in the determination of its affairs . It would be interesting to know how it is done elsewhere and how it could be done here also . SAUL PULVER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Nathan 's Service To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TAM 'S : May I urge upon the voters of Manhattan that , no matter which of the three candidates for the Mayoralty may be their choice , none should fail to support the re-election of Edgar J. Nathan as President of the Borough . There is no question of politics here , but solely that of retaining the services of a faithful and highly useful public servant who has abundantly proved his worth throughout an official career singularly free from politics of any sort . Having , some thirty-six years ago , myself filled the office Mr. Nathan now holds , I have , not unnaturally , closely followed the course of those others who have held it since . While there have been numerous individual instances of fine service throughout these many years , I should say without qualification that none of those serving has rounded out a finer record than has Mr. Nathan  --  that none has surpassed him in wise , able and devoted attention to the needs of the people of Manhattan . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his accomplishments , not only in the administration of his immediate office , but as a weighty member of the city 's business directorate , the all-important Board of Estimate . To him disinterested public service has become second nature . The Borough should not fail to retain the benefit of his altogether exceptional GEORGE MCANEN Y. equipment . New York , Nov. 1 , 1945 . Amendment 6 Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : Your editorial on Amendment 6 is commendable . Today an American Legion member , who was supporting Number 6 , read it in its entirety for the first time and discovered it actually provided that any disabled veteran , however unequipped for a job , would get preference in civil service because of his or her disability . Most people that I have talked to were going to vote " Yes " on Amendment 6 because they thought it would aid the veteran , , until I pointed out the actual content and wording and they realized that it would eventually do the veteran more harm than good . FRIEDA DOLLEN . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  