@@706170

txt Important Notice From the Directors The Christian Science Board of Directors of The Mother Church , The First Church of Christ , Scientist , in Boston , Massachusetts , announces the opening of The Mother Church Wartime Fund , for which the Treasurer will receive contributions . This fund will be used , as may be determined by this Board in the exercise of its discretion , for the following purposes : 1 . To maintain The Mother Church War Relief Fund until it shall be discontinued or superseded by The Mother Church Wartime Fund . 2 . To maintain The Mother Church Camp Welfare Fund until it shall be discontinued or superseded by The Mother Church Wartime Fund . 3 . To contribute to the relief of persons in the United States or its possessions who are in need of food , clothing , or other sustenance as the result of war . The Mother Church War Relief Fund was announced in the Christian Science Sentinel for June 22 , 1940 , as a fund for which the Treasurer would " receive contributions from within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relieve human suffering ' in some of the countries " then at war . The Mother Church Camp Welfare Fund was announced in the Christian Science Sentinel for May 3 , 1941 , to be used for " promoting the spiritual welfare of Christian Scientists and others who are serving in the army , navy , and air forces of the United States under the present emergency defense plan . " The United States was not at war when the funds just mentioned were opened , but the fact that this country is now at war furnishes reasons for opening The Mother Church Wartime Fund . If and when this fund shall be discontinued or superseded by another , any money or property in The Mother Church Wartime Fund at that time shall be transferred ( unless legislation or regulations in effect at that time operate to prevent such transfer ) to The Mother Church Relief Fund , which is expended in accordance with the original announcement of that fund in The Christian Science Monitor of Oct. 11 , 1923 , and repeated in the Christian Science Sentinel of Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any emergency or necessity which may from time to time arise . " Contributions should be sent to ROY GARRETT WATSON , Treasurer , 107 Falmouth Street , Boston , Massachusetts . THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Attention is called to the fact that The Mother Church Wartime Fund is to supersede The Mother Church War Relief Fund and The Christian Science Camp Welfare Fund of she Mother Church . Further , the name of The Christian Science War Relief Committee is now changed to The Christian Science Wartime Committee . Unless specific preferences are expressed by the donors , all contributions received hereafter which are designated for war relief will be placed in The Mother Church Wartime Fund , whose balance will be available for  --  camp welfare work and for relief of suffering caused by the war . Branches of The Mother Church in the United States are advised to follow the example of The Mother Church as outlined in the foregoing announcement as regards their local wartime activities . Contributions which have been received for the War Relief Funds should be used and reported as heretofore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions hereafter received locally should be placed in a local Wartime Fund.                     