@@704566

txt F. Lynden Smith knew more about the secret political manipulations and the financial status of Gov . Horner 's Democratic state machine than any other man . As collector and , until recently , custodian of a campaign war chest that at times ran into hundreds of thousands of dollars , his mind was a handy and authoritative compendium on such vital political information as : 1 . Who contributed to the machine campaigns in the past and could be depended upon to do so again ? 2 . How much did road contractors and firms which supply the state institutions contribute ? S. How much was levied on and collected from state employes ? 4 . How was this money used ? Too Close to the Facts . It was this wealth of private information which tripped Smith , removed him as No. 1 political adviser to the governor , and finally banished him to Florida . He was too close to the facts , and every intimate of Horner knew this . This fact , coupled with Smith 's temerity in telling the 110v ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sent him to exile ? an exile that ended with his secret return to Springfield last week and his mysterious deatlf yesterday . Smith 's bitterest enemy was Sam-1 uel L. Nudelman , director of finance and now the governor 's right hand man . Smith and Nudelman are said to have quarreled first over the campaign funds collected by the Iroquois league from pay rollers and other sources in the 1938 primary campaign and election . The exact ' total thus gathered for the nomination for senator of Scott W. Lucas and for the nominations of other members of the Horner slate never has been revealed , but It was said to have been enormous . This battle between the two most powerful directors in the Horner cab ! ? net  --  Nudelman of finance and Smith of public works  --  continued after the 1938 election , when the governor , broken in health , had been taken to Florida . Exile Climaxes Coolness . Horner returned five months later and soon evinced an untoward coolness for Smith . This unfriendly feeling grew as the months rolled along . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 60 day leave of absence which amounted to a two month exile that Smith decided to take In Florida . A number of reasons for the Nudelman-Smith feud have been reported . Some Hornerites say it was not alone their dispute over the campaign money but was due also to Nudelman 's charge that Smith , during Gov . Homer 's absence from the state , was " too close " to Lieut . Gov . John Stelle . Stelle is attempting to break the Kelly-Horner-Nash primary slate and defeat Harry B. Hershey for the nomination for governor . The factional war may have had its roots.in the 1936 primary fight when the governor found himself deserted for renomination by the Chicago machine . At that time Smith was a comparatively inconspicuous member of the " little cabinet . " holding the post of business manager in the highway department . Obscurity Vanishes Quickly . But his obscurity soon vanished be . cause , as the story goes , he was one of the first to go to the governor , after Horner had been denied the Cook county indorsement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renomination . Before long Smith was installed as downstate campaign manager for Horner . in charge of fund raising , county organization , and the thousand and one details incumbent on such a post . It was Smith who put the Iroquois league in operation and started 2 per cent monthly salary assessments on state employes . He also the foundation for other contributfons . While Smith was taking the leading rdle in this difficult but successful campaign . Nudelman was serving as assistant director of finance , outside the circle of the spotlight . Seeks to Heal Wounds . After the primary . in which Stelle was nominated for lieutenant governor against John E. Cassidy , Horner 's choice . Smith made an effort to bring Homer and Steele into a political rapport . He arranged it so they would see a good deal of each other during the election campaign and otherwise tried to assuage feelings injured in the primary . After the 1936 election Smith and Nudelman both were elevated to full cabinet status and appeared to work together ? on the surface . But whatever jealousies might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1938 primary , when Horner 's intimates were again in the position of proving how deep was their loyalty to the governor . In the Lucas-Igoe senatorial fight Smith once more headed the downstate organization , and ran the financial end of the campaign much as he did before , except it ' Is reported he made even more eloquent pleas for funds than in 1936 . At least , it was reported he collected more . Acclaimed for Campaign . Again the Horner organization triumphed over the Chicago machine , and the governor , Smith , Charles K. Schwartz , tax commissioner ; James M. Slattery , the present United States senator , and a few others . went to White Sulphur Springs , W. Va. , to celebrate and recuperate . But Nudelman was not with them . Smith , however , was congratulated time and again for his efforts in the campaign . In the 1938 fall election the Horner group tried hard to retain downstate Illinois in the Democratic fold , so that Lucas , a downstate candidate , could come to the Cook county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken pride In having been renominated by downstate votes in 1936 , and did n't want to lose that prestige . But not even the large chest gathered from employes by the Iroquois league , Smith 's financial success in other quarters , nor the governor 's eloquence , could hold downstate as Democratic territory , and it went to Richard J. Lyons , Lucas ' Republican opponent . Horner Collapses After Election . Horner may have anticipated this defeat , because he worked like a trojan in the campaign ? as hard as if he had been a candidate himself . He disregarded high blood pressure and his physician 's warnings , and a few hours after the results were In he collapsed . His health- has not returned to this day . So the governor was removed to absolute seclusion in Miami and Stelle became acting governor . Ruling with him , with his consent , was a regency composed of Nudelman , Smith , Schwartz , and Slattery . And in this situation , it has always been understood , arose the undying enmity which existed between Nudelman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stories differ , but one repeated most often involves an alleged row over how the 1938 Iroquois funds had been dispensed . Nudelman'was said to have demanded an audit . which Smith , the custodian and dispenser , refused . The fight was carried to the top but friends of Stelle advised him it was a battle between two factions of the Horner organization over a matter which had been supervised by Horner , therefore it was a matter for Horner , rather than Stelle , to defide . Nudelman was defeated , this story went , and gradually it became known thru the statehouse that a NudelmanSmith feud existed . Camps formed In support of each and It became corridor badinage to greet an employe with the query : " Who 're you with , Sam or Lyn ? " Both men privately admitted an antipathy for the other . Nudelman Wins One Tilt . Once again the two became embroiled  --  this time over the disposition of a $250,000 appropriation to adverl:ise Illinois in other states . Both Smith and Nudelman sought control of the big sum for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was more or less tied . Word went around , however , that Smith was not in as high favor as formerly in the executive mansion , where the ailing governor was being counseled principally by . Nudelman . Altho Horner returned from Florida in April , 1939 , he stayed away from the statehouse while the legislative session was on . Nudelman and a few others were his sole contacts . Smith was there far less frequently than the director of finance . Last October , in anticipation of the governor 's expressed intention of seeking a third term , the old Iroquois longue was revived under the name of the Illinoisans . Again Smith headed it : , and 2 per cent assessments once more were the order of the day in all the 10 code departments under the governor 's direct control .                     