@@710614

txt Egypt has just appealed to the United Nations Security Council to direct the evacuation of all British forces from the Valley of the Nile ? " from the Sudan as from all other parts of Egyptian territory . " In a long and eloquent statement to the Council , the Egyptian Prime Minister , Mahmoud Fahmy Nokrashy Pasha , urged the UN to strike a blow at " nineteenth-century imperialism . " He demanded that " the British evacuation be immediate , that it be unconditional . " The continued presence of British troops on Egyptian territory , the Egyptian Prime Minister declared , is incompatible with the provisions of the UN Charter that all UN member states must be sovereign and independent . Forces ' Treaty The Treaty of 1936 , under which the British maintain forces in Egypt and the Sudan , he said , was forced upon the Egyptian Government against its will and in extraordinary wartime circumstances which no longer exist . Moreover  --  and this brings up a delicate point of international law ? he maintained that the Treaty of 1936 is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which states in Article 103 that : " In the event of a conflict between the obligations of the members of the United Nations under the present Charter and their obligations under any other international agreement , their obliga tions under the present Charter shall prevail . " The Treaty of 1936 , he said , was in conflict with the Charter because it would prevent Egypt from taking steps on its own initiative to protect its security in the event it is threatened . Resolution Cited To bolster this point of view , Mahmoud Pasha quoted a resolution passed by the UN General Assembly on Dec. 14 , 1946 , which reads as follows : " The General Assembly , regarding the problem of security as closely connected with that of disarmament , recommends the Security Council to accelerate , as much as possible , the placing at its disposal of the armed forces mentioned in Article 43 of the Charter . It recommends the government to undertake , in a progressive and balanced manner , the reduction of national forces , the withdrawal without delay of forces stationed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly expressed in treaties or agreements consistent with the Charter and not contradicting international agreements . " Although adroitly put , the Egyptian argument is not likely to be sustained by the Security Council , in the view of most observers here . For one thing , the implications of the precedent it sets are too far-reaching . If the Egyptian thesis is sustained , every state or territory in the world on which there are foreign troops could demand the immediate withdrawal of ? these forces under the Charter , Acceptance Doubtful In the present parlous state of the world politics , it is most unlikely that the great powers will accept such an interpretation of the Charter 's provisions . In any event , the Egyptian Prime Minister left no doubt of his country 's determination to carry the fight against the British occupation to the utmost extreme that the UN 's machinery will allow . " The dispute now before you , " Mahmoud Pasha told the Council , " is clearly one the continuance of which is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the saber . Yet we can not blind our eyes to the popular resentment of the presence of British troops on Egyptian soil , nor to the possibility that the peaceful intentions of the Egyptian Government might be thwarted . History shows that situations of this sort can easily get out of hand . "                     