@@710027

txt BIG FOUR IN ACCORD ON TRIESTE 'S PORT 11-Nation Commission Agreed To  --  Customs Union Banned ? Civil Air Rights Snagged By C. BROOKS PETERS The Big Four Foreign Ministers agreed yesterday on a Trieste Free Port regime in what was reported as an amicable and profitable meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria . In a session lasting two hours and twenty minutes the Foreign Ministers agreed on all but one of the points they discussed in their effort to tie up loose strings in the lesser European settlements . Germany was not discussed , but that basic problem is expected to highlight the Council meeting that begins at 11:30 o'clock this morning . The Ministers bogged down yesterday on a provision for inclusion in the treaties with Italy , Rumania , Hungary , Bulgaria and Finland that would permit civil aircraft in distress to land wherever necessary for repairs or to refuel . Bevin Says He Is Baffled The British and United States delegates insisted that the provision be included in the Italian treaty , but Russian Foreign Minister Molotov wanted no such provision in any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to just where Mr. Molotov 's viewpoint differed from that of his Western colleagues . British Foreign Secretary Bevin is reported to have said : " I do n't know what it 's all about . Mr. Mol // otov and I seem to be saying the same thing , yet there is still disagreement . " Mr. Molotov , at past ineetingk , had desired assurances that military aircraft would not be permitted to land in the Free Territory of Trieste or to use the airfields in the countries for which treaties are being drawn . Secretary of State Byrnes and Mr. Bevin tried to give him those assurances and asked the deputies to frame an acceptable draft . Yesterday 's discussions were confined to civil aircraft . Mr. Molotov felt it was permissible for civil aircraft to land on the basis of commercial aircraft agreements between the two countries involved . The Americans and British , however , want to safeguard . these rights in the treaties . The Ministers were in accord yesterday in approving the draft of a letter transmitting the Statute of Trieste to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday 's meeting , will sign the letter . It will not he forwarded to the Security Council until Friday . The time lag is to permit getting the documents in order before sending them to the United Nations . Customs Unions Prohibited The Ministers also agreed on a provision in the Italian treaty that prohibits , with reference to Trieste , economic unions or associations of an exclusive character . Although he agreed to it , Mr. Molotov thought the clause unnecessary . The clause will prevent the Free Territory of Trieste from entering into customs unions with any of its neighbors . In considering the Free Port regime , the Council agreed on four items concerning appointment of a Director of the Free Port and of a commission to supervise the port . The articles provide that the administration of the Free Port shall be carried out by a Director who , shall represent the port as a juridical person . The Trieste Council of Government shall submit to the Governor of the Free Territory a list of qualified candidates for the post of Director . The Governor shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after consultation with the Council of Government . In case of disagreement between the Governor and the Council of Government on the appointment , the matter shall be referred to the Security Council . The Governor is also empowered to dismiss the Director of the Free Port on the recommendation of an International Commission of the Free Port or the Council of Government . The agreement provides , furthermore , that the Director shall not be Aa citizen of Yugoslavia or Italy . All other employes of the Free Port shall be appointed by the Director , with preference to be given citizens of the Free Territory . The Ministers agreed that an International Commission of the Free Port should ' be established . Its membership shall comprise one representative from the Free Territory and one from each of the following countries : Russia , United States , United Kingdom , France , Yugoslavia , Italy , Czechoslovakia , Austria , Hungary , Poland and Switzerland , " provided such states have assumed the obligations of the present instrument . " The Russians had desired Cornmission membership ' also for Rumania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bevin 's request that membership not be placed on a political basis but be confined to nations having extensive trade with the Free Territory . The Commission shall have its seat in the Free Port . Its offices and activities shall be exempt from local jurisdiction . In the Free Territory , the members of the Commission shall enjoy the privileges and immunities necessary to enable them to function . The Commission shall decide upon its own secretariat , procedure and budget . Its expenses shall be shared by the member states in an equitable manner as agreed by them in the Commission . The Commission shall have the right to investigate and consider all matters relating to the operation , use and administration of the Free Port and to the technIcal aspects of transit between the Free Port and the states it serves , including unification of handling procedures . The Commission shall act either on . its own initiative , or when matters have been brought to its attention by any state , or by the Free Territory , or by the Director of the Free Port . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or states concerned , or to the Free Territory , or to the Director of the Free Port .                     