@@707898

txt The American Navy has scored another smashing victory over the Japanese Navy , comparable to the victories of the Coral Sea , of Midway and of Guadalcanal . It was not that decisive victory which the early enthusiasm of our admirals had painted as a possibility . Regarding discretion as the better part of valor , the Japanese continue to hide their main fleet for the last defense of their islands , and send into battle only substantial task forces . But the limited nature of the latest victory can not detract from its strategic importance and moral significance . What took place in the vast stretches of the Pacific between the Marianas and the Philippines is apparently this : Goaded into action by the American attack on Saipan , the gateway to the Philippines , to China and to Japan itself , the Japanese command sent out a force consisting of four or more battleships , five or six aircraft carriers and attached cruisers , destroyers and tankers , which launched a formidable air assault on the American fleet participating in the conquest of Saipan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may have also calculated that as a result of the protracted Saipan battle the American fleet might be short of fuel and ammunition , and therefore vulnerable . But the Americans were ready and waiting for it . The Japanese succeeded in inflicting superficial damage on two American aircraft carriers and one battleship , not enough to put them out of action even temporarily : But the attacking air force was virtually wiped out . It lost 353 planes , of which 335 were shot down in battle with our own carrier planes and the rest by anti-aircraft fire . Our own losses were only 21 planes  --  a ratio of nearly 17 to 1 , Immediately afterward the Americans launched their own attack against the Japanese task force , which was discovered milling around some 500 to 800 miles west of Saipan , waiting for its lost planes to return . Two fleets tore through the Pacific to catch it , and the fast carriers unleashed their planes , which caught up with it at dusk on Monday . Unfortunately there was only enough daylight left for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five Japanese ships , including an aircraft carrier , three precious tankers and possibly a destroyer , were sunk , and ten more were damaged . The ericmy had scarcely any aircraft left , and after losing fifteen to twenty of these turned tail and fled into the gathering night . Our losses in this engagement were 49 planes , due not so much to enemy action as to the fact that they had attacked at extreme range and , unable to return , had to land in the water at night . Happily , some of their crews have been saved . The lessons and consequences of this victory are obvious . It has demonstrated anew our superiority over the Japanese in the air . It has further demonstrated that air power is a modern navy 's first weapon of both offense and defense and that , while the plane can by no means replace the battleship , as some air enthusiasts have contended , surface vessels nevertheless run the gravest risk without it . Finally , the new victory has again shown the complete American domination of the Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like the Air Force , still needs bases from which to operate , and these bases must be reconquered first . For if the Japanese have any naval strategy beyond discretion it is the jujitsu strategy of luring us beyond our own strength  --  luring units of our fleet too far away from our own bases and close to theirs , where they can pounce on them with superior strength , as Admiral Togo did on the Russians at Tsushima .. The latest victory has shown that this strategy has become unprofitable for Japan , and the conquest of Saipan. will give us a base near enough for direct operations against the Philippines , China and Japan . As Secretary Stimson said , it will be a mighty impetus to speeding our advance across the Pacific ; for only when we are across can we begin to challenge Japan 's main strength , which is her army .                     