@@709747

txt Unanimous ratification by striking Press Wireless employes , at an emergency mass meeting last night , of an agreement to arbitrate brought an immediate lifting of the embargo that nad been in effect for a week on overseas press dispatches carried by all major American communications services . After the membership had expressed its approval of the agreement , word went out to American Communications Association ( CIO ) employes of the companies to resume handling international press copy . This traffic began to move shortly before midnight . The agreement set in motion machinery that will officially end the 12-day-old strike by tonight , but it will take another twentyfour hours for complete schedules to be restored in the Press Wireless offices in New York , Washington and San Francisco , it was said . Scheduled to start at 7 P. M. , the ratification meeting did not get under way until 8 P. M. and the vote itself came shortly before 10 P. M. The delay was occasioned by the late arrival of the faggedout strike committee delegation , which had remained up negotiating all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes of Press Wireless were at the meeting , which was closed . It was understood , however , that sentiment was wholly in favor of the accord reached by the strike committee . By the terms of the agreement three questions were placed before the arbitrator , Arthur S. Meyer , chairman of the State Board of Mediation . No. 1 was whether either party can take unilateral action under the existing contract with the union . in the absence of an agreement as to layoffs , before submis- ACA employes of the other communications concerns refused to handle overseas press copy . Government messages and commercial traffic were cleared as usual during the press embargo . TEXT OF THE ANNOUNCEMENT sion to arbitration . The company 's discharge of forty-six employes and proposed downgrading of others precipitated the strike . Mr. Meyer is to review this question formally at 3 P. M. today at his office , 250 West Fifty-seventh Street , and his decision is expe6ted some time tonight . When he gives it , the strike will be officially at an end , and the 300 employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Meyer will set hearing dates on questions 2 and 3 . No. 2 is whether any or all of the lay-offs , together with the reclassification and corresponding adjustments of wages as set forth in the company 's letter of July 25 , were proper under the contract , and if not , what lay-offs , reclassifications and adjustments of wages , if any , are proper under the contract . No. 3 is from what date the employes who resume work are to be paid . Arbitrator 's Powers Wide The agreement provides that if Mr. Meyer , in his interim award , decides the company should not have laid off the forty-six workers all shall be reinstated pending determination of the merits of the lay-offs . It provides also that if he finds the company had the right to proceed with the lay-offs , the forty-six shall not be reinstated " until and unless so specified in the final arbitration award . " If Mr. Meyer orders the reinstatement of any of those laid off , the employes under the agreement would receive back pay to Aug. 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement was reached at 5:45 A. M. yesterday after an allnight meeting of both sides with Frederick R. Livingston of ? the United States Conciliation Service . Previously there had been a series of separate meetings . Present were A. Warren Norton , president , and James E. Denning , secretary of Press Wireless ; Joseph P. Selly , president , and Joseph Kehoe , director of organization , for the ACA , and Mr. Livingston , a member of the three-man Government mediation panel set up by H. Ross Colwell , regional director of the Conciliation Service and himself a member of the panel . At 2 P. M. yesterday the strike strategy committee of the union unanimously approved the agreement and recommended ratification by the membership at the emergency meeting called for 7 P. M. at Press Wireless strike headquarters in the New York Newspaper Guild offices at 40 East Fortieth Street . Mr. Livingston asked and received the assistance of radio stations , which periodically informed the strikers in broadcasts of the time and place for the ratification meeting . Acting at once after his notification as arbitrator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the union resume the handling of international press copy of companies not parties to the dispute . " Mr. Selly replied that the strike strategy committee " will unanimously recommend compliance with your request " after ratification of the strike settlement agreement at the membership meeting . The lifting of the " hot copy " embargo affected foreign news transmitted by Western Union , RCA Communications , Inc. ; Mackay Radio and Telegraph Company , Inc. ; Commercial Cables Company , French Cable Company , Tropical Radio Telegraph Company , Commercial Pacific Cable Company and All America Cables and Radio , Inc . The first Press Wireless copy handled by any except supervisory employes of the eight communications concerns was the announcement by Mr. Livingston of the signing of the agreement for ending the strike , sent out by Press Wireless over its own printer at 4 P. M. This was a joint announcement , the wording of which had been agreed upon by both parties to the dispute . The Press Wireless strike began Aug. 7 with the forty-six lay-offs , which the company said were necessitated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last Monday , at the union 's request , Federal Conciliator Tells Terms for Arbitration of Dispute The announcement of the agreement for arbitration of the Press Wireless strike follows : Frederick R. Livingston of the Washington office of the United States Conciliation Service announced on behalf of the conciliation service panel , appointed by Regional Director H. Ross Colwell , that agreement has been reached between Press Wireless , Inc. , and the American Communications Association ( CIO ) to end the strike called by the union against Press Wireless on Aug. 7 . The agreement , which was reached through a series of separate meetings , culminated in an all-night session at which the following parties were present ; for Press Wireless , Mr. A. Warren Norton , president , and Mr. James E. Denning , secretary ; for the union , Mr. Joseph P. Selly , president , and Mr. Joseph Kehoe , director of organization ; and for the United States Conciliation Service , Mr. Frederick R. Livingston . Mr. Livingston stated that the company and the union had agreed to submit to an arbitration , scheduled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hon. Arthur S. Meyer , concerning whether either party can take unilateral action , in the absence of agreement as to lay-offs , before submission to arbitration . This issue is to be decided the same day or as soon thereafter as possible . As soon as the arbitrator has reached a decision on this question and notified both the company and the union , the strike will be officially ended . Forthwith thereafter the arbitrator will conduct hearings on the merits of the lay-offs to decide if any or all of the scheduled layoffs together with the reclassifications and corresponding adjustments of wages are proper under the contract . The agreement provides : " In the event that the arbitrator determines in his interim award that the company should not have taken unilateral action with respect to the lay-offs before submitting the issue to arbitration , all employes including those scheduled to be laid off Aug. 7 , 1946 , shall be reinstated pending determination of the merits of the lay-offs . In the event that the arbitrator determines in his interim award that the company had the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay-off shall not be reinstated until and unless so specified in the final arbitration award . " If the arbitrator orders the reinstatement of any of the employes laid off on Aug. 7 , such employes shall be awarded back pay to the date of the lay-offs . The agreement which was signed at 5:45 A. M. is subject to approval by the union strategy committee and to ratification by the membership of the union . An emergency ratification meeting will be held tonight Sunday at 7 P. M. at Press Wireless strike headquarters , 40 East Fortieth Street , New York City . At 2 P. M. this afternoon the strike strategy committee of the union unanimously approved the agreement and recommended ratification by the membership at the meeting to be held at 7 P. M. tonight .                     