@@711421

txt COMMUNISTS BACK WALLACE IN RACE , FOSTER ANNOUNCES Leader , Opening Convention , Says ' Wall St. Imperialists ' Plot War to Rule World INDICTED CHIEFS PRESENT Russia Is Praised as Seeking Peace  --  Crowd in Garden Estimated at 17,000 By WARREN MOSCOW The Communist party of the United States endorses and will work for the election of Henry A. Wallace as President of the United States . This ? announcement , long foreshadowed by the activity of American Communists within the Wallace movement , was made last night by William Z. Foster , national chairman of the Communist party and one of its twelve leaders who are under indictment for conspiracy to overthrow the Government by force . Mr. Foster made his announce-1 merit at the opening of the national convention of the Communist party , USA , at Madison Square Garden . His speech bristled with attacks on the " fascist , Wall , Street imperialists " and impassioned defense of Soviet Russia as ' a peace-loving nation threatened by warmongers from tile West . The meeting was attended by a crowd of about 17,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ity but which applauded generously all of the party appeals made during the evening . Messages of support of the American Communist movement were announced as received from a dozen countries ; such as Bulgaria , Italy and Czechoslovakia , from the Communist parties there . No message was announced as coming from Marshal . Tito 's Yugoslav Communist movement . Cesar Andreu , chairman of the Communist party of Puerto Rico , took a bow from the platform . The convention , which will continue its sessions at the Riverside Plaza Hotel , is the first held by the Communist party since 1945 , when Earl Browder was ousted as national leader of the party in favor of Mr. Foster . because he had become too closely linked , ideologically , with the wartime alliance between ? Russia and the Western . powers . Mr. Foster breathed ' defiance of the West in his speech . On the platform , as a ? symbolic defiance // of anti - Communist sentiment in this country , were the men who just two weeks ago were indicted with Mr. Foster by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-standing conspiracy against American democratic institutions . The Communist battle-cry last night was that the Communists Were the real anti-fascists , the real defenders of underlying Americanism . Eugene Dennis , general secretary of the party , another of those under indictment , delivered the defense of those indicted and it was apparent that at the trial , if court rules permit , the Communists will present in their behalf the whole trend of international affairs since the end of World War II . " Monopoly Reaction " Assailed Instead of its being the Communists who were conspirin against the Government and welbfare of America , it was the " forces of monopoly reaction who were Conspiring , to launch a post-war offensive against the common people of America and the world , " Mr. Dennis declared . His story was that after the death of Franklin a Roosevelt the Truman administration joined the Republican party and the National Association of Manufacturers " as a full- partner in this criminal conspiracy . " In this conspiracy , as a series of related events , he listed the enactment of the Taft-Hartley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incendiary statements by " war-mongers " like William Randolph Hearst , Herbert Hoover , John Foster Dulles and William C. Bullitt . He also charged that the bipartisan foreign policy makers had been guilty of genocide in Greece , China and Israel and that anti-Semitism and anti-Negroism had been fostered . His speech consisted of a listing , from the Communist point of view , of every trouble and troublespot in the world , to prove that the capitalists seeking to master the world were the real conspirators against the American people , rather than the Communists who were so charged in Federal indictments . Foster Denounces ' Warmongers ' But it was Mr. Foster , as keynoter of the meeting , who really set the tone for it , in an address that pictured Russia as a nation seeking peace , and America as a nation unwillingly being guided down the path of war by a bipartisan Democratic and Republican coalition run by Wall street imperialists . " The all-decisive issue in the national elections is that of peace or war , " Mr. Foster declared in his opening sentences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the United States and the Soviet Union . Reactionaries blame all this on the Soviet Union . But it is absurd to assert that that Socialist , war - ravaged country wants war . The real culprits are the economic royalists in this country who have long exploited labor . They are trying to extend their domination over the world , even at the cost of a frightful war . The fate of the world depends upon the American people grasping this basic fact of world politics . " The Truman , Deweys , Dulles , ' Hoovers , and Marshalls , Vanden-1 bergs and other men of the trusts who are running our government could readily secure a democratic agreement with the U. S. S. R. , as Roosevelt did . But they do n't want it . They are fighting for Wall Street 's world control . Their steady rejection of peace was dramatized afresh by their cynical refusal to negotiate with the Soviets on the basis of the SmithMolotov and Stalin-Wallace correspondence . They want world tension and crisis , so they can increase their fabulous profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascist regime that they find necessary for the aggressive war they are preparing . But let these warmongers beware ! The American people will have a last word on this matter  --  one that will wreck the war plans of Wall Street . " In placing full responsibility upon Wall Street for the war danger , we Communists are acting in the highest interest of the American people . It would be a crime to be silent while big business , in its lust for profit and power , leads our nation to slaughter . " Says Marshall Plan Is Failing Then , after charging the men who are running the government with seeking war , Mr. Foster attributed the drive directly to big business , and also declared that the Marshall Plan was failing , that " in growing desperation the Wall Street monopolists are now preparing for war against the U.S.S.R. " In the domestic campaign , the " democratic forces , " represented by the Communist party , must seek to stop this drive , Mr. Foster declared . He then delivered his endorsement of the Wallace candidacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Communist executive board not to nominate a presidential candidate of its own . In giving the endorsement , he also repeated the previously announced Communist party line that the Communist party was in the Wallace movement , was not seeking to run it , but had no intention of pulling out of that movement . He said : " As for the Democratic and Republican parties , they are both dominated by Wall Street , their candidates and platforms were dictated by big business , and both are committed to American imperialism 's policy of world conCommunists Bar Photos Of Rank and File at Rally Newspaper photographers covering the Communist national convention last night at Madison Square Garden received ample opportunity to take pictures of the Communist high command , but were barred from taking pictures of the crowd attending the meeting . The explanation , which came from official Communist sources , , was that the job security of working men who were members of the party was being impaired by the present anti-Communist wave in this country . They cited the case of Thomas Buchanan , reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted Communist party membership . The same sources said that others , whose faces might show up in crowd shots of the gathering , would face similar dismissal , and contended that that was the only reason for the ban . quest . A vote for either Truman or Dewey means a vote for eventual fascism and war . " The new Progressive party offers the opportunity for the forces fighting for peace and against inflation and fascism , to organize and express their strength . Its national ticket , Wallace and Taylor , will rally hosts of workers , Negroes , farmers , veterans , women , youth , intellectuals and other patriotic Americans who are determined that our people shall not be butchered for the profit and glory of Wall Street . Two-Party System Scored " The new party is shattering the deadly two-party system which for generations has politically paralyzed the working class . The worth of the new party is proved by the ferocity with which the warmongers and red-baiters are attacking it . They are brazen liars who charge that the Cornmonist party is trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its formation . The Progressive party is the result of 100 years of struggle by the progressive forces for a great mass party of the people . It was . created by millions of workers and other toilers , disillusioned by the two old parties and in bitter need for a mass political weapon against the warmongers . " The Progressive party is in no sense a Communist party . While supporting its program of people 's demands , we Communists have many points of difference with it and we do not hesitate to express them . The most important is that while many leaders in the Progressive party believe that the badly crippled world capitalist system can be saved and transformed into ' progressive capitalism , ' we Marxist-Leninists do not . Capitalism historically is on its way off the world stage . The central meaning of the times in which we live is that the capitalist system is hopelessly breaking down . The world 's people are on the march to socialism , and all the gold and bayonets . of Wall Street can not stop them . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , devoted his address to an attack on the Taft-Hartley Law , increases in the cost of living and the record of the Eightieth Congress . Davis Denounces Charges City Councilman Benjamin J. Davis Jr. , another of the twelve leaders indicted , compared that indictment with the " Reichstag fire frame-up " of 1933 in Germany that helped in Hitler 's accession to power . Mr. Davis said : " Six days ago Truman arrested , framed and indicted the national board of the Communist party , headed by William Z. Foster , great Marxist-Leninist leader of the American working class and people . In carrying through its political persecution and gangsterism , Truman 's FBI took from me my most prized personal possession , my Communist party membership card . In its stead , I was given a receipt . Now , how can one compare a piece of paper signed by a Gestapo agent with a membership card in the Communist party ? " Although they took my card , they can not take my Communist party membership . I can get another card . Moreover , thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cards , until we have a really big mass Communist party to better meet the needs of our country . " The convention opened promptly at 8 P. M. Of those present 250 were delegates to the convention , and the others were party members ? or followers , the latter having to pay their way in . Elizabeth Gurley Flynn , oldtime Communist leader , presided , taking the gavel after Mr. Davis ' introductory address . She told the gathering that two foreign Communists , one from the British House of Commons and one from the French Chamber of Deputies , had been prevented from attending the convention because the State Department refused to approve their entry into this country . Henry Winston , organization secretary of the Communist party , paid tribute to the members of the party who died in World War II . They proved , he said , that " to be a good Communist is to be a better American . "                     