@@704792

txt BRITISH NAVY GUNS HAMMER AT NAZIS Shelling From Sea , Rushing of Troops and Planes Mark London 's Share in Battle By HAROLD DENNY Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES . LONDON , June ** was rushing all available forces today into the battle in France , which was officially called here the " Battle of Paris and London " because of the Nazi threat to England . This reinforcement across the English Channel will continue , it was stated , " despite the imminent danger of German invasion of the United Kingdom . " The guns of British warships pounded the Germans to support Allied troops near the coast . " Important contingents " of new troops have already gone to France , it was announced . Even closer cooperation of the // BRITISH NAVY GUNS HAMMER AT NAZIS // land , sea and air forces than that which enabled Britain to rescue most of her beleaguered force in Flanders is being practiced in this battle . The British Fleet is shelling the Germans ' right flank , exposed along the Channel coast , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German columns , troop concentrations and supply depots . A very serious view of the situation is taken here in high circles , and it was emphasized in official quarters that it would be well not to he too optimistic . There is chagrin here both among officials and ordinary citizens that the British Expeditonary Force now in the line in France is so small and so meagerly equipped in comparison with the Germans at a moment when the existence of France and very likely of this country also is at stake . This feeling is keen enough to have induced Prime Minister Winston Churchill to send to Premier Reynaud of France late in the day a pledge of the fullest possible support by British arms . Mr. Churchill 's message was as follows : " The maximum possible support is being given by British forces in the great battle which the French armies are now conducting with such undaunted courage . " All available means are being used to give help on land , sea and in the air . " The Royal Air Force has been continually engaged over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British forces have landed in France to take their place with those already engaged in the common struggle , while further extensive reinforcements are being rapidly organized and will shortly be available . " More Air Fighters in France During the last few days , according to the official statement on the battle , hundreds of German planes had dropped bombs on Britain in efforts to immobilize the British fighter planes and prevent their taking off for France . " This measure , " it was stated , " has completely failed " ; and , in fact , the R. A. F. in France has been increased in strength . The German attack against the left of the Allied line , where the British are fighting , reached a new intensity during the clay and the British were slowly giving way in a stubborn rear-guard action ? the third they have had to fight since this war began . They are selling their lives dearly , inflicting as heavy casualties as they can on German machines and men , but they have been forced back toward the Seine River , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German march toward Paris . Some Germans were reported here to have already crossed the Seine at a few points and to be in the outskirts of Rouen , driving heavily there and to the east , as well as hammering at the British left along the coast . Once again a British army  --  this time a pathetically small one , far smaller than the one that extricated itself from the Flanders trap ? is fighting to prevent roving German motorized detachments from separating it from the French on its right . Accounts of the battle coming to this worried imperial capital give new incidents of dogged defenses by small groups of British soldiers , with only the weapons they carried in their hands , against the onrush of German tanks supported by divebombers . There is no question of British courage ? as , indeed , there is not at this stage of German courage . If anything these English are sometimes too courageous . One authenticated story which reached here is of a platoon of a Guards Regiment that paraded down a road in perfect formation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distinctive headdress , while a lowflying airplane mowed them down . It was magnificent , but wasteful . But accounts of a more sensible courage are legion . For instance , a battalion of a famous Regular Army unit , when ordered to retire within a few hours from an untenable position , spent the intervening time violently attacking the Germans opposite . So fierce was the fighting that both sides finally called an informal truce to gather the dead and wounded . Other battalions , sometimes platoons , even squads , held up German columns or detachments for hours , destroying tanks with anti-tank rifles to cover the withdrawal of comrades and carrying back important equipment and supplies . One battalion , finding a village had been taken by the Germans before a vital bridge had been destroyed , rushed the village and blew up the bridge . In this fighting , as every place where the British troops have been engaged , civilian refugees have added to the difficulties . In this fall back to the Seine the British troops again and again defended villages and bridges against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blew up the bridges and retired as the tanks careeened toward them . Of Britain 's small force on the Continent , every possible man is fighting , including the middle-aged pioneers , the pick and shovel troops , mainly veterans of the World War recruited to build roads and the like . Wherever they were near a threatened point , they have picked up rifles and fought as infantry . The British fliers , along with the French , are doing their utmost to harass and damage the Nazis . In the last twenty-four hours , according to the - Air Ministry , British pilots , with characteristic disregard for odds or danger , attacked troops and other military objectives in Abbeville , Amiens , Beauvais and the Rouen area , sometimes flying as low as fifty feet . During last night they repeatedly attacked the Somme River crossings and raided ammunition dumps as far back as the Ardennes Forest . Heavy bombers again attacked objectives in Rhenish Prussia and the Ruhr . It is reported here that heavy German bombing raids on British airfields in France have had little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( UP ) ? The statement of the British Government tonight on the battle in France , issued by the Ministry of Information , said : " The British people are following with deep sympathy the Battle of France or , as it may be put , the Battle of Paris and London . It is realized that the fate not only of Britain and France but of the whole world depends on the result of this heroic struggle waged by the French armies against Hitler 's barbarous hordes . " Despite the imminent danger of German invasion of the United Kingdom , the British Government and the British nation are unanimously of the opinion that all their available forces should be directed without delay to the scene of battle . " Important contingents of new troops already have disembarked in France to reinforce British forces which are fighting on the side of their Allies . " The Royal Air Force in France has been increased in strength . The fleet is shelling srman troops on the coast . " During the last few days hundreds of German planes dropped bombs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This measure has completely failed . " The one thought in the British mind is to sustain the battlefront and the British people are proud to endure attacks which would otherwise be directed against the Allies ' armies . " Every enemy plane which crosses the British coast and every bomb which falls on Britain diminishes by so much the German effort at the front . As an English newspaper has said : ' It is better that British civilians should be killed than Allied soldiers . ' " Such is the spirit of the British people . They have unshakable confidence in the military genius of the French High Command and the traditional heroism of the French soldier . " Faced with the menace of Nazi slavery , every free man must say to himself : ' Victory at all costs and sooner death than defeat . ' "                     