@@707505

txt Cancellation of war contracts has as yet had no serious . effect on employment in Massachusetts , Powell M. Cabot , State War Manpower Director , reported here today . Estimating the number so far let out as around 10,000 , Mr. Cabot said many of these had been reemployed , and that the labor market was still pretty tight . Besides the shutdown of the Lowell ordnance plant , which made 7,000 idle some time ago , the chief cut in jobs has come at the Stevens Arms Company of Chicopee , Mr. Cabot said . Nearly 1,000 were laid off there . The Watertown Arsenal shows a downtrend and a sizable decrease in employment the past year . It is not replacing workers who are drafted or leave for other reasons . Small Concerns In addition , there are a number of small concerns which are laying off people . Most of them have had ordnance subcontracts . Inquiry at the Fore River Yard of the Bethlehem Steel Company at Quincy , the largest shipyard in New England , brought word today that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the branch shipyard at Hingham is still advertising for many different types of workers . The largest industrial plant in " Massachusetts , the River Works of the General Electric Company at West Lynn , reported its labor demand continuing on the up . " We are still looking for people and hiring them whenever we can find them , both men and women , " said an official today . " Loss of employment due to cutbacks in war contracts is not so serious , but it indicates a trend , " the State War Manpower Director commented . " Up to date it has just helped other employers looking for workers . Insurance Claims " We have not had a sizable increase in claims for unemployment insurance .. This means that in many cases other jobs were awaiting those laid off . " While the need for labor is not so urgent as it was a few months ago , the pressure for new workers remains , particulaPly for male labor . " The majority of those laid off at Lowell and Chicopee were women . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; necticut plants . Many of the women went back into their homes . They would not work in textile mills at the lower pay there , but ; were willing to take jobs in a war plant . " Several new concerns are moving into Lowell to take advantage ; of the availability of workers ; there . The General Electric Company is moving in a branch , and a rubber plant is also planning to go in. "                     