@@709802

txt PARIS , Sept. ** of the United States proposals for the Italo-Yugoslav frontier and a boundary for a Free Territory of Trieste today prepared the Paris conference for an effort by the Big Four sponsoring powers to effect a new compromise on these paramount issues . The issues involving Italy and Yugoslavia threaten to prolong the ' peace conference discussions far beyond the deadline for completion of the conference 's work that was implied in the request for postponement until Oct. 23 of the meet ' ing of the United Nations General Assembly . 1 In the Italian political and terI ritorial commission , where James C. Dunn announced the United - States action , the British and Soviet delegations clashed today over ; freedom of expression , while the ! Yugoslav - instigated filibustering debate on Trieste dragged on . Subcommittee Is Named The commission did accept a compromise proposal under which a. subcommittee was named to examine the Trieste statute as a means of hastening the proceedings . But this was partly offset by a Yugoslav-Soviet rider that prevents the subcommittee from getting down to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guidance to the subcommittee . This will mean that the subcommittee can not start its principal task until next week , at the earliest . With ten days allotted to the subcommittee to prepare a report , this will leave only a short time for the commission to complete the treaty draft before Oct. 5 , which the Secretariat has set as the date for starting the closing plenary sessions of the conference . Developments in other commissions today included the following : ( 1 ) In the economic commission for the Balkans and Finland , two points were scored on technical questions for the United States plan for equality of treat // ment on property rights in the Danubian area . ( 2 ) A special British-sponsored clause to safeguard Jews against a recurrence of anti-Semitism in Rumania was adopted by the Rumanian commission . ( 3 ) The legal and drafting commission saw an Anglo-Soviet controversy over freedom of speech go into reverse , with a New Zealand delegate accusing the Russians of endeavoring to suppress their opponents ' views . ( 4 ) The Finnish commission remained unactive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Australia 's plan for a court of human rights  --  the only unfinished item before the Finnish commission . Opposed by the Russians Withdrawal of the American 1 proposals on the Italo-Yugoslav frontier and Trieste , which were not discussed by the Council of Foreig Ministers but were published in the treaty draft , was decided upon by the American delegation after they had met the obdurate opposition of the Soviet Union in consultations of the Foreign Ministers ' deputies in the law . few days . The American proposals were an attempt to produce an exact definition of the so-called French line of the Free Territory boundaries , which are broadly stated in the treaty text . It is learned that the French also produced a detailed description of their line , one that makes some minor rectifications in favor of Yugoslavia . This is believed to be the basis of the impending Big Four settlement . No matter how it finally shapes up , the proposal will first have to gain approval in the full commission when the boundary articles come to a vote . Nearly all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a controversy centering on efforts to speed up the work and on Yugoslavia 's and Russia 's insistence on ample and wide debate on these questions , which they consider the central issues of the conference . Chairman Lief Egeland of South Africa said the Secretariat had notified him that , if the conference were to finish in time to allow the delegates to reach New York for the General Assembly meeting , the work in the commissions must be finished by Oct. 5 . He urged the appointment of a subcommittee to study the Trieste statute while the commission was debating territorial amendments . Written Statements Asked When Hector of Britain suggested eliminating general debate on the Free Territory in favor of written statements , Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Vice Foreign Minister , accused Mr. of wanting to make the conference discussions secret . Mr. replied sharply that such written statements would be available to the press . The new subcommittee , including the four sponsoring powers and Australia , Yugoslavia , Poland and the Netherlands , held its first meeting this afternoon . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The subcommittee must discuss the four distinct proposals for the Trieste statute offered by the Big Four and an additional proposal by Yugoslavia . In the commission , meanwhile , Dr. Alesh Bebler of Yugoslavia continued his filibustering statement on the Italo-Yugoslav frontier . That statement probably will occupy at least two more meetings before the commission votes on the various amendments . The success gained by the United States in the economic commission for the Balkans and Finland was on two unagreed clauses in Annex 4 of the Rumanian treaty . They lay down the principle of reciprocity between Rumania and Allied countries on matters covered in the ' annex . Without the first clause , the United States would have to ab-1 stain from signing the entire annex , which grants certain types of protection to property owners who have been prevented from carrying out normal legal processes to pro tect their interests in Rumania . It is said that United States law does not permit the United States Government to grant foreign nationals some of the privileges the Allies are demanding in Rumania under the annex ? for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , tinder today 's agreement , will not get such privileges from I Rumania , but neither will it have to abstain from all other arrangements contemplated in the annex . Soviet Agrees to Clause The second point won was Russian acquiescence in a clause the effect of which will be to permit members of the United Nations that broke with Rumania but did not declare war to enjoy the benefits of the annex . This includes Latin-American nationals . The change in the Soviet view , It is thought , can be attributed to the fact that the Russians found that both France and Poland would lose benefits without the new clause . The British amendment protecting Jews in Rumania , adopted by the Rumanian treaty commission , is the first action of the kind taken at the Paris conference . It meets the wishes expressed by a number of Jewish organizations . The commission , in making this decision , set a precedent for insertion of similar amendments in other peace treaties . The United States , Australia , Canada , New Zealand , South Africa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ment , while France and the Russian bloc opposed it . The French b delee'ate , Gen. Georges Catroux , explained that he would not oppose insertion of the amendment in the Rumanian treaty if the amendment were added to the other treaties as well . Rumania had sent in a written protest , saying that Jews needed no special protection . Alexander E. Bogomolov of the Soviet Union said that Jews already were protected by the Rumanian treaty and that the democratic method was to grant them equality of rights rather than special rights . Under the British amendment , Rumania undertakes that her laws , in content or application , shall not " discriminate or entail any discrimination between persons of Rumanian nationality on the ground of their race , sex , language or religion , whether in reference to their persons , property , business , professional or financial interests and status , political or civil rights or any other matters . " The economic commission for Italy heard Norwegian , French , Egyptian , Mexican and Iraqi rep'I explain their counH tries ' reparations claims . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stressing a desire to fit their reparations demands to Italian reconstruction and recovery needs . Mexico and Egypt both indicated that they were prepared to work out arrangements with the Italian Government , and that they wished only that the principle of right to certain types of reparations be recognized in the treaties .                     