@@706679

txt A prominent Chinese strategist who is also a competent observer of Japanese affairs has given me an estimate of future developments in the Far East . " Japan is in a position to open a powerful offensive against the Soviet Union at a moment 's notice , " the General said . " Judging from the fact that the greatest single concentration of Japan 's military forces stands in readiness against the Soviet Far East it might still be considered that the next major move will be in that direction . " Moreover , there is a German-Japanese agreement according to which the Japanese are to attack the Soviet Union the moment the important strategic center Stalingrad on the Volga should fall into German hands . " But it appears that Japan 's attention has suddenly been diverted to India so that an attack on the Soviet Union has become much less likely than it was until a few weeks ago . If the Japanese do not move until the end of September it may be assumed that war between the two countries will not break out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion has nothing to do with the mistaken view that Japan is ill-prepared for a winter cam paign in the North . It is founded on the fact that the Japanese General Staff is unwilling to attack the Soviet Union at a time when winter conditions in European Russia make synchronized large scale offensives of the German forces impossible so that the Japanese would be exposed to the risk of having to fight strong Russian reinforcements from the West . " It seems that the original plan of a late summer campaign against the Soviet Union has not so far been replaced by the decision to invade India but that Tokyo is once more marking time and waiting for world developments during the next month or so before taking action of any kind . " On the basis of her own calculations of her requirements for an attack on India , Japan would seem to be already fairly well prepared for it so that the absence of considerable troop movements during the past few weeks provides no indication one way or the other . Can Strengthen Southern Forces " Japan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a small part would be sufficient for garrison purposes and eight or ten of the 30 odd Japanese divisions at present in Manchuria could be brought south within a relatively short time in case the attack on Russia is abandoned . " On the other hand the Japanese plan of campaign against India seems to call for no more than four to four and half divisions at the beginning and for a total of about 12 divisions during the later stages of the invasion . It appears to be Japan 's intention not to make a direct onslaught on Calucutta but to isolate that important center by capturing Madras in the south and Chittagong in the North and moving inland from both cities with aim of cutting the main arteries of communications in the eastern part of India and isolating the north- eastern-most province , Assam , which borders on Burma and China . " It is likely that the attack on Madras would be supported by separate smaller landings to the south and north of that city . Attitude Toward India " So far , Japan was hesitant about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would impose on her uncomfortable shipping situation but mainly for fear that Indian and British resistance might force her to bring in increasing numbers of troops in order to occupy more and more territory which might lead to a situation of costly stalemate similar to that in China . However , the unfortunate developments in India during the last few weeks seem to have convinced Japan that she will find less effective resistance than had originally been expected so that the advantages of the new situation outweigh her remaining risks . " It is therefore very likely that Japan will decide upon invading India , probably two months from now when the monsoon is over , especially if the Germans should penetrate the Southern Caucasus and Egypt and begin a strong drive on the Middle East for Japan 's and Germany 's respective need of certain machinery and raw materials which they could spare for each other makes a junction of their forces most desirable in preparation for a prolonged war , Hope to Balk Move on India " It is for this reason that the Chinese insist on exploiting every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that Japanese hope on the consequences of dissension in India may still be frustrated . " A Japanese invasion of Australia , however , does not seem to be intended unless the Japanese Navy succeeds in cutting Australia 's sea lanes to America . The enemy will certainly try to improve his defensive positions in the South and further Allied counterattacks will tie up greater Japanese forces in that area . But Japan 's choice for her next major move is between the Soviet Union and India . " We have no indication of any Japanese intention to resume large scale offensives in China for the time being , although their garrison in China might still be able to concentrate six to eight divisions for a major drive naturally at the risk of thinning out the Japanese lines of occupation . Especially a drive deeper into the southwestern Province of Yunnan , which was rightly regarded a dauber immediately after the final occupation of Burma , does not seem worthwhile to the Japanese any more on account of their present hope of increasing China 's isolation from the outside world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cina " Should the Japanese decide one day to resume major action in China apart from minor offensives , which are likely to continue , they would probably make a fourth attempt at Changsha in Hunan Province and support it by a northward drive from Kwangtun in order to capture the huge gap in the Hankow Canton Railway with the important cities Chansha , Hengyang and Shaoyang . Nor are the Japanese likely to develop great air activity in China for the time being since their total air force in the country at present numbers little more than 300 planes . " The General left no doubt that China is determined and able to carry on its war of resistence whatever may happen in India . But he , like every important Chinese civilian your correspondent interviewed recently , emphasized the vital importance of strengthening Chin &,; not only for its later counteroffensive , but also for continued self defense in case European developments should lead to a fureher considerable prolongation of the World War . For this purpose at least part of China 's land communications via Burma must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held by all possible political and military means . The Allied counterattack on the Solomon Islands has made a deec impression on the Chinese and ha : given rise to the hope that Genera Stiliwell 's promise of an Allied counterattack against Burma will be fulfilled as the best means of forestalling a Japanese invasion of India .                     