@@707761

txt Secretary Ickes proposed today that the billions of dollars ' worth of Government-built war plants , representing " a giant segment of American industry , " be turned over after the war as " a bonus payment " to veterans for ownership and operation in competition with existing private industries . This step , he declared in an address before the Commonwealth Club , would amount to giving ten million young persons shares of stock in the America for which they had risked their lives . One alternative envisioned by Secretary Ickes was the sale of the hundreds of plants , many of which dot the Far West , to the highest bidders and their purchase at a fraction of their cost by " existing monopolies for the purpose of halting their competitive production . " But " post-war chaos , " he warned , was a certainty if these industrial establishments were " merely turned over to be quietly throttled in the interest of an economy of scarcity  --  scarce production , scarce opportunities and few jobs . " On the other hand , h ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a negative answer . " " Some other way , in my opinion , must be found which would avoid the death grip of monopoly and give vitality to the American prin -- ciple of real free enterprise , " Mr. Ickes went on " We must make sure that the ownership and control of these plants come to rest in the hands of those who are in- ' terested in their continued , full operation and have hopes of a rejuvenated and even more vigorous America . " I know of no better way to accomplish this than to vest the ownership and control of these Government plants in the men and women who have served in our armed forces . These are the people who , , we can be sure , will be interested in maximum production and maximum employment " Giving to each of them a share in the ownership and control of a giant segment of American industry would amount to giving them a stake in the future of the democratic economy of America which they are fighting to preserve . This would be a revised edition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reclamation Law . It would be the most appropriate and the most beneficial form of a bonus payment to them . " Secretary Ickes , who said afterward that he had talked over his proposal with several members of his department but had not discussed it with President Roosevelt , suggested that " perhaps " the first directors of the veteran-owned industries " would have to be appointed by the Government . " Beyond that , though , he said , there " should be no special relation between the Government and the enterprise , " which would be " a free undertaking within the framework and geared to the objectives of private enterprise " and which would " enjoy no privileges which are not the equal right of every other corporation . " Calls Plan Vital to the West " To you people of the West , " the speaker said , " consideration of this and other proposals designed to assure continued operation of the war plants in a genuinely free competitive system is of paramount importance . For if these plants ' fall into the seeking hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and your many ' other natural advantages will suffice to keep them in operation . " Requested by reporters to amplify his plan , Secretary Ickes said that so far it was in a " fluid " state , with the broad framework there and the details to be filled in later . In response to specific questions , he said the idea probably would involve the setting up of a big holding company embracing all of the plants to be continued in operation , with companies organized according to industries , such as steel , aluminum and magnesium , set up under the holding company . Details of capitalization , issuance of stock to the war veterans and other matters had not been worked out , but dr Ickes asserted that the plan involved " no subsidy . " He was asked whether , for example , his plan would envisage such an enterprise as the big Geneva ( Utah ) steel mill , erected with Defense Plant Corporation funds , being turned over to the veterans for operation in competition with the United States Steel Corporation plants elsewhere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that decisions as to what plants should continue to operate should be reached " on the basis of public opinion . " Secretary Ickes devoted part of his speech on the subject , " America 's Post-War Frontier , " to attacking those , in Congress and out , who were trying to exempt California 's billion-dollar Central Valley Irrigation and Power Project from provisions or the Reclamation Act limiting use of its waters to farms of 160 acres or less under single ownership . He also assailed private utilities . specifically the Pacific Gas and Electric Company , as attempting to obtain " cheap power " from the Central Valley project . He cautioned Californians " to keep an alert eye upon the P. G. and E. , " and not to forget " to be watchful ' also as to certain of your public officials , local , State and especially some in Congress . " The speaker advanced the folllowing principles as those on which , he said , there could be built " a post-war America that will provide jobs for all and assure decent profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a worldwide political and economic stability based upon the Atlantic Charter . The level of living throughout the world must be raised . The nations of the world must have an equitable access to the world 's raw materials . The under-developed nations must become productive members of the world community . " Second , the United States must supply what it is best able to produce to satisfy the needs of the world . And it must buy liberally from other nations what they are best able to supply . " Third , the purchasing power of Americans must be maintained at a high level . This means full , productive employment , with public works , when necessary , supplementing private industry . The farmer must be assured his rightful place in the national economy . Without purchasing power , business can not survive , let alone prosper . " Fourth , private cartels and monopolies must be eliminated . A super-government by cartels and monopolies means low production and high prices . It is the deadly enemy of internal security and of international peace and stability . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is full employment and a rising standard of living . It makes a mockery of individual initiative and gives the lie to free enterprise . " Following Ickes ' address , James B. Black , president of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company , issued a statement saying that parts of Mr. Ickes ' . speech dealing with the Central Valley project were " in furtherance of his campaign to socialize the power industry . "                     