@@705584

txt France 's High Commissioner for Syria and Lebanon warned the British Empire tonight that the French armies in the mandated territories were ready to defend themselves against British attack and to reply to force with force . This announcement was broadcast by General Henri Fernand Dents over the Beirut radio only a few hours after the same station had announced that France would remain by the side of Germany and the " new order . " The immediate interpretation of these statements by diplomatic circles here was that open warfare between France and Britain was so imminent that it might break out at any hour . The actual initiative still appeared to remain with the British , and it was not known whether Lieut . Gen. Sir Henry Maitland Wilson had decided to make a factual reply to the bold statement of General Dentz or whether eleventh-hour negotiations would be held in an effort to stave off this catastrophic dispute between two former allies . Actual fighting in the Middle East appeared to have had a lull today . Beirut had no reports of further British bombings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TO DEFEND SYRIA WITH ' FORCE ' // news of the passage of Axis war planes to either Syria or Iraq . The British forces in Iraq captured some Iraqi police outposts twenty-five miles south of Basra in patrol activities . The Iraqis claimed to have destroyed four British aircraft in the last few days and said Iraqi planes had bombed armored units at Rutbah and effected reconnaissance flights at Dhibban . General Dentz 's Warning In his statement from Beirut , the Military Commissioner said : " French Lebanese and Syrians , you have heard the appeal of Marshal P  --  tain ; you have heard his moving words , replete with firmness and wisdom , words inspired with an ardent desire for peace and order . " At the same moment in which he was speaking , English airplanes attacked our airdromes without warning . Once more , after Mersel-Kebir and Dakar , England has spilled French blood and has attacked French soil . " The British Government , in order to justify these aggressions against France , has accused it of not having forcibly repelled German airplanes flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landings . Nothing can justify this accusation . Marshal P  --  tain has confirmed that France has no aggressive intentions against England . The privileged move by our former enemy was strictly within the terms of the armistice . " This is the truth . All the accusations of Britain against France are only calumnies and criminal pretext . But we will act accordingly with calm and dignity . " Certainly we French , Syrians and Lebanese are in an unprecedentedly close association and will collaborate in brotherly fashion against any act of hostility of which the victims are innocent populations . " I have received the mission of defending the soil of Syria and Lebanon . I shall fulfill this mission inflexibly . The army is ready to reply to force with force . " Turks Urge British Action It was the prevailing belief of well-informed quarters here , follow-ing General Dentz 's speech , that a large-scale campaign between Britain and the French , German and Italian armies in the Middle East was about to begin . The Turkish newspaper Tan said German occupation of Syria would constitute a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take preventive steps immediately . Official French sources here are said to be worried about the possibility of an Anglo-Turkish move , but one can say on the best authority that this country has no intention of taking any part in an aggressive step . General An Isham Sabir predicted today that British and Arab forces under the deposed Iraqi Regent , - Abdul Illah , and a former Baghdad Premier , General Nun Pasha asSaid , supported by the Emir Abdullah of Trans-Jordan , would soon make a strong attack against Premier Rashid Ali Beg Gailani 's army , starting from Amman . Rashid Beg lodged a protest with the Emir Abdullah over the latter 's " pro-British attitude " and warned that " the Iraqis would answer all hostilities with every means at their disposal , " according to the Berlin radio , as heard here by the Columbia Broadcasting System . The German radio also reported that Fawzi el Quougji , Arab leader in the 1936 Palestine revolts , had led volunteer Iraqi troops across the Trans-Jordanian border near Amman and had engaged British forces . The General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Euphrates and Palestine and that possibly an attacking army would be able to reach Habbania Airport easily under the escort of a British motorized force and to attack Baghdad . The General predicted that the Iraqi forces would be able to form a defensive line along the Euphrates and could retire , if attacked by superior numbers , to a line north of Baghdad to Samarra , north of the Tigris . He said the present Baghdad Government would move to Mosul if forced to quit Baghdad . If the British attack were strong enough to push back the Rashid Beg forces , he said he believed they could form a line again from Kirkuk to Sabba and hold out in the gorges of Betha without relinquishing control of the oil pipelines . After the broadcast of General Dentz tonight , this correspondent talked with a British officer who fought in the World War on the staff of Lawrence of Arabia . He pointed out that the French bad signed a treaty with the Arab Government of Syria a few years ago in which the mandated territories received independence . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wise for the British to implement that treaty now . The viewpoint of the Arabs and the mandated territories is not yet clear . Abdul Arslan , the Emir of the Lebanese Druses , is under German influence , but it is believed the tribesmen of the Jebel Druse district would be more than willing to help any enemies of France . Rashid Beg is doing his best to rally together anti-British elements and he has named a political prisoner , Mekmart Suleiman , as Minister to Moscow . Suleiman , who was openly anti-British , was once Premier . Tension here would appear to be easing up somewhat . Automobiles in European Turkey are no longer required to carry blackout lids on their headlights .                     