@@706682

txt In the week just closed it has been evident that the war has been rising to a climax . The direction in which it swings in the next few months or weeks or days may determine its outcome . Nothing is to be gained , and everything could be lost , by failure to recognize the gravity of the situation in Russia . The Germans in six to eight weeks have advanced from 300 to 400 miles . They have reached at least some of the oil of the Caucasus . If they succeed in reaching most of it , they will have cut off the huge armed forces of Russia from that precious liquid fuel without which modern armies are helpless . This is undoubtedly the chief object and meaning of the Nazi drive . There can be little consolation if , in giving up their sources of oil , the Russians follow a " scorched earth " policy : this might prevent the Nazis from utilizing the cap . red oil wells for many months ; but it would not solve the problem of how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And without it they would be reduced to little better than guerrilla warfare . But if the week found Russia desperately pressed , it supplied in other theatres of the war great grounds for hope . Both in the Solomon Islands and on the coast of France the forces of the United Nations were on the offensive . The attack on the Solomons represented our own first fully offensive operation in the Pacific since our entrance into the war the United Nations ' attack on the French coast was their largest-scale offensive operation Since the fall of France . And there are many reasons for considering the latter only a foretaste of things to come . The dramatic visit of Winston Churchill to Moscow was certainly not made merely to discuss a single hitand-run raid , even on the scale of that at Dieppe . The raid itself was highly encouraging , moreover , in more than one aspect . It gave further proof that over the Channel , at present , the British have achieved air superiority  --  a result that they hardly dared dream of in the corresponding week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making daily mass bombings over England . Last week 's raid opens the hope that the British may find weak spots along the Continent , and that Dieppe may ultimately prove to have been merely a rehearsal for a full-scale invasion . While it is heartening to find the United Nations seizing the initiative , it would be a serious mistake to overrate their achievement , or to underrate the desperate situation in which the Russian armies , not to speak of the British armies in Egypt , now . find themselves . The British and American initiatives are still on a very limited scale ; and time is short . It is not for the lay public , in such a situation , to agitate for any particular plan of strategy : it can only insist that strategy must be placed in the ablest hands possible . And this is also the primary duty of Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt . Neither should himself attempt to plan the detailed strategy of the war . The American President and the British Prime Minister have , of course , ultimate responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first importance for them to recognize what sort of responsibility this is . It is not their function to conduct the strategy of the war but to see that it is properly conducted . Their responsibility consists not in selecting the right plan of strategy but in selecting the right strati egists , the right commanders , in whom they can repose complete confidence . It is not enough that they should " act on the advice " of these military men . They must give these military men full powers and full responsibility in all decisions that are primarily military . In short , while it is not humanly possible for President Roosevelt or Prime Minister Churchill to take direct responsibility for military decisions , they must take direct and full responsibility for the kind of personnel and organization by which those decisions are made . There must be unified staff work headed by a Joint Chief of Staff , with power over Army , Navy and air forces . There must be a unified command within both Britain and America , and a Supreme High Command , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole . If they are to take full advantage of the opportunity which the present crisis in the war presents , Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill must complete as quickly as possible the work in this direction that they have so far only begun .                     