@@704545

txt Mediation Plan Criticized Cooling-Off Period Is Suggested for Senator Wagner 's Project To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Senator Wagner 's projected United States Mediation Board , designed , as he says , to " supplement the work of the National Labor Relations Board , " is a step in the right direction . But the step is too halting and the reasons he gives for not going farther ir . the right direction are quite unconvincing . The new board would not possess the . power to issue subpoenas . If the board is to mediate intelligently , it seems essential that it should possess the power to ascertain the facts . This may become possible only if it can compel the attendance of those who possess the facts . The rejoinder may be that the knowledge that witnesses can be brought before the board by virtue of the subpoena power may cause parties to hesitate to consent k to mediation . But the objection should not ? aweigh the opportunity for effective functioning that would follow from the board 's possessing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enactment does not provide for the thirty-day waiting period to suspend strikes or lockouts , which is the very heart of the successful operation of the mediation features of the Railway Labor Act . Senator Wagner 's reason for not including the provision is that throughout the railroad industry there exist system-wide or national collective bargaining contracts , and the Railway Labor Act was the result of the agreement of a large majority of the railway employers and employes . I believe the Senator is hyper-doubtful as to the timeliness of including a waiting period provision in a mediation bill applicable to industry generally . The spread of collective bargaining in industry is already so wide that both capital and labor are no less ready for the waiting period feature than were the railroads and their employes when the Railway Labor Act became law in 1926 . Surely , if mandatory collective bargaining by employers could become an integral part of capital-labor relations in industry by mere legislative fiat , is there any doubt that the waiting periodfeature of an effective mediation system would soon become accepted with equal reasonableness by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from striking ? Labor Action Resented The recurrence of strikes is resulting in a mounting embitterment on the part of the public generally against the trade-union movement . This feeling is to be deeply deplored . Labor can prevent that resentment from increasing and can regain the public good-will that ' placed upon the statute books in recent years so large a volume of sound prolabor legislation . The record of the New York State Mediation Board is an excellent one . It has handled with courtesy and dispatch thousands of industrial disputes , but there is little doubt that , in the cases where it has failed and where it has not succeeded in averting strikes , the cooling-off period would have substantially diminished the number of disputes that finally ended in conflict . It may appear to some labor spokesmen that they may be deprived of a powerful weapon  --  the right to strike at will ? by the enactment of mediation legislation which contains the waitingperiod provision . But I am confident that the renewed public friendliness to labor which will follow the inauguration of a system that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a farreaching gain for the cause of labor generally . NATHANIEL PHILLIPS , Chairman , Committee on Industrial Relations , Trade and Commerce Bar Association . New York , Feb. 28 , 1940 . Faulty Approach Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Maurice Leon reminds Americans of the great French losses in men killed and wounded during the World War as compared with the relatively minor losses of the Americans . He further reminds us that without French aid in the War for Independence the struggle of the colonies would have been hopeless . Finally he points out that while American aid to France in 1917-18 brought about victory to the Allied cause , this victory was to be emasculated largely by American insistence that France accept paper guarantees in place of the physical guarantees she sought for her security . In other words , the American participation consisted in large part in laying the seeds for the present war . It is not my purpose to question any of the statements made by Mr. Leon . It is enough to say that many Americans will challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defy any satisfactory conclusion to the argument . The point which I wish to make is the futility of attempting to create goodwill between the American and French nations by praising the accomplishments of one and minimizing the achievements of the other . If the two nations are to regard each other with friendship and a sense of solidarity , it will be because of the underlying factors of common ideals and understanding , irrespective of the merits and demerits of the conduct of either nation in past history . GEORGE S. MONTGOMERY Jr . New York , Feb. 27 , 1940 . Revenue for Transit TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Therm : Recently I suggested to members of the City Council and to the city administration that by local law or otherwise a requirement be enacted compelling the earmarking to transit bond interest and amortization all or a fixed part of increases in tax revenue in areas of benefit , following upon and resulting from the construction and operation of new transit facilities , until the cost of such new construction is-met . It is my belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to make such allocations . This require- ment would not only tend to support the 5-cent fare , but as well would make more attractive a city application for Federal aid as for a self-sustaining project . The building of needed additional transit could then sooner be set in motion , and the pleas of residents of lost ? . provinces within the city , like the Northeast Bronx and elsewhere , would sooner be answered with shovels . MAX GROSS . ' New York , Feb. 27 , 1940 . Census Problem Discussed Various Reactions Aroused by Some of the Proposed Questions To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Will President Roosevelt and his New Deal Congress make April fools of the women voters of America ? On the first day of April the men of America will make an early start to the office , while the women of America will open the front door to the Federal census enumerator , - who will proceed to pry out of them with a Federal club information about their most intimate affairs . The government tells us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do it with smiles . They do not need to tell us , as we can already see the smug look of satisfaction on the face of the census man  --  possibly our next-door neighbor ? as he finds out what he has always wanted to know about us . The government also naively tells us that this information will never be told . However , the women having some brains and imagination ( which the government lacks ) , can see this census man with a group quietly hopes that Mr. X will be able to pay his grocery bills also . The group takes a quick look at the census man . He knows . Now they all know . ONE OF THEM . Caldwell , N. J. , Feb. 28 , 1940 . Value Called Doubtful To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The number of radios and monthly rental were included in the 1930 census under President Hoover . Mortgage indebtedness has also been used before and in the agricultural census for decades . Questions on school attendance go back into the last century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used have long been desired by business research agencies . The questions on income will probably show how many wives really know what their husbands earn , since women more likely than not interview the census taker . In my judgment these questions are of doubtful value . EDMUND DES . BRUNNER . New York , Feb. 26 , 1940 . Ulterior Purpose Discerned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As an average citizen I feel that I must protest against some of the things which our government today seems to think its inalienable right . The nearest thing to us and the next one to descend upon the public is the census . First , what is the purpose of a census ? As defined it is the enumeration of the inhabitants of a country , and that is all . Because some bureaucrat decides to add questions which will invade your inherent privacy is no reason why you have to answer them . What possible difference can it make to the running of good government whether you own a radio or not ? In this and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to be used for further taxation or is this the preliminary of war information ? KATHERINE BIGGS . New York , Feb. 25 , 1940 . Enemies or Guinea Pigs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The census questionnaire for 1940 falls into typical New Deal pattern . Well-todo citizens are regarded as public enemies ; all others as guinea pigs . FRANCIS KINGSLEY . New York , Feb. 28 , 1940 . Decorations vs . Salaries To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read in THE TIMES that the new Scarsdale postoffice has acquired two murals from the Treasury Department . " The murals , each 4 by 15 feet , showed Caleb Heathcote buying the Richbell farm here in 1699 , and an outdoor court scene of about 1705 . " This is very nice , but I feel bitter about it . As the wife of a substitute postal employe , I can not help wondering whether the money for postoffice murals and Doric columns would not be better spent in alleviating the hardships of its workers . My husband often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is off only two days a month . He is often compelled to " double-back " the next day after only four hours ' sleep . I do n't know how much the government saves by treating the substitutes like this , but surely it can not amount to a great deal . It seems to me that decently treated , healthy employes make far better decorations for any postoffice . Mrs. J. C. BOLES . Brooklyn , Feb. 28 , 1940.                     