@@711679

txt Chicago was chosen from all the nation as the site of the Elks National Memorial building , but In the broadest sense , it does not belong to Chicago . It belongs to the world as things of great beauty always do . The memorial , overlooking the green sward of Lincoln park and the blue swell of Lake Michigan at Diversey pkwy. , has been considered for more than two decades . one of the truly magnifirent architectural wonders of our times . It Is said to be more beautiful than the Roman Pantheon , as classic as the temples of Greece , and yet as American as a county court ? house or the capitol itself . Classic , Modern , And American " I might Say it Is classic and more Roman than Greek , " replied its famous architect , Egerton Swartwout of New York , one time when questioned . " I would prefer to say it Is modern , and that it is American . It is certainly moderD in conception and while it is claftic , it 16 not archaeological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classic whin got such a noble start in this country Just after the Revolution , the style used in the capitol and other buildings in Washington . It is our national heritage . " Our national heritage ? Perhaps it is . Certainly this exquisite immobility is the symbol of it , representing the finest artistic talent and artisan 's excellence in America . It Is beauty frozen in marble , molded in bronze , chiseled in stone , and brushed in glowing colors . An edifice designed for the ages and likely to remain so tin ' less catastrophe interferes , it is fitting that this is a war memorial , a memorial to the thousands of fraternal brothers who fought and died in World War I. and IL because they were fraternal in the vast democratic sense . Wins On Many Counts Seven of the nation 's finest architects competed to design it . S  --  artwout 's won on many counts . His had magnificence and at the same time was functional , being designed both as a temple and as the national headquarters of almost 1 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1924 . Two years later it was completed at untold cost and dedicated asa symbol of perpetual peace . Chisel and brush had worked well . Its majestic columns and noble dome , its broad curving stairway and complacent , bronze elks reclining in front , speak of strength , majesty , grace , and assurance , the virtues of peace . " On this spot that we all hold dear , where the blue of the great inland sea blends with the azure of the western sky , stands this imposing dome , rigid and immovable by day ; ' declaimed Rush L. Holland , past grand exalted ruler of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks , as dedication speaker on July 19 , 1926 . ' " But in ? the night , when the Stars sing together , it bows as It faces towards the graves at Arlington and the poppy fields of France . " Reclicated In 1940 With the same deep sincerity , the building was rededicated in 1946 by the Elks in memory of their lodge brothers who died in World War As one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for in the quarries of the world , and one hears the echo of one 's steps , there is the knowledge that reverence is here with a mighty purpose . The first impression of this pm-eminence comes on first seeing the Elks National memorial from an open path in Lincoln park , You approach it almost dnexpec ? tedly and then suddenly it demiantes the scene , a great beehive of Zeauty. its colonnades end frieze embroidered dame walled with wings , III these wings goes on the business of the Elks lodge thruout the country , but so quietly as . ? lot to disturb the deepened calm , ' ness of the memorial . The two beautiful , bronze elks reclining with elegant ease beforee building do much re to create an air of friedi muchnn . These giant , soothing beasts were sculptured by Laura Gardin Fraser , considered America 's foremost mild in animal sculpture . Sense Its Message It is not , however , until you pass the towering , bronze based flagpoles with their waving American flags and ascend the broad ' curving stairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message . On either side in niches of the wings stand majestic groups of bronze figures , one symbolizing " Patriotism " and the Other " Fraternity , " done by the eminent sculptor , Adolph A. Weinman . Your eyes are caught in the immobile strength of the statues until the sun , strength the bronze frieze around the central section ' of the memorial , flicks them skyward . This frieze , the most extensive work of its kind in the world , also was done by Weinman . A symbol over the etched bronze doorway tells its purpose , " The Triumphs of Peace Endure  --  The Triumphs of War Perish . " But it is when you reach the cool hollow of the great rotunda of Memorial hall , that awe descends . One hundred fifteen feet high and 75 feet in diameter , the . rotunda Is a masterpiece of , 25 kinds Of warmly tinted marble , gleaming columns , and arches , surging murals by Eugene Francis Savage , foremost muralist , and stalwart statues by James . Earle Fraser , a sculptor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virtues Here have been frozen in grace and captured in subtle symbolism , the four cardinal virtues of the Elks lodge , " Charity , Justice , Brotherly Love , and Fidelity . " Three muted paintings by Edwin H. Blashfield guarding the doorway of the reception hall as you leave the rotunda do not pre , pare you , for royal elegance within . But this Is a room fit for kings and designed for Americans , Magnificent crystal chandeliers glimmer down from the ceiling . Dignified ? giant crystal torcheres stand sentinel at the archways . Persian rugs whisper underfoot and delleately stained windows make patterns of their own design on the hand polished English oak paneling of the walls . savage rimmed his brush with fire here in the deep , gilt framed panels of the ceiling , and murals of gorgeous , rich colors flame with contrast against the dark oak . Two luminous and looming paintings , " The Paths of Peace ' and " Armistice , " make a lushness of human harvest against the western . wail . Guides are willing daily to point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buses make this their only stop on the north side , More than 1 million persons have wandered in its lasting loveliness since the bronze doors were thrown open . Chi cago , and the world , recognize that this Is something to see now , and for others to see later . As Ruskin once said , and he might have been talking about , this architectural accomplishment and reverent dream : " When we build , let us think that we build forever . Let it not . be alone for present delight , nor : for present use alone , Let it be ' such work asour descendants will , thank us for . "                     