@@706859

txt As a first step toward building a War Cabinet President Roosevelt is moving toward the creation of what may be the American parallel for the British Ministry of Labor and National Supply , headed by Ernest Bevin , it was reported today as light was shed on some aspects of his program . Secretary Ickes is reported to be considering the post of Secretary of Labor and head of an enlarged and remodeled manpower organization , a position which would make him the opposite number to Mr. Bevin . While William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , and Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , indicated to Mr. Roosevelt last night that they would like to have the new labormanpower portfolio go to Daniel J. Tobin , head of the A. F. of L. Teamsters Union , they agreed to cooperate 100 per cent with Mr. Ickes when the President said that the Secretary of the Interior was his choice . Stronger Labor Department Mr. Roosevelt 's plan for dealing with the labor-manpower situation would mean a rehabilitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from attrition . The United States Employment Service would be returned to the Labor Department and the Selective Service and the entire series of disparate Federal training program would be united under the American counterpart of Mr. Bevin . Secretary Perkins would be shifted to the Federal Security Administration , while its present head , Paul V. , who is also chairman of the Manpower Commission , would become Secretary of the Interior . To the extent that the program does not create a new super-manpower agency , the President is expected to reject . those counsels calling for such a new organization . Apparently he is taking part of the program proposed in the Pepper-Tolan bill ( S. 2871 ) and fashioning it to his own ideas . Deferring of Executive Order An Executive Order embodying the new labor-manpower machinery was to have been issued today , according to report , but it has now been put off for sorae days . Justice Samuel I. Rosenman of the New York Supreme Court , who worked out the program according to Mr. Roosevelt 's views , is due in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come up In the last twenty-four hours . If the President does not change the major provisions in the reported program it will mark his first Cabinet reshuffling since the New Deal began in 1933 . It has bee , . reported many times that Secretary Perkins would leave her post for another , but until the current Presidential consideration of the manpower situation these reports have lacked verification . Civilian-Military Conflict The chairmen of the five Congressional committees working on manpower and war-production legislation , it is understood , will seek a conference with President Roosevelt when his new labor-manpower organization has been completed . They are interested in discussing with him the entire production . procurement and manpower policy of the war effort . Above all , they are interested in the problem of civilian authority over procurement and the flow and scheduling of production , and they are said to be convinced that military control in this field would wreck the manpower and production program . It is pointed out in Congressional , circles that if Secretary Ickes ac-1 cepts his new post the relation between manpower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present conflict between Donald Nelson , chairman of the War Production Board , and the heads of the armed services over production scheduling . Mr. Ickes will probably have as his two chief assistants designates of the A. F. L. and the C. I. 0 . What part of the Manpower Commission staff he will take with him remains for consideration when and if he decides to accept the President 's offer . Mr. Nelson and Mr. Murray conferred today with the chairmen of the five Congressional committees . Civilian control over manpower policies relating to production and procurement formed part of the discussions . The consensus appeared to be that Mr. Ickes , or whoever takes the new labor-manpower post , would have the same handicaps as Mr. has had unless vital changes are made in war procurement and production . Under the present production system the preponderance of authority rests with those who sign the war contracts and who review these documents , the military services . The manpower authorities must needs evolve their labor training and labor supply program according to the pattern fixed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. has been handicapped in his effort to rebuild the United States Employment Service , which has deteriorated rapidly because of a variety of factors , partly political . Members of Congress , fearing that the recent federalization of the employment service meant a similar federalization of the Fede eral-State unemployment compensation machinery , have balked at granting necessary funds for the Federal job machinery . By providing that the job service shall go back to its former Federal-State status after the war Congress has divided the loyalties of the employment service chiefs with the result that many technical specialists have become discouraged and quit for better jobs . Limited appropriations have prevented Mr. from hiring sorely needed labor utilization inspectors required for ascertaining whether war plants were hoarding labor or making improper or inefficient uses of their labor staffs . Mr. Ickes , as Labor Administrator , would also have under his wing the 1,500 or more labor-management committees now in the labor division of the WPB . Organized labor is pressing for an extension of these committees to all war production plants in the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Er Fining program , which is now %alder Brig . Gen. Frank J. , operations chief of the Kartpower Commission , would be centered under Mr. Ickes. " " he training prog-rams embodies plans now being administered by the War Department , the Office of Education and the Manpower Commission . The idea is to put the entire program , as affecting youths . women , Negroes and other minorities , the up-grading of workers and within-industry training under the new labor-manpower cabinet official .                     