@@709695

txt Letters to The Times PAUL SEABURY.M.H . EXERJIAN , M.D.ESSON M. GALE.DAVID L. SAUNDERS . Letters to The Times Pact With Russia Appraised A Non-Aggression Treaty Is Held to Be No Assurance of Permanent Peace TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES The tripartite non-aggression pact between Britain , the United States and the Soviet Union , proposed in these columns by Ludwig Hamburger , seems to me to be a singularly ineffective method of solidifying the grounds for a permanent peace . There are limits beyond which written agreements of this sort can have no effectiveness . Neither the Soviet Union nor the Western powers could put any great degree of confidence in such an instrument unless there existed a fundamental will to resolve all conflicts between themselves on the basis of friendly cooperation , and unless there was a will to make it work . Russian faith in such non-aggression pacts can not be great . The Soviet Union was attacked by Nazi Germany less than two years after the conclusion of a similar treaty . Likewise , the existence of mutual assistance pacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to forestall Soviet aggression when a situation of overwhelming necessity arose . The Soviet Union and the United Kingdom now enjoy a treaty of alliance , as Mr. Hamburger himself notes . But this can not conceal the fact that between these two nations the treaty has done little to foster a community of interest , whereas between Britain and the United States , with no such treaty , there exist unwritten but strong bonds of sympathy and understanding . The proposed treaty would be superfluous because we already have established , in the United Nations , the machinery , however inadequate , to deal with future threats to the peace . As stated in the Charter , the purpose of this organization is " to maintain international peace and security . " The substitution of Mr. Hamburger 's pact for the Security Council as a means of achieving Big Three collective security would merely mean the changing of one ineffectual horse for another in the middle of the stream . Such a pact , furthermore , unquestionably would be impossible to conclude as long as the Soviet regime continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia refuses to consider such comparatively innocuous proposals as the German treaty suggested by Secretary Byrnes : when both Mr. Molotov and Mr. Gromyko repeatedly refuse to agree to abolition of the veto power , for any purposes whatever , either on the Security Council or the proposed international atomic control body , it is not likely that Mr. Hamburger 's proposals would receive more genial consideration . PAUL SEABURY . Hempstead , N. Y. , July 29 , 1946 . Viewing Turkey 's Elections Nation 's Westernization Is Held Doubtful Under Present Conditions TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The optimistic view expressed in your editorial of July 25 regarding the Turkish elections would be difficult to substantiate by historical or actual facts . The editorial observes that the Turkish elections are interesting because they represent a. choice of the Western form of democracy on the part of a Russian border state . This kind of stratagem is not new in Turkish history . It has been used regularly to save appearances . THE TIMES editorial goes on to observe that the provinces of Kars and Ardahan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " voted strongly for the Government . Certainly the Armenian inhabitants who were massacred during their deportation from their states to the deserts of Arabia could not use their de jure rights to vote strongly against the maltreating old and new Turkish regimes . Your able Near East correspondent , Mr. C. L. Sulzberger , revealed in your paper two years ago the organized maltreatment of Armenians and other minorities by the Turkish Government , approved by the Parliament without a dissenting vote under the name of wealth tax , for the purpose of exterminating the remaining non-Turkish population . For over a hundred years , since Tanzima t , or constitutional law , the best European laws and declarations of liberty , justice , fraternity , equality have been occasionally handed to the Turkish people , through the Sultans ' camarilla , or military revolutionists . But these have not constituted real strides in self-government . These laws have not been earned . They do not represent the conscious demands of the people , who have neither supported them nor fought to make them work . The larger percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of mind , and only a liberal , undiscriminating and truly democratic regime can emancipate them . M. H. EXERJIAN , M. D. Astoria , N. Y. , July 28 , 1946 . Aiding a Recognized Government TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Dr. Henry Seidel Canby , in his recent letter to THE TIMES , definitely misses the true analogy of British relationships to Union North and Confederate South in our Civil War with the current conflict between Nationalist and Communist China . In the first place , he disregards the immense aid which was given  --  to be sure unofficially , but nevertheless most effectively  --  by British agencies to the rebelling South . The construction of privateers in British shipyards resulted in their virtually sweeping the American merchant marine off the four seas . Thus the Union Government not only was required to suppress rebellion within its own borders but literally to conduct naval operations against Greek Britain . What would have been the out- , come on American unity if the British Ambassador had advised , even coerced , Lincoln into incorporating Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded unity for the sake of peace at any price ? Herein would be the real parallel . Amazingly enough , Dr. Canby overlooks in the present case of China and the United States that they are still formal allies , mutually engaged in bringing to an end the most devastating war in history , which continues to leave most of East Asia a prey to widespread rebellion and political chaos . Some of us have not only read books on the internal trouble in China . We have years of personal experience of the domestic struggles of that land toward unification . All the more do we believe that it is far from the United States ' business to dictate whether China 's domestic political structure shall be based on Kuomintang or SinoMarxian doctrine . It is , however , our part to continue cooperation with what we have recognized , as Ambassador Koo rightly reminds us , as the de jure Government of China in liquidating the war and its adventitious products in East Asia . Certainly no such contractual obligation determined the three-cornered Its ? lationships of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the period of our own Civil War . ESSON M. GALE . Ann Arbor , Mich. , July 30 , 1946 . Official Analysis Criticized Statements in Commerce Department Report on Price Rises Are Disputed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The statement on price increases since the termination of OPA recently issued by the United States Department of Commerce leaves much to be desired . It raises directly the question . how sound governmental policy can be evolved from distorted analysis of economic developments . To begin with , it is stated that the Bureau of Labor Statistics index of daily spot market prices has risen 34 per cent since V-J Day , compared with an increase of 22 per cent during the eleven months following Armistice Day for World War I. It is a basic statistical principle thak the comparability of index numbers or percentages depends on the validity of the respective base periods . In the earlier instance price controls were not applied as broadly or as rigidly as dur ing the period of hostilities . The greater current rise than in 1918-19 more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unduly repressed since 1942 , when the general control system was established . The statement goes on to suggest that the general wholesale price level , represented by nearly 900 commodities , will follow in due course the rise in sensitive prices . The basis advanced for this conclusion is that the two indices experienced parallel and equal nines after World War I. One of the twenty-eight components of the sensitive index , however , is zta ' ' e. silk . This commodity has had the Pmtreme rise of 140 per cent since the beginning of July , thereby accounting for one-fifth of the advance in the group as a whole . The statement makes no mention of the fact that raw silk now is all but nonexistent. as a raw material and that its principal substitute , rayon , has remained stable in price . Mention is made of the fact that part of the price increases reflects the elimination of subsidy payments . It pointed out , however , that the advances generally have been greater than the payments . It would have been more . candid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the elimination of subsidies and to have pointed out that such payments were not included in the price control system of World War I. Furthermore , the statement caste aspersions on the motives of individual business men and organizations which have advocated voluntary price restraint despite the termination of OPA . It is suggested that some of these statements " undoubtedly " constitute a smoke screen on the part of groups who have been lobbying to end price controls entirely , presumably with a view to gouging the consuming public later on . Finally , it is stated that the rapid price increases represent the expected response to basic inflationary pressures . These are specified in part as the heavy demands of businesses to replace and to expand plant and equipment and the demands for consumers for longawaited durable goods . It is a little difficult , however , to establish the connection between an immediate rise in the price of butter and the order of al public utility company for a new generator , which may or may not be pro- ' duced within the next six months . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lavish wage payments approved and financed by the Government during the war and in the resultant increases in production costs as wartime wage rates have been carried over into peacetime operations . DAVID L. SAUNDERS . Peekskill , N. Y. , July 30 , 1946.                     