@@705125

txt A modus vivendi between the Rome-Berlin Axis and France was understood to have been decided upon by Premier Mussolini and Chancellor Hitler at their Florence meeting . The agreement , it was learned today , will replace the peace treaty , which could not be signed by the P ? tain government for several reasons of a political character . Foremost among these reasons was believed to be the presence of the British Fleet in the Atlantic , ready to prevent by force the annexation of colonial territories that France would have to hand over to the Axis powers , and the possibility that the civil and military leaders in charge of the territories that formed the French Empire would refuse to abide by the peace treaty on the pretext that it was signed by the home government under ItalianGerman pressure . On the other hand the two Axis leaders are believed to have realized the desirability of facilitating Marshal Henri Philippe Petain 's task of governing unoccupied France , especially in view of the hardships that are in store for the French people with the coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary arrangements . Supplies Promised to France By the terms of these arrangements , which are now believed to be under discussion in detail by Vice Premier Pierre Laval and the unofficial German Ambassador in Paris , Heinrich Abetz , Marshal Petain will be able to obtain a certain amount of food , coal and other necessaries that will relieve the misery of the French population . In this way , it was understood , the risk of internal complications in unoccupied France , such as general disorders , always possible when hunger and suffering are widespread , will be eliminated . At the same time Germany , it is explained , while retaining a form of military control in the occupied territory , will be able to withdraw a large portion of her troops and thus lighten the burden of the French people , who are now forced to support them . The suggestion for a modus vivendi was believed to have been made by Signor Mussolini . After discussing it at length Herr Hitler was stated to have accepted it . As a result it is not expected that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are many technical details of a political and strategic nature which Berlin must first discuss with Vichy . There will be instead other direct contacts between the Axis Foreign Ministers to examine the progress of the French-German negotiations . Before these , however , the Axis statesmen will meet again , probably early next ! From here on the censor on the Rome-Berne line would allow nothing to get through . Britain 's Stock Rises in Vichy By DANIEL T. BRIGHAM By Telephone to THE Nsw YORK TIMES . BERNE , Switzerland , Nov. 2 ? Indications that the party hoping for a British defeat is rapidly losing ground in the Vichy government and that Marshal Henri Philippe Petain 's personal prestige is increasing by tremendous stages are contained in negative information from a prominent anti-British politician from Vichy who is touring Switzerland . He says that " the road to peace Is certainly going to be long and rocky and the British resistance , prolonged as it has been , has by its very continuance given rise to many doubts in anti-British quarters , " while pro-British sentiments are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will overcome the internal obstacle to its program of reform and reconstruction  --  a program that envisages the suppression of those very ideological differences that allegedly led to this war  --  depends largely on the assistance forthcoming from Germany . The Rome government 's attitude in maintaining entirely its territorial claims against France , coupled with the solidarity manifest in the Axis press during the last few days , has led to much deception in Vichy government quarters , where it is understood that even Vice Premier Pierre Laval is having difficulty in explaining the new turn of affairs to his colleagues . M. Laval 's statement in Paris that he is firmly determined to put an end to " foreign interference " is interpreted as meaning he intends by all means possible to put an end to the spreading of British propaganda in France and suppress by all means at his disposal the mounting sympathy for General Charles de Gaulle , leader of Free France . In doing this , according to the visiting politician , Vice Premier Laval hopes that Germany will appreciate French " collaboration " and back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims against France . M. Laval is understood here to be pressing the Marshal for acceptance of the clause demanding the cession of naval bases in the Mediterranean to the Axis and is even willing to cede part of the Navy . But this proposition invariably encounters the immovable opposition of Marshal Petain , who insists on " honorable neutrality " toward his former ally . One thing seems certain in the present whirlpool of rumors and counter-rumors circulating in unoccupied France , that as long as the Marshal lasts this attitude will not he changed . He is reported extremely incensed at the terms of the " peace agreement " to which Vice Premier Laval agreed . Whatever other failings Marshal Petain may have , he intends to keep his pledge to.keep his armed forces from being used against Britain , Italy Delays Peace Pact wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . VICHY , France , Nov. ** is no further indication of the progress made in the French-German negotiations for " collaboration . " The general understanding is that they revolve around economic questions , yet it is evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There may be the difficulty . It had been presumed by the overoptimistic that everything might be decided in short order . Manifestly this is not so . There are two partners to the Axis and Italy is making it clear that she has abandoned none of her previous claims . This calls for " collaboration " in Africa as well as in Europe . Incidentally , there has been no news of General Maxime Weygand , chief military and political official in French Africa , since his visit to Dakar several days ago . During the period of waiting Vichy is devoting itself to its favorite pastime of guessing the march of events from slender indications . It is noted , for instance , that the credit opened by the Bank of France to the State to meet the cost of the German army of occupation has been increased from 50,000,000 , - 000 to 60,000,000,000 francs . Mathematicians calculate the increase represents forty-five days beyond the four months represented by the original advance . Several deductions are possible . Deductions are possible also from the announcement that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope of his personal office . First Paul Baudoin left the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to become Secretary of State attached to the Marshal . Now it is announced that in the order of precedence M. Baudoin will rank immediately after the Keeper of the Seals , who ranks immediately after Pierre Laval , Vice Premier and Foreign Minister . Thus one result of the change is to make M. Baudoin the fourth man in the Cabinet . It is announced also that the youth movement henceforth is to be attached to the Marshal 's office . In view of the importance attached to this movement , the decision is not without significance . There may be significance also in the report from Paris that Fernand de Brinon has received the rank of Ambassador . It is understood that he has been carrying on negotiations with the Germans in Paris since M. Laval left . M. Brinon paved the way for M. Laval 's visit to Washington in 1931 . He was a prominent member of the France-Germany committee before the ' war . Bonnet Sees S. Approval VICHY , France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bonnet , former French Foreign Minister , was quoted today by a Marseille newspaper as saying the United States " could only he pleased " by the French-German agreement to collaborate . M. Bonnet , former French Ambassador to Washington , based this premise on a theory that the pact meant stabilization in Europe , " with which America has had important economic ties . " He predicted American collaboration with the Continent would he " imperative . " Italians Stress Demands ROME , Nov. 2 ( UP ) ? The semi-official weekly magazine Relazioni Internazionali said today that France must pay her debts to Italy in full and that the French should not expect the Italians to weaken on the day of reckoning . " The accounts with France , which were settled by arms , are still to be paid and will be paid at the moment of peace , " it said . " The French people above all must not lull themselves with false illusions . No worming out will be permitted . If France honestly wants to participate in the new European set-up she must first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In one century of time France can start thinking of revenge , if she has gained sufficient strength to do so . "                     