@@710600

txt Regardless of whether the Senate undertakes its own investigation of the Missouri vote-frauds case , this Kansas City political scandal is almost certain to become an explosive issue in the 1948 election . It is welcome campaign material for the Republicans . It is highly embarrassing to President Truman . It is embarrassing to the President because it constitutes an unerasable blot  --  and not the first one  --  upon the politics of his home State , and because the voting irregularities bear directly upon Mr. Truman 's own intervention in the primary to purge Representative Roger Slaughter from the Democratic membership of Congress . Mr. Slaughter , whom Mr. Truman was able to get defeated for renomination by fewer votes than apparently were cast by nonexistent or deceased " voters " whose ballots were credited to the President 's hand-picked candidate , Enos Axtell , declared a few days ago that " a scandal threatens the great office of the President of the United States and will inevitably become an issue in the campaign which will be waged next year . " A A A At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off this issue so vigorously and so persistently as to leave the impression that he considers it combustible  --  and the least said the better . When the Jackson County board of election commissioners ' vault was dynamited and the impounded ballots , vital evidence in the case of the 42 persons recently indicted by the Jackson County grand jury , stolen , the White House dismissed correspondents ' questions with a quick " No comment . " To Rep-. resentative Slaughter 's remarks , the President later said that , considering the source , they did n't worry him . And they do n't worry the Republicans . They give them no discomfort at all . It doe : not go unnoticed here that the only quasipolitical statement which Governor Dewey has made thus far in the course of his " nonpolitical " quest for delegates on his current trip across the country was to remark that the Missouri indictments constitute " a national story  --  one of the most important in the nation today . " No matter who the Republican presidential nominee is , he is certain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , and here are the reasons why the Republicans believe it is politically factual and politically effective to do so : They say that in blocking the reappointment as United States Attorney of Maurice Milligan , who sent Boss Tom Pendergast to jail in 1939 , Mr. Truman as Vice-President used his influence to punish Missouri Democrats who revolted against the old Pendergast machine . They show that Mr. Truman as President used the powers of his office to pardon and resLoi e citizenship rights to Pendergast 's convicted political vote Justus . Minneapolis Star White Man 's Burden fraud'ers , thus helping the machine lure timid allies back to service . They note that Mr. Truman used the prestige of the Presidency to help revive the lagging machine Missourians thought they had destroyed 10 years ago  --  did this by giving it the White House-approved assignment of mobilizing to defeat Mr. Slaughter . In performing this the machine maneuvered a victory for two of its own nominees for the strategic posts of prosecuting attorney and county judge . ? They point out that the Department of Justice was content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law in a situation which since has exploded all over the place , and that Mr. Truman has shown such a detached disinterest in the scandal as to appear to condone it by not condemning it . A A A The significant political fact is that the big-city organizations are on the run , and if President Truman does not free himself from the meshes of the Pendergast machine in Missouri , few would say other than that he is hurting himself , hurting the Presidency , and hurting the cause of cleaner government in the country . New York 's Tammany , Frank Hague 's organization in New Jersey , and Mayor Edward Kelly 's stronghold in Chicago all suffered setbacks at the hands of the voters in the past year . The renascent Pendergast machine has quickly got into public trouble again . The need is to keep corrupt machine politics on the run , and if Mr. Truman stands aloofly aside and offers no help , it may well be he  --  and not the voters  --  who will suffer most next year . With this article . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Drummond 's vacation .                     