@@704865

txt Nash-Kelvinator Corp . has under way a 36.500.000 expansion and modernization program at its Kenosha and Milwaukee automobile factories . When completed later this quarter , the enlarged Nash plant will be one of the most modern in the motor industry . Increased and improved production facilities are being obtained to provide adequate capacity for the company 's new entrant in the mass market price field which , together with the company 's other car lines . will be introduced publicly in the early autumn New financing is not involved in the expansion plans . Costs will be met as the program progresses from company 's current holdings of cash and government securities . Meanwhile , sales of Kelvinator refrigerators were at a new high and sales of Nash cars were in satisfactory though not record volume in the quarter just ended . Company 's report for the period probably will show net profit of upward of $700,000 or roughly 16 cents a share on the 4.291.306 shares of $5 par capital stock outstanding . Earnings Comparisons This would almost double the $392.941. or 9 cents a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with $108,264 , or 2 cents a share , in the quarter ended June 30 , 1939 . For the first nine months of the company 's September 30 fiscal year , net thus would be indicated at around $1.100,000 , or 26 cents a share , against a net loss of $1,439,198 in the like 1939 period . Ultimate future growth and earnings of the company in the automobile business hinges upon its ability to produce and sell a car which can compete successfully in the volume market . This reasoning explains the decision to go ahead at this time with a plan which has been in process of formation since the merger of Nash and Kelvinator in 1937 . New buildings , additional machinery . 1941 model tools and dies , and a complete rearrangement of the company 's present production and assembly facilities , make up the current modernization program . To Compete in Broader Market While production coats and selling prices have not yet been determined for the new low-priced line , the prospective manufacturing of which previously was reported , company has advised its dealers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much broader market than its 1940 price structure allowed . During this model year . cars in the Nash price range accounted for around 35% of total new car sales . Introduction of this new Nash car , which is not merely a restyled and redesigned version of a previously existing series but a completely new car in every rense , will allow Nash dealers to compete for the available business in all but the highest and lowest price brackets . Company completed its 1940 car model year in the June quarter . Factory sales of the 1940 series amounted to about 65.000 units . or 30% more than 1939 model sales . This rate of increase about parallels that of the motor industry . Kelvinator Division In ahead of the 1939 June quarter . For the fiscal year to date . Kelvinator 's sales are 70% ahead of a year ago ; this approximately doubles the rate of gain of the refrigeration industry . Kelvinator business is being sustained at a high level . Backlog of unfilled orders , rate of retail sales and other determining factors indicate that operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the December quarter at full one-working-shift capacity . Refrigerator sales , if the present demand shows only an average seasonal recession through the late summer and early fall , will approximate 320,000 units in the year ending September 30 , next , as compared with 185.000 last year and 356.000 in 1937 , Kelvinator 's peak sales year . Company 's new merchandising policy , signalized in January with sharp price reductions , seems to be curbing in substantial degree the usual seasonality of the business . Whereas the last week in May usually has been the factory sales peak for electric refrigerators , with weekly shipments during May exceeding those of the full December quarter , this year sales have shown nothing like their usual downtrend in June . In fact , shipments last month almost equalled those of May , and orders so far in July are running substantially above the company 's break-even production point . 