@@704392

txt Despairing of Harmony Administration Attitude Seen as Bar to Cooperation With Industry A letter from R. K. Washburn published in your issue of Dec. 24 concludes with the statements that economic conditions are basic facts that demand action and that the only agency capable of correcting them is a working entente of industry and government . Instead of constituting in themselves basic facts , economic conditions under the capitalistic system are the result of the operation or interference with the operation of economic laws which are predicated upon basic facts . While it is doubtful if any one can follow all of their ramifications , those laws are fundamental and have governed the economic structure since the general recognition of the right of the individual to . own property . Constantly opposing their operation are certain human weaknesses , notably selfishness and greed , which , up to the present time , society has been unable satisfactorily to control . Accordingly , economic conditions are impaired or improved as such opposition increases or decreases . At the crest of a boom it is at the maximum ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The depression end of a cycle finds the economic world so strewn with the wreckage of values that many are persuaded the economic system has committed hara-kiri , and , when it is discovered that its heart continues to beat faintly , they suggest all manner of nostrums as stimulants . Force Reasserted Because selfishness and greed have found little upon which to feed , heretofore , without governmental aid or guidance , economic laws have exerted their full force until the wreckage has been cleared away , whereupon , with humanity promising to be good , a fresh start has been made . Before stating his conclusions , Mr. Washburn observes that critics are superficial who believe that " the present economic situation is largely the fault of the present Administration 's unorthodox financial and labor policies , " because " these policies have their explanation * * * in the necessity of dealing , somehow , with the situation left by " such critics , whom he terms " traditionalists . " Although it is not clear how or why the situation existing at the beginning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created and passed along ) by any one in particular , yet if we assume the contrary , that the Administration was required to deal with conditions created and passed along by some one , why is it superficial if he correctly criticizes such dealing as un-orthodox ? Seeking to Place Blame Notwithstanding that one may be responsible for the worst possible mess , having been eliminated from all association therewith , is he superficial because he points out that those dealing with it as his successors ignore all tradition , betray Ignorance of the problems requiring solution , and after accumulating mountains of debt and expending the proceeds without improving conditions , continue such accumulation and expenditure , dry up the sources of employment with staggering taxes , subordinate the employer to the employe and then blandly condemn capital and business for not increasing production ? Mr. Washburn correctly says that the situation presents " a problem for business and government working in harmonious understanding of the duties of each , " but he offers no definition of such duties . Obviously , however , those of the government include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elimination of public competition with private enterprise , and the abolition of all governmental restraints except those dealing directly with selfishness and greed . Having in mind the attitude toward such essentials of the head of our Federal Government and of those with whom he has surrounded himself , is it not the " nth " degree of euphemism to suggest the possibility of " harmonious understanding " between that government and business ? ELDON BISBEE . New York , Dec. 28 , 1939 . Some Things Not Understood To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I can understand how Hitler and Stalin got together , and why Jim Farley predicts always that the Democrats will win . I know that Spring will come and that Homer Green will write to THE TIMES again , by heck . I 'm certain the Allies will win temporarily , but that in a few decades more no one will know who really won the prior World War . No doubt there will be a third term . I know that peace will come out of hiding and fill the emptiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and get up tomorrow . But I do not understand why Sunday and every-day drivers do not keep to the right if they are in no nurry or are not going anywhere in particular . Nor do I understand the aims of a traffic policeman who regards a passage on the right of " pokers , " after horn-blowing , waving and the like , as a greater offense than middle-of-the-roade  --  s ' jay driving . RICHARD COTTER CARTON . Newark , N. J. , Dec. 28 , 1939 . That Court-House Paneling To THE EDITOR OF THE Nzw YORK TIMES ! A few days ago there appeared in your columns a letter signed by David Miller of the Manufacturing Woodworkers Association , protesting against the awarding to a Milwaukee firm of a contract for the cabinetwork in the Criminal Courts Building , now in process of erection in this city . Inquiry on my part indicates that the cabinetwork consists almost entirely of paneling for the court rooms and the benches of the judges . It appears that some $150,000 to $160,000 will be expended in Milwaukee for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . It also appears that there are only a few firms in the United States , probably not , more than four or five , which are equipped to produce this particular kind of paneling and not a single firm in the State of New York does this work . The letter appearing in your columns , subsequent to that of Mr. Miller , from Michael Walpin in respect to this particular contract , inquires pertinently , it seems to me , concerning the actual value of New York products which are shipped annually to Milwaukee , and , further , what would be the result if each State in the Union " decided to manufacture and purchase everything in itS local community " ? FRIEDA S. MILLER , State Industrial Commissioner . New York , Dee . 27 , 1939 . Processing Tax Opposed Secretary Wallace 's Latest Proposal Condemned as Unfair to Majority To THE EDITOR OF Tim NEW YORK TIMER : Secretary Wallace again proposes a processing tax on wheat and cotton . Secretary Morgenthau opposes it on the ground that the tax will be shifted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgenthau might have added that it is almost invariably the case that a tax on production is shifted to the consumer with a profit on the tax . The Secretary of the Treasury adds : " Of the $1.4,811,000,00 ( in taxes collected by Federal , State and local governments in 1938 , 32 per cent came from property ( real estate ) , 2.4 per cent from customs duties , 10 per cent from gasoline and other vehicle taxes , 9 per cent from liquor and tobacco taxes and 8.8 per cent from saies taxes and other excises . " These aggregate 63.1 per cent of almost fifteen billion in taxes paid by the American people in 1938 . The balance of 36.9 per cent undoubtedly consists of income , corporation , gift and inheritance taxes , Federal and State . Mr. Morgenthau fell into one error . Of the almost five billions in taxes paid by real estate approximately one-half was levied on buildings . These taxes , of course , were shifted by the owners onto the tenants . The other half of real estate taxes were levied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alike , agree that taxes on land a 1-ues can not be shifted The vice in Mr. Wallace 's processing* tax is the same that underlies the le otective tariff . He wants to tax all the people in order to benefit about 30 per cent of them , viz. , the farmers . About forty years ago I wrote a pa per analyzing the census of 1890 . I showed that less than one-third of the population ( including families ) were engaged in industries fostered by the tariff . This meant that two-thirds of the people had to pay more for their necessities and luxuries in order to help the remaining third . So with the proposed processing tax . In order to help the farmers ( 30 per cent ) the other 70 per cent will have to pay more for their food and clothing . Would this he a square deal ? FREDERICK CYRUS LEURUSC liER . Essex Fells , N. J. , Dec. 29 , 1939 . Trend to Totalitarianism Seen TO THE EDITOR OP ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : I believe it a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is the German exponent of a great fundamental change that is steadily developing in all governments throughout the whole civilized world . England and France condemn totalitarian government , yet they must adopt it in order to cope with Germany . Not only does international competition demand the adoption of this form of government , but serious internal problems in all countries likewise require the centralization and efficiency that totalitarianism gives . Communism in Russia , fascism in Italy , nazism in Germany and the New Deal in the United States are all local phases of the same trend . It may be that the democracy of the last century is only a transition from the ancient hereditary leadership form of government to a newer form where the leader is selected by a bolshevlst party , as is the case in all four of the countries mentioned . We are now perhaps at a great turning point in world history . D. DAVIDSON . Chicago , Dec. 22 , 1939 . Mate for Pelican Requested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! ? Two pelicans made their home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now one of them has died , leaving behind a sad mate , for they had been inseparable companions for close to half a century . Never mingling with the other feathered creatures on the lake , they were seen gliding side by side , majestically over the surface of the water , fishing by means of their enormous and grotesquely shaped bills for the little fish that make their sole food . Even when they took to the shore , to rest and sun themselves , they always selected a secluded spot . Now , perched on a rock protruding from the water the lone pelican is pining for its departed mate . Could the plight of this lonesome bird he made known , perhaps some bird fancier might be able and willing to obtain a mate for the survivor as a New Year 's gift . EUGENE WOLFS-Oeviou . New York , Dee . 30 , 1939. 