@@709705

txt Passage of the two-thirds voting rule still seemed assured at the Peace Conference here today  --  although a British amendment which aimed at mollifying the smaller nations ran into stern opposition from the Soviet Union . Russian Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov termed the British proposal objectionable , pointing out that it was " calculated to upS'et the decision of the Council of Foreign Ministers and replace it with a new one . " The British proposal had sought a common ground between the Big Four decision to have Peace Conference voting on amendments to the draft treaties determined by a two-thirds majority vote and the Little 17 desire to have amendments approved by a simple majority vote . As a compromise between the two stands , the British had suggested the creation of two kinds of substantive recommendations by the Conference to the Big Four ? those by a two-thirds majority and those by a simple majority . China , Belgium Back Plan China and Belgium had rallied earlier today to the British proposal . Support by these two countries , added to the four votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet bloc , would have made the 11 votes necessary to secure a majority for the modified plan . However , the Soviet Foreign Minister put a blunt pe1'iod to_the such aspirations this afternoon , making it appear likely that the original unmodified two-thirds majority plan would be the voting procedure finally accepted . Even before Mr. Molotov 's action , Conference delegates had little doubt that the creation of a second class of recommendations , as provided by the British amendment , was only a polite gesture to the small powers ' viewpoint , rather than a concession of real importance . United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes strengthened this interpretation . He welcomed majority recommendations , he said , and would take them into consideration ; but he could not consider himself bound to support them , as he had agreed to support two-thirds votes . Changes Face Rough Path Mr. Byrnes then candidly agreed with speakers for the small powers that it would in fact be very difficult to get a two-thirds vote in this conference against the draft treaties proposed by the Council of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against such a decision , he admitted . However , Mr. Byrnes is making every effort to divert attention to those questions left undecided by the Foreign Ministers Council and to the area opened t p by the right to present new or " supplementary " suggestions at this Conference . He has had prepared and issued to the press a list of 26 questions left open by the Foreign Ministers . This diversion , however , conceals only partly the fact that the United States delegation is tightening its support for the Foreign Ministers ' agreements . Case vs . Two-Thirds Rule Simple majority recommendations would bring heavy pressure to bear on Russia by giving full voice to the western-minded powers . Two-thirds . majorities would tend , on the other hand , to . give more solid moral authority to recommendations which would not differ so radically from what the western Foreign Ministers were able to extract from their Soviet colleague , but for that reason would have special hope of winning Russian acceptance . The question here today revolves around which is likely to prove ' more effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Militant Each has its own advocates . The smaller powers , led by Australia and the Netherlands , are inclined to be more militant because they have observed during the last meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers ' that firmness with Russia appears to pay . They also are acting on the basis of what they consider the vital prin ciple of giving the majority a full and unrestricted voice . The western big powers are holding to the British compromise on the two-thirds rule for reasons best expressed by Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of the United States delegation when he said after leaving the last Foreign Ministers ' meeting that . almost every ounce of concession already had been sqUeezed out of Russia by Mr. Byrnes and British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , and that the peace conference could not hope to do much more .                     