@@712228

txt Gov . Thomas E. Dewey acted tonight to break the deadlock over leases between the Port of New York Authority and the major airlines that had blocked full use by the airlines of Idlewild , the New York International Airport . Acting in concert with Gov . Alfred E. Driscoll of New Jersey , which is represented by six of the twelve members of the authority , Governor Dewey declared that the two were convinced that " this dispute has been needlessly prolonged . " He sent telegrams to all members of the Authority and to representatives of the four major airlines operating Stratocruisers , inviting them to a Friday meeting in Albany " for the purpose of laying the groundwork for a solution of the problem . " Airline representatives invited to the conference are : C. Ft . Smith , president of American Overseas Airlines ; J. R. Stainton . American manager of the British Overseas Airways Corporation ; Croil Hunter , president of Northwest Airlines , Inc. , and Juan T. Trippe , president of Pan American Airways , Inc . Text of Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I have become increasingly concerned over the dispute between the airlines and the Port of New York - Authority concerning the leases for use by the airlines of New York International Airport . Following conferences with Governor Driscoll , I am authorized by him to say that we both are convinced that this dispute has been needlessly prolonged ; that the public interest is being adversely affected and that unnecessary losses of traffic , income and services to the public are being incurred . " With the full approval of Governor Driscoll , I therefore ask you to meet with me and with representatives of the Port Authority and other airlines engaged in overseas flying the largest type civil aircraft at 10 A. M. Friday , July 29 , at the executive offices , Albany , for the purpose of laying the groundwork for a solution to the problem . " The deadlock stems from the leases made by New York City in 1945 with nine major airlines for use of the airport . The Port of New York Authority took over the airport and the leases in May , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy has been frequently acrimonious , with some terms of the leases acceptable to the authority and not to the airlines and vice versa The authority has ' completed five runways and is building three others , but so far none of the nine major airlines has made Idlewild a primary base . Major Issues Listed The eight major issues in the controversy were listed as follows : 1 . Tariff or flight charges . The authority wants uniform rates for all carriers , regardless of the amount of traffic . The airlines want rates on a sliding scale . 2 . Rates for use of public areas , such as ticket rooms and terminals . 3 . Financing and constructing of new hangars and other base facilities . 4 . Rental charges for temporary facilities to be erected until permanent facilities are built . 5 . Allocation of ground areas at the field for use of the various airlines . 6 . Agreements for construction of permanent terminal buildings . 7 . Arrangements whereby various airport services could be used in common by all the airlines . These would include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baggage and Federal custom services . 8 . The question of the rights of the airlines to " do other things supplementary to the carrying of passengers . " C-overnor Dewey conferred in Albany last week with representa- tives of the authority and the conference set for Friday is an outgrowth of that talk and of conversations he has had with Governor Driscoll . All of the airlines the representatives of which have been invited to the Friday conference use overseas Stratocruisers . Pan American , while flying its Stratocruisers out of Idlewild , has no facilities there . The Stratocruisers , because of their size , can not take off loaded from La Guardia Field . They are , therefore flown empty to La Guardia Field , serviced there , then flown to Idlewild to take on passengers . The two fields , the main New York airports , are in Queens . La Guardia , the older field , is nearer to the center of Manhattan . Invitation Is Welcomed Governor Dewey 's invitation was welcomed last night by both Juan T. Trippe , president of Pan American Airways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Authority . Mr. Trippe stated : " I am delighted to accept Governor Dewey 's invitation to meet with him and with representatives of the Port Authority and officials of the other airlines on Friday . With good-will on both sides I believe a fair solution can be found to this long-standing controversy . " Mr. Pope stated : " I am pleased to know that Governor Dewey , following ' a conference with the Port Authority last Thursday and with the concur , rence of Governor Driscoll , is calling a meeting of the Port Author : ity and several airline presidents to discuss the renegotiation of the 1945 Idlewild leases . "                     