@@706214

txt That is the headline splashed across the front page of the Sunday Pictorial today as another urgent appeal  --  the second within 24 hours  --  was received from the Australian government urging the immediate dispatch of arms and men " to meet the increasing threat of Japanese Invasion . " Not only is Australian opinion in favor of an American army landing in Australia , the Pictorial asserts ; it also believes " an American air force can and should be thrown immediately against the Japanese invaders in New Guinea . " Furthermore , the Pictorial finds , American opinion as interpreted by newspapers and radio commentators Is " fully prepared for an American army being sent to Australia , ns Well as to Singapore and the Pacific islands . " Asserts Flea Went Unanswered . Following the news of Japanese landings on New Guinea and In the Solomon Islands , the Australian government had called yesterday on Prime Minister Churchill for help and , according to ' the Evening News , it is because " no reply has been received as yet to the first cable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his appeal , Prime Minister John Curtin of Australia asked the British government for representation in an imperial war cabinet and for the formation of a Pacific war council on which all the allied countries con. cerned with the Pacific struggle should be represented . After long conferences between the Australian war cabinet and service heads today , the conclusion was reached , according to the news reaching here , that " any Japanese invasion of the Australian islands could only be halted by a great increase in equipment . " In the course of the meeting , vital decisions , it was said , were taken regarding defense and other precautionary measures , includ. ing a general blackout of the Australian coast . Calls for Fighters . Following the Australian cabinet meeting today , a spokesman stressed that the aircraft and other /Tenforcements urgently required - " must be capable of dealing with escorting Japanese fighter planes which are based on aircraft carriers . " He also said that the Australian government is anxious to receive supplies and equipment immediately and in sufficient quantities to enable the allied defense in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an attack is the best form of defense . Altho admitting that " never before was the challenge to Australian occupaliol of Australia sp directly menaced , " Prime Minister Curtin , it was said , reiterated the determination of the Australian people to " stand steadfast until victory is achieved . " Demands Policy Change . At the same time the British cabinet came in for additional criticism when Emanuel Shinwell , Laborite member of parliament , in a speech today expressed the conviction that " changes In government personnel would not he of the slightest , value unless accompanied by a drastic change in policy . " Shinwell called Churchill 's expected demand for a vote of con. fidence in the house of commons next week " a waste of time . " 