@@711694

txt An impasse has been reached in negotiations being conducted by the United Nations for an armistice in southern Palestine . There seems to be little chance that the deadlock can be broken unless the Security Council 's resolution of Nov. 16 is superseded . This resolution called for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Negeb , including the evacuation of Beersheba , establishment of provisional demarcation lines and armistice talks between Israel and Egypt According to Israeli sources , the impasse has been induced mainly by the changed attitude of Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , acting United Nations Mediator , to the Israeli reply to these orders . After having interpreted the reply as acceptance in spirit , Dr. Bunche now is said to he insisting upon fulfillment of the resolution " in letter as well as in spirit . " This attitude , according to the Israelis , has led to three fundamental differences in the interpretation of the Nov. 16 resolution by the Israelis on one hand and the United Nations and the Egyptians on the other . The three points of difference are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulars is isolated , and the stationing of United Nations observers in the Negeb . Last night at a secret session of the State Council , Israel 's provisional Parliament , Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion expounded the differences after the Government 's policy had been severely criticized by representatives of the Revisionist , Communist and United Workers parties . The Government won a vote of confidence after Mr. Ben-Gurion had rejected the opposition 's charges that the Israeli answer to the Nov. 16 resolution represented major concessions . Dr. Bunche at first was believed here to have accepted the Israeli position that the military situation made it impossible to evacuate Beersheba , an argument with which Brig . Gen. William E. Riley of the United States Marine Corps , Chief of Staff to Dr. Bunche , is believed to agree . Now it is said that Dr. Bunche is insisting that Israeli forces withdraw completely from Beersheba . The ancient town is strategically located on the main highway from Egypt to Jerusalem by way of Hebron and Bethlehem . Although willing to try to reach some compromise on the two other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give up Beersheba . But according to Israeli sources , Dr. Bunche has made this a condition for getting the Egyptians to agree to the armistice . Thus the deadlock has ensued . Riley Held to Agree As a soldier , General Riley is also believed here to see the Israelis ' point in refusing to allow supplies into the Faluja pocket for the 3,000 or more Egyptian regulars bottled up there . The Israelis , however , might be willing to make a deal for the provisional supplying of the pocket if the Egyptians would agree to direct negotiations for an armistice . The Egyptians have been trying to supply the pocket by air against the Israelis ' overwhelming air superiority , but militarily the air lift has been a failure although it probably has had some effect on the troops ' determination not to surrender . Unless supplied by motor convoy , however , the Faluja force must eventually surrender or try to break out , as did the troops in Iraq Suweidan recently . The Israelis have refused flatly to let them retire to the Egyptian lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also have rejected the acting Mediator 's interpretation of the Nov. 16 resolution about , observers in the Negeb . According to information here , Dr. Bunche has sought agreement for what Israeli sources said amounted to United Nations rule of a vast demilitarized zone in the southern desert . Tendency Not to Surrender This would be tantamount to surrendering sovereignty over the Negeb , according to the Israelis , and the tendency here at the mo'ment is not to surrender sovereignty over any territory won in battle . The Israelis would be agreeable to the United Nations establishing permanent check points in the Negeb along the frontiers , but that is as far as they are willing to go . Mr. Ben-Gurion reiterated at last night 's Council meeting ' that the Negeb must remain entirely with-1 in Israel . The opposition showed , that it would make any territorial surrender the primary issue of the election campaign now getting under way . 