@@711085

txt DICTATORSHIP SEEN Joint Protest Charges Crisis Was Instigated to End Free Rule CALLS RESULT A DISASTER Washington Officials Imply Gottwald May Have Problem Getting World Bank Loan By HAROLD B. HINTON Special to THE Nrw TORE Trmss , NATASHINGTON , Feb. ** an unusual step , the Governments of the United States , Great Britain and France officially condemned today the Communist coup in Czechoslovakia . Identical statements were issued simultaneously here , in London and in Paris . A Paris dispatch pointed out that this was the first time France had joined the United States and Britain in officially condemning a Communist seizure of an Eastern European government . A London dispatch indicated that Britain would not withdraw her recognition of the Prague Government for the present at least . Text of Declaration The text of the joint declaration was as follows : The Governments of the United States , France and Great Britain have attentively followed the course of the events which have just taken place in Czechoslovakia and which place in jeopardy the very existence of the principles of liberty to which all democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crisis artificially and deliberately instigated the use of certain methods already tested in other places has permitted the suspension of the free exercise of parliamentary institutions and the establishment of a disguised dictatorship of a single party under the cloak of a government of national union . They can but condemn a development the consequences of which can only be disastrous for the Czechoslovak people , who had proved once more in the midst of the sufferings of the second World War their attachment to the cause of liberty . At a news conference later in the day , Secretary of State Marshall declined to go beyond the terms of the official declaration , although he was subjected to a deluge of questions . He said that no decision had been reached on recognition of the new regime in Prague , nor on future trade and financial relations with Czechoslovakia . Action on Records Deferred In reply to another question , he said the State Department had no information of unusual Soviet troop movements in Austria just before Prime Minister Klement Gottwald had taken control of the Prague Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached whether to publish State Department records concerning the original liberation of Czechoslovakia in 1945 , when United States troops halted about fifty miles outside Prague and permitted the Soiviet forces to occupy the capital . The questioner said that Communist propaganda media in ICzechoslovakia were now claiming the United States troops had halted so that the German forces in Prague could liquidate the " democratic " elements there before surrendering . Secretary Marshall said that he was unable to trust his own memory , at this distance , on the exact reasons why the United States forces stopped short of Prague in the final rush toward victory in Europe , but described the propaganda report to which reference had been made as manifestly false . The State Department laid no indication late today that anyone from the United States Embassy in Prague had been in personal touch with President ? Eduard Benes . Official dispatches , it was said , draw about the same picture of what has happened in Prague over the past two days as that given by the news correspondents from the scene . From this fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen under any severe censorship , whatever may have happened to the local newspapers and radio stations . Most State Department officials who discussed the developments in Prague unofficially were full of indignation . One said that every member of the United Nations should have joined in the threepower condemnation issued today . Similar maneuvers in the past in Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , Hungary , Poland and Rumania , had drawn protests from the United States and Great Britain , but in the form of unilateral declarations , made after consultation among themselves . Discussions were started by cable last Tuesday night , but Secretary Marshall and other officials declined to assign the initiative to any of the three governments either for starting the talks or for drafting the declaration . Dr. Juraj Slavik , Czechoslovak Ambassador to the United States , declared today that he intended to stay at his post here as long as he had the confidence of the leaders of his government , referring to President Benes and Foreign Minister Jan Masaryk . He said that Dr. Benes was still President of Czechoslovakia , as M. Masaryk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As to possible economic actions to show United States displeasure at what had happened in Czechoslovakia , it was understood here that the new Prague Government of this moment had far less chance than its predecessor of receiving a requested $350,000,000 loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development . While the official position of the bank 's president , Tohn J. McCloy of the United States , is that lending policy is not determined on political bases , political developments necessarily are taken into account whenever their economic repercussions might endanger repayment of loans . Some United States officials declared privately that action to put a general barrier to all economic aid to a Prague under Communist control was quite likely .                     