@@705901

txt Reuters quoted the Nazi-controlled Paris Radio today as saying that the Germans in occupation of the French Capital had shot 12 more " hostages " in reprisal for attacks on German soldiers . By Arno Dosch-Fieurot Special to The Christian Science Monitor NICE , France , Sept. ** execution of 23 persons , including 13 hostages , by order of the Commander in Chief of the German Army of Occupation , has brought all France face to face with the hard reality of its position as a defeated and occupied country . Little heed had been given to warnings , reiterated by French authorities in Paris , that harsh reprisals would fall on the whole population if individuals continued their isolated attacks on German officers and soldiers . The fact that the hostages shot were taken in part frond Jewish persons arrested recently has increased tension that was bound to follow an act of reprisal . That the others were stated to be Communists was not unexpected as certain groups whom the Nazis claimed to he Communists have been attacking German occupying forces with every weapon from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Posters Used Red posters informing the population of Paris of these executions has increased nervousness in the Capital , which has been growing for some time as reports of insurrectional attempts have spread . The warning is unmistakable : If attacks on the troops of occupation continue there will be more and larger numbers of hostages executed . The menacing red of the posters announcing reprisals conspicuously pasted up on billboards and kiosks have given Paris a sinister atmosphere which it had previously escaped . For nearly a year under occupation Paris and occupied regions in general have been relatively quiet , but the situation has now taken a bad turn and no one is trying to hide it . Serious Food Shortage This tension is only partly due to direct anti-German action . The food Shortage is also haying its reaction , both in Occupied and in Unoccupied . France , . but it is worse in its effects on those living under long occupation . ? The Government has also avowed that there Is no help in sight and people will have to go on tightening their belts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country than In the cities and towns addt to the discontent . Secretary p ( State for Food Paul Charbin admitted this situation In a recent broadcast appeal to peasants in which he stated that systemthic . underfeeding in populous working quarters of the cities was resulting in noticeable cases of n-iah- , , itritior. and that proper infant foods were insufficient . Potatoes Requisitioned One phrase in his broadcast warned the entire country of the serious food situation ahead . Informing peasants of the measures of requisition of potatoes for Oct. 15 . M. Charbin said : " This winter 's ration of bread and meat will unfortunately be insufficient so I intend to make up for it with potatoes . " Figures on the meat shortage have been given by Minister of Agriculture Pierre Caziot who said that even on paper there will be only 800.090 tons of meat this year against normal consumption of 1. - *00.000 and that in reality the meat ration would be even smaller . The population knows that this avowal means another big cut in the weekly meat ration , already reduced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 grams per person . Food " Black Market " The social effect of the food shortage is alsl increased by what M. Caziot calls " the generalized black market. - tor the illegal food market at extortionate prices has in fact become general despite arrests and condemnations . Caziot told the undeniable truth in saying that " the black market favors the privileged and starves the poor : ' Unable to improve the food situation the regime of Marshal ' Detain is trying to decrease social tension by clemency . The Marshal has reduced the first two capital penalties pronounced against Communists to life imprisonment . He also pardoned 22 militant Syndicalists languishing in concentration camps or the ground that they represented the inter-its the laboring classes . t This is part of Minister of Interior Pucheu 's program of social Peace carried on simultaneously with a rigorous suppression of Communist agitation . Military Conferences Intensification of the battle for control of the Atlantic and preparations for renewed activity in the Mediterranean have caused the French Government to increase its vigilance over its African Empire , and the past week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings of governing personalities have been announced . Gen. Maxime Weygand , in Africa , has conferred successfully with Admiral Jean Esteva , Resident General for Tunis , Gen. August Nogues , Resident General for Morocco , and Pierre Boisson , Governor General for French West Africa . all of whom have also conferred with the Marshal in Vichy . In diplomatic circles it is reported that France has now established strong military and naval defenses at Dakar . Casablanca . and at all its Mediterranean ports in Africa . Several times recently the Government has issued vigorous denials to reports coming from abroad that the Germans have established military and naval bases in Africa .                     