@@709068

txt The world 's leading statesmen // and utterances a real search for a foundation on which the Peacemaking task can be renewed , ineir errorts were not eased by outbreaks of Arab-Jewish violence in the Mediterranean Basin , by growing tension ' in China , or by the continued impasse in the Netherlands East Indies . But they were eased by the Hungarian elections which , by emphasizing the vitality of anti-Communist opinion in even eastern Europe , further allayed the Western fear of a Communist tide sweeping Europe In the wake of war . Progressive Steps Against this background the following progressive steps were to be noted this week : While Soviet Foteign Commissar Vyacheslav Molotov told Russia That its natural scientists , energy ly , would produce atomic nergy in all its forms , This was considered inevitable in view of the widespread western discussion of the atomic bomb . The Soviet Government had been placed in an embarrassing position by the much-advertised " first " scored by capitalist nations . But the emphasis in the speech was on reassurance to the Russian people that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a domestic speech delivered on the top Russian national holiday its net implications were regarded in western capitals as distinctly on the conciliatory and reassuring line . Britain 's Foreign Minister Ernest Bevin followed it the next day by picking up the American olive branch of the previous week on Balkan issues . He , like James F. Byrnes , United States Secretary of State . accepted Russia 's right to a " good neighbor " policy on its doorstep , coupling it , logically and probably wisely , with a sturdy demand that ? Russia stop worrying about Britain 's own hunt for good neighbors on its frontiers : Former Prime Minister Winston Churchill , with familiar Churchillian boldness , grasped the atomic bomb in a manner apparently designed to free from the discussion of it what British opinion increasingly considers an American " guilt complex " on the subject . He told his trans-Atlantic friends to stop being afraid or ashamed because they had it that he was glad they did , and was confident they would not use it wrongly . Next the American State De- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for settling the Dardanelles issue which bore all the earmarks of a sincere effort to balance Russia 's new position in the world with the principles of small-nation independence . It proposed that Turkish soil be left strictly alone , but that Russia gain what it has long wanted but never has been granted by western opinion  --  full and free passage through the straits at all times . Whether London would be as willing as Washington to admit Russian naval power to the Mediterranean remained to be seen . Mr. Bevin had quivered , oratorically , over memories of Russia 's recent bid for Tripoli . That , to Mr. Bevin , had represented a move " right across the throat of the British Commonwealth . " But the American proposal could become the balance for denial at the next conference of ministers of Russia 's claim to Tripoli . The Dardanelles concession would be less alarming in Britain since there is already general agreement that the Aegean Islands should revert to Greece which , in terms of power politics , is a part of the British security system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be much less alarming to Britain if it did not possess a firm land base on the southern shore . At least a possible way had been pointed out of the Tripolitanian impasse of London memory . Previously there had been nothing to offer the Russians as compensation for recession from the Tripoli claim . Now there was . Italian Armistice Publication of the Italian armistice terms had only minor bearing on all this , but did show that the Allies , including Russia , had not incorporated in the terms any formal provision for the partitioning of Italy 's colonial empire . That omission did not rule out such severance . Anything could have been done under the inclusive terms . But at least there was no specific undertaking implicit in those terms for a ' partitioning . While it had not been ruled out , it also had not been stipulated . So no nation could point to it as calling for such partition . The Anglo-American financial negotiations approached their climax . That the climax might be agreement was suggested when Bernard M. Baruch and Jesse H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baruch denied the implication . But in financial circles it was doubted that either would have spoken out against American export commitments had they not been convinced that such commitments are in the making . Both are regarded as men opposed to economic internationalism . The loan to Britain involved in the negotiations still will have to pass Congress , if approved by the . Administration . But opposition appears to be dwindling . It in China One incident of the week had no probably ? constructive quality . The movement of American Marines into North China had boomeranged . Shooting incidents were alleged by the Chinese Communist faction . On the basis of charges that there had been American intervention in Chinese civil strife , Washington announced that the Marines would be withdrawn . And at the same time , the American Secretary of State personally disassociated himself from the venture with the statement that he neither had been con-culled nor informed about the troop movement . The announcement of withdrawal and the public washing of hands of all responsibility by the Secretary of State constituted , in its effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists jumped promptly on that appearance of a confession and called for indemnities . To say that America had lost prestige and influence by the whole affair probably would be a considerable understatement . Firm intervention , backed firmly in Washington , might or might not have been a right American course . But it would have had the merit of being firm and positive . Instead of a firm , positive policy . America stood with a faltering policy disavowed by the official executor of American foreign policy . It looked on the surface as though American theater com manders had done something on their own responsibility which Washington could not support . Of necessity , it left other nations in the dark as to what America ! wanted and was trying to achieve . I The situation hardly could have been put in a more confused or unsatisfactory light . ? Red Ogre Stilled However , in the net , the week showed the three . major capitals of the world still making ! considerable headway out of the mood of recrimination and negativism which followed the London Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most helpful of all was the discovery that a nation as small and as helpless as Hungary . and completely under Russian military rule , could and did express a political will of its own which was most decidedly not Communist . The ogre of a Red tide sweeping westward was dwindling . And as it dwindled the fear of it dwindled as a policy-making factor in the foreign offices of London . Paris . and Washington .                     