@@705035

txt A campaign to encourage commercial banks to finance industrial expansion for the national defense program is under way . As one step in this program . the 12 Federal Reserve Banks have made a rapid telephone survey of the member banks in their regions , canvassing the ability and willingness of the banks to finance national defense work , particularly construction of new plant facilities . This survey was aimed primarily at ascertaining available bank credit and the banks ' attitude toward a new form of contract which the National Defense Advisory Commission has worked out for financing defense plants . As a preliminary to the survey , the Defense Commission last week circulated among banks its new plant contract form , and banks are being asked about their willingness to make loans on the basis of this contract . The survey was to be completed last night . Next step , which may be taken today , will be the anouncement by the Defense Commission of the results of the survey , plus the details of the Commission 's model contract . The result of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with excess reserves of *6 , - 530,000,000 , are able to finance much of the plant expansion and , in most instances , are willing to do so . Sequel to Earlier Steps This survey of the banking attitude toward loans for defense plants comes as the sequel to two earlier steps taken by the Defense Commission to clear the way for private financing of defense industries . First , the commission , collaborating with the Army , Navy and private financiers , worked out a : form contract for the financing of necessary plant expansions . The contract provides that , when a plant or new facilities are found to be necessary for the defense program , the government will agree to paY , as part of the cost of the materials which it is to obtain from the new plant , the total cost of the plant . These payrnens will be made in five annual installments which will be apart from the purchase payments made in buying the plant 's output . This agreement by the government to reimburse a manufacturer for the cost of plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , if the manufacturer has borrowed the money for the new plant , the lender will be repaid . For this reason , Defense Commission officials who worked out the contract hope that it will encourage private financing of capital expenditures on rearmament facilities . Second , - to make these reimbursement contracts a bankable asset , the Defense Commission arranged for the introduction of a bill in Congress permitting the assignment of claims against the government . This bill was passed yesterday by the Howe and sent to the Senate where its passage appears assured . Can Assign Contract as Collateral After enactment of this bill , the manufacturer who holds one of the Defense CommisMon 's reimbursement contracts for a new plant will be able to assign that contract to a bank as collateral for a loan with which to finance the construction of the plant . The government 's contractual obligation to repay the manufacturer in five annual instalments for the new plant assures liquidation of the bank 's loan . The same bill may open the way for bank loans to companies for working capital purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply the government with $1,000.000 worth of Army overcoats could assign that contract to a bank as collateral for a loan with which to buy the cloth for the coats . In its report on the bill to the House , the judiciary committee said : ' There are many manufacturers - and other businesses . particularly the smaller ones , which may be deterred from bidding on contracts arising out of the program for national defense because they have inadequate amounts of working capital and may encounter difficulties in financing the performance of such contracts . If such businesses could offer security in the form of assignments of claims against the government growing out of , such contracts . they would in many instances be able to obtain the necessary credit from their own local banks and other financing Institutions , which have large amounts of idle funds awaiting employment . " The committee report Said that in many instances such credit could be obtained more simply and quickly from local institutions than from the lending agencies of the government . The bill provides that outstanding claims may be assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contract gives his approval . In the case of new contracts , the holder must notify the general accounting office , the contracting officer or the head of me department letting the contract , the sureties upon the contract bond and the appropriate government disbursing officer before making an assignment . Claims for less than $3.000 can not be assigned under the terms of the billt Under existing law , assignment of claims against the government are null and void unless made after the claims have been allowed and warrants insuect For this reason , banks and other lending agencies which might be willing to extend credit to finance the performance of government contracts have been unable to do so , because they can not rely upon the assignment of claims as collateral . If the borrower should go into bankruptcy , for instance , the banks would be in the same position as general creditors of the company .                     