@@705052

txt Neville Chamberlain , Lord President of the Council , a sick man , will leave the War Cabinet shortly and his resignation will accompany several changes in the present government . There has been a tremendous demand for months that Mr. Chamberlain should go , but Prime Minister Churchill has steadily resisted all pressure brought upon him . Mr. Chamberlain became ill some time ago and it was then expected that he would leave the government . However , he recovered and returned to his duties only to fall ill again . For several days now he has been in bed in the country and doctors have advised him that he must resign . Mr. Churchill asked his predecessor not to hurry his resignation , but it seems clear that now it will come soon unless , as is possible , there are major changes in the situation . Often in recent British history the resignation of an unpopular leader has been veiled with a medical excuse . In this case the two seem to have coincided . Mr. Chamberlain is really ill and , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causing much resentment , not only from those who have opposed him in the past but from his former supporters who have now turned against him . His passing from office will take place under circumstances in which his strong following among the Conservative rank and file in Commons will not feel resentment against Mr. Churchill for jettisoning their leader . The choice of the man to fill Mr. Chamberlain 's place is not defi // nitely known . It may be that the announcement of the change is be-. ing held up for that reason . One possible successor would be David Lloyd George , whose experience with war and whose prestige in the country might make him an excellent successor to Mr. Chamberlain . The job of Lord President of the Council is a sinecure in itself , but Mr. Chamberlain has been acting as chairman of many important committees . Mr. Lloyd George would be a popular choice not only because of his experience and prestige but because it would put him into the government and keep him from possible embarrassing sniping operations . Another possible candidate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor . Mr. Churchill is anxious to improve his immediate team and he could use a strong man such as Mr. Bevin in the Cabinet . Mr. Bevifi perhaps has made a bigger reputation out of this war than anybody , but Mr. Chamberlain is a Conservative and even in this day of united governs ment some attention must be paid to party lines . It would appear that the possible resignation of a Conservative might call for the taprpintment of a Conservative in his place . Hence there is the possibility that Lord Lloyd , present Colonial Secretary , may be taken in . He is a man of strong opinions and is difficult to work with , but he is a definite possibility . All this is fairly informed speculation . There is a rumor  --  probably untrue  --  that the vacancy in the Cabinet may be filled by appointing Viscount Halifax , Foreign Secretary , to Mr. Chamberlain 's job , thus sending Anthony Eden back to his old post as a Cabinet Minister . This is pure rumor and is recorded as such . Other Changes Planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described as definite in most informed quarters . Herbert Morrison is to leave the Ministry of Supply and take over Sir John Anderspn 's job as Home Secretary and Minister of Home Security . What will happen to Sir John is not yet known . Another one of the so ? called " guilty men " may also leave the government to be replaced by another " rebel . " It would appear that Viscount Cranbourne is slated to replace Viscount , Caldecote as Dominions Secretary . Lord Caldecote , who as Sir Thomas Inskip was Minister of the Coordination of Defense , got perhaps more brickbats than any other single member of the government . It is not known what will happen to Lord Caldecote but he might get another high legal post . The appointment of Lord Cranbourne , who resigned from the Foreign Office with Mr. Eden in 1938 , is not definite but the probable change between Mr. Morrison and Sir John Anderson is as definite as any political change can be before it is announced . Sir Andrew Rae Duncan , who has been extremely successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to succeed Mr. Morrison in the vital supply job . The most surprising thing in all these changes is the removal of Mr. Morrison from the Ministry of Supply where he is said to have done an excellent job . There are two possible explanations . One is that Mr. Morrison may not have been able to get along with manufacturers . The other and more likely explanation is that Mr. Morrison , with his tremendous experience in air raid precautions work and in London , may bring his talents to work in the problem of sheltering the country from bombs . He has a reputation for vigor , organizing efficiency and a talent for phrase-making in his speeches . Sir John Anderson has the first three but not the last . The present Home Secretary had to take all the abuse poured out on the A. R. P. organization as well as the handling of the alien problem . Higher official of the Home Office say Sir John should get almost all the credit for the efficient way in which the A. R. P. fire services are operating in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public , though history will probably give him the most credit for the excellent passive defense of Britain . Morrison a Londoner Above all , Mr. Morrison , the son of a Hackney policeman , is a Londoner of Londoners and at present the protection of Londoners is one of the most urgent problems Britain has to face . The fact that reconstruction is under way  --  for a long time Mr. Churchill has wanted to make his Cabinet stronger  --  has produced any number of rumors . There are all sorts of reports which may be true about Alfred Duff Cooper and other Ministers . The reconstruction was to have been announced with Mr. Chamberlain 's resignation tonight , but for some reason there was a holdup . This fact may mean that there are last-minute changes in the scheme . It may also mean that Mr. Churchill is planning reconstruction on a bigger scale than recorded above . It is possible that some of these changes may not come off until later and that some of them may not come off at all . Other Changes Mentioned LONDON , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain , the man who made the ill-fated Munich agreement of September , 1938 , will resign shortly as Lord President of the Council in what may .. ecome a sweeping readjustment of the Churchill Cabinet , political circles reported tonight . The same reports said Labor Minister Ernest Bevin probably would become a member of the war Cabinet  --  giving it a strong Socialist tinge . Mr. Bevin is one of the nation 's leading Laborites . The reshuffle may also involve Lord Beaverbrook , Alfred DuffCooper , Herbert Morrison and Arthur Greenwood , all members of the present Cabinet , who thay simply swap jobs , the reports said . Mr. Chamberlain , who stepped down as Prime Minister last Spring after the failure of the campaign in Norway , has been recovering from a recent operation . Approaching 72 years of age , he is still very weak and in need of rest , friends said , and has been unable to relax in constantly bombed London .                     