@@706383

txt Visualize a small red leaf . not unlike a rose petal , resting on a plate . Surround it with a tiny heap of gray powder . A dab of greenish paste and a dozen or 50 shredded strings . Place a couple of tall glasses nearby , one containing a half-teaspoonful of whitish powder , and the other holding a few greenish crystals . What is all this ? It 's a 1942 streamlined " square meal . " The red petal is a dehydrated tomato , the gray powder becomes roast beef hash in a twinkling , the dab of green paste transforms into a generous helping of peas and the sihi eds are soon mashed potatoes You can either have a glass of milk from the white powder in one glass , or lemonade from the yellow crystals in the other glass . Tastes Fine How does this meal taste ? Fine . Just as near the original as the canned foods with which the present generation has grown up Furthermore . all the flavor , the nutritive value and even the vitamins have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new " war baby . " Vast amounts of shipping and storage space can be saved by the widespread use of these concentrated foods The overseas shipment of 27 million pounds of potatoes , for example , can now be reduced to 3 million pounds . which will save at least 500,000 cubic feet of cargo space This amounts to the capacity of two cargo ships , or about 10.000 ships ' tons . Seven vegetables will be sent overseas in great quantities in their new form . They are potatoes , onions . carrots , cabbages , beets. rutabagas and sweet potatoes . The Army recently entered orders for 18 million pounds of these foods Other concentrated foods recently included in the regular menus of our soldiers serving abroad are powdered soups , eggs . fruits and milk . Dehydrated Meats New Dehydrated meats are brand new and were but a research possibility a few weeks ago . Urgent lend-lease requirements of food for our Allies abroad brought about intense cooperation between the Meat Institute in Chicago , representing the nation 's leading meat packers , and the Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . to find if dehydrated meats were not more than a possibility . Thus far , beef , mutton and goatsmeat are successful products . Pork will probably never prove susceptible to dehydration treatment , it is said , because of the high fat content , which soon turns rancid . In the dehydrated beef , about 25 " ; of the fatty content has been removed . before treating , and in the smaller animals , such as mutton , the excess fat is readily removed During the past year . due to lend-lease requirements . again a tremendous increase was brought about in the production of dried eggs , and milk . One pound of dried whole eggs is the equivalent of three dozen liquid eggs . A 5-pound can of chicken soup is sufficient for 25 gallons of liquid variety , and the same is true of a vegetable soup mix which contains soy beans , grits. barley , green peas . yellow peas . rice , carrots . sugar and spices The content of a 4-pound can of tomato soup powder will make AO servings of 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the fruits , a recent development is the dehydration of lemons into crystals for lemonade , useful not only for its refreshment value but for the vitamins it contains The armed forces have placed a large order for this American thirst-quencher. and the Army and Navy use a i ecipc which calls for the use of one 11-ounce can of crystals in one gallon of water To make lemonade for 100 men ( 11 gallons ) two 11-ounce cans of crystals arc dissolved in 10 gallons of water , and a gallon of simple syrup is added . The canning industry is rapidly shifting over to dehydration wherever possible . Many fruit driers on the Pacific Coast who formerly specialized in one product . say dried prunes . are now preparing to fill vast dehydrated vegetable orders . for shipment to our Allies abroad and for military use . Domestic consumers are already well acquainted with dried eggs and powdered milks , and the commercial bakeries have considered them indispensable for some time Shortage of tin , and consequently of canned foods , eventually , is making the public more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia firm which makes dehydrating machinery is swamped with orders . The cost of a dehydrating plant is estimated at 510.000 for one unit that will produce 1.000 pounds of food a day . This is not a good rule of thumb . however , because vegetables dry at different ratios . Packaging Preeentr . Problem One of the largest and best-known international tea companies has gone in for dehydration in a big way in its New Jersey plant . On the other hand , one of the largest soup companies in the country has only utilized dehydration for the manufacture of feeds . ' as a by-product , and rinds itself lagging in the new products , so necessary now not only because of a possible shortage of tin cans , but especially because of lack of transportation facilities , both railroad and shipping . Packaging the concentrated foods has presented IR problem in view of the shortage of tin . Paper car tons , treated with various chemicals and wax coatings , which are virtually moisture-proof and are not subject to deterioration under temperature extremes , have been developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of tin cans , is in insect penetration , especially In tropical climates . A number of methods of dehydration currently are in use . The " spray " drier has proven adaptable to the production of powdered milk and eggs . " Tunnel " and " cabinet " driers are used for leafy vegetables and fruits , taking 312 to 8 hours in the process . The " vacuum " process has certain advantages for dried milk and special foods . but the cost is high . Time is saved , however , in this process because all dehydration is completed in approximately one hour . The " tunnel " dehydration is a continual process which is never turned off , because its heating unit is so large that this would he impracticable . In California , one tunnel dehydrating plant uses 30 tunnels built of brick , each 54 feet long . If one , or a few , separate products are to be dehydrated at varying times , the " cabinet " process is usually chosen . The basic principle of all seems to be that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside out , which means that great heat can not be applied at the beginning of the dryout process , without the danger of causing a bony-like structure to form on the exterior of the powdered or crystallized food . It is necessary to keep the exterior moist , by controlled humidity , until the innermost part of the product has acquired the desired temperature . From this point the moisture can gradually be reduced and the heat increased . Thus the product gives off its own dioisture . Before any food product is actually dehydrated , it must be " pre-processed. " a term which includes selection , grinding , washing end blanching . Some vegetables like cabbage must be blanched ( scalded ) in steam , others like potatoes , in plain water , and still others like carrots , in salt water . To show how important this blanching process is : unblanched potatoes attain an undesirable dull , starchy , and irregularly darkened appearance when dried . One of the most perplexing problems of the food acientieta in the dehydration process is to decide on the proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So far , no vegetables which are woody and fibrous have turned out to be satisfactory for dehydration purposes Another question still unanswered is whether certain varieties of vegetables will produce equally satisfactory dehydrated products if grown in different sections of the country . Under present plans , the expansion of facilities in 1942 will be limited to companies who have had considerable experience in dehydration or to canners who are already equipped with a large proportion of the essential machinery required for large-scale drying of food .                     