@@706538

txt Topics of The Times American railroads have Iron been making history . In the Horse process they have been makReturns ing a good many prophets ' faces red . In people 's minds these last twenty-five years the railroad has been a chronic invalid , a bankrupt , a derelict , an anachronism . Its doom was sedn written in the form of the automobile . Most of the passenger traffic was already vanished . Freight was beginning to shrink . What is so rare as a day in June ? Well , a much rarer phenomenon was a railroad dividend on the common stock . This year the railroads in the first three months moved nearly as many troops as were carried in the first eight months of the 1917 war . - For all goods traffic a figure of 80 per cent above a year ago has been claimed . Tank cars were virtually obsolete a year ago . They now bring more than 700,000 barrels of oil daily to the East Coast . None of these remarkBloody able feats of the railroad but industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Erie Railroad . The event was properly commemorated the other day on the front page of this newspaper . For mere breath-taking novelty the story deserved a triple-banner headline all across the page . The Erie has declared a dividend on its common stock . The last time this thing happened was the year after Appomatox , seventy-six years ago , and that was the only other dividend in all Erie history , which goes back to 1832 . Erie 's one hundred and ten years have not been an honored old age , to put it mildly . In the financial world Erie has been known as the Scarlet Woman of Wall Street . In the story of American free enterprise on the loose , Erie has furnished the classic chapter . With Erie are inseparably bound up the names of Jay Gould , Daniel Drew , Jim Fisk . Over its prostrate body fought the men whom our own generation learned to describe in polite terms as dinosaurs and rugged individuals , and in straight language as pillagers and wreckers . In less outspoken days people took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grown into old age without recalling a time when the Erie was not being reorganized . And yet , and yet  --  the Erie thought comes to one almost Quand with a shock . All these years Meme while the Erie was being looted and reorga : ized and bankrupted and rehabilitated and mortgaged and what not , the Erie Railroad continued to run . Its financial history is that of a hussy  --  its pet Wall Street name is even stronger  --  but Erie as describing a setup of steel trackage , locomotives , freight cars and passenger cars continued to render useful housewifely service . It was not perfect service . One of the oldest jests in the folklore of the New York-New Jersey seaboard had to do with the time-table on Erie commuter trains . But more or less efficiently the Erie trackage and rolling stock functioned . Otherwise we must assume that the reorganizers and rehabilitators of Erie 's " financial structure "  - -  ia consoling phrase which means stockholders lose everything ? would have got tired of the job and the Erie would have been scrapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston to the north of us . Erie history may help Many to explain why AmerUnattractive ican colleges have shown Portraits such little interest in teaching American history , a situation on which THE NEW YORK TIMES has just presented such striking and even ' disconcerting evidence . American history as it.has been written in the last twenty-five years is not something to be proud of . People do n't speak about a hanging ' the family , and so much of the newer American history has concentrated on hangings or on people who deserved to be hanged in our storied American past . We are speaking of what The might be described as Forgotten the Erie Railroad school Nation of American historians . Daniel Drew and Jim Fisk and Jay Gould had the time of their lives with the Erie finances , but the Erie Railroad did bring the commuters into Jersey City  --  half an hour late . Historians as a rule spent themselves on day Gould and m Fisk and forgot the commuters and the freight . What is true of the Erie Railroad is true of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation has gone a great deal of looting and wrecking and refunding and reorganizing and repudiating ; but the railroads were built , and they have continued to carry freight and passengers , and along their right of way a hundred TnilliOn . Americans made their homes Ye ' : . that is something you would hardly suspect from the usual tale written in the last twenty years about how America grew . All the emphasis has been on the ravaged American forests . Little has been said about the homes into which the timber went .                     