@@705215

txt Increased regimentation of the Japanese economy to make possible continuance of the war against China is seen here in a number of developments . One exception to the general trend appears to be the stock exchanges . It was learned yesterday that despite the clamor for control of the securities markets along German lines , the government has no present intention of taking such a step . The matter was brought to a climax yesterday when rumors of strict regulation spread throughout the financial district The result was an official reassurance to exchange leaders . In the tightening of control over the economy in general , however , these proposed steps stand out : 1 . Adoption of virtual state control over Japan 's important silk industry . A bill to permit the strictest sort of regulation over silk production is expected to go to the Diet at its next session early next year . 2 . The Home and Justice Ministries are drafting plans to put teeth into economic control regulations inaugurated in August , 1938 . There have been widespread violations . 3 . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is under study by the government , according to local banking quarters Yellow metal freed by such a step would be used to provide foreign exchange to pay for goods abroad , particularly those purchased from the United States . Stock Exchange Rumors Denied Rumors of Nazi-like control of Japan 's stock exchanges came to a climax yesterday with reports that the cabinet had decided to appoint a commission to study reforms necessary for bringing the exchanges into tine with the ? ? spirit " of the new economic structure . Traders sold heavily on the Tokyo Exchange during the morning , with key shares slipping off three to four yen . However , the whole story folded up like a strawman before noon when exchange leaders were assured by a high government official that the government for the present had given up all plans for reformation of the stock exchanges . Local stock exchange leaders returned from an interview with government officials convincer : that no changes in stock 7-1. ange procedure will be proposed . by the government within the next year and that any future direct gbvernment reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The attempts to strengthen Japan 's new economic laws came after Domei news agency figures had revealed that between the inauguration of the economic control regulations in August . 1938. and the end of June . this year . Japanese police uncovered 643.700 alleged illegal economic transactions involving approximately 636.000 persons . Many of the arrests were for alleged illegal transactions in iron and steel , fibers , textiles . fuels , non-ferrous metals , leather and chemicals . May Cut Gold Backing of Yen On the monetary front , drastic reduction of the gold backing of the Japanese yen which would make possible the proposed use of the bulk of the 501,000,000 yen gold specie reserve ( gold bullion and gold coins ) to increase the size of the foreign exchange fund , is being contemplated . This transfer of gold is held necessary in order to permit Japan to carry on ? perhaps even to increase  --  its huge import trade in essential raw materials , principally with the United States , in the face of growing demands by manufacturers and exporters in America and elsewhere that Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover the total amount of each purchase . Silk Industry Control Though the bill to control the silk industry still is in the outline stage , ministry officials interviewed say that it will authorize the government ( Agriculture and Forestry Ministry ) Lc decide in advance the exact quantity of export silk , the exact quantity of silk for domestic consumption , the quantity of silk for domestic consumption , the quantity of silk cocoons and the quantity of silkworm eggs to be produced In Japan . The Government will insure that its decisions as to production are followed to the letter by the setting up of a large semi-official company for controlling the distribution of all silkworm eggs and cocoons produced in Japan and of all silk for domestic consumption .                     