@@705794

txt The fact that Prime Minister Winston Churchill and President Roosevelt have met is regarded in Great Britain as far more important than anything that was announced as the outcome of their meeting . The British took full note of the eight-point peace program the two statesmen released after their three-day meeting at sea , but it would have pleased most Britons far more if a little less had been said in the vaguest terms . In fact , some quarters felt a sort of shiver when they compared the eight-point Roosevelt-Churchill program with " President Wilson 's fourteen points . At least , some persons said , Mr. Wilson had fourteen points instead of eight anti some of them suggested specific changes . But the measure of disappointment apparent in London , tonight can perhaps be best judged in the light of what the statement left unsaid rather than what it said . Leaving out the entire question of statement as to the future it would appear obvious that the important fact is that Mr. Roosevelt and his chief military and diplomatic advisers conferred with Mr. Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these islands who think that Mr. Churchill at great personal risk and inconvenience crossed the Atlantic to consult , with Mr. Roosevelt on such statement as " their countries seek no aggrandizement , territorial or other . " Mr. Churchill made the trip at President Roosevelt 's personal request . But even at that request he would hardly have made the trip just to produce a set of war aims such as Lord Privy Seal ZIlement R. Attlee announced today . Therefore , it is generally agreed sere that the real purpose of the : conference was how and where the Jnited States and Britain could lest work together to defeat Gernany . That statement implies that the wo men discussed military plans , ncluding not only the future of celand but the possible seizure of other bases by the United States . It implies discussion of the whole Luestion. of United States supplies o Britain . If any proof of this is required , it may be adduced from the fact that Lord Beaverbrook left here by plane , joined the conferees and proceeded to Washington . As former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beaverbrook is in an excellent position to tell the United States what Britain needs . And if Lord Beaverbrook 's presence were not enough the fact that really high chiefs of staff were present on both sides would be proof that the most important parts of this conference were secret and what they really mean is known only to the conferees . But of , course , as far as the British see it , there are certain specific subjects ' 4. hat must have been discussed . Broadly speaking , one subject must have been what ' Britain and the United States must and can do together to win the war . In any agenda covering that subject , there must have been in eluded discussion of the Battle of the Atlantic and the necessity or non-necessity of United States convoys , the progress of the war in Russia and what these two countries can and should do in military sense to aid the Soviet Union , and the status of Vichy at the moment and what should be done about France and all other countries concerned with war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is believed , undoubtedly was Japan and the Far East generally . The two leaders , it is felt , must have come to some decision , however general , on this subject . It is also believed that it may have been one of the most important subjects they discussed . Wide Discussion Expected But this is not an . With every part of the world impinging on the joint effort of the- United States and Britain , it is regarded as certain here that the whole world ? Turkey , Iran , Iraq , Syria and Egypt , for instance  --  must have entered into the three-day conference , at least as factors in the situation confronting the two leaders . Those who knew the two leaders were to meet are the most disappointed . They expected far more . They expected something showing the United States was going to do more than in fact it is going to do , for the moment at least . There are other facts to be considered . First of all , the British Empire nations are not going to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to the extent where it - was made abundantly clear that Mr. Churchill was speaking only for the government of the United Kingdom . It was said here that the dominions were kept fully informed , but it was also said that Joseph Stalin was kept fully informed . Reverting to the eight points on the future , which are already being described here as " piteous platitudes , " it should be recorded that they may have uses on the continent , just as the entire conference may have its uses . After all , it was historic , dramatic , sensational , or any other press-agent adjective one cares to use . Expressions as to the future acquire more credence than usual in political statements when they are made by two leading statesmen of the democratic world meeting at sea under unusual and romantic circumstances . That these expressions mean little in comparison with military discussions and that military discussions have not been announced  --  these facts do not detract from the value of the statements as they may be used in Europe over which the German shadow lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bewilderment and expressed the hope that the statements meant more for the future than they showed on their face . Some of the comments follow and in reading them one should remember that most British newspapers still read the United States in terms of their own constitution and display abysmal ignorance of the United States ' system of government . The Times , London , says : " In the first place , it is a joint and formal declaration ; and this means that the United States and the British Empire will be jointly concerned in the conditions of peace . " " It has long been hoped , " continues The Times , " that express definition of aims would fill what has been a grievous. deficiency in our equipment . The world now knows beyond doubt what we are fighting for and what the enemy is fighting against . No one will call for terms in greater detail at this stage . The eight clauses are full enough , and they deserve and must receive close study . " Perhaps their highest service is to make clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a secure peace - settlement must include both real incentives to observe it and real deterrents against breaking it . These are inseparable conditions of any true peace . " " An Atlantic Charter " The Laborite Daily Herald calls the statement " an Atlantic charter . " The two governments , it says , " clearly declare their resolve to work together in implementation of those principles . " " But nothing detracts from the solid and splendid fact that Britain and the United States have agreed on a statement of policy which discredits Hitler 's new order utterly and finally , " declares The Herald . " An Atlantic charter is a matchless weapon of propaganda for our cause . Boldly and skillfully used , it will contribute immensely to winning ' the war . " The Daily Sketch says it refuses to believe this meeting was held just to produce this " piece of oratory . " " We prefer , " it " comments , " to hail the meeting of these two great men as a prelude to something more effective in our war effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt in his campaign to convert America into 100 per cent war activity . " The liberal News-Chronicle says that " in a word America is in the peace , though she is not yet in the war . " " Neither morally nor practically can a nation play full part in shaping a peace which it has not helped win by fighting for it , " this newspaper continues . " This morning the enslaved peoples of Europe will feel the chains lie a little more - lightly upon them . " " It is a portent of tremendous events , " says The Daily Mail . " This is the event of the century and may well influence succeeding centuries . The decision for good or evil of mankind depends on Britain and the United States . " " The British people are more interested in our war plans than in our peace aims , " says The Daily Express . " So is Hitler . He wants to know what practical steps we are taking to sustain the Russians and Chinese , to sink still more U-boats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East . " About that side of the meeting at sea we have told him as much as he announced at the Brenner meetings . " By our deeds we shall tell him . " The Daily Telegraph made much of the fact that the two statesmen had met on the Atlantic , which Hitler had said to be forever unsafe . Indeed , many newspapers stressed this fact . " There is absolute certainty as to the task of the hour , " says The Telegraph . " More and more force must be thrown into the battle against Nazism . The power of the United States and the British Commonwealth can be made overwhelming . " Doubts and uncertainties undoubtedly exist . The British apparently have not accepted the crushing fact that the two leaders have met as sufficing all in all to meet their problems . In addition it would appear that there is a certain dangerous disposition to regard anything President Roosevelt does as already accepted by the people of the United States . But there is a healthy spirit ' of skepticism abroad . And it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be regarded on the basis of what results from it in terms of tanks , guns and airplanes rather than in terms of future resolves , however useful these may ultimately prove . extending from Malaya to Alaska that had instantly and sharply braked , if it had not actually forestalled , Japanese advances in the South Pacific and further concessions to the Nazis by Vichy France . They drew three cardinal conclusions , based on their belief that the greatest results of the conference were not revealed and meant this : I. That there had been a shaping by military , naval and air staffs of a definite strategic policy against Japan , an understanding on positive action , should Vichy allow the Nazis to occupy Dakar and Casablanca in Africa , and a world-embracing strategy covering the military and air contingencies raised by the present Nazi position in Russia . 2 . That the United States would give unstinted aid to Russia and all other powers fighting with the Allies and that Britain would Waive priorities on certain classes of material to speed them to Russia . 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of the world at the war 's end , although all nations  --  including Germany  --  would be allowed to determine their own forms of government .                     