@@709522

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE B. BOOCHEVER.FRANKLIN MALONE.HOWARD W. TONER.MAXIMILIAN P. BRANDEIS , LE ... pg . 19 Letters to The Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The remedy offered by President Truman to prevent strikes resembles the well-known recipe for roast pig ? burn the barn with the pig locked up in it . Strikes might be settled by seizing industries and drafting the employes into the Army , but what happens to our cherished " inalienable right to life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness " ? No one enjoyed the recent railroad strike , neither the railroads nor labor , and least of all the general public . When strikes assume the proportion of an epidemic it is beyond question that something is radically wrong . The problem , however , is how to clear up the trouble at its source , whereas all that is being attempted at present is the repression of the external symptoms of the disease . How best to deal with employer-employe conflicts is indeed perplexing and illusive . Certainly no solution of general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that this is not a job for politicians . Since this is one of the major problems of our industrial democracy , does it not warrant and even require the cooperation of our best brains from the worlds of business , labor and the professions and the assistance of our outstanding political scientists and economists to give the subject most careful examination and study with a view to evolving a constructive method of dealing with the situation ? Two billion dollars were spent in developing the atomic bomb . How much more important is it that the utmost effort be made to evolve a formula to make our democracy work and at the same time preserve our liberties ! No matter what the cost , it would be worth while to attempt to find a solution for this crucial problem . I accordingly propose the establishment by Congress of an impartial , nonpolitical , national commission , composed of the ablest men and women of the country and drawn from all walks of life to study the problem and , after the fullest public discussion , to present its findings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of our history . The commission should be furnished with whatever financial support may be necessary for research , investigation and analysis of the problem . Such an investigation , conducted in a thoroughly non-partisan and scientific spirit , can only be enlightening and helpful . Capital , labor and the public have a common need  --  to cease this present destructive procedure and unite to preserve our freedom and prosperity . GEORGE B. BOOCHEVER . New York . June 3. 1946 . Government Ownership Not Wanted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In trying to settle our labor difficulties we must get down to fundamentals . Controversies must be settled by a court with jurisdiction , or by strife which involves the laws of economics , principle and general strength of the opposing factions . A labor court is undesirable because it abrogates man 's liberty in his choice of working or not working . It is also impractical because man can not be made to work if he is unwilling . This leaves only strife . Both sides must be allowed to conduct the contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dissuade from joining unions and to break strikes on the other  --  subject to the paramount right of all to have the general peace maintained . In emergencies such as warding off starvation or other dire situations the Government could step in . The only alternative to the foregoing seems governmental ownership of all industries , which most of us concede is not wanted . FRANKLIN MALONE . Brooklyn , May 30 , 1946 . Citizens Held Responsible To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is not an uncommon sight to see bags of garbage outside buildings instead of garbage cans with the refuse in them . Naturally , at times these bags fall on the sidewalk and the contents are strewn about . This is not the fault of the Sanitation Department . If people would put their garbage in covered cans and would put them out only on the days the Sanitation Department makes pick-ups the streets would not be so unsightly . The people in the section could be advised of the pick-up days . With regard to the proposal to put wire baskets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often been used as receptacles for the deposit of bags of garbage instead of for waste paper . They became a menace to health and in the summer the odor was offensive to those living nearby . Let us not make this mistake again . The cleanliness of a section depends mainly on the efforts of the people in that section aided by the Sanitation Department . HOWARD W. TONER . Brooklyn , May 29 , 1946 . Aids to Handicapped To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We have noted with interest two recent items in . THE TIMES regarding a proposed program which will make public buildings more accessible to severely handicapped persons . The first was a statement from the American Institute of Architects regarding the modernization of construction detail of public buildings . The second told of plans which will make the Museum of Modern Art accessible through the use of elevators and ramps to all persons confined to wheel chairs . Recent Federal investigations have proved that there are at least seventeen million handicapped persons in the United States . Many of these persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to climb stairs . Therefore , we are greatly encouraged to find that there is at least some recognition of this fact and applaud you for bringing such matters to the attention of the public . MAXIMILIAN P. BRANDEIS . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The probable tragic fate that awaits Gen. Draja Mikhailovitch in his trial by Yugoslavia for treason is one which creates a sense of resentment in all English-speaking minds . The Yugoslav Government has prejudged him by its announcement made months ago that " when captured , he would be executed after a fair trial . " Nothing has come out of Yugoslavia to indicate that this determination has been modified . After the announcement was made the general could easily have made his way to Switzerland or some Allied country , but it is evident that he pre ! ferred to remain in his own country and take his chances with his own countrymen . This might have been a wise decision were it not for the fact that the Yugoslav Government is dominated by Russia , and that Government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critic upon whom it can lay its hands . The general has several times spoken " , out of turn " in discussing Russian influence in Yugoslavia . The list of facts in his favor , lately published by a distinguished group of Americans . places him apart from any other individual of equal prominence in Europe . He was consistent in his attitude against the Axis and always helpful to the Allies . We in America applaud his humane and soldierlike attitude to our boys forced*down in his territory , and we can not forget that while he was in power he served the Allies for upward of three years . Most of us think that the statement appearing in the press to the effect that he desires no outside help was made , if made at all , under pressure . It is unbelievable that any man charged with such a crime would willingly reject character evidence such as has been offered him . American public opinion favors him and we believe our State Department should insist that he be granted a fair , open and impartial trial by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Defense Society . New York , May 24 , 1946 . British Duty Not High TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was disturbed to read the letter in THE TIMES of June 1 which described how British recipients of American gifts were penalized by high customs duty and by the surrender of ration coupons . As one who has recently left England , and who has been the grateful recipient of many food parcels from American friends , may I be allowed to correct one or two misleading statements . In the first place , when parcels of food arrive , we seldom had to pay more than one shilling for the excise stamp and often there was no charge at all . There was no purchase tax imposed on these food parcels and , of course , we were never asked to give up coupons for them . Under our rationing system this procedure would be impracticable , as for so many foodstuffs we had to be registered at one particular shop . Moreover , the food parcels are delivered by the postman , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to clothing , duty is chargeable on certain articles , but again clothing coupons are not involved , and it would certainly have been beyond the power of the customs authority to extract coupons from my perpetually empty book . Perhaps I may be allowed to take this opportunity of saying how much this warm-hearted American generosity has been appreciated by British people and how much these food parcels have done to cement friendship between our two countries . It was one of my pleasant tasks during the war to distribute American seeds for British soil to the countrywomen of England and American canning machines to our preservation centers , and I could not describe the gratitude which we all felt for our friends across the Atlantic . I would suggest that Americans who wanted to send gifts to Birtain should send food parcels weighing not more than seven pounds , including not more than two pounds of any one article . ? Dried fruits , powdered whole milk and eggs , canned bacon and meats are especially welcome , and foods containing a high proportion of water should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1946 . Strikes Discussed An Impartial National Commission Is Suggested to Study Problem                     