@@712224

txt Massachusetts businessmen ? mostly representatives of banking institutions  --  fought doggedly today for changes in the Democratic-sponsored $20,000,000 taxation program . Their attacks on the Housepased taxation measure were met with an equally vigorous defense by Representative Robert F. Murphy ( I ) ) of Malden , House Democratic floor leader . The debate occurred before an overflow cloud Of about 300 persons at a Senate Ways and Means Committee hearing . Representatives of savings banks and other thrift institutions charged that ; my increase in taxes ? no matter how applied  --  would adversely affect bank deposits and dividends . Heated Debate They contended that all savings banks money belongs to the depositors and the average depositor is a " little man . " House Democrats , however , argued that the banks are not now carrying their just load of the commonwealth lax burden . They said the proposed taxes could not be passed along to depositors or cause lowering of dividend rates . Several Hosise Republicans got into the debate long enough to charge the Democratic administration ? vith an extravagantly high budget . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted for the budget . And so it went . until it was more than apparent that the debate ; is likely in continue until election day , 1950 ? regardless of the ultimate action of the Legislature . The taxation program is now before the Senate Ways and Means Committee . Senator William E. Nolen ( D ) of Holyoke. chairman of 1 ) ) e committee . emphasized that the present program was not Gov-f l'hne DeVer.S taxation program . but one dratted by the House Ways and Means Committee . In other words , the Democratic Senate Ways and Means Committee chairman will feel free to change the ' House taxation program , even though it was offered by House Democrats . Also , it was apparent that the trend is still toward some form of taxation , rather than a slash in got erninental cost . Opponents Hold Fire The opponents of taxation  --  fighting their own individual battles  --  were not organized to find or to promote a budget-pruning drive . The proposed $13.550.000 surtax on personal and business incomes was taken up first . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later , however . three House Republicans assailed the surtax . Republicans did not make the surtax a party issue when the taxation bill was passed during an all-night session in the House . Neither did Mr. Murphy feel it necessary to defend the surtax today at the hearing . The surtax would affect all state lax payers . Thus , some members of both parties would like to pass over it lightly . Although much of today 's testimony was a reiteration of statements previously made by both sides , the assertions of the representatives of the cooperative banks was new . Dividend Ott Seen T. Gregory Sullivan , counsel for the Massachusetts Cooperative Bank League , said that the proposed tax would mean that cooperative banks would have to cut down their dividend rates or increase rates on home mortgages or lessen their reserves . He told the Ways and ' Means Committee that since there had been no mention of a cooperative bank tax until the House Ways and Means Committee proposed it , the vast majority of persons interested in cooperative banks are only now becoming aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not previously heard from were the Federal Loan and Savings Banks . Carelton W , Spencer . legal and legislative agent of the New England Federal Savings League , said the tax burden would inevitably be born by the depositor . J. B. Brown . of the Massachusetts Bankers Association , representing commercial banks , opposed the taxes on banks on the grounds of discrimination . He said the passage of the tax might result in trust companies transferring to federal charters , Tax Boosts Slated As the taxation program now stands , it includes these taxes : A 10 per cent increase in the 13 per cent surtax on personal and business incomes , $13.550,000 : higher taxes on commercial banks , S700.000 : equalization of taxes on domestic insurance companies , $640.000 . A 2 per cent levy on the amount paid in dividends or interest by savings banks . federal savings and loan associations , and cooperative banks . 51,600,000 . Also , higher liquor and wine taxes , 52,400,000 ; and a new tax on billboards , no estimate of revenue . Today 's hearing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that some of those to be taxed never had had an opportunity to speak their piece . In advance of the hearing Senator Harris S. Richardson ( R ) of Winchester , Republican floor leader in the Senate , objected today to the " job-destroying features " of the taxation program . He said that new taxes were being asked " to nourish a spendthrift administration . "                     