@@710202

txt Germany 's " unwanted " millions , a serious encumbrance for the Allied Military Government and German economy , must sooner or later be absorbed here or find homes elsewhere . This is an obvious conclusion everywhere accepted , but practical application of it is causing many sleepless hours to Allied and German administrations . For under existing economic conditions here , the difficulty is not only to maintain such persons in different camps or similar temporary quarters . The millions of " unwanted " persons consist mainly of displaced persons , brought . here by the Germans during the war to work in war industry , expelled Germans from territories such as the Sudeten area in Czechoslovakia sand West Poland , which was formerly Germany , and other such areas . Critical Problem Whatever may be said about the , : rights ; or , wrongs of new : territorial adjustments , the problem today for Allied and German ' authorities is how to deal with such persons . The British Military Government , according to an official spokesman , hopes gradually to solve the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German economy . In May , 1945 , the number was more than 2,000,000 in the Brit7 ish zone . Nowadays there are only about 267,000 , of whom more than 85 per cent are civilians and the rest prisoners of war . Prospects of their getting work outside Germany are said to be brighter than formerly , particularly because of the shortage of labor in Britain , France , and elsewhere . Barter Practiced Meanwhile , they obtain suitable employment here . For there are few situations more demoralizing than hanging round camps , do ing nothing most of the day , with " black market " temptations so strong , since displaced persons are supplied from UNRRA and other organizations with goods and comforts which local Germans readily accept in barter . Such displaced persons vary in nationality from Abyssinian to Venezuelan . though , the vast majority are from East Europe and some of them , especially Poles , are unwilling to return to their own countries for political reasons . The British Military Government now declares there is still no pressure on them to return home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Suitable employment now can be found for them here . Variety of Employment German employment offices are co-operating in this task and trade unions will accept them as full members . They are to get the same pay rations as Germans doing the ' same jobs , but must pay the same taxes and social insurance charges . Some will work with the Military Government , others in German concerns , but they continue to live in camps and get good food . Such displaced persons will have the right to appeal to the British Military Government if they consider the work given them unsuitable and if members of families are separated . Jewish displaced persons continue to stay and work in camps . The German economy must pay for the upkeep of the aged and those incapacitated . Children of displaced persons will be granted opportunities of education and allowed to attend universities . It is hoped that such plans for absorption into German . industry will be only temporary and that large numbers of displaced persons will obtain homes and work elsewhere through international organizations . Hitherto the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons in their zone  --  as do Americans in their zone  --  and even when UNRRA took over 80 of the 132 camps , the British contributed to their upkeep .                     