@@709863

txt Paced by the hitting of Enos Slaughter , the St. Louis Cardinals took a commanding 8-to-1 lead over the Boston Red Sox in the fourth game of the World Series here today . The game was only three innings old when Tex Hughson , Red Sox star moundsman , was knocked from the box by the heavy artillery of the Cardinals . Slaughter started his team off on its biggest hitting spree of the Series by clouting a home run in the second inning . Rudy York , hero of two of the Red Sox victories , drove in Ted Williams with his team 's first run of the game in the fourth . First Inning Cardinals : The first pitch to Schoendienst was a called strike . Schoendienst bounced out to York , unassisted . Moore ran the count to three and two , then popped to Doerr . Musial bounced out , Doerr to York . No runs , no hits , no errors , none left . Red Sox : Moses hit the first pitch and flied to Moore in center . Pesky swung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left . Slaughter raced over to the right-field foul line to make a nice running catch of Di Maggio 's drive . No runs , no hits , no errors , none left . Second Inning Cardinals : With a full count on him , Slaughter connected with a fast ball and sent it on a line into the right field stands , about 370 feet away , for a home run , to put the Cards ahead , 1-0 . It was the first St. Louis run in 14 innings . Kurowski lined a double off the left field wall , barely beating Williams ' fine toss to Pesky . Activity sprang up in the Boston bullpen . Garagiola flied to pi Maggio in Center , Kurowski holding second . With the count three and one , Walker lined a single into right field , Kurowski easily scoring with the Cards ' second run . Walker attempted to steal second but Catcher H. Wagner apparently catching the signal , called for a pitch-out and threw to Pesky at second . Walker , caught midway between the bases , scrambled back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Red Sox dugout , Umpire Ballanfant sent Walker to third . Pesky was charged with an error on the play . Marion sacrificed Walker home with a squeeze bunt , Doerr throwing to York at first for the putout . Munger struck out , swinging . Three runs , three hits , one error , none%left . Red Sex : Williams ran the count to three and two and then drew a walk . Terry Moore made a running diving catch of York 's smash to right-center and Williams had to scramble back to first to avoid being doubled up . Doerr flied to Slaughter who made a running catch near the right field stands . Slaughter raced into right center and hauled in Higgins ' long drive . No runs , no hits , no errors . one left . Third Inning Cardinals : Schoendienst lined a single through the middle . Moore sacrificed Schoendienst to second but when Hughson first fumbled his bunt , then threw wild to first , Schoendienst raced to third and Moore continued on to second . Musial rammed a double to right-center field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right-hander , replaced Hughson on the mound . Doerr threw Slaughter out , Musial going to third . Kurowski fouled to York near the Red Sox dugout . Garagiola- singled to center scoring Musial with the third run of the inning and St. Louis ' sixth run of the game . Walker struck out . Three runs , three hits , no errors , one left . Red Sox : H. Wagner grounded to Schoendienst and was an easy out . Moore gathered in Bagby 's hoist . Moses singled for his first hit of the series . Pesky went ' down , swinging . No runs , one hit , on errors , one left . Fourth Inning Cardinals : Marion singled over the shortstop 's head into left field . Munger sacrificed , Bagby to Doerr who covered first . Schoendienst flied to Di Maggio , Marion holding second . Moore flied to Di Maggio . No runs , one hit , no errors , one left . , Red Sox : Schoendienst grabbed Di Maggio 's grounder and threw him out . Williams lined a single into right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field for a double scoring Williams with the first Red Sox run , making the score 6 to 1 . Doerr walked on a three and two pitch . Higgins flied to Walker . The runners held their bases . Slaughter took H. Wagner 's short fly to right . One run , two hits , no errors , two left . Fifth Inning Cardinals : Musial lined to Higgins . Slaughter doubled . Kurowski doubled scoring Slaughter . Garagiola singled into center but Kurowski was out at the plate on a fine throw by DiMaggio . Garagiola ran to second on the throw to the plate . Walker singled to left but Williams ' perfect peg on one bounce to Wagner caught Garagiola at the plate . One run , four hits , no errors , two left . 404 ? 03t : Metkovich , batting for Bagby , flied to Walker . Moses singled sharply into center . Musial made a leaping gloved-hand catch of Pesky 's liner and narrowly missed doubling up Moses who slid back to first under the tag . Di Maggio popped to Marion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left . Sixth Inning Cardinals : Zuber went in to pitch for the Red Sox . Munger watched a third strike breeze by . Higgins made a nice catch of Schoendienst 's foul close to the Cardinal dugout . Moore flied to Moses in short right . No runs , no hits , no errors . Red Sox : Williams rolled out to Schoendienst . York walked on five pitches . Doerr singled sending York to second . Higgins shot a single past Kurowski into left field but Walker 's fast return forced York to stop at third and the bases were filled . H. Wagner flied to Slaughter in deep right . York tried to score from third after the catch but was out at the plate when Slaughter uncorked a rtemendous heave to Garagiola . No runs , two hits , no errors , two left .                     