@@708892

txt ABOARD A FLYING FORTRESS , Over Japan , Sept. 2 ? A . five-hour flight over the principal cities of Honshu five hours after the surrender documents were signed in Tokyo Bay provided plenty of proof today why the ' Japanese should be grateful that their leaders decided to quit when they did ? and why Americans : symbolized be grateful that airpower , I symbolized in the Superfortresses , was able to win this last and final battle of the Pacific without the necessity of a costly , bloody invasion . At low level we saw the effects of incendiary raids on Osaka , Nagoya , Kobe , Shizuoka , Takashi and Okazaki , which had a combined population of more than 8,000,000 and which were anywhere from 25 to 68 per cent destroyed as the result of incendiary raids by fleets lof Marianas-based B-29s . By way of contrast our pilots swept down low over the industrial city of Kariya , from whose factory stacks buildings still were trim and intact . We knew then what the Japanese had to be grateful for . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No burned-out automobiles and no empty frames of street cars and trucks piled up alongside the roads . The people of Kariya live as happily as Japanese ever live in their neat , wooden , unattractive gabled houses , which had not felt the awful impact of jelly petroleum fire bombs from the sky . Our course took us over a major portion of Honshu lying south of Tokyo and , though we flew at times through thick heavy undercast , the terrain visible below us was sufficient to make veteran correspondents of many land cam-paigns very grateful that ground troops had not been required to force their way across the pine-covered mountains and down the narrow valleys between them . If Japan had not been knocked out of the war by airpower and atomic bombs , the ridges and val-leys we saw today would have been the scene of the Pacific 's bloodiest and costliest battles . Terrain Ideal for Defense Japan is Criss-crossed byhundreds of streams and canals , most of them running through narrow valleys between deep , forbidding mountains or across the narrow coastal flats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winding , and the entire island , except for the coastal area , are not suitable for the extensive use of I tanks . Recalling Okinawa we correspondents were remembering the difficulties that the Sixth Marine Division had in crossing the Asato River above Naha on Okinawa until Sugarloaf Hill had been secured ' at a cost to us of nearly three Americans killed , wounded and missing for each counted Japanese dead and I was thankful again and again that it had not been necessary to reduce last-ditch Japanese defenses to conquer the island of Honshu . This battle , if it had been fought on the ground with the same tenacity as other Pacific campaigns , would have made Iwo and Okinawa look like Sunday school picnics by comparison . But whether or not airpower won the battle of Japan , American forces would have pushed on to victory , and , in the interim before invasion , which still was some weeks off when the Japanese decided to quit , the siege of Japan would have experienced a rain of death and destruction from the skies on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Raids Mapped It would have been not only the new atomic bomb , which was used only twice , but also the regular incendiary raids on an increasingly heavy scale , which would have burned Japan 's industrial centers and reduced , if not destroyed , the will of their people to fight . In our flight today we concluded that the Twentieth Air Force 's estimates on the damage to the bombed cities over which we flew had been conservative . In each city we saw solid block after block of industrial and residential areas burned out . It has been estimated that in their six cities a total of more than 2,000,000 persons had been left homeless or dead as the result of fourteen raids . It is a certain fact that we saw very few persons moving about the streets of their burned and blasted towns . However great the destruction in their urban centers , it did not compare with the totality of destruction in that area of Nagasaki , where the atomic bomb fell and which we saw from the air just six days ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building sites were plainly marked with rubble , including great heaps of twisted , rusted gal- ' ' vanized iron . At Nagasaki every-1 thing had fused and disappeared and the bomb-damaged area was as clean as though the Japanese had taken months to clean it up . Both the incendiary attacks and 1 the atomic ' bombs used out here did a more thorough job of deStruction than the type of bombs employed in the European theatre and the lessons learned from the Superfortress campaign against Japan , apart from the atomic Weapon , doubtless will have a great effect on future war planning .                     