@@710037

txt President Truman opened home building to all citizens tonight in a wide re moval and easing of restrictions . He announced a " vigorous " Federal housing program for 1947 which turns the problem of providing homes over to private enterprise with virtually no restraints . Rent ceilings are not affected by the changes except in new construction . In a sweeping statement issued at 7 P. M. , the President disclosed the results of a three-day conference with his economic and housing advisers . He said the following decisions had been reached : Any one , veteran or non-veteran , may build a home for personal occupancy . The former $10,000 ceiling on the sales price for a new house will no longer be in effect . Priorities for obtaining scarce materials will be scrapped . The flat $80-a-month rental ceiling will be relaxed to the extent that a builder is permitted to rent his units at prices which average that amount . The $35,000,000 a week limit on non-residential construction will be increased an unspecified amount . President Looks to Results " I am determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing program will continue to be carried out in 1947 . " The techniques we use are those that will work today . I am interested in results and I am convinced that this 1947 program will produce results . " He said that the construction of rental housing would be the Government 's primary goal next year and that financial help and other assistance would be so directed as to encourage builders to provide units for renting . In a section on home-building , Mr. Truman stated that , despite a rise in construction of this type , " the veterans ' need remains extremely urgent . " " We recognize this by continuing to give veterans preference for every dwelling unit constructed for sale or rent , " he said . Housing construction , he went on , will be authorized by Govern // ment permits which embody these restrictions : 1 . The proposed dwelling must be designed for year-round occupancy . 2 . Total floor area will be restricted . 3 . For rental housing , maximum rents , exclusive of service charges , must not exceed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is comparable to the former " maximum average price plan " imposed at one time by the Office of Price Administration on the pricing of j clothing . It was eventually discarded as inequitable and impracticable . Permits to Be Simplified " The permit system will be simple , " Mr. Truman promised . " It will not he necessary to have sales prices set . or to meet standards and inspection requirements of the present priorities system . " , The President 's action tonight thus suggested a virtually complete abandonment of the Veterans ' Emergency Housing Program established and directed by Wilson W. Wyatt , who resigned as Housing Expediter less than a fortnight ago . Mr. Wyatt was summoned to Washington by President Truman a year ago early this month . His reign as housing chief began in January , 1946 , and the first important restriction on non-residential building was imposed March 26 , after the housing program had been enacted . To supplement the new housing program the imminence of which forced Mr. Wyatt to leave his post , the President has authorized the continuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way . " These will include training of apprentice building trades workers to help relieve the manpower shortage , technical research for new methods of construction and , " above all , " steps to reduce permanently the cost of housing . chiefly by encouraging manufacturers of new materials and prefabricated homes . Increase in Materials Noted In announcing the impending relaxation of the non-residential construction limitation , Mr. Truman noted that there was increasing need for schools and stores and other community facilities to accompany the new housing developments , and also " for essential Industrial and research projects . " " Fortunately , " said the President , " we can safely permit some increase in non-housing construction because of the greatly increased volume of building materials . As the supply improves , the order can be relaxed to allow more non-residential con-struction . " The President , continuing his emphasis on the need for rental housing , stated that more family units " must be made available for rent to veterans . " " They should not be compelled to buy in order to get shelter , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as new construction , conversion and rehabilitation . must be employed . He called upon local and State governments and industry , labor and financial institutions to cooperate with the Federal program in making the new program a success . " We as a nation owe the veterans an opportunity to have homes , " he declared . " We will see that they get them . " Builders ' Head Predicts Gains WASHINGTON , Dec. 14 ( R ) ? One official who worked with Mr. Wyatt in the national housing agency had this to say of President Truman 's new housing program , with the proviso that he not be identified : " This really cuts the roots of the once flourishing Wyatt housing trees . " Production of building materials has been increasing enormously , and there is no doubt that we will get housing in 1947 . But we do n't get as much housing , or at as favorable a price to veterans , as we had anticipated . " On the other hand , Frank W. Cortright , executive vice president of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparatively low-cost homes and greater activity in every field of construction . He noted that the steps ordered by the President were " the things that we have been advocating . " The President fixed no specific housing goal for 1947 . Mr. Wyatt 's objective was 2,500,000 units started in 1946 and 1947 , of which 1,200,000 were to be under way this year . Prospects are that something over 1,000,000 will be under way by the year 's end . Several questions remained unanswered in the Presidential announcement . A major one was : What happens to the approximately 500,000 homes now under construction which builders promised to offer to veterans at a certain price ? NHA officials , only a few of whom were consulted in preparation of the new policy , said they could not supply the answer , but " could not imagine " that the price lid would be removed from these , houses entirely .                     