@@711819

txt . The case raises certain issues  - -  involving civil rights and obligations which have never been coinpiefely settled by either Congress orithe Supreme Court . Its final disposition may determine whether th-e:Communist party is an illegal bdtly , and whether mere advocacy ! of-governmental overthrow is in itself illegal . Iii ' any event , the trial focuses attention on the party , its strength and-the issues involved . ; Structurally the party consists of'clubs organized on a shop , community or industrial basis . These ar-i-grouped by counties , cities or sections into a state organization . Sometimes the states are grouped into districts . Each ' level is governed by a convention and a committee , topped by the biennial national convention and an all-powerfutirtational committee . Constitutional Provisions The party constitution contains three features of special interest : 1 ) It binds the members to " duties " and " obligations " far beyond any demanded of a member of the two major parties , comparable only to those demanded by the militant churches . at . Communist has to accept the awns , principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dues regularly , study and circulate the literature , attend meetings , discuss thoroughly the party 's policies and tactics and vote in its decisions , criticize his own work and the work and composition of committees , belong to his trade union , struggle against " oppression and discrimination " and against " reaction " at home and abroad . ( 2 ) Party discipline is emphasized a9d disciplinary procedure , through a review committee , spelled out . ( 3 ) The organization is dedicated:to defend and extend " the democracy of our country " ; but the party structure is based on the principles of " democratic centralism , " is Lenin 's theory of a strictly centralized organization . Strength of the Party At its peak in the Nineteen Thirties the party numbered nearly 100,000 members . With sympathizers and fellow-travelers , the party at one time numbered more than a million . But its turnover is high . It claims only 60,000 today . Probably the true number is less . The Wallace vote , in which every last party member and sympathizer was counted along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party has lost much of its influence . In New York State it can not muster 50,000 signatures to give it a place on the ballot . It never was a working-class movement , but it came closest to a mass labor base in the early years of the Congress of Industrial Organizations . Now . according to authorities on the subject , the party has beer driven from control of all but one mass union and from most of the smaller unions and locals . the present trial the indictin ht charges that the committeemen conspired to organize the Coinmunist party , a society of persons " who teach and advocate the overthrow and destruction " of the Government " by force and violence , " and that they conspired " knowingly and willfully to advocate and teach the duty and necessity " of such overthrow . The party , it alleges , is " dedicated to the Marxist-Leninist principles of the overthrow and destruction " of the Government " by force and violence . " Prohibited by Smith Act These acts , it asserts , are prohibited by Section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; any person from " knowingly or willfully " advocating , or teaching the duty , desirability or propriety of overthrowing any Government in the United States by force or assassination ; from writing or circulating any matter so doing " with the intent " to cause the overthrow of Government ; from helping to organize any group that teaches or encourages forcible overthrow of Government ; from affiliating with any such group " knowing the purposes thereof . " Among the issues of fact which the prosecution will have to prove are three important ones : ( 1 ) Does the Communist party teach the doctrine of forcible overthrow ? Lenin , Trotzky and Stalin can be quoted on both sides . The standard revolutionary Marxist theory has always been that the seizure of government in a revolutionary situation requires force and violence because the capitalist class usurping power would , initially , use force and violence against the classes legally entitled to governmental power . The constitution of the U. S. Communist party proscribes the advocacy of " force . and violence or terrorism . " Prosecution 's Job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine of forcible overthrow , it must be shown that the doctrine it teaches is the same as the one that the law proscribes . The standard theory of the Communists , it will be noted , makes the use of force a matter of defense , not offense , and it makes its object usurpers of the Government , not the proper Government itself . ( 2 ) But even this is not enough . The law raises the question of knowledge and intent . The prosecution will have to show that the defendants knew what they were doing and intended to do it . ( 8 ) If all this be shown , there is still a further question of fact . The Supreme Court has held that it is not enough to prove advocacy of sedition or criminal syndicalism . Such advocacy must really be " a clear and present danger " to the Government . Twice in recent years the Supreme Court has failed to pass upon the question whether advocacy of forcible governmental overthrow was a principle of the Communist party . Questions of Law In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court the cancellation of the naturalization of William Schneiderman , a Communist . Associate Justice Frank Murphy , author of the five-to-three decision , ruled that Schneiderman had not obtained his citizenship fraudulently and that it was unnecessary to pass on the principle . In invalidating the deportation order against Harry Bridges , West Coast labor leader , in 1945 , the majority finding also lolled to rule on this point . If the question is now resolved , I and in the affirmative , several questions of law remain to be settled . The Smith Act amends and adds to the Espionage Act of 1917 under which the mass trials of members of the Industrial Workers of the World were held . The Espionage Act and state laws against sedition and criminal syndicalism have been held to be constitutional , but all these required evidence of commission of an overt act . The Smith Act does not . The constitutionality of the whole section may be tested . The section was enacted to deal with sabotage in the interest of a foreign power : An interesting question is whether , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present danger " doctrine . It remains to be seen whether the court will - abandon that doctrine . now that it has become a test of the legality of infringements by the Government itself on the civil , rights of individuals . Defenders of civil liberties have an even greater concern over whether the case will establish the legality of fixing guilt by association . Proponents of the Smith Act , however , point out that the law specifies that mere affiliation with such groups is prohibited only when their purposes are known . At any rate , the case should make clear whether or not this country now has a full-fledged -. and farreaching sedition law .                     