@@704524

txt In the general rejoicing today over the liberation of 326 British seamen from the German prison ship Altmark , the man in the street was not much concerned over the aspects of international law involved in boarding the enemy craft in Norwegian territorial waters by the crew of the destroyer Cossack . The attitude of most Britons , reflected in the press and comments of leaders of public opinion , is best summed up in the American phrase , " So what ? " The view of the Foreign Office , couched in more dignified and more diplomatic language , was not greatly at variance with popular opinion . Without going so far as to imply that two wrongs make a right , the official view seemed to be that since Norway could not or would not or did not dare to prevent violation of her neutrahty by Germany , it was the right and duty of the British Navy to intervene . It was learned that at last right 's interview with the Norwegian Minister , Erik Colban , Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the return of the liberated captives , then made known the government 's views in the most forceful language . Mr. Colban was informed that in the British Government 's view , Norway , through her failure to find and free the prisoners aboard the Altmark , appeared to have " failed in her duty as a neutral . " Held Unit of Belch Navy While not mentioned in the official Foreign Office statement , the view held in informed quarters here is that the Altmark , which served as an auxiliary vessel for the Admiral Graf Spee , far from being the innocent merchantman that GerI many claims , was , in reality , a unit of the German Navy , if not an actual warship . In June , 1939 , in the list of coast ship stations published by the International Union of Telegraphic and Wireless Communication at Berne  --  a body sponsored by the Inter-Postal Union  --  the name of the German ship Altmark appears with crossed swords , indicating she was then classed as a warship . In Berlin a spokesman for the Foreign Office described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy " and admitted there were weapons on board " such as pistols , which are necessary to carry out the police duties of the crew . " It was pointed out further that Lloyd 's Register of Merchant Shipping does not contain the listing of any vessel named Altmark and that on the best evidence obtainable the prison ship carried porn-porn guns and machine guns and that in messages intercepted by British warships she used the call signal DTAK which was the signal allotted to the Altmark listed by the Inter-Union . Naval experts said it was for the German Government to explain if it could that a ship described as a warship last June had become the " innocent merchantman " described last night in a broadcast from Hamburg . British Expect Explanation Consequently it was made known tonight that Lord Halifax in formed Mr. Colban that the British expected wn explanation from Oslo on the failure of Norwegian authorities to discover the prisoners when the Altmark was searched at Bergen . Not only was Mr. Colban urged to obtain a full explanation of this circumstance from his government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the British , Norway had fallen short on her obligations as g neutral . Lord Halifax asked the Minister to forward the following communication to Oslo : " It was notorious that the Altmark participated In the depredations of the Admiral Graf Spee , to which she had been acting as an auxiliary . We had the best reasons , confirmed by British subjects taken from the Graf Spee who had been // NORWAY REMISS , BRITAIN CHARGES // previously imprisoned on the Altmark , for knowing that there were some 300 to 400 British subjects aboard who for *long had been living under intolerable conditions . " The Altmark was also credibly believed to possess offensive armaments . The record of this ship must have been well known to the Norwegian Government . In the view of His Majesty 's Government it was incumbent on the Norwegian authorities , when she entered Bergen and requested passage through Norwegian territorial waters to subject her to the most careful search . His Majesty 's Government would be grateful for full particulars as to how the search was conducted and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Government indicated that the examination had been perfunctory as shown by the fact that no prisoners had been discovered . As far as the facts were at present known to His Majesty 's Government it appeared to them that the Norwegian Government failed in their duties as neutrals . " If they had , in fact , found British prisoners aboard , what would they have done with them ? Either they would have had to release them or they would , at any rate , have held them pending a full examination of the position . " His Majesty 's Government felt , therefore , that they had every right to complain of the inaction of the Norwegian Government . As stated above 300 British subjects had been kept for weeks and months in close confinement and if these prisoners found their way to a camp in Germany the Norwegian Government would have been held responsible for the fate of these men . " Meanwhile the case against the ship itself was such that His Majesty 's Government were justified in pressing that the Altmark should be interned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seven ships sent down by the Graf Spee in the South Atlantic came from Liverpool and Hull . Merseyside crowds turned out en masse to welcome the travelers home and at Hull the crowds sang the song , " There 'll Always Be an England , " as the seamen , freshly shaved and in borrowed clothes , stepped off the train from Edinburgh . The press unanimously acclaimed the navy 's act in violating the technicalities of international law to rescue the captive seamen aboard the Altmark and in some . quarters it was said that any government that bowed to Norway 's demand that the men be returned would fall . The Times of London , in one of the most temperate editorials , to be printed tomorrow , will say that the victory of the River Plate , where the Graf Spee scuttled herself , would have lacked a fitting sequel if " after the lion had been destroyed the jackal had escaped with the prey . " Commenting on the legal aspects of the episode The Times will say : " International law does not permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a neutral . He can not march them across neutral land nor can he convey them into or through ' neutral territorial waters . If a ship carrying prisoners is taken to such waters the law requires that such prisoners be immediately released . " In support of this argument advanced by the Times , naval experts cited the action of Captain Hans Langsdorff who freed his captives when the Graf Spee entered Montevideo and the precedent established by the Norwegian Government itself , which ordered the release of the British prisoners on the American City of Flint when she was brought into Tromsoe by a German prize crew last October .                     