@@712037

txt Chinese Communists have joined in a Russian-blessed alliance with North Korean and Burmese Communists , the official Chinese Central News Agency said here . The Communist action was announced as part of " the joint struggle against American and British imperialism , " the Nationalist agency said . If true , the " mutual defense pact " would stretch a 3,500-mile Communist arc from the Sea of Japan to the Indian Ocean  --  an arc encompassing hundreds of millions of people . There was no confirmation of the pact from other sources , however . By Gordon Walker Chief Par Eastern Correspondent of he Christian Science Monitor Canton While the military fate of Shanghai continues to hang on thin threads , the refugee Chinese Nationalist Government here is concentrating its efforts on two last-ditch fronts . The first of these is the effort to repair the clique headed by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . The second is to achieve some sort of last-minute political or military victory , which it is desperately hoped will bring the revival of United States aid . If one or both of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is some hope of salvaging something from China 's civil war . But the atmosphere of gloom among government officials here is so penetrating that only the most optimistic observer could find a ray of light . Li Adamant The political problem now facing the Nationalists can be summed up roughly this way : Unless the present Nationalist government split can be breached , there seems practically no chance for effective resistance to the Chinese Communists to flourish in South China . The basis for the split is the difference in concepts within the Kuomintang ( Nationalist Party ) as to how the war should be continued . Acting President Li Tsung-jen , who so far has refused to come to Canton and resume leadership , now is fully committed to continue the battle of China where-ever Communist troops appear . Mr. Li might , under most circumstances , have lost too much face in the recent peace negotiations failure to resume the government leadership . But ? Communist demands were so impossible and Mr. Li 's handling of the situation politically so skillful that he now has emerged with even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 