@@711662

txt Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York and Joseph P. Ryan , president of the AFL International Longshoremen 's Association , conferred here today in an effort to settle the six-day-old dock strike which has tied up the East Coast 's big ports . After flying home from an interrupted California vacation , the mayor gave assurance that New York City 's flow of vital supplies , including food and fuel , is not being interrupted by the strike . A total of 65,000 ILA members , including stevedores and other dock workers , are idle in East Coast ports as a result of a stalemate in a wage dispute . About 200 ships were tied up at the start of the week end , and the total was expected to increase . The O'Dwyer-Ryan conference was concerned particularly with the 15,000-odd longshoremen in the port of New York . It was expected , however , that any settlement reached would end the strike also in Boston , Philadelphia , Baltimore , Wilmington , D e 1 . , Hampton Roads , Va. , and other East Coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success in settling strikes here , conferred by telephone with Cyrus S. Ching , director of the United States Mediation and Conciliation Service . The mayor had offered thee service the city 's cooperation in efforts to end the walkout in principal . ports along the 700-mile stretch of Atlantic seaboard from Portland , Maine , to Hampton Roads . One of the mayor 's chief immediate concerns in meeting with Mr. Ryan and a union committee was to seek assurance that even a lengthy strike would not hamper delivery of food and fuel to the city . Harbor craft have not been affected . Meanwhile , negotiators in the 75-day-old West Coast Congress of Industrial Organizations dock strike , reporting " definite progress " during the week end , drafted tentative contract language covering points already settled . Negotiations on other issues were to bd resumed there later . In Philadelphia , William Green , public relations director for CARE , said CARE deliveries in Europe have not been interrupted , because of stockpiles abroad . ECA Sees Threat Officials of the Economic Cooperation Administration , however , were concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods . Longshoremen in Philadelphia rejected an army request to permit shipments of grain , other foodstuffs , and mail to armed forces overseas . Two shipments of grain were reported to be stored in elevators in that city awaiting shipments to Europe . But in New York , police reported that 140 longshoremen worked Nov. 14 on the army embarkation piers in Brooklyn , 77 worked on army piers in Staten Island , and 21 handled mail at a Hudson River pier . An embargo ordered by the Association of American Railroads remained in effect on almost all goods bound for overseas through East Coast ports . The strike has made it impossible to unload cargoes of ships arriving in New York from Europe , and incoming passengers have had to carry their own luggage . Several hotels are crowded With foreign-bound passengers unable to sail . And foreign mail has piled up . Group Stands Firm The New York Shipping Association , representing stevedore employers , has said it will not raise its offer of wage increases of 10 and 15 cents an hour . The strike ? now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement reached by union officials and the employers for a hike in the day-shift straight-time pay from $1.75 to $1.85 an hour and in the night and week-end overtime rate from $2.6214 to ? i an hour . The union now seeks an increase of 50 cents an hour , as originally demanded , Mr. Ryan says . By Leon V. Stone Staff Writer of The Christian Science Monitor Tons of parcels intended for overseas Christmastime delivery met head-on with the coastal longshoremen 's strike today in Boston as United States mail went into army base storage . The strike of longshoremen that has tied up the port of Boston and all other New England ports , has put more than 10,000 mail parcels " on ice " at the base in South Boston . Normally , this mail , intended for overseas civilians and armed services personnel , would be rushed to New York and held there for the first surface vessel sailing for the port nearest its destination . Instead , local postal authorities have been ordered to store the mail in Boston rather than to dispatch it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Offices Flooded Post Offices here were deluged over the week end with packages intended for overseas delivery because today is the deadline for relatively sure delivery before Christmas to overseas points . Air mail parcel post to other countries is not affected by the strike of longshoremen . With shipping at New England ports completely tied up by the strike , all vessels arriving at Boston , Portland , Maine , and smaller ports today were made fait at discharging piers , but with cargoes intact . One vessel arrived at East Boston today from Calcutta . the Marwarri of the Cunard-Brockelbank Line , and the four passengers on board were obliged to carry their baggage from the ship to the pier . Longshoremen 's " observers " were on hand to be sure that their work was not attempted by others . Union Sits Tight The union men have agreed , however , following negotiations with Thomas M. Smiddy of the Boston Shipping Association , to unload the personal effects of 802 displaced persons due in Boston Nov. 18 aboard the army transport General Bundy . Action on any phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Daniel J. Donovan ' of East Boston , vice-president of the International Longshoremen 's Association . He has orders , he explained , to " sit tight " and await developments at New York . Picture : Page 2 Ashore  --  Carrying Luggage . BV a Staff Phol manlier Carrying off their own luggage because of the strike of stevedores in Boston , four passengers from the steamship Marwarri disembark at East Boston after a voyage from Port Said , Egypt . Left to right are Yerko Branovic. a refugee from Yugoslavia who has been living in the international refugee camp at Port Said ; Roscoe Miller of California ; Prof. Harrill Beck of the American University in Cairo , and seaman Thomas Freeland , whose home is in Arizona .                     