@@708072

txt A Federal grand jury today accused a British corporation and another owned 90 per cent by Germans through a Netherland " dummy " company of having controlled since 1929 by means of a cartel arrangement the production and marketing of virtually the entire world 's supply of borax , obtained almost exclusively in California . Seven companies , headed by Borax Consolidated , Ltd. , and the American Potash and Chemical Corporation , were indicted for Sherman Anti-Trust Law violations with eleven individuals , four of whom live in England . Borax and its derivatives are strategic chemicals in the Allied war production program , the indictment stated , and should be " important chemicals in the nation 's reconversion program to civilian production . " - Borax Consolidated , according to the indictment , " controls 95 per cent of the world production of borax from crude borates , including 100 per cent of the world production from kernite , all of which is located in Kern County , California . " The American Potash and Chemical Corporation , which the Alien Property Custodian discovered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to be Germanowned , was named as controlling nearly 90 per cent of the world production of borax derived from lake brines . Ninety-nine per cent of this comes from Searles Lake in the Mojave Desert of California . Purchases of Land Traced Attorneys said that the corporation , then British-owned , bought about sixteen square miles of the lake from the Federal Government in 1912 and , through lease arrangements with the Department of the Interior , had taken over additional sections of the lake bed since then . The British interests , it was alleged , transfered the property to Germans through " a secret sale " in 1929 and not until Britain had been at war with the Nazis for more than two years did the British or American Governments become aware that the property was in German hands , according to James E. Markham , Alien Property Custodian , whose gffice ? vested German stock holdings in the corporation in October , 1942 . The concern under American management since then " has made a signal contribution to the war effort . " As the criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filed a civil suit in Federal court azering for an injunction against continuance of the alleged anti-trust violations and seeking appointment of a receiver to sell such property as is necessary " to restore competitive conditions in the industry . " Cartel Accused of Hindering War The complaint charged that the cartel , interfered with the war effort in a period when shipping space was at a premium . The American Potash and Chemical Corporation had succeeded in producing a dehydrated form of borax taking up about half the shipping space of the regular borax . But , it was chaged , it had an arrangement with Borax Consolidated , Ltd. , whereby it would sell the dehydrated product only to selected customers . When lend-lease entered the picture , attorneys alleged , the two corporations " used many devices " to avoid supplying the Allied Fovernments with dehydrated borax for fear that it would upset the whole world-wide price and marketing structure , Allied Governments thus were compelled many times to use valuable shipping space to carry regular borax , according to Government attorneys . Wendell Berge , assistant attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that this was " one of the first cartel cases in which the defendants had virtually a world-wide monopoly . " The defendant companies , " through one device or other , " he added , brought potential competitors " within the orbit of their operations . " Mine Bought and Wrecked In one instance , after taking over a property through a subsidiary , Borax Consolidated , Ltd. , destroyed mining facilities and closed the mine , according to the indictment . Attorneys said that the mine , buildings and approaches had been dynamited . Under the alleged plan of acquiring and destroying other concerns the defendants were declared to have frozen out of the competitive picture F. M. ( Borax ) Smith , who discovered borax in Death Valley a half century ago and originated the twen-1 ty-mule team , used as an advertis-ing device . Wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Potash named in the indictment were Borax &; Chemicals , Ltd. , of London , which operates as a sales organization in the United Kingdom and Europe , and Three Elephant Borax Corporation of New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchaser of its refined borax and boric acid sold ultimately through Borax &; Chemicals , Ltd . Subsidiaries of Borax Consolidated , Ltd : , of Danes Hill , Oxshott Surrey , England , which were indicted were the Pacific Coast Borax , Company of Los Angeles , which operates borate deposits in Kern County and a refinery at Wilmington , Calif. , and the United States Borax Company of Los Angeles , organized " solely for tlf9 purpose of holding title to borate deposits in California and Nevada . " Other Defendants Named Also named as a defendant was the Goldfields American Development Company , Ltd. , which " controlled and managed the activities and affairs of defendant American Potash and Chemical Corporation , " from 1929 until the Alien Property Custodian vested German stock holdings in the latter concern . Attorneys said that the secret sale was made by a British syndicate known as Consolidated Goldfields of South Africa to the Germans through Hope &; Co. of the Netherlands and that the agreement gave the Germans " 90 per cent beneficial ownership " and the British company management control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Lesser of London , joint managing director , Borax Consolidated , Ltd . Frank M. Jenifer of Sherman Oaks , Calif. , president and general manager , Pacific Coast Borax Company . James M. Gerstley of Beverly Hills , director and vice president of the same company . Frank T. Winters of Amityville , N. Y. , also a director and vice president treasurer . C. R. Dudley of Long Branch , Calif. , a director . C. F. Baker of New York , vice president of American Potash and joint trustee of Goldfields . W. J. Murphy of New York , vice president in charge of sales of American Potash . Robert M. Curts of New York , sales manager of the company . Frederick Viewig of Los Angeles , vice president and West Coast manager . William T. Hatchley of London , president and director of Borax Chemicals Ltd . The same.companies and persons were named as defendants in the civil action . Mr. Berge said that the British defendants could not be forced to come to this country but that in some earlier cartel suits foreign defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn the identities of the German industrialists in the cartels .                     