@@707762

txt Edward James Smythe , fugitive defendant in the largest sedition trial in American history , was arrested today in Ausable Forks , N. Y. , near the Canadian border , and was hurried here . His absence had delayed the proceedings in the Federal Dis ? trict Court . His failure to appear at the opening of the trial yesterday started a search by the Federal Bureau of Investigation . In his con-1 tinued absence Chief Justice Ed-'I ward C. Eicher adjourned the trial ) today soon after noon and before selection of the jury had begun . While the FBI was tightening its net around Smythe this morning , the court again called his name . James J. Laughlin , attorney for Smythe , said that his client had not cooperated . He read a letter from Smythe criticizing Justice Edward C. Eicher , presiding , as " most unfair and strictly New Deal " and asking a plea for trial before another judge . Mr. Laughlin read a letter of reply to Smythe in which he declared that he had the " fullest confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be a party to proceedings against him . Sought Before by FBI Smythe 's $1,000 bond was forfeited and a warrant issued for his arrest when he failed to appear in court yesterday . About 50 years old , the defendant is among those indicted by a Federal grand jury in 1942 and 1943 on charges of sedition , charges leading up to the present indictment . After the first indictment Smythe was a fugitive for three months before his arrest by the FBI A native of Illinois , he is one of thirty defendants in the trial and one of ten from New York City . He is declared by the Government to be publisher of Our Common Cause , a contributor to Publicity and a speaker foi such organizations as the Ku Klux Klan . This is the first United States sedition trial to involve a foreign Government . The indictment , accusing the thirty alleged seditionists of conspiring to overthrow the United States for a Nazi dictatorship , chiefly by means of demoralizing the Army and Navy , names Hitler and his deputies as their " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy " by the Government are the greatest number ever arraigned in an American sedition triaL 0 . John Rogge , who , as former head of the criminal division of the Justice Department , prosecuted Louisiana remnants of the Huey Long political machine a in the so-called " mail fraud triers , " is prosecuting the sedition indictment on the basis of the 1940 peacetime sedition law or " Alien Registration Act . " Task of the Prosecutor To prove his case Mr. Rogge , now special assistant to the Attorney General , must link the defendants directly to the Nazi conspiracy to ? " destroy democracy throughout the world " and must show that they went beyond the rights of free speech and free press with intent to demoralize the armed forces . They are accused of circulating such literature as " Mein Kampf , " supporting similar organizations to the National Socialist German Workers party and making statements like : " Democracy is decadent ; a National Socialist or Fascist form of government should be established in the United States . " A basic issue in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy to destroy it , Mr. Rogge has asserted . Defense counsel renewed this morning efforts to have the court investigate the manner in which the prospective jury panel was selected . Again such motions were denied . P. Bateman Ennis , counsel for Gerhard Wilhelm Kunze , former national leader of the GermanAmerican Bund , pressed to obtain , suppress or impound evidence the Government " seized " from the defendants . Mr. Rogge repeated what he had said yesterday , that if and when it was appropriate // during the trial to make such evidence available to the defense , it would be done . Justice Eicher also repeated : " The defendant is not entitled to the Government 's evidence for defense . " Mr. Ennis charged that the Government had violated the Fifth Article of the Bill of Rights by seizing Kunze 's property " without a search warrant . " He declared also that " no court in the United States has jurisdiction over Gerhard Wilhelm Kunze by virtue of the methods by which he was brought back into this country ( from Mexico ) to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government to provide them all with copies of the record of proceedings . They pointed out that to pay for this would be a particular hardship on most of them , those serving without fee on assignment by the court to represent defendants who have declared themselves paupers . ( A bill is before the House Judiciary Committee which would provide compensation to such counsel in Fed-1 eral District Courts . ) Judge Eicher cited a Supreme Court ruling that the court is without power to order such copies of the record at Government expense . Counsel for Kunze and George Sylvester Viereck isolated their clients from any connection with the conduct of Mrs. Lois de Lafayette Washburn , the defendant who yesterday scuffled with photographers and gave them a fascist salute . The counsel observed that this was a " serious trial " and that they could not subscribe to such behavior . Mrs. Washburn commented by raising her right arm in the court room to " defend " her action against the photographers as treatment she has reserved for ' " scandle-scanderers . " Several defense attorneys protested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that larger accommodations under control of the court were not available . The defense lawyers then fought to have the atmosphere of the court room  --  which they said " reflected insurrection " ? relaxed . The court accepted Mr. Rogge 's ' suggestion that it adjourn for the , afternoon while the FBI hunted ' for Smythe .                     