@@709351

txt Prime Minister Stalin 's replies to three questions asked by The Associated Press will find a profound welcome in an anxious world . In these replies Mr. Stalin gives the strongest possible endorsement to the United Nations Organization as " a serious instrument for the preservation of peace and international security . " " The strength of this international organization , " he adds , " consists in the fact that it is based on the principle of the equality of the right of states and not on the principle of the domination of some states over others . If the United Nations Organization succeeds in continuing to preserve the principle of equal rights it will undoubtedly play a great positive role in the cause of guaranteeing universal peace and security . " No less reassuring is Mr. Stalin 's announcement of his conviction that " neither the nations nor their armies are striving for a new war . They want peace and are striving for a guarantee of peace . " To many persons in the democracies Mr. Stalin 's Election speech of Feb. 9 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arose " as the inevitable result of the development of world economic and political forces on the basis of monopoly capitalism , " seemed itself like a declaration of war on the capitalist democracies . If that speech could bear such an interpretation , then the present replies of Mr. Stalin are entitled to be interpreted as a declaration of peace . The test of Mr. Stalin 's latest declaration will come with the unfolding of actual events . It is difficult to see how he could have made it unless , in conformity , he expects to submit the Russian dispute with Iran to the meeting of the UNO that opens on Monday . For it was to resolve disputes precisely of this nature that the UNO was brought into existence . The principle of equality of rights between states , moreover , implies this willing submission of disputes . In this connection the announcement of Ambassador Gromyko , following a call at the White House , that a Russian representative will be on hand at the opening of the Security Council session is a very promising one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's new declaration will come in the actual decisions taken by Russia in the field of action , the most important of which now concerns the withdrawal or non-withdrawal of Soviet troops from Iran . The events of recent weeks , culminating in the new statement by Mr. Stalin , seem to confirm the feeling of many that the Western democracies can best serve the cause of permanent peace by candid speaking . These events follow the speech of Winston Churchill in Fulton , and the firm stand this week of the President in refusing to postpone , at the request of Russia , the scheduled Monday meeting of the United Nations Security Council . A few days after Mr. Churchill 's speech , and a second American note to Moscow expressing concern about developments in Manchuria , Russian troops evacuated Mukden , and the Russians announced their decision to evacuate the island of Bornholm as soon as Denmark was in a position to take over again . No doubt it would be easily possible to exaggerate the significance of these moves and of Mr. Stalin 's latest declaration . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a clear statement of our own position and purposes , and an equally frank expression of our concern regarding actions of other nations that seem to us to threaten peace , is not " warmongering , " but , on the contrary , is the only road to the removal , before it is too late , of international misunderstandings . Mr. Stalin 's latest declaration is a good augury and the basis of a new hope for understanding and cooperation between Russia and America .                     