@@706234

txt Prime Minister Winston Churchill told the House of Commons today that Lord Beaverbrook , Britain 's newly appointed Minister of Production , will represent Britain in various pooling arrangements with the United States in a capacity corresponding to that of Donald M. Nelson , head of America 's War Production Board . Mr. Churchill said that in the new post , to which he was shifted from the Ministry of Supply , , Lord Beaverbrook would exercise general supervision over supply departments and shipbuilding and would " concert and co-ordinate all their actions . " All labor questions , it was added , will be settled between the Minister of Labor and the Mmister of Production . To the question whether Lord Beaverbrook would spend more of his time in Britain now , he replied that no such assurance could be given . Mr. Churchill recalled that in the latter part of the last war he held a position similar to Lord Beaverbrook 's new job , and that " the burden did not appear too great and the work went forward without more than the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill was Minister of Munitions in 1918 . The Prime Minister said a number of British production experts had been in the United States for some time " considering the question of American methods of war production . " Mr. Churchill enumerated Lord Beaverbrook 's duties as follows ; He will be " charged with the prime responsibility for all business of war production in accordance with the policy of the Minister of Defense ( Churchill ) and the War Cabinet " ; He will have charge of " allocation of . available resources of productive capacity and Ili* material , including arrangements for their import ; settlement of priorities of production whete necessary , and the supervision and guidance of the various departments concerned " ; He will be left the ualtered right of any ministerial head to appeal ? to the Minister of Defense or the War Cabinet ; He " also will be the Minister responsible for handling , on behalf of the War Cabinet , the discussions of combined bodies set up here and in the United States to deal with munitions and assignments of raw materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Correspondent of Tltc Chtistion Science Monitor LONDON , Feb. ** necessity of seeing this war clearly  --  or seeing it as a whole  --  governs the transactions of the Pacific War Council , meeting for the first time here /today under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Winston Churchill , to link Britain , Australia , New Zealand , and the Netherlands East Indies in a corn . mon Far Eastern war policy that dovetails into the rest of the Allies strategy . The new Council , working in close conjunction with the Combined Chiefs-of-Staff Committee established under President Roosevelt in Washington , is a ministerial body operating with the technical aid of the British Chiefs of Staffs and their subcommittee . Its purpose is to focus the united view of the countries concerned upon the diffused world-wide problems of the war . Inquiries at the India office and kustralia House here elicited the view that establishment of the ? acific War Council was not to ninimize the importance of either he Eastern Group Council at Delhi , India , Let up in 1940 or the Allied- Siipply Council , formed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For these are ! oncerned with producing supplies and not controlling the use of them . The loss of Malaya , Hong Kong , and various other industiial centers in the Far ' Eait has emphasized the importance of alternative sources which have been created or exploited in India , South Africa , Australia and New Zealand . Those are countries represented in the Eastern Group Council at Delhi of which the Chairman is Sir Archibald Carter , representing Britain 's Ministry of Supply . Duties of Councils Their combined function is to accelerate and co-ordinate productiOn for the benefit of these couniries themselves , for the Middle East , and for zones of operation east of Suez , The Allied Supply Council at Melbourne is concerned with the acceleration of Australia 's industrial effort and the disposal of its fruits to the best advantage of Australia and the United Nations . - These Councils ; in short , are engaged at close range with vitally important supply questions which must limit all conceptions of practicable united strategy favored by the Pacific Council at its London meetings , The new Pacific Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right to have al stronger hand on the controls of the Allied war machine . But it already has been criticized on two grounds : , - 1 . That if it had been established in Washington , as the Australian Government desired . it would he in more intimate contact with the combined Chiefsof-Staff Committee there . 2 . That since neither the United States nor Canada is represented on the Council ' it is , in effect , an advisory rather than an executive body since agreement with the United States , is an indispensable prerequisite for any basic operational program . However , the Dutch Government favored London as a meeting place and the arrangement is seen to hold certain advantages for most members since they are conferring in Europe near the scene of wider war while hammering out a policy in regard to the Pacific theater . Right now it is the southwest region which carries the crisis . But it is of the utmost importance to the Allies as a whole that the Japanese should not break through the line at present bordering their expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Already the unified command is handling a white-hot problem in the Southwest Pacific . The unification of operational control for the whole Pacific tends to be tightened increasingly via Washington through the London Council as an effort is made to insulate - Japan 's sphere of hostilities from those in which Germany and Italy are engaged . Men on the spot must play for time  --  as Lieut . Gen. T. J. Hutton 's forces in Burma and General Douglas 's troops in the Philippines are doing so gallantly now  --  but men at the conference tables of the various British-American commands are seeking to offset the shortsightedness of the past by a long view into the future , Flamboyant manifestations of Axis military agreement emphasize the fact that the aggressors are working upon a co-ordinated and well-timed joint plan designed at the present stage to make the United ; Nations scatter their inadequate resources all around the ' globe so that adequate Axis concentrations can gain a steadY-succession of local successes with a view to undermining they Allied war structure as a whole . Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into that somewhat obvious trap . They have said , in effect : " Hitler shall come first ' ' ' . But they also have said , in effect , : " Everything possible shall be done to retrieve the situation in the Far East . " So , before much of immediate importance can attach to the discussion of Allied offensives anywhere , the priority claim is for building up the air and sea strength essential for " containing " the Japanese , reinforcing key points now threatened , and mak- - ing possible in due course an Allied European land campaign to drive in upon the Germans from the west or south as the Russians come in toward Berlin from the East . Naval superiority , plus the victory of the fighter command in the air battle over ' Britain , explains why the Allies have been able to make any sort of a show at all in the Eutopean theater . For only now are they beginning to have the makings of land and air forces constituting a serious threat to ambitious Axis plans . Only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertake a serious offensive on more or less equal terms , as Mr. Churchill proudly announced . And today that army has been driven back in the western desert shuttle service which seems likely to run back and forth until one side can move up into its forward positions a strong enough force to take the enemy 's rearmost one  --  a development experts describe as very difficult to encompass . A combination of air and sea supremacy can eclipse the Japanese sun because the aggressors are operating over ocean tracts and are highly vulnerable once the tide of fortune turns . But in Europe , it is primarily a land enemy that has to be reckoned with and his downfall is seen here to be fully as dependent upon the co-ordination of the Allies ' best efforts as is a satisfactory solution to the urgent Pacific problem which the London conference has just tackled .                     