@@710229

txt Mr. Lewis 's coal strike ended three months ago today . It ended with Mr. Lewis 's belated submission to the Supreme Court as " the protector of American liberties and the rightful privileges of individual citizens . " Yesterday the Court stepped out of its ordinary ' outine to define liberties and privileges as they apply to Mr. Lewis and the United Mine Workers . The prevailing opinion , unexpectedly handed down on what is not normally an opinion day , is that Mr. Lewis and his union did not have the liberty and privilege of defying an order of a United States District Court . Mr. Lewis must pay 310,000 for that offense , as District Judge T. Alan Goldsborough originally ordered him to do . The United Miners , collectively , must pay $700,000  --  a reduction of 80 per cent in the original fine , contingent on full compliance with the original District Court order . During the three months ' interval the emotions caused by the strike have had time to die down . We have had an adequate supply-of coal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ householder 's fear of empty bins . But the basic issue is just as acute as it was last December . Coal is not merely fodder for the household furnace . It is a necessity in our industrial life , as much on April 1 or June 30 as it was on Dec. 7 . A coal shortage can at any time stop our trains , close our factories , ( throw millions out of work , cause acute suffering to millions more . If the threat of a strike exists , and so long as it exists , we are under the sword . We have to ask ourselves how serious the threat still is and to what extent yesterday 's decision has reduced it . There are , therefore , two elements in the situation the decision has produced . One is the actual ruling of the Court , sustained in its essentials by a 7-to-2 vote . The other is the effect of this ruling upon future events . Two future events are predictable : on midnight of March 31 the truce Mr. Lewis declared on Dec. 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's power to hold the mines , under the War Labor Act , will terminate . The practical effect of the decision should be to give us peace in coal until June 30 . One would not think it would have that effect after June 30 unless in the meantime Congress passes a new law authorizing the President to take over any vital industry when its operations are halted by an employe-management dispute . If such a law were passed the principles enunciated yesterday would seemingly continue to apply . If they did continue to apply Mr. Lewis would be bound by his promise of Dec. 7 to act " within the limitations of the findings of the Supreme Court of the United States . " If he disregarded these limitations he would do so at his own peril . But regardless of whether or not we get a new law bearing on the seizure of vital industries , yesterday 's decision does lay down the principle that when the Government actually is the employer the anti-injunction provisions of the Norris-La Guardia Act can not be invoked . This part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but nevertheless it stands . The coal industry may or may not avoid future seizure if there is no other way to keep it operating . But the decision must also be applicable to existing and regular Government employment The Federal Government last year had nearly 3,000 , - 000 civilian employes millions more are employed by state , county and city governments  --  among them school teachers . One would suppose that if such public employes struck , and that if their strike threatened irreparable harm , an injunction to prevent such harm could , under yesterday 's ruling , be Issued . This is , in short , a case which will send its influence far beyond Mr. Lewis and the United Mine Workers . Our highest Court has grappled boldly with one of the great problems of our time . If it has not , and indeed could not have , solved the problem it has brought it within the scope of due process . We shall need better legislation , certainly we shall need a long process of education , before we can successfully reconcile our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our economic machinery working . Even Judge Goldsborough 's original order could not compel a miner to mine coal . It could only compel Mr. Lewis as a union leader and the union as an organization not to stop the miner from mining coal . We do not believe this decision is a defeat for responsible labor . It is a warning that a small fraction of the nation can not , by economic force , exert its will over the whole nation . In spirit , if not in letter , it applies to employers as well as employes . It is not merely a legal injunction that has been upheld . It is a moral injunction toward a greater sense of public obligation.F                     