@@709903

txt The eyes of the world today are on New York , where fifty-one nations gather in the General Assembly of the United Nations to continue the great adventure in international cooperation that must be the foundation of peace and prosperity . Technically , this is the second part of the Assembly 's first annual session , begun in London last January ; actually , it is a new session , facing different and in many respects graver problems . The main task of the London session was the organization of the United Nations as a going concern . This was accomplished with comparative ease and dispatch . Indeed , the products of that session 's work  --  the Security Council , the Atomic Energy Commission , the Economic and Social Council , and the International Court of Justice ? have become so much a part of international life and fill such apparent needs that it is difficult to conceive of a world without them . Now the Assembly faces the more difficult task of resolving differences of opinion among nations on many problems that go to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into two camps . It is in that task that the Assembly should be best able to perform its primary functions as the Town Meeting of the World and the conscience of mankind . - Because of the immediate disputes brought before the Security Council , that body , which in a sense is the police organ of the United Nations , charged with preventing aggression , has thus far overshadowed the Assembly . But the indications are that this session may reverse that situation . For Russia , which heretofore has staged her spectacular fight for world power before the Security Council , has now sent her most outstanding spokesmen , including Messrs . Molotov and Vishinsky , to the Assembly in the only Big Power delegation headed by a Foreign Minister . This fact , together with other indications , suggests that after her defeats in the Security Council Russia may attempt to transfer her struggle to the floor of the Assembly and make this her sounding board in the same type of oratorical display as at Paris . That does not augur for an exactly tranquil session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a war of bullets . It is the function of the Assembly to provide a forum for the expression of all points of view . The United States and Great Britain sought such a forum in urging the Paris Conference , and they must welcome the use of the Assembly for a like purpose . For only when all views and interests have been presented and tested under the glare of publicity is it possible for world opinion to decide between them . And after the failure of the many secret conferences to resolve the problems left over from the war , that is apparently the only way left to reach agreement among the nations . The program before the Assembly ranges over the most pressing problems now confronting the world , including food , reconstruction of the devastated areas , refugees , labor , education and freedom of the press . But the biggest struggles are likely to develop over the attempt to reconsider the Big Power veto in the Security Council , the election of new members to both the United Nations and to the Security Council , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not least , the Russian move , already blocked by the Security Council , to compel the United States and Great Britain to disclose their troop dispositions in " non-enemy " countries without Russia disclosing the disposition of the two million-odd troops she herself maintains beyond her borders . The manner in which these questions are solved in the Assembly seems bound to influence the work of the Big Four Foreign Ministers , who will meet during this session to complete the Paris treaties and to tackle the problem of Germany . There is hope of peace and agreement in the fact that all nations have sent strong delegations to the present meeting of the Assembly . The Foreign Ministers of the Great Powers have just pledged themselves to these goals anew , and doubtless this will be the message which President Truman brings to the opening meeting today .                     