@@705476

txt WASHINGTON , April ** Administration was believed tonight to be moving toward drastic action in dealing with spreading industrial strife unless existing conciliation and mediation machinery quickly produces settlement of strikes holding up hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of defense production . This view was gaining , especially in government inner-circles , on the basis of the day 's developments , including the direct appeal by Governor Heil of Wisconsin to President Roosevelt for Federal intervention in the seventy-day-old Allis-Chalmers strike in Milwaukee , the new shutdown and violence at the Ford River Rouge plant at Dearborn , Mich. , and a growing demand in Congress for more open action to curb a movement which , members charged , is jeopardizing the programs of American rearmament and aid to the non-Axis Allies . The agitation in Congress over strikes was chiefly responsible for the House 's virtually unanimous action today in ordering a broad inquiry into defense , and this was taken by numerous administrative officials as symptomatic of the country 's feeling toward this particular cause of delay in defense production . Sees Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable unless the situation changes soon , " one official said . " The public is demanding it . " What kind of action , was the question . There has been considerable discussion in official quarters of late as to whether the commandeering section of the Selective Service Act is broad enough to allow the President or other officers of the government to take over a plant tied up by labor troubles alone . The section was intended to permit the taking over of plant facilities in the event that the management refused to accept defense orders . A demand that the commandeering authority be broadened to include power to take over strikeridden factories , whichever side is to blame , was made in the Senate by Senators Connally of Texas and Overton of Louisiana , who up until now has supported the Administration on all of its moves in defense and aid to the Allies . Various proposals to that end are pending in the Senate and House . The strike situation was said to have been a major topic at a conference between the President and leading defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor subject also figured in a conversation between the President // CAPITAL EXPECTS PRESIDENT TO ACT // and Bernard M. Baruch , head of Ithe old War Industries Board , over the luncheon table at the White House . Some Smaller Strikes Settled On the brighter side of the industrial picture , the National Defense Mediation Board , through its chairman , Clarence A. Dykstra , announced the settlement of some smaller strikes , and the formula for a permanent settlement of the controversy between management and labor of the International Harvester Company , which was ended by truce several days ago . As to the Allis-Chalmers and Ford cases , the Administration was standing largely on legalistic grounds , so far as public pronouncements were concerned . Despite assertions , that no " official " recognition had been taken by Washington of the Ford strike , two Federal representatives were sent to the scene , each with the outline of a plan for settlement . One was James E. Dewey of the Labor Department 's Conciliation Service , the other , Eli Oliver , Labor Relations consultant attached to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OPM . No Reports on Ford Strike Secretary Early said that the White House had received no reports on the Ford strike , but the President continued to keep in close touch with negotiations going on in New York on the soft coal deadlock . John R. Steelman , chief of the Labor Department Conciliation Service , telephoned the President last night , Mr. Early said . He told the President that the negotiators still hoped for a settlement within twenty-four hours . Dr. Dykstra pretended not to know anything about the Ford case during a press conference at which he announced other settlements . " Ford makes automobiles , " a reporter suggested good-humoredly . " They used to , " put in Allan Haywood , organizational director of the C. I. 0 . who had been sitting in on the Mediation Board panel and lingered for the press conference . In a more serious vein Mr. Dykstra said that his attention had not been called " officially " to the Ford case . The impression to be gained in Washington tonight was that the Administration is bending over backward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep the record entirely straight in case more drastic action becomes necessary . There was also tile feeling that the officials were doing all possible to avoid the appearance of ' cracking down " on either labor or management before all other means had been exhausted . Furthermore , there was the belief that if and when a " crack down " comes , it will be aimed at both sides in the industrial strife . 5-Point Harvester Plan Dr. Dykstra announced a fivepoint program for the permanent settlement of the International Harvester strike , which was signed by the Mediation Board , the company and representatives of the A , F. of L. , but left unsigned by the C. I. 0 . Mr. Haywood said the approval of the C. I. 0 . was withheld because of certain reservations , but added that the board 's plan would be submitted to the membership of the unions in Chicago tomorrow . In the plan as proposed by the board , the signatories agreed : " 1 . That all plants are to be kept open and production for defense maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile , the board will proceed under the authority of the President 's executive order of March 19 , ' to investigate issues between employers and employes , and practices and activities thereof , with respect to such controversy or dispute ; conduct hearings , take testimony , make findings of fact and make public such findings and recommendations whenever In the judgment of the board the interests of industrial peace so require . ' " 2 . To ask the National Labor Relations Board for the earliest possible determination of the appropriate bargaining agencies . " 3 . The company agrees that all employes reporting for work promptly after call by the company will be returned to work without loss of seniority rights and privileges . " 4 . In the company 's four plants which have been reopened , since , after a strike , continuous operations at former levels can not be reisumed at once , the company agrees to continue to pay to each employee reporting to work not less than his average earnings during the four-week period preceding the strike until such time as his former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is understood that employes who can not be given their former regular work at once will do such other available work as the company may assign temporarily to them . " 5 . The employes agree that good order and proper shop discipline will be maintained during the period of investigation and fact-finding by the board . " The C. I. 0 . representative dissented to the words " or its equivalent " in provision No. 4 , holding that employes should have the right to return to their former jobs when such jobs become available . He also suggested that , pending the proposed investigation , means be provided for employes to have grievances adjusted by representatives of their own choosing , this to apply to all groups in order to guarantee against discrimination . Dr. Dykstra announced that work was resumed today on the Snohomish County ( Wash. ) airport , a defense project , which was tied up March 17 because an A. F. of L. carpenters and joiners union refused to handle lumber from the Weyerhaeuser Timber Company plant at Tacoma , Wash. , where a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had accepted the board 's invitation to a conference hero April 9 on that strike , which had been in progress since Oct. 28 . In a case involving the Condenser Corporation and Cornell-Dubilier Corporation of South Plainfield , N. J .. Mr. Dykstra said that representatives of the local of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers met with a panel of the Mediation Board and reported that , through negotiations , they had arrived at an agreement whereby work would be resumed in that plant as soon as possible . The board appointed Mgr . Francis Haas as its special representative to conduct informal hearings looking to a final settlement of a dispute at the Bridgeville , Pa. , plant of the Vanadium Corporation of America . Workers went back to their jobs in this plant early this week under a truce arranged by the board .                     