@@704908

txt Three main problems dominate the Pan-American Conference today as the deadline for submission of proposals by delegates arrived : first , the future status of European colonies in the Western Hemisphere ; second , methods to stamp out- " fifth column " activities ; third , a program for unifying the economies of the 21 American republics to meet Nazi economic penetration . Cuba has suggested as regards the United States proposal for a collective trusteeship for western colonies of European nations that a warning be given non-American Nations that armed American forces occupy any territory " offering peril . " The United States presented a resolution relating to subversive activities aimed at limiting the " fifth column " potentialities of foreign diplomatic or consular officials . Economic proposals have generally followed the recommendations made by Secretary of State Cordell Hull in his Monday address . Argentina Holds Key Argentina today held the key to whether all of the Americas can pool their vital resources under continental or regional cartels for the purpose of forestalling Nazi economic aggression . Dr. Leopoldo Melo , head of the Argentine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening . The attitude of all Argentines interviewed indicates that any form of cartel must be sold to them against considerable opposition . A possible explanation of the Argentine delegation 's reserve comes in a Buenos Aires report that the cattle and wheat exporters are set against the whole cartel idea . These powerful financial interests within Argentina long have stood for a natural allegiance to British customers rather than to the more abstract Pan-Americanism . National Autonomy Foreign Minister Jose Maria Cantilo foreshadowed the Argentine attitude in Havana by his pre-Conference emphasis in Buenos Aires upon " national autonomy . " The same phrase cropped up in the Chilean and Brazilian state- ments . Dr. Melo skillfully inserted a reference to autonomy in the opening speech Monday . The desire of these and other Latin American countries is entirely understood here as an effort to avoid losing full control over their own trade . The same consideration weighs in the United States , where the accords reached at Havana must run the gantlet of Congress as well as the meat , wheat , cotton , and other lobbies . Argentine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competitors in the United States to dominate the market through a cartel or pool . Secretary of State Cordell Hull , Adolf A. Berle , Jr. , and Leo Pasvolsky , Economic Adviser to the United States delegation , naturally are aware of all these difficulties . But they see greater difficulties for the entire continent if the Nazis are left an unprotected market to juggle . Economic Defense Yet Havana by no means records the only opposition to some form of economic defense . As in previous conferences , Argentina asserts its devotion to the broad lines of inter-American solidarity . Havana 's job is to seek satisfactory formulas on the details . Many countries here would welcome the prospect of an economic defense under the strong wing of the United States . One delegate from a country having close trade relations with the United States pointed out that the worst possible type of trade for raw material exporters is low-price barter . He much prefers the American system of unrestricted foreign exchange . In his view a Nazified Europe would try to buy cheap , as well as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood to believe that commodity cartels are unworkable as a means to force the Reich to buy on American terms . The reason given is that the Reich must pay in manufactured goods . These compete with United States ' products . The result in a few years would be the development by the Reich of raw material production elsewhere in the vast realms already under control or dictation . Such are only a few of the searching questions heard on all sides . Cartel Requirements Exactly what would be required for the proposed Inter-American cartel , br for cartels on individual commodities , to prevent Nazi domination of Latin American Nations through trade pressure , is one of the liveliest inquiries in Havana . Many delegates , including especially the Argentines , make little effort to conceal their skepticism on the whole outlook for forging the Western Hemisphere into an economic bloc . The natural difficulties to be overcome by such a bloc are enormous . At bottom , the cartel proposal is frankly an effort on the part of the United States to defend itself and the Hemisphere against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent a sort of embryonic " Monroe Doctrine in Trade " Trade " Monroe Doctrine " The difference as compared with the political Monroe Doctrine is that the latter remains strictly United States policy , and never has become multilateral despite a widespread impression to the contrary . Other American Nations are welcome to come along with the Monroe Doctrine but Washington retains the sole responsibility for its interpretation and enforcement . The economic Monroe Doctrine necessarily requires some form of multilateral organization . Havana is exploring possibilities , especially in Latin America 's attitude . Of first importance is the underlying economic situation . Presumably a large group of Nations such as those represented here might endure considerable hardship in material terms , provided they were convinced some larger and more desirable end was being served . National Freedom Havana 's search for some motive powerful enough to bind the Americas together in trade even at some sacrifice , turns repeatedly toward one dominating theme  --  national freedom . Most of the Latin American delegates realize and say that there would be little likelihood of retaining political independence in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates to be what the United States delegation insists it is  --  a thick wedge forcing a way for diplomatic dictation , or even outright control . Among the Latin Americans here , there is less alarm expressed than at Panama or at Lima . Their speeches have been rhetorical rather than intense . Classical allusions abound where might be expected the hot words of men aware that their Nations and themselves face immediate decisions of inescapable gravity . " Wait and see " is a common attitude , springing from the more fatalistic outlook of the Latins . Latin American View No Latin delegate questioned by this correspondent has begun the conversation by saying that the New World must be forged into an economic bloc in order to prevent Nazi domination through trade . Only the United States vigorously takes this stand , and of course there are Latins here who agree . But so far the emphasis is far more noticeable in the direction of asking first how each Nation 's trade problems may be solved , rather than in joining a crusade of any kind against Nazi Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States is taking the lead far more alone than at any recent Pan American meeting . Only the most powerful Nations today find a policy of open opposition to Nazi Germany possible . Until the Battle of England is decided , and until the United States holds unquestionable grip- on its own future , Latin Americans frankly tread softly in line with the old Chinese proverb . Pan Americanism is " up to the United States " as never before . What , then , are the prospects in terms of exports and imports ? Secretary Hull has publicly indicated that be desires to keep open all safe channels of world trade . But he also insists that Nazi abuse of trade must be prevented in the Americas . Export Trade Picture Seen from south of the Rio Grande , this is the export trade picture : In the pre-war year of 1938 , the United Kingdom took 16.1 per cent of Latin American sales , Germany took 10.3 per cent , France 4 per cent , Italy 1.5 per cent , Japan 1.3 per cent , and other countries totalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against 31.3 for the United States . Trade between the Latin American Nations is relatively small , and Havana hopes to stimulate an increase as a measure of continental defense . The dollar value of Latin exports in 1938 equalled $1,757,555 , - 000 . Therefore a complete cartel monopoly over Latin sales abroad would mount up to nearly a billion each year , assuming sales could be maintained . One delegate from South America said he believes Germany would make great efforts to develop production elsewhere . After a few years , the Americas in his view might find themselves no longer an indispensable source of raw materials . Latin America 's import needs , amounting to $1,414,083,000 in 1938 , were supplied from the United States 34.6 per cent ; from Germany , 16.5 per cent , United Kingdom , 11.8 , France 3.4 , Italy 3 , Japan 2.7 , and other countries 28 per cent . Conceivably the United States and the other industrialized American countries could soon make up the 65:4 per cent of imports , worth nearly a billion . If adopted as a desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with those or similar figures . Havana seems bent on far more restricted efforts . The fire and guiding animus of a crusade has not yet kindled the Americas in their hour of great decision . Spanish Stand MADRID , July 25 ( R ) ? The newspaper El Alcazar in an editorial July 23 declared the Pan-American Conference at Havana is ' doomed to failure . " " Washington has forgotten or pretends to forget that HispanoAmerican peoples already have reached a mature age and therefore have the necessary intelligence to see through the mischievous purposes of Yankee politicians . " The paper said . Another Spanish newspaper , the weekly La Semana , charged that the " continental unity preached by the United States is an instrument of servitude . " It reasserted Spain 's right to make " her great , her enormous historic voice heard " in Latin America . Against Cartel BUENOS AIRES , Argentina , July 25 ( IP ) - I- Livestock breeders and grain planters of the Province of Buenos Aires and the territory of La Pampa , representing 45 per cent of Argentina 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any Western Hemisphere export cartel .                     