@@709601

txt Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov proposed last night that the Foreign Ministers ' Council agree on the dual Italo-Yugoslav sovereignty of Trieste and a surrounding enclave within a Yugoslavia extending considerably west of the city virtually to the suggested frontier line the Soviet Union had proposed in April . This proposition was flatly rejected by the three other Ministers in a late limited session , ending early today , on the ground that it would neither be practicable nor promote a just peace . United States Secretary of State James F. Byrnes , speaking gently but firmly , acted more or less as a spokesman for the United States , Britain and France and all agreed that they saw ' no fair prospects in Mr. Molotov 's plan . Parley Prospects Dimmer Furthermore , although French Foreign Minister Georges Bidault had tentatively offered the vague thought of internationalizing the disputed area under United Nations control last Friday this idea was not again discussed in detail in the latest meeting . As a result the issue was again shelved and the prospects of a twenty-one-nation peace conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days ago . However , peacemaking is a persistent , indivisible and timeless thing and the Council will resume its tedious and unsatisfactory efforts again later today . Faced once again with its greatest stalemate the Council listened , perhaps a little sadly , as Mr. Byrnes once ? again urged his colleagues that if they could not find a common solution among themselves they should put their difficulties before a forum including the seventeen other nations with which they had fought through to victory . If issues such as Trieste appear to remain insoluble despite the efforts of these four delegations , he contended , the delegates should say so frankly and ask for recommendations from other minds and - other lands . Mr. Byrnes pledged that the United States would accept whatever recommendations were made by such a conference . But Mr. Molotov felt that it would be a great mistake to send such questions to such a conference . They might cause friction and split the peace gathering , he maintained . This appeared to be a very direct hint that although no procedural rules had yet been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority decisions and would reserve the right of a sovereign state not to sign any treaty it did not like . British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin stood strongly by his friend " Jim " throughout the discussion . He emphasized that Britain had no direct interest in the Trieste issue and was always ready to help progess toward peace but the evidence submitted had proved Italy 's case in the disputed area . Molotov Offers Two Plans By the end of the discussion , which lasted about two and onehalf hours , it was apparent that no headway had been made , if one excepts the fact that in a complicated way Mr. Molotov for the first time mentioned the possibility of a solution that would not give Yugoslavia sole proprietary rights over the Adriatic city . This fact alone will unquestionably worry many Yugoslays , but if they stop to consider the details of Mr. Molotov 's intricate plan and the resultant de facto control they would have were it ever accepted , they might feel free to discard their worries . It was at Mr. Molotov 's request that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss the Council 's greatest issue . The Soviet Minister commenced the discussion by recalling M. Bidault 's vague suggestion for internationalization and said he felt it did not meet the necessary requirements nor did it satisfy Yugoslavia 's just claims . After restudying the entire question , however , he had . two alternative proposals to make . Orally and without any accompanying papers , Mr. Molotov proposed these plans . The first was a mere duplicate , with hardly any important phrase changes . of the last Yugoslav proposal offered in the spring . It asked that : ( 1 ) The Soviet-suggested border , line between the rival States should be accepted as a frontier , with certain modifications favoring Italy . ( 2 ) Trieste and its immediate surrounding area , which was not strictly defined , should be formed into an autonomous district under Yugoslav sovereignty . It was understood by observers that this would comprise merely an enclave within a Yugoslavia stretching to the Soviet line and would have no common frontier with Italy . ( 3 ) This Yugoslav autonomous Trieste would be governed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four powers who would supervise its execution . ( 4 ) Trieste , under Yugoslavia as I an autonomous state , would have its own House of Representatives elected by universal suffrage with a Governor appointed by Belgrade . ( 5 ) It would have a Constitution drawn up and supervised by the four powers . But the responsibility for local affairs and ultimate sovereignty would be Yugoslav and no outside intervention would thus be permitted . Follows Yugoslav Proposals How closely this parallels Yugoslavia 's own claims can be seen from the present Yugoslav desires as outlined to this correspondent by Sava Kosanovitch , Marshal Tito 's Minister of Information while at the Council meeting last night . M. Kosanovitch said these desires and proposals were exactly the same as put forth in May and there was no change . They are that : ( 1 ) The Trieste area be made the seventh autonomous republic within the Yugoslav federation . ( 2 ) That the port be internationalized ( which everyone agrees on ) and administered by interested countries . ( 3 ) That Yugoslavia promises to give guarantees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yugoslav sovereignty ? of the national , economic and political interests of the citizens , avoiding friction between the various nationalities and safeguarding the city 's Italian majority against the Slavic majority surrounding it . When Mr. Molotov presented his version of this same basic plan it soon became apparent that it met no acceptance and so the Soviet Minister said he was prepared to consider a variant . This would provide : ( 1 ) Dual Italo-Yugoslav sovereignty over Trieste and its immediate environs. ( 2 ) The same Big Four supervision of the statute and the same house of representatives . ( 3 ) Two governors of the state one Yugoslav and one Italian . Mr. Molotov here emphasized strongly that Yugoslavia had been an ally in war and her wishes therefore must in the end be favored over those of Italy . Mr. Byrnes said he fully recognized Yugoslavia 's Allied status and contributions and that great efforts already had been made to give reasonable satisfaction to Belgrade 's desires . However ; the Council had agreed last September on the ethnic basis and had sent its commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek an agreement the United States had shifted its stand westward to the French line , which would give Marshal Tito 3420 square miles of new territory and 540,000 inhabitants , of which 376 , - 000 would be Yugoslays and 128 , - 000 Italians . Italy would retain only 505 square miles of the disputed area , with a population of 423,000 , of which 278,000 would be Italian and 115,000 Yugoslay . These figures do not total correctly because of the various small minorities in the region . Mr. Byrnes said he did not see how the Soviet propositions could work in view of the London decisions and the predominantly Italian population . If Trieste and epvirons were put under Yugoslav sovereignty , even with the four powers drawing up the supervisory statue , it would be tantamount to awarding the area to Yugoslavia , he asserted . Mr. Byrnes specifically then opposed Mr. Molotov 's second proposal  --  the first having been already dismissed ? by saying that he feared it was quite impracticable , especially in view of the existing tension in the area between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would produce continual friction . Nobody should fear submitting this issue to the Allied peace conference , the United States Secretary added , and it would be easier for both Yugoslavia and Italy to accept the decisions of the twentyone nations . The whole peace should not be held up by four men , Mr. Byrnes said . The governments who fought this war should be called in for advice and , after all , the Council would review the conference decisions anyway , he declared . M. Bidault then spoke in favor of the French line and failed to repeat his internationalization suggestion . He said he thought there were only two ways out of the impasse : either to submit the problem to a peace conference or to persevere in the Council 's own efforts to find a solution . Mr. Bevin said lie felt the London decisions had been right and out of the experts commission had come the frontier his Government had proposed . Only because of a desire to reach an agreement had that line been moved west to the French line , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of Pola . He said he had seen no new facts that would alter his views . Mr. Molotov , too , was clearly disappointed by the stalemate . He said he felt the Soviet.Union 's new proposals represented a new step forward and he intimated that he felt no such steps had been taken by the other delegations . So the world 's great issue was hauled out of its dark closet once again and swiftly tucked back and the door slammed . Wednesday 's afternoon session was typical of the gradual willingness to yield on the part of the western Ministers in the interests of world harmony . They showed few signs of being a bloc , as Moscow so often implies . As soon as the.Ministers had accepted Mr. Molotov 's suggestion for an " informal " night meeting they once again plunged into the Danubian problem . They were discussing the Anglo-American pro- posal that a clause guaranteeing free trade upon and , free access to the Danube be included in the Rumanian treaty . Mr. Molotov had suggested that the Council merely express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the riparian states . He felt that the efforts to include such guarantees in the treaties constituted an outside attempt to dictate a policy to the riparian states and that they should be consulted first . Mr. Bevin broke the ice on this subject by stating that although he still wished to have the principle of free navigation included in the Rumanian treaty , after having consulted his Government , he was ready to agree on a Council statement of principle instead . This was a big step toward Mr. Molotov 's view , although there are many tricky arguments ahead on how this should be worded to give the statement vigor . Bevin Presents Plan Mr. Bevin said he took into consideration Soviet objections to inserting guarantees in treaty clauses . So as a statement of principle he suggested a complex formula , the main points of which were these : The four big powers are agreed on the desire that in " the interests of world peace and commerce , navigation on the Danube , its tributaries and canals shall be open on a basis of equality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the Allied forces protecting their lines of communication to Austria are stationed on the Danube , this principle shall be operative in accordance with such navigational instructions as are issued by the commanding officers of the respective zones of operation . " Mr. Bevin proposed that the Big Four " act in conformity with this principle and take the necessary steps to secure adherence of all riparian states of the Danube to this declaration . " While meeting Mr. Molotov on the matter of method Mr. Bevin 's statement obviously went far beyond the Soviet Minister 's loosely worded pledge and contained teeth . Mr. Byrnes , obviously recognizing this , said that although he preferred such guarantees to be included in actual treaties , he would support Mr. Bevin 's declaration as long as it was generally accepted . However , he warned Mr. Molotov that if it was not accepted he reserved the right to revert to the United States ' original position . Faced with this complicated new approach to the matter Mr. Molotov dodged . He said he had not yet had time to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wished to refer this matter to the Deputies . Mr. Byrnes , who is insistent that no more than necessary be kicked back again into committee , refused , and the matter was temporarily shelved . The Ministers embarked upon a detailed analysis of the minor aspects of the Danubian treaties , still sticking to the Rumanian sample . They got into an argument over what property belonging to the United Nations in Rumania should be restored , because it was difficult to identify it . Mr. Molotov said he felt this restitution should be made in accordance with any bilateral treaties Rumania already had with United Nations ' members or might negotiate . Mr. Byrnes , who recalled that the United States Senate had to ratify any treaties , doubted whether the Senate would be willing to underwrite future agreements or even past agreements whose texts it had not yet seen . It is known that an agreement was signed between Rumania and the Soviet Union last September , whose text never has been made available to the United States . A drafting of the technical details of these viewpoints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration of United Nations possessions in Rumania was left in the hands of the economic committee . The Ministers then reviewed the proposed Rumanian economic clauses of general nature . It had been previously suggested that in both the Rumanian and Italian treaties most-favored nations ' trading privileges be guaranteed for eighteen months after the signature . Byrnes Opposes Special Clauses Mr. Molotov wanted to make conditional exceptions for Rumania governing her relations with neighboring states , which would receive even better rights . The Soviet Union borders on Rumania . Furthermore it is a neighbor , of Hungary and across the Black Sea of Bulgaria , whose treaties will be modeled on the Rumanian draft . Mr. Byrnes thought such an exception for Danubian treaties would be unfair . Mr. Molotov contended we endorsed such a special treatment in Cuba and the Philippines . Mr. Byrnes argued these were not to United States advantage but had been allowed to these nations after their liberation from Spain to help them get on their feet . The United States had no such arrangements with its Mexican or Canadian neighbors . Mr. Molotov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal were not accepted . Mr. Byrnes objected , saying he opposed special geographical privileges of this sort . , Clearly Mr. Molotov pressed this point because , since the armistice , the Soviet Union has obtained certain commercial advantages in Rumania by bilateral accord . The argument broke up on this point and the Ministers , realizing it was already 8 P. M. , adjourned to dine before they came down to grips with more vital issues .                     