@@712158

txt Bias in City Schools Found In Survey by Episcopalians The system , policies and practices a this city 's Boards of Education and Higher Education were challenged yesterday by the Commission on Christian Social Relations of the Protestant ' Episcopal Diocese of New York . An unprecedented bulletin issued by the commission found fault ' with the public school system in New York on counts ranging from equipment and teaching staffs to censorship of books and magazines , and politics in the selection of the most recent appointee to the Board of Education . The commission 's bulletin was particularly critical of the elimination from the school system of the.Youthbuilders program , . under which study clubs and social-science classes were taken on field trips outside the schools to study at first hand various social problems . Earlier Charges Repeated The commission repeated Iwovious charges that the change in the Youthbuilders program was the result of criticism in The Tablet , a Roman Catholic newspaper published in Brooklyn . Similar pressures , the commission suggested , were responsible for the banning of one magazine , The Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " One God , " from school libraries ; the fight over the selection of a president for Queens College ; the decision to restore May Quinn to a Brooklyn teaching job , and Board of Education politics generally . The Rev. Leland B. Henry , executive director of the commission , explained , however , that its criticisms were directed equally at the inadequacies of school authorities in the administration of the entire public school program . The commission represents the New York Protestant Episcopal diocese in all matters relating to , community agencies , which includes the schools , correctional institutions , industrial and race relations , and world peace . Bishop Charles K. Gilbert , who heads the diocese , formerly was one of its executive directors . In listing its specific complaints , the commission said : " Public education in New York , from the kindergarten through the university , during the past few // ' SCHOOL BIAS FOUND BY EPISCOPALIANS // years has been involved in one incident after another which tends to raise grave questions concerning the quality of the system and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Higher Education . " An accompanying editorial said the school system admittedly faced difficult problems with the " varied racial and religious traditions " of New York , but that it must do more than teach the three ft 's effectively , prepare youngsters for higher education and provide trade and technical training . " They the schools must really educate for democracy , " the commission said . " They must prepare boys.and girls and young men and young women for a sympathetic appreciation of other cultures than their own . They must prepare them to consider with thoughtful , open minds the great social and economic and political issues of the day . " It is true that because of our divided culture the public school can not make effective use of the sanctions of religion . But at the very least it should deal realistically with the great ethical problems . " The statement said that what was necessary was an " alert , intelligent citizenry " that would give whole-hearted support to public school authorities when they are right and protect them from " undue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , constructive criticism when the situation demands it . " Specific Complaints Listed Specific complaints made by the commission included the following- : A scandalous lack of physical equipment , including some schools where " elemental requirements of decency " ? soap and towels in washrooms  --  were not provided ; overcrowded classrooms ; 3,000 substitute teachers without tenure or pension rights , although some have had this status for years ; treatment of truancy on " what is practically a police court basis . " It asserted that Dr. Caroline Zachery had " died after a few tragic years of conflict and frustration " in trying to direct the Bureau of Child Guidance , and that Dr. Richard Hungerford faced almost insuperable problems in the Division of Children with Retarded Mental Development . The commission termed the ban on the book " One God , " as " especially revealing " and asserted that the only possible explanation was that a " sympathetic presentation " of the three major religious groups was not considered desirable . The failure- of the Board of Higher Education to appoint Dr. Bryn J. Hovde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressures , as was the . decision to restore Miss Quinn to her job after a trial committee found her guilty of racial and religious bigotry . The statement raised no question about the ability of Maximilian Moss , new president of the Board of Education , but said his selection , which included Mayor O'Dwyer 's failure to reappoint Anthony Campagna a board member , was " another instance of the political atmosphere with which education in the city is surrounded . "                     