@@708591

txt May I add a few remarks to the hair ? raising reports from the concentration camp at Buchenwald and from other places of Nazi sadism . As a member of the German Reichstag opposed to Hitler I was arrested on March 12 , 1933 , taken first to a county jail and hi June , 1933 , I was transferred to the first concentration camp the Nazis organized , in Oranienburg near Berlin . We were then 1,800 political prisoners , 10 per cent Jewish and 90 per cent Christians like myself . The ill treatment we suffered was exactly the same as has been revealed now in the latest reports ; even in 1933 the death rate in the concentration camps was 13 per cent . I managed to escape from the camp in December , 1933 ; in January , 1934 , my wife and our baby daughter , 17 months old , were taken prisoner and held as hostages in a men 's concentration camp , A member of the House of Commons who visited Buchenwald last week had been instrumental in obtaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. ; she flew to Berlin and brought my wife and daughter to me in London . Cruelties Termed Propaganda Lecturing in Europe and , since 1934 , in this country , about the unspeakable cruelties of the Nazis , I have found many persons who would not believe what I said . Up to very recently the reports about the incredible sadism of the Nazis were considered by many as " propaganda . " Now , at last , the public knows that we , German antiNazis , told the truth . In all fairness it should be emphasized that a very large proportion of the prisoners now found in these horrible camps are German anti-Nazis ; in Buchenwald alone there were tens of thousands of them . Before the war , the Nazi concentration camps were populated solely by German political prisoners and Jewish victims , but the world at large took little notice of that fact . It seems to me that inadequate attention is now being paid to the fact that untold thousands of German antiNazis are among the masses of prisoners now being liberated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from inside Germany , speaking of the concentration-camp victims , have distinguished between foreign workers who were imprisoned there and " political prisoners , " without mentioning their nationality . I believe it should be made clear that the term " political prisoners " means German anti-Nazis . It is in the Allied interest to recognize the fact that there are many German antiNazis upon whose assistance our military government officers have already begun to rely ; in fact , the Office of War Information only this week distributed a report to German-language newspapers in this country , stating that German anti-Nazis have helped save a number of important plants which the Nazis ordered to be destroyed and which anti-Nazis saved by sabotaging the Nazi orders . Only those who have lived under the Nazi system can fully understand the effectiveness of the Nazi terror . The reports of some correspondents mention that foreign slaves in Germany , as a result of the force of habit , were wont to step off the sidewalk when uniformed Nazis passed by  --  and these people were in the clutches of the Nazis for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deadly fear for twelve years and still maintained their anti-Nazi convictions deserve recognition . As V-E Day is so near , and naturally our interest in what Germany ought to be made to pay is increasing , may I call your attention ( as an aid to thinking ) to an occurrence which was a news item in New York City in September , 1923 . Wilhelm Cuno , the then German Chancellor , resigned that office Aug. 12 , 1923 , was almost immediately elected president of the HamburgAmerican Line , and in connection with his duties came to New York City . In the interview which he gave on or soon after arriving , he was asked many questions about the situation in Germany . An answer to one of the questions was : " Germany lost the war . Therefore Germany must pay . " That being true at the end of World War I , it is many times more true when Germany loses this war . Great Britain , Republicans give their liberal support to the issue . Again , in 1943 , Republicans supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years instead of three . This was done in recognition of our war situation and not as an endorsement of a peacetime trade policy . The bill now pending has a wartime significance and should be extended for one year without changes in tariff dut tes , just as the Lend-Lease Act has had a one-year extension . The above facts put the record clear on the Republican voting on the Trade Agreements Acts . In your editorial of April 18 yell justly deplore the fact that at the San Francisco Conference " the forty-fifth chair , " reserved for " Poland , first victim of Nazi tyranny in the present war , " will be vacant . May I remind you , however , that there is in Europe another people which will not be present , although a viatim of imperialism and fascism for thirty-three years . I refer to the people of the Dodecanese Islands . Although the Dodecanesians have been under Italian domination , they are Greeks and unquestionably part of the United Nations . Natives of these islands are serving in the Greek and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Greek merchant marine is ' owned and manned by Dodecanesiars . The great powers have given every indication that they regard the Dodecanesians as friends . In 1942 our De . partment of Justice officially removed those resident in this country from the category of enemy aliens , although their homeland was under Italian rule . The British Minister of State , the Right Hon. Richard Law , declared in the House of Commons ( Oct. 18 , 1944 ) that the inhabitants of the Dodecanese " will not be treated as enemies or exenemies but as friends . " In spite of this , the people of the Dodecanese will be without representation at the San Francisco Conference . Since the capitulation of Italy these islands are not internationally recognized as belonging to any state , and they have , of course , no Government of their own . The repeated claim of the Dodecanesians to be officially recognized as part of their mother country , Greece , still awaits final confirmation . In consequence , technically the Greek delegates will not represent the Dodecanesian people . Italy will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would afford no representation foi the Dodecanesians . This injustice could easily be remedied by a declaration made now by the Big Three that the Dodecanese will be united with Greece . The Dodecanese question is unique in that Greece has no opponent in claiming this area . Secretary of State Stettinius , writing on the San Francisco Conference , has pointed out that the plan for an international organization must be supported " not merely by governments but by peoples . " Let us hope , then , that the great powers will without delay declare , the Dodecanese part of Greece . This will demonstrate especially to small nations and oppressed peoples that their great allies have the same regard for all , whether they deal with a mighty nation of 150,000,000 persons or with a group which is small and weak , numbering only 150,000 -- for this is about the total number of Dodecanesians throughout the world . I cut out your editorial in yesterday 's TIMES and sent it to my son in the South Pacific with the comment : " You have been hearing me say this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement : . " There should be no surprise at the conditions that are being revealed day after day in German prison camps . What did we expect from the Nazi ? " etc . " If there is one attribute that most distinguishes the civilized man from the barbarian it is his attitude toward those who are helpless under his control . " I agree . We have a condition in this country that is as bad in some cases as what happens to the helpless in Germany . Read " The Veteran Betrayed " in the May Reader 's Digest and you will find that we have our torture chambers and neglected soldiers right among us . In your editorial " For Republicans ? Which Way ? " in your issue of April 20 , you conclude with a statement that you would like to hear " the voices of Republicans outside of Congress ? among them the voices of Governor Dewey , Herbert Hoover and Alf Landon  --  speak out on this question . " These three estimable men are only part of the body of over twenty-two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emblem of the eagle . As one of these , may I ask that this voice be given space in your columns . The original Hull Trade Agreement Act of 1934 was passed during a depression . It was extended in 1937 as an emergency act . Republicans did not support it , as a matter of national policy . In 1940 , with the world at war and our own Government extending aid to Selfishness Inherent To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Twee : In . THE TIMES of April 15 the ten peace points approved by the American Psychological Association are set forth , but might some humble layman take issue with part of Point 1 , " War is not born in men " Man is born selfish . We all wish it were otherwise , but can we shut our eyes to the facts ? Instinct , heredity dominate most of mankind . Our remote ancestor survived because he had a heavier club than his neighbor 's , and his descendant of today differs in that his weapons are more efficient . Some may outgrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of us , what is the remedy ? Should we not school ourselves in the belief that our self-interest , perhaps our survival , calls for a decent , righteous , tolerant attitude toward our fellow-man , individual and national .                     