@@709794

txt Anticipation that the Peace Conference may speed up once a definite closing deadline is set  --  as how seems likely  --  marks the atmosphere here today . It is a refreshing contrast to the recent state of doldrums into which the Conference had lapsed , reaulting in an ever slower pace in past weeks . Trieste : Progress ! Meanwhile , some progress was reported today in settling the thorny Trieste problem which has faced the Conference almost since its inception . The Italian Political and Territorial Commission authorized an eight-nation subcOmmission to draft a statute for the Free City of Trieste . Moreover , three United States proposals , setting boundaries for the proposed Trieste international zone and also sketching the disputed Italian-Yugoslav border , were withdrawn . , Dunn Explains Shift The latter action was taken by Assistant Secretary of State James C. Dunn , who explained that the boundary proposals were withdrawn because the Council of Foreign Ministers had not discussed them . In addition , he said , the French since have made their own detailed boundary , proposals for what is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other sources , however , claim that Soviet objections are responsible for Mr. Dunn 's action . The Italian Commission now aims to have its work completed by Oct. 5 , which indicates the new subcommission will report on the Trieste statute before that time . In general , the impending deadlines for the Conference and its commissions appear to have had a salutary effect here . In the Council of Foreign Ministers meetings , it often has taken deadlines to get things settled . Everything appears to have stalled until just before the end when , strangely enough , all sorts of compromises suddenly become possible . Earlier , when the Russians and Americans seemed in agreement that the Peace Conference should go to an end irrespective of the time taken , there were distinct groans from delegates and public lest the affair drag on interminably . However , the probable setting of Oct. 23 for the United Nations General Assembly meeting , plus the agreement by Russia to see that basic issues are cleaned up by then , has brought new energy and hope . In this connection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabled U. N. , Secretary-General Trygve Lie at Lake Success , N. Y. , giving assurances that all Peace Conference work can be completed by Oct. 23 . Meanwhile , it is clear that all 21 nations here either are in favor of , or not opposed to , the October date for U. N. Shift to U. N. , but How ? Considerable interest is developing here as to how the final stages of merging of the Peace Conference with U. N.  --  and shifting the diplomatic center from Paris to New York  --  will occur . The issue is not at all clear , and no final agreement on details has been worked out . That a major portion of the peace-treaty work will be finished here is generally accepted . But whether the final signing of the treaties will be done here or in New York remains open to question . It seems likely that every effort will be made to have them signed in the city where the drafting and revising have taken place . Would Eat Up Vital Time One suggestion heard here is that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the draft treaties take place in New York , a brief recess might be called at- U. N. , or some unimportant issues put on the agenda for a few days during which time officials could return to Paris for the final signing ceremony . 