@@708889

txt Letters to The Times WARREN WEAVER.BART J. BOK , I. AMDUR.RICHARD A. LESTER . pg . 58 Letters to The Times Free Science Sought Control , It Is Argued , Would Hamper Advances The writer of this letter is the director for the natural sciences in , the Rockefeller Foundation . For five years he has directed war research as head of one branch of the National Defense Research Committee , and has also served as a member of the directing group for two other divisions of the same organization . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recent editorials and articles in THE NEW YORK TIMES , particularly the editorial " The Lesson of the Bomb , " which appeared Aug. 19 , express ideas concerning the development of science which in my opinion would , if they importantly affect our national policy toward science , have disastrous results . The essence of the matter is to be found in one short passage of the editorial . Speaking of the problem of the atomic bomb , but clearly using this as a typical instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly because they were organized and competently directed . Why should not the same principle be followed in peace ? " In this and in other articles THE TIMES has taken the position that all science should be mapped out and the gaps discovered , and that an all-high , all - embracing central organization , presumably set up by the Federal Government , should plan and direct scientific activities . THE TIMES has urged this position , for example , as its major criticism of the proposals for national support of science which Dr. Vannevar Bush has recently made in a report to ' President Truman . War and Peace Factors This view , it seems to me , neglects many essential points . It is a dangerously incomplete statement to remark that various scientific projects undertaken during the war succeeded " because they were organized and competently directed . " This statement fails to recognize the incalculably special incentive which drove scientific men during the war . It fails to recognize that the whole horrid enterprise of war , with its complete dependence on absolute authority , lends itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control which is wholly inconsistent with peacetime democratic procedures . It fails to sense the fact , so clear to those who have been in direct contact with wartime research , that scientists have during the war willingly suffered a degree and nature of control which they would find intolerable during peace . It fails to note that , during war , one is forced to spend money recklessly , making available every resource that may even possibly be needed ; so that scientific advances are forced through during war at an extravagant cost . But these remarks do not go to the bottom of the matter . For up to this point the reader might well say : if such great advances can be gained by organization , direction and control , then let 's have these advances , even if we have to bring up a new generation of scientists who will stand for control , even if we do have to pay extravagant sums . Failure Foreseen Unfortunately , however , that would not succeed . Even if some way were found to foi ntist to work within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes electing to work in cooperative teams . But in any case , freely and voluntarily following the procedures that seem to them natural and desirable , freely following up the problems , however impractical they may at the moment appear , which happen to appeal to them . Does this mean that scientists are selfish and irresponsible persons who ment . There are gaps in the structure of science that can , at any moment , be recognized : and it is perfectly legitimate and useful for individuals , universities , foundations and Federal agencies to stimulate work in such areas by furnishing special support . But this procedure is healthy only when there is a multitude of such agencies , seeing with greater or less acuteness of vision the many different gaps ; so that individual scientists are not forced against their wills to choose any one special line of work , and so that the great blessing of the democratic averaging process has a chance to operate . And the gaps so recognized will always be minor lacunae . The important gaps in science are the ones we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a free scientist , following the mysterious cues of his own imagination , and drives a brilliant wedge deep into the structure of science , splitting it wide open . These are the gaps that count ; and these are the gaps which can never be ordered up in advance . Must we conclude that we can learn no lessons from the experience of science during the war ? By no means . We have been given stirring illustrations of the fertility of group approaches to certain kinds of problems . We have seen what scientists can do when they have proper assistance , both in human helpers and in equipment . We have , God knows , seen the power of science . Adequate Support Needed What then should we do ? We should , as a national policy , support science adequately . We should sponsor every movement and development that helps to create a favorable climate within which cooperative scientific enterprises may flourish . We should sedulously seek out young scientific talent , and see to it that , independent of geographical or social or financial origin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not , in my judgment , try to set up some group of scientific supermen who , seeing , hearing and knowing not only all of present science but also divining its mysterious future course , try to chart that ccurse and tell all the rest of us what to do . The man of the street is stunned by what science has done during the war , but he is also misled by it . It is just as though some group of gangsters had held guns at the heads of every member of the board of directors of some great corporation and forced them to declare as dividends all the surpluses which had been earned over many previous years . The stockholders , seeing their dividends suddenly increased , are delighted . They want to see the system continued . They do not stop to think that you can not go on declaring dividends out of surplus . That runs out one day , and it is necessary to resume earnings . And the earnings of science are not to be gained by organizing a super-control which holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do . The earnings of science are gained only by setting the scientists free . WARREN WEAVER . New York , Aug. 28 , 1945 . Science Group Favored The signatories of the following letter are , respectively , chairman and secretary of the international relations committee of the American Association of Scientific Workers . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The recently announced plans for a congress to consider the formation of a United Nations cultural and educational organization show that there exists a full realization of the importance of culture and education in the maintenance of world peace . It is , however , noteworthy that the words " science " and " technology " do not occur in the press releases about the agenda for the congress . There exists a danger that science and technology will be neglected in the initial schemes for the cultural and educational world organization . We wish , therefore , to draw attention to a proposal submitted last April by the American Association of Scientific Workers to the Secretary of State for Social Security Plans Proposed Additional Benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fa Professor of Economics at Duke Uni. versity . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Hearings are to begin on amends ments to the Federal Social Security Act that would provide Federal funds to supplement State benefits for unemployed workers up to $25 a week for twenty-six weeks and include in coverage a number of groups excluded in most States under existing laws . Such a proposal at once raises the question of the need to use Federal funds in that manner when the States have accumulated $6,500,000,000 of **25;28;TOOLONG reserves for the very purpose of paying unemployment benefits . That total is sufficient to pay average benefits for maximum durations under State laws to eighteen or twenty million workers , a total far in excess of even the most pessimistic estimates . The second serious objection to the proposal is that it discriminates against the States that have the most liberal benefit provisions in their laws and favors those that have been most backward in improving benefits . Benefits Held Unfair As I pointed out this spring in a report for the Committee for Economic Development ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is especially unfair , since the States with the most excessive **25;55;TOOLONG reserves are the very ones that tend to offer the lowest and shortest benefits and , in many instances , have the most restricted coverage . Under those circumstances , a proposal for Federal supplementation up to a nation-wide minimum standard would involve the largest and most extended Federal supplements to the States with relatively the largest or most excessive reserves . Contrast , for example , my own State of North Carolina with the situation in New York . The New York law has a uniform duration of twenty-six weeks , the proposed Federal standard , whereas North Carolina has a duration of only sixteen weeks ; the New York benefit schedule is much more liberal for the same earnings than is the North Carolina schedule , and the coverage of the New York law is much more extensive , including smaller employers and other groups not included in North Carolina . The State Unemployment Compensation Commission , numerous civic groups and progressive employers urged the North Carolina Legislature this spring to improve the State 's law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many Northern and Southern States and would grant them for twenty-six weeks ' duration under an expanded coverage , thus removing from North Carolina the long-held and unenviable distinction of paying the lowest average benefits of any , State . Way Out Suggested It was pointed out that the North Carolina unemployment reserve fund , totaling over $100,000,000 , was more than sufficient to meet all possible claims , even assuming that all covered workers in the State became unemployed for the maximum duration of sixteen weeks . Had the proposed improvements been adopted , it was diffi ? cult to envisage circumstances under which the North Carolina fund would have been drawn down below $70,000 , - 000 or $80,000,000 ; yet the Legislature failed to make more than the most minor and insignificant changes in the benefit provisions before adjourning for , two years . The only sensible Federal measure , in the face of such facts , which could be duplicated by experience in a large number of States , is to require that the State remit from its unemploymentcompensation fund to the United States Treasury all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits under the State law . To insure such remittances from the States it could be provided that the Federal Government might withdraw the Federal tax credit for contributions to State unemployment - compensation funds or for State reductions in **25;82;TOOLONG taxes under the Federal act in the event that a State failed to appropriate from its unemployment fund for the supplemental benefits paid through the State admin. istration to beneficiaries qualified un ? der that State 's law . RICHARD A. LESTER . Durham , N. C. , Aug. 28 , 1945 . One should , first of all , recognize the nature , of scientific achievement during war . Despite a vast amount of loose enthusiasm , much of which hides vaguely behind military secrecy , over the " advances " of science during war , the sober fact is that the great bulk of scientific work during war consists of rushing through , with feverish haste and often with highly inefficient but necessary extravagance , the practical applications of basic scientific knowledge which has been gained in the past . Gained by whom , and how ? Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their imaginations , their curiosities , their hunches , their special prejudices , their undefended likes and dislikes . Free scientists ? sometimes the formation of an international sciworking in austere isolation to develop some deep and subtle idea , sometimes entific office . One of its first tasks should be the re-establishment of contacts among the scientists of the United Nations . To this end , the office should undertake promptly the organization of small but representative congresses for the various sciences , where the leaders in each field can meet to discuss problems of international organization and cooperation .                     