@@710365

txt There are degrees to the discouragement and pessimism with which Washington is reacting to the failure of the Foreign Ministers Conference to bear positive fruits . Those who expected or hoped for much are the most discouKaged and disillusioned . These are primarily the politicians as opposed to the diplomats , the congressmen on the Hill who had longed for an agreement to come out of Moscow that would put an end to appropriations in the billions for relief , aid , military preparedness . ' Also disheartened , but less dismayed , are those State Department officials and officers . who , from experience and constant contact with foreign nations and foreign policies , . expected less from Moscow . It is true they received even less than their preconference judgments anticipated . But the fruitlessness of Moscow doesnot leave them completely discouraged . They are already planning for what Secretary of State George C. Marshall has called the next round , and are beginning to blueprint those alternatives to joint action that they have always had to consider . Many Are Russian Experts One form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department is the creation of a policy-planning staff , a small group of experienced statesmen to set long-range policy and then see that daily immediate measures conform . As might be expected , this crucial top-level group is heavily weighted with Russian experts . The staff is headed by George F. Kennan , , one of the Government 's ablest students of Russia , with years of foreign service in Moscow and other European capitals . Another member is Charles E. Bohlen , who has served as adviser and interpreter to Presidents Roosevelt and Truman and to Secretaries of State Stettinius , Byrnes , and Marshall in their meetings with the Russians . He also is an experienced foreign service officer with years in Moscow to his credit . East-West Cleavage Not Final Also named or to be included on the staff are Williams College Professor Joseph Johnson , who has been heading up the Department 's Division of International Security Affairs ; Benjamin V. Cohen , Secretary Marshall 's counselor in the Department . an original Roosevelt brain-truster , and participant in previous Big Three and Foreign Ministers Conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busy already , necessarily must keep in close constant touch with this group . The view of those officials in the Department most closely involved with the fruits or fruitlessness of Moscow remains what it was before the Conference . Even then , as events were disclosing , the United States was not staking its all on getting an agreement with the Soviets at this conference . American policymakers had long and seriously considered the possibility that the Soviet price for an agreement might be too high to pay . That Moscow confirmed these suspicions , however , does not mean that Washington considers the cleavage between East and West in ** final . The fact that another Foreign Ministei 's meeting has been called and that deputies are to work on the Austrian disagreements , clearly indicates that , as Secretary Marshall said , there will be another round , Unity Seen for Western Reich But the United States , it is evident here already , is not going to mark time until then . As its program of aid to Greece and Turkey indicates , it is not going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borders be worn down by Communist erosion . It also is clear , from its unification agreement with the British as regards zones in Germany , and its closer relations with the French as regards their zone , that the United States is going ahead to unify Germany economically and politically in the west . The post-Moscow approach of the United Stated to the problems of Europe , it might be said , will differ from the pre-Moscow policy , according to all signs here , in being positive rather than negative , in being constructive and reconstructive rather than temporary and stop-gap . It is not adequately appreciated elsewhere , officials here frequently say , that Washington is not stepping into Greece and Turkey of its own volition , but because Great Britain is stepping out . If the British were not getting out , this present aid program and policy debate never would have arisen . While a policy openly adopted , it was forced on Washington against its will . The choice , stripped of diplomatic verbiage , was to fill the British vacuum or let the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Truman policy must face up to the alternative . London Dismayed by Costs By Saville R. Davis thief o/ the London News Bureau o/ The Christian Science Monitor London Great Britain can ill afford the protracted stalemate throughout the field M foreign policy which can be expected to follow the barren results at the recent Moscow Conference . It is fair to say that there has been little optimism here at any time , either officially or in the public print , as to the chances of speedy agreement on the German and Austrian peace treaties . But now that another long delay is confirmed , stretching unexpectedly almost to the end of this year , both Whitehall and the press are counting the cost uneasily . Drain on British Resources Britain will pay its fair share of these costs . On this point there still is no doubt . Despite the oppressive economic problem here in the home islands , vital British manpower will continue to be detained on police duty along the security lines from the Middle East to the South Pacific . In areas where Britain faces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political gain to be had from troop with-drawals , these nevertheless will probably be stalled off as long as possible . Precious dollar and sterling resources will continue to be spent in occupied countries and to support these security lines . If the United States is asked to contribute a larger share , as it was asked in the case of Greece and Turkey , it will be only because Britain considers it already is paying more than its proportionate share , reckoned by comparative ' sizes of population , resources , and war burdens . Bevin Under Heavy Fire But all this process of stone-walling Russian influence across the world imposes a nearly backbreaking burden on the harassed British system .. The Labor Government here probably can stick it out for another year or two before having to send a real SOS to the United States . But each additional month hurts , and the announcement of November as the date for the next meeting of the Big Four Council of Foreign Ministers fell like a dull thud on the London scene . The Moscow Conference was accompanied by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daily Worker here , hammering at Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin as an enemy of big-power unity and of the political Left . Soviet Strategy May Fail But insofar as the Russian attitude represents something more than an exchange of blows between warriors on both sides , and reflects the political maneuver of playing for time until the left-wing rebels are able to increase their power within the Labor Party . it is likely to fail . There unquestionably is a Laborite ground swell of discontent over the state of relations with Russia in this country . But , as has been emphasized many times before , there always is the qualification that the ground swell is capable only of moderating , not of changing fundamentally , the Attlee Government 's policy of matching Russia 's hard bargaining with equal firmness on the British side . Mr. Bevin will have to exert himself this time to out-argue his critics and opponents in Parliament and outside , but there is no sign as yet that he will fail to do so . New Plan for Germany While Mr. Bevin ? explains , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference which decides Labor policies for the year , he will set a program in motion for reducing the drain of British funds into occupied Germany . He is expected to confer with Gen. Lucius D. Clay , American Commander in ? Germany , and other officials on this point while en route home . The British constantly have pressed for establishment of a council of " Lander ( State ) Governments in the British Zone which would be amalgamated with the United States Zone 's council of states . This joint council would assume over-all direction of the bizonal economy . General Clay , with equal stoutness , has resisted this move , and Mr. Bevin has withheld his side of the plan pending the outcome of the Moscow Conference . Reich Self-Sufficiency There are strong indications in Whitehall that he now will return with the greatest vigor to pressing this plan . It is of the first importance to Britain that the drain of dollars and pounds in the German direction be minimized swiftly . Mr. Bevin 's action will be not so much to develop a divided Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-sufficiency in the British Zone , now that the interim period prior to completion of the peace treaty is clearly to be long .                     