@@707033

txt IScarcely a day passes without a new example of the extraordinary co-operation existing between the United States and British forces in French North Africa . To a person fresh from the United States this is in some ways a most encouraging fact about the campaign destined to drive the Axis from this part of the Mediterranean . It is no exaggeration to state that this tight Anglo-American unity will be worth several divisions before the fighting is over . To an almost unprecedented degree this co-operation derives not only from the determination of the Allied High Command that the two forces work as one but also from the deep respect held by enlisted men and line officers for their companions in arms . It is the rule rather than the exception to hear American soldiers and officers back from the front speak with heartfelt respect of the courage and tenacity of the British troops with whom they have recently been fighting side by side . I have yet to hear any American or Briton suggest that the other is an inferior fighting man . " They Sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best put by a typical American soldier from one of Pittsburgh 's steel districts who said " These Limeys are kind of quiet but they sure can fight . " Recent American setbacks in the Faid-Kasserine area of Tunisia , during which American units received crucial British aid . have served to increase Yankee appreciation . The pattern for close Anglo-American partnership is being set at the top het e principally by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower who is almost fanatical in his insistence that no loose criticism by either side or any foolish competition bet ' , een the Allies be permitted to interfere with teamwork essential for final ? ictory . On sex eral occasions I have seen generals usually genial and smiling become hard at the suggestion that Americans were blaming the British for tins or that setback or that the Britons w ere indulging in loose cr ticism of American commandei s , General Eisenhower stated that poisons doing such were not big enough men to command hoops and that he would use every ounce of his authority to kill such gossip immediately . He made clear h @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presenting the enemy with an important strategic success . In order that we hate even closer bonds between American and British troops there is hope here of being able to establish joint Anglo-American rest camps for soldiers back from the front . At present ei .. ch country maintains its own call ps , but it is hoped these recupei anon depots can be ttsed to increase the inter-Allied comradery started on the battlefield . It is apDarent that the beneficial effects of such a scheme would carry over into the postwar period . One of the many interesting ways in which the common soldier is benefiting directly from close Allied co-operation is the matter of pay while in hospitals behind the front . Due to exigencies of war . many British soldie , s have been taken to American hospitals , and vice-versa , where at one time it would have been impossible for them to thaw any part of their pay check . Today . however . each Army has its pay ( ) Meets whose only duty is to see that such men are paid . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer for this theater of ooe.mtions there is Capt . Philip Ford of the British Royal Army Pay Co ) ps , whose job it is to see that each American soldier in a British hospital is paid 150 francs a week . Sum ally , American officers woi k with Bi itish paymasters in behalf of 13ritish soldiers hospitalized with Americans . On two occasions I have had the opportunity to be extremely grateful for unstinting exchange favors now going on between the British and American forces in Africa . Both times I literally and figuratively descended out of the blue into a Royal Air Force camp . Each station is desperately overcrowded , and one only recently captured from the Axis , who had destroyed most installations , yet each time I w as royally received . although officers and men are under no military obligation to do so . There can be little doubt that the Britons and Americans are firmly convinced that this campaign can not be won by either side alone and that their fate hangs directly on the fighting qualities and tactictal skill of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allied oneness of purposis growing at a tine when the world is receiving continuous and circumstantial evidence of serious rifts within the ranks of the European , Axis . The long noted dislike between German and Italian prisoners in Tunisia is as strong as ever while the German Radio makes clear Berlin is not satisfied with efforts of . ts satellites both in Russia and the Mediterranean . Any Allied rivalry here is of a healthful type , in which each side strives to see which can bring the greatest contrioution to the common cause .                     