@@705636

txt President Roosevelt ordered today the immediate freezing of the assets in the United States of Germany and Italy and all invaded or occupied European countries whose funds and investments had not previously been frozen , including Albania , Austria , Czecho-Slovakia , Danzig and Poland . Six other countries affected by today 's executive order , the Soviet Union , Switzerland , Sweden , Portugal , Finland and Spain , will be able to obtain general licenses to withdraw funds under strict scrutiny by this government , provided they give adequate assurances that Hitler and Mussolini will not benefit . Today 's order extends freezing of assets to all countries of Continental Europe . The President 's action was taken " to prevent the use of the financial facilities of the United States in ways harmful to the national defense , " to block liquidation here of " assets looted by duress or conquest " and to curb subversive activities . The President issued the order , which had been under consideration for months , within twenty-four hours after an authorized German spokesman in Berlin had made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the freedom of the seas by continuing to sink American ships like the Robin Moor whether or not they were in the war zone . Welles Replies to Nazi Threat Shortly before the President issued his order , Sumner Welles , Under-Secretary of State , met the Nazi threat with a statement that " the people of the United States never have been impressed with what they regarded as bluster or threats . " With Germany expected to counter President Roosevelt 's freezing of Axis funds and credits and the United States prepared to take any steps necessary to assure the freedom of the seas for its ships , United States relations with Germany appeared to have taken the gravest turn since the war started . What the final upshot would be no official here would or could forecast today . John G. Winant , Ambassador to Britain , has arrived in Washington for final conferences with the President and officials of the State Department , before his return to London . Seeming to make it even more apparent that the freezing of Axis credits was not a purely financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on June 2 , Secretary Morgenthau said in a press conference there was no use taking such a step when - " the barn is empty . " It was generally understood that Germany and Italy already had removed most of their funds to other countries , although German investments in American chemical , dye and other concerns still remain . President Roosevelt 's broad action today , it - was believed , would make more difficult Axis financial transactions in South America . TEXT OF STATEMENT A White House statement explained the steps taken and their purposes . It read as follows : In view of the unlimited national emergency declared by the President , he has today issued an Executive order freezing immediately all German and Italian assets in the United States . At the same time the order also freezes the assets , of all invaded or occupied European countries not previously frozen . These include Albania , Austria , Czecho-Slovakia , Danzig and Poland . The freezing control will be administered by the Treasury Department . These measures in effect bring all financial transactions in which German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government and impose heavy criminal penalties upon persons failing to comply herewith . The Executive order is designed , among other things , to prevent the use of the financial facilities of the United States in ways harmful to national defense and other American interests , to prevent the liquidation in the United States of assets looted by duress or conquest and to curb subversive activities in the United States . With a view to implementing the control of German and Italian assets in this country and in view of the interrelationship of international financial transactions , the Executive order has also been extended to the remaining countries of continental Europe . However , it is intended that through the medium of general licenses the freezing control will be lifted with respect to Finland , Portugal , Spain , Sweden , Switzerland and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , conditional upon the receipt of adequate assurances from the governments of such countries that the general licenses will not be employed by them or their nationals to evade the purposes of this order . Furthermore , transactions under the general licenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the issu- ance of the Executive order , the President approved regulations ordering a census of all foreignowned property in the United States . This census will relate not only to property in the United States belonging to countries and nationals subject to freezing control but to all other countries as well . Under previous Executive orders , freezing control has been extended to the assets of Norway , Denmark , the Netherlands , Belgium , Luxembourg , France Latvia , Estonia , Rumania , Bulgaria , Hunzarsr and Greece . Indirect Transactions Blocked The Treasury has had reports that Germany was making its financial transactions in this country and South America through Swiss banks . Any such arrangements are made impossible by the freezing order , as licenses now will be required and these will be carefully scrutinized . Through the census of all foreign property in the United States the government expects to get , for the first time in history , an accurate picture of the investments here of countries such as Japan , however carefully they are masked . The Justice Department immediately announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Property Bureau to classify and study all alien property . Since money is required for both sabotage and espionage purposes , the President 's freezing order is expected to make both much more difficult and thus to reduce such activities . Through establishing control of exchange transactions with countries of continental Europe , this government was able to solve a puzzling problem  --  how to avoid freezing British credits and still issue an order general enough not to antagonize countries like Portugal and Sweden . Responsible diplomatic quarters said that the inclusion of the Soviet Union in the freezing order was intended only to prevent transactions with , or for , Germany and Italy , and had no connection with international political developments involving Russia . It was expected that the U.S.S.R. , and for that matter the five other countries in the same category , would encounter little difficulty in obtaining funds here for legitimate purposes . On the other hand , the German charge cuarralres in Washington , Hans Thomsen , will have to obtain an order from Secretary Morgenfhau to obtain funds even for salaries for operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE PRESIDENT                     