@@711105

txt Two Studies Will Be the Basis of a Vast Program m 13 . A.7 ? 71SON lES.9-1L.SWIT7SK Congress was warned last week to strengthen the nation 's air ; power as the beat means of dis-1 couraging an attack against the United States . The recommendations of the Congressional Aviation Policy Board which , established last July , has been working since September , were thus added to somewhat similar recommendations made in January in a report ? " Survival in the Air Age " ? compiled by a Presidential Air Policy Commission under the chairmanship of Thomas K. Finletter . Upon the foundations thus laboriously and thoroughly constructed , Congress must now build a national air policy and must provide- the funds to implement that . policy . Atomic Age Defunse Both reports agreed that the " defense " of the United States in the atomic age must be based or . air power and that the best defense will be " swift and more devastating retaliatory attack . " There was no clear-cut estimate of the exact rule to be assigned to air power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Congressional report was thus subject ? as the Presidential Commission report has been ? to the criticism of some Army and Navy officers that too much dependence was being placed upon air power to win a future victory . , Some critics also suggested that the Congressional report telescoped the time factor too much . They pointed out that any war in which the United States might engage in the next ten or fifteen years would be an " intermediatebase war " ? that is , we should require bases overseas to put our planes within bombing range of the enemy , and these bases would have to be seized and supplied by ground and sea power . At some future time when round-the-world aircraft ranges and 5,000-mile missiles are technically possible , transoceanic and transpolar war might be feasible , but for a long time to come war will not be " push-button " but " conventional " inasmuch as victory could result only from the carefully coordinated effort of all services . Range of Russian Planes ? The Presidential Commission , however , pointed out that Russia might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and most military observers believe that Russia today has planes with sufficient range to raid the northwestern area of the United States from bases in Siberia and Kamchatka . The atomic bomb , therefore , and the terrible damage it might cause to the United States loomed as the background of both reports . Today , United States military air power and United States aircraft production are at a fraction of their wartime peak , but relatively we are as strong as , or stronger than , any other nation . The Air Force has a total of more than 20,000 military aircraft of all types , including planes in storage . But many of these are transport ana training planes , and only about 5,000 to . 6,000 planes of all types are in operation and perhaps one-third to one-half of these are combat types . Naval Strength The Navy has more than 14 , - 000 planes , including several thousand in storage , but only about 3,500 of these are first-line combat aircraft . Of all these planes about 300 are long-range bombers ( of the B-29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spare or " relief " air groups in operation for all the " flattops " in commission , whereas at least two air group ? for each operating carrier are considered necessary . More important than the limited numbers of planes in operation was the nation 's aircraft production ; it was down to 1,800 military planes last year . This low production rate obviously meant that unless an air program was quickly adopted , there would be too few replacements for the large numbers of aircraft we now have on hand , and that our air strength would dwindle steadily as present planes became I obsolescent . 1'Russian Air Power As compared with these figures , Russia is believed to have a total of about 14,000 operating planes , some 8.000 of them combat types , and a grand total of 20.000 to 30 , - 000 including planes in storage . Her current aircraft production is not known . The Congressional Aviation Policy Board , like the President 's Air Policy Commission , agreed that American military air power was not strong enough today , that our production rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of military aircraft in operation must be increased progressively against the day when Russia has the atomic bomb . Both investigating groups urged the expenditure over a five-year period of many additional billions for air power ; both contemplated annual national defense budgets of $18 billion or more , and suggested that present aircraft production be at least tripled . Unlike the Pregidential Commission 's report , which confined its recommendations of increased air I strength to the Air Force , the Congressional report of last week urged major increases in both Air Force and Navy air strength . It suggested two plans : Plan A would implement the Air Force seventy-group program and would give the Air Force in 1953 a total of 20,541 aircraft , of which 6,869 planes of all types would be Operated by the Regular Air Force , 3,212 by the National Guard , 2,360 by the Reserve and 8,100 would be in storage . The same plan would give the Navy 14,500 aircraft , of which 3,300 would be of fleet combat type , 2,700 fleet support types , 2,000 training planes , 2,700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The total American air strength would thus be some 35,000 planes . Increased Annual Figure Plan B would delete the reserve , aircraft from the above figures , , thus reducing the total to about , 24,000 planes . Chief differences from today 's situation would be a , great increase in annual production rate , replacement and modernization of the planes actually used by the services and an increase in the number of combat planes in actual operational use , particularly in the Air Force . - . Some critics of the aviation policy reports think both investigating groups were obsessed too much with the " fetish of numbers " and that the programs are too ambitious in monetary and particularly in numerical terms . They believe that now is the time to spend money for research and development instead of spending it on r nbers of planes in actual operation . Others feel that the numbers of planes contemplated for active operation are reasonable , but that there is not much use in large numbers of planes for storage reserve , since they deteriorate quickly and any known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane . Sympathy in Congress Despite these criticisms it seems likely that Congress will be sympathetic to Plan A or Plan B , or to some modification of them . The Navy 's air arm as well as the Air Force will receive Congressional support ; both are likely to get more funds , but there is an increasing disposition to require better coordination among the services . Strong air power will have major support in Congress , for there is general agreement that the United States must maintain a lead in the air . More Striking Power For Navy and Air - Force Supported MILUONS OF POUNDS S. PRODUCTION ' OF MILITARY PLANES Recommendations of Congressione Aviation Policy Board 1940 1941 1942. 1943 194 1945 1948 1941 1948 1949 191r0 191STFL 1953 Under Plan A , as distinct from Plan B , a reserve supply of planes would be built up . The figures given above represent weight of empty planes minus engine , landing gear and equipment .                     