@@708522

txt May I express my emphatic approval of your editorial " Punishing the Thermometer , " in which you criticize Mr. Eccles for suggesting a high tax on capital gains in the stock market as a means of curbing inflation . I was myself shocked when reading of Mr. Eccles ' proposal , especially as I have long held him in high esteem and as he , more than any other person , is in a position not only to recommend far more fundamental measures of control  --  those affecting our mounting volume of " check-book money "  --  but to recommend that after the war we confine ourselves to fundamental measure . In my " Constructive Income Taxation " I have opposed even a small tax on capital gains and have given , I believe , compelling reasons . In fact , of all the many objectional forms of taxation now afflicting this country , I know of none more objectional . We might at least go as far as England did , where capital gains have been taxed only where they are used as professional income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this may be avoided without exempting the professional trader from a proper income tax . A very specific reason for objecting to the Eccles proposal is that it would result in great topheaviness in a bull market  --  worse than in 1929 , when , as is well known , the capital gains tax was one reason why people went deeply in debt rather than realize on highpriced stocks and thereby get penalized by the capital gains tax . It is bad enough to have to endure the artificialities of our wartime controls . But if we not only continue them into the post-war period but make them still more onerous and artificial they may well become unendurable . This one may also backfire , a la 1929 , in a stock market crash . As a consumer I heartily recommend THE TIMES policy of advocating lower tariffs . The President made a very good point in his message to Congress , however , when he said that the issue is not a partisan one in any true sense of the word . There are approximately as many Republican consumers as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act and the passage of the suggested amendment should do a great deal to improve the economic relationships for the world . It is amazing how much lip service is paid by some Congressmen to freedom until the carrying out of this great principle seems to interfere with their limited viewpoint of certain economic situations . They seem to assume that exporting does not require importing . They always want to sell here , there and everywhere , but they do n't want any Canadian beef on the counters of our butcher shops . The whole point is that such a mistaken policy had been fully demonstrated in its bad effects prior to the war , has during the war , and , if the President is not heeded , will be after the war . The magnificent victory our armed forces are hammering out at such dear cost should be backed by a greater degree of unselfishness by some of our legislators and some of the business interests of the country . As far as the public is concerned , all are consumers , and if they do n't want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foods and goods could be made available to them by freer trade , then I suppose they will have to go on complaining about such deficiencies . Too many trade restrictions of various kinds have become established at the expense of the consumer . It is highly important that he be heard with regard to this bill which the Ways and Means Committee has introduced in the House . It should be passed . By the proclamation on the " werewolves , " who will fight the Allies and the Germans who collaborate with the Allies , the German radio has announced the revival of an old secret German organization . A similar organization was formed under the same name after World War I. It was very active in Upper Silesia against the Poles , and later in the Ruhr valley , where the Werewolves committed acts of sabotage against the Allies . They assassinated a number of persons who allegedly had collaborated with the occupational forces . A number of Werewolves were arrested by the Prussian police , but in the end they received light sentences , since the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " patriotic reasons . " F. J. Challinor , in your columns , regards competition with low-wage countries as impossible and requests restriction of foreign competition . I know many manufacturers who believe in freedom of competition and who believe they can and should compete with all corners at home and abroad , gaining customers solely on merit and efficiency and not by tariffs . A great valve company finds its employes in England must work about 144 hours to produce what its United States workmen produce with the same tools and methods in forty-four hours . A business machine company %finds its United States employee produced much more per dollar of wages than its employes in other countries before the war when they could compare . The wages paid here were about three times those in other countries and they were forced to pay less elsewhere , because wages come out of production and these other people could not - produce as much as our similar labor . An electric company is a sample of the American idea of paying labor as much as it produces , and thereby increasing incentive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut the consumer 's price of their product to one-third and tripled the average wages of factory labor . This company has publicly welcomed free competition without regard to wages or nationalities of its competitors . The International Monetary Fund proposes to express the par value of a currency in terms of gold and to use gold in settlement of international indebtedness . However , since free convertibility of currency into gold is not an obligation to be assumed by its members , it can not be said to be the old type of gold standard . Free convertibility of currency into gold or gold into currency at a fixed price is the one feature of the gold standard which assured a fixed rate of exchange independent of all other factors . Apparently the reason why a restoration of the gold standard is not favored by some other nations is the fear that they may not be able to retain adequate gold reserves or maintain the fixed parity satisfactorily by reason of the following possibilities : 1 . Unbalanced trade on the part of other countries . 2 . Depression in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries and perhaps a change in the internal price level and consequently some lower world prices . 3 . Lack of continuity and stability in foreign economic policy on the part of other countries ( tariffs , foreign investment ) . 4 . Transfers of capital to other countries due to the cost ( taxes ) of postwar rehabilitation at home or for political reasons . 5 . Inadequate expansion of creditor countries in response to increased gold holdings , and conversely the post-war outlook for rigidity of costs ( wages ) when deflation is called for by loss of gold reserves . All these possibilities could seriously affect the internal economy of a ? OWLtry by necessitating credit restriction and dearer money , reduction of imports and consequently exports , and may also involve a serious discrepancy in the purchasing power of a national currency in relation to the exchange rate fixed by gold parity . There is also the external debt of some countries , notably Great Britain , to be considered , and the uncertain outlook of post-war policy in general inthe face of present maladjustments . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of control . Criticism of the fund is in order , but some defects could only be corrected by experience . Consideration should also be given to the alternatives . Would we continue to purchase all gold offered at $35 an ounce in the absence of the fund ? And if we did not , what would happen to our gold holdings in the face of new clearing arrangements which might be made ? Perhaps free convertibility could be restored after several years ' operation of the fund when there is more political and economic stability . The fund can be successful , I believe , provided a policy of balanced trade and consequently expanding trade is followed by all members . The parlor organ in golden oak with its crest of glued scrolls probably did bring some sweetness and light to many farm families . However , your editorial in its praise moves me to a moderates demurrer . My introduction to the instrument was unfortunate . It came upon a very hot Sunday afternoon in early July in the living room , of a farmhouse down in Comanche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and homesick . Under the determined pumping of a junior member of the family the organ was snuffling through one hymn after another . The quiet when he finally stopped is memorable , as is the zest with which two of the big boys started to fill in their measurements for mailorder suits . There were better sounds to be heard any evening around 9 after a long day pitching wheat and just before tumbling into bed and sudden oblivion : the prairie wind blowing very high above the wheat , with the singing of the windmill blades and the clank of its pump lifting water from a deep well .                     