@@709697

txt Science passed a momentous milestone here today in this birthplace of the atomic bomb . Out of the substance which creates atomic death , newly manufactured bv-nroducts  --  radioactive isotopes , which will be used to prolong life  --  were given to the world . Up until now , the sole delivered products of the United States Government 's $2,000,000,000 investment in atomic research and production have been the awesome bombs which exploded in the New Mexican desert , in Japan and at Bikini . Today , for the sum of $400 , the Government sold to a private hospital a millicurie ( too small to be seen by the naked eye ) of Carbon 14 , which scientists expect to be of great value in cancer research . It was the first sale of radioactive isotopes ( elements ) to a private institution under the program planned by the War Department prior to the forthcoming turnover of authority for atomic development to civilian agencies . Many By-Products Planned But henceforth the uranium pile at Oak Ridge  --  the selfsame pile which produces the atomic explosives for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantities of some fiftyodd radioactive isotopes to be used in research into the causes of cancer , diabetes , bone and teeth ailments and other diseases and processes of the human body . It is one of the benign paradoxes of the age that the uranium pile can produce both the forces of total destruction and good to mankind at the same time . But it is an accomplished fact , and outstanding nuclear physicists de Glared here today that even th single uranium pile at Oak Ridge would be able to turn out as much of the radioactive material as researchers could use today . Furthermore , it can be produced in quantities many thousands of times in excess of the output of the previous slow and cumbersome method of production by cyclotron bombardment , and the cost , in comparison , is infinitesimal . The new production method compares with the old as Willow Run to a hand-produced automobile . It is not easy to simplify the process on which researchers are pinning their hopes of solving causes of diseases . In essence , though , it is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be determined by Geiger counters or other instruments . Scientists propose to " blend " certain diseaseproducing agents with the radioisotropes , , then introduce them into animals . To Trace Course of Disease By tracing the course of the disease agents through listening to the tell-tale " tick " of the radioisotope , they will be able to follow its course through the human body and perhaps learn how it spreads . It would be the same as smearing a germ with black ink and inserting it into a transparent body , if there were such a thing ; only , in this case , the detection is done electronically rather than by the eye . The ceremony of the sale took place at Clinton Laboratories , the atomic research center operated for the Government by the Monsanto Chemical Company . , The sale of the invisible speck of C-14 contained in a quantity of white powder hardly larger than a crushed aspirin tablet and encased for safety in aluminum and steel containers , was made by Dr. E. P. Wigner , director of research , to Dr. E. V. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hospital , St. Louis , which will use it in the hunt for cancer 's cause . Several hundred hospitals , laboratories and research institutions have applied for various types of radio-isotopes . Among them are several New York institutions , including New York University , Queens College , Montefiore Hospital , Memorial Hospital , the Long Island College of Medicine and the New York Police Department . In stressing possibilities of benefits to mankind , scientists pleaded today for the public not to jump to conclusions that cures were at hand . This is only the beginning of a research program into the causes , not the cures , of various diseases . There is " hope " ? in some cases even hope that radioactive materials may be used in treatment of diseases themselves  --  but there is nothing definite yet . In the case of cancer , for instance , scientists may have to exert efforts comparable to those required to produce the atomic bomb before they even begin to solve the riddle . Almost unfathomable statistics surround these new atomic kyproducts . The millicurie of C-14. for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25,000 years , scientists said . For every second of this period the radioactive speck will give off millions of beta particles . " In other words , " they said , " starting with the year 11,946 A. D. , the unit ( if kept Intact ) should still be giving off beta particles at an average rate of 106 , - 500,000 particles per second , and , during the elapsed time , ten billion-billion particles will have been emitted . " Today was the first time reporters ever were admitted into the " pile building , " where the uranium pile , now the backbone of this country 's security , is housed . It is an unpretentious structure of corrugated metal and wood . Pile Housed Behind Concrete The uranium pile ( its size is still highly secret ) is housed behind concrete bulwarks thicker than the heaviest armor of the mightiest battleship . Behind that bulwark the uranium , when the pile is in operation , is constantly giving off deadly neutrons and beta and gamma rays . Without the protection of the concrete anyone approaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this invisibly seething pile that the materials for isotope production , cased in welded aluminum cans and then set into holes in a graphite block , are inserted , exposed for the necessary periods , then removed under an elaborate precautionary system . Authorities also revealed here today that experiments to harness atomic power for industrial use ? in other words , the quest to heat buildings , drive cars , trains , planes and ships , etc. , by nuclear energy ? are in the planning stage at Oak Ridge . But they cautioned that this work was in its infancy and gave no estimates of when results might be expected .                     