@@708822

txt Letters to The Times HENRY WALDMAN.A . DE MONTMORENCY.SAMUEL BLUMENTHAL.F . NIETO DEL RIO , BERNARD H .... Letters to The Times Preliminary Inquiry Urged Method Suggested for Avoiding the Conviction of Innocent Persons To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The case of Bertram M. Campbell , who served three years in prison for a crime of which he was innocent , has shocked the public . For years I have heard intelligent persons , lawyers and layman , say that no innocent person is ever convicted . However , every once in a while , the press reports the conviction of an innocent person . Professor Borchard of the Yale Law School Faculty wrote a book some years ago ? I have forgotten the title  --  where he described some sixty or more such cases . What the public appears to be most interested in is the compensation for the wrong . That , of course , is important , particularly to the victim . That problem could be very easily solved by the enactment of a statute which would give to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suit to be in the nature of a cause of action for false arrest , with no limit of damages , leaving to the triers of the facts to determine the amount of recovery . The real problem is how to prevent , as much as is humanly possible , such miscarriages of justice . In my opinion , the fault lies mainly with the law-enforcement agencies , the police and the prosecutors . Many charge that the desire for a record on the part of police and District Attorneys is the main cause of such convictions . I do not agree . Subconscious Attitude The principal cause is the subconscious attitude on the part of police and prosecutors alike that every person who is arrested must be guilty . Of course this is not true of every police officer and District Attorney , but it is only too true of many . In theory , the District Attorney is more than a mere advocate for the prosecution . His powers make him a quasi-judicial officer , for he is vested with broad discretion . When a complaint is presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a sense his investigation of the facts should be in the nature of a preliminary judicial inquiry to determine whether they warrant further action . He can determine , after such investigation , that the facts do not warrant prosecution and dismiss the charge . But the trouble is that some District Attorneys develop a bent which leads to a belief that a person under arrest is guilty . That state of mind is similar to that of the juror in a criminal case who , after listening to the plea for the defendant , said to a fellow-juror , " If that fellow is n't guilty , what in hell is he doing here ? " Of course , in the Campbell case no blame can attach to the prosecutor or the jury , at least as far as newspaper reports show . There was justification , both for prosecution and conviction , for four reputable witnesses made positive identification . Solution Suggested But in numerous cases convictions are had on the testimony of only one witness , for the law in this State requires no more except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as rape and seduction , and also in perjury and subornation of perjury . The solution of the problem would be the creation of an office somewhat along the lines of the examining magistrate in France , this official to have no connection with the law-enforcement departments but be entirely independent of , them . His duty would be to make an investigation of every case , and whose decision to either prosecute or dismiss would be final . If he decided that the case warranted prosecution , it would then be submitted to the grand jury . Only after an indictment would the District Attorney come into the picture . The weakness in the present set-up is that the District Attorney occupies a dual position  --  he is both the examining judge and the prosecuting attorney . That , in a way , is serving two masters . His judicial powers should be taken from him and vested in another official . HENRY WALDMAN . New York , July 30 , 1945 . Petain-Churchill Negotiations To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the controversy between Professor Rougier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Petain-Churchill negotiations of October - December , 1940 , the following facts are indis-putable : 1 . Whether there was any pact or gentlemen 's agreement to that effect or not , French ships did sail past Gibraltar without any interference from the British during the whole period covered by the alleged secret pact ? from October , 1940 , until the British attack on Syria . This has been a source of wonderment to the hundreds of French sailors who underwent the experience aboard ships sailing between Morocco and Marseille , as the British Navy was at that time scurrying the rest of the globe hounding French ships . The Marechal Joffre , for instance , was captured in the Indian Ocean . 2 . The use of Tunisian railways was denied to the Germans , who had to supply their Afrika Korps via the long sea route  --  where the British Navy " got " the majority of their convoys . 3 . In the same period the BBC did pipe down , whether spontaneously or by agreement , in its denunciations of Marshal Petain , as a perusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . Late in October , 1940 , King George VI sent a message to Marshal ' Detain , as both the British newspapers and THE NEW YORK TIMES reported it at the time . Although Marshal Paain 's answer was never published in England because it sounded too much like a rebuttal , it is unthinkable , in view of the diplomatic usage , that the King of England could have acted otherwise than in concert with the British Government , and after at least a secret agreement had been reached with Petain , for it was Petain who had broken diplomatic relations with Great Britain in July , 1940 , on the morrow of the battle of Mers-el-Kebir. 5 . The foreign diplomatic corps in London was well aware that Pierre D. of the Canadian Legation in Vichy , who was constantly plying between unoccupied France and England , was employed in the secret negotiations between the Churchill and Petain Governments . In view of all this Winston Churchill 's vehement denial of any pact with Petain seems to have been motivated by strong electoral reasons , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , July 25 , 1945 . Food for Some , Not for All Canadian Can See No Reason to Supply Germans to Our Detriment To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES of July 24 there is a dispatch from your correspondent Drew Middleton to the effect that the AMG is considering the importation of food from this continent to increase the supplies of our lately conquered enemies . This follows , in Canada , an announcement that we must greatly curtail our meat consumption to increase our shipments overseas . To effect this two meatless days a week are being enforced in the eating places and rigid rationing of all types of meat and meat products will shortly be resumed . No patriotic citizen can object to these measures if the food so made available goes to feed Britain and the undernourished victims of the deliberate starvation policy of the late overlords of Europe . However , if it is proposed that we on this continent practice self-denial to add to the food supplies of the nation which is guilty of the most atrocious crimes against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect upon citizen morale everywhere . It will have the immediate result of encouraging and promoting increased black-market activity on an unprecedented scale and of dulling the consciences of the participants in such operations . The news of such a policy has aroused widespread protest and indignation . The " supermen " have , by their own actions , brought about the present conditions . Why should we give them more consideration than they have given their victims or would have given us had they been the victors ? SAMUEL BLUMENTHAL . Montreal , Canada , July 28 , 1945 . Special Edition Appreciated ' 10 THE . C , D1T0K VF 111k ; 1N ENV 1OFC1. 11111Et3 : Not all of us delegates at the United Nations Conference in San Francisco were able to grasp from the very beginning the significance of THE NEW YORK TIMES special edition as a technical record and a source of information . But soon every one of us saw the usefulness of this marvelous " experiment . " As it was impossible for each delegate to know what went on every day in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thorough coverage by THE TIMES was enough to summarize all the activities of the previous day and so follow the course of the debates . Many inner details of the events outside of the conference proper would have been missed by the majority of the delegates without THE TIMES special edition . Our first thought every morning was to read it . It was the best way of feeling on the safe side when attending the meetings , where one could easily observe the lack of information shown by those who had not read it . As for me , I took pains to make a file of the special editions not only as a souvenir of the conference but also as a bibliographic gem of journalism , of which I have the honor of being a member . NIETO DEL RIO . Chilean Delegate to the San Francisco Conference . New York , July 30 , 1945 . Search for Relics Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In reference to the many needed housing projects and roadways now in construction or planned for the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , land broken and excavations started , a representative from one of the Government , State , city or accredited private museums be on hand for archaeological finds . The early Indians left relics which usually can be found in the topsoil ; and there were prehistoric tribes . Near springs , in creek or river beds are also good places to search . It would not be beyond the realm of probability to find near the seacoast waters under the sand an Egyptian , Grecian , Phoenician , Roman , Norse or medieval galley ! BERNARD H. BAYLOR . Richmond , Va. , July 26 , 1945.                     