@@710192

txt A fleet of 26 trawlers and draggers with some 2,000,000 pounds of fish under hatches , lie idle at the Boston Fish Pier this morning as , for the second consecutive day , fishermen refused to unload their catches . Fish-processing plants at the pier were idle as well ; - although some 1,200 fish workers remained on company , pay rolls . They probably will be dismissed tomorrow , various company officials said , if the tie-up continues till that time . Indications were today that the tie-up might continue for some time as the fish offered for sale today brought bids below the minimum prices demanded by members of the Atlantic Fishermen 's Union . Bids Held Too Low Dealers bid 71/2 to 8 cents for haddock , for which the fishermen demanded 9 cents . Large cod was bid for at 5 cents , while the crews asked 6 cents . In each case the minimum price set by the fishermen , all members of the Atlantic Fishermen 's Union , were the former maximum prices set by the Office of Price Administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asserted today that the end of the tie-up " is entirely up to the men . " The 3,000 members of his union in New England , he declared , wanted to see a " better equalization of the price they get for fish and the high prices now being obtained for fish in retail markets . " Duration in Doubt How long they would continue the tie-up to lessen this difference , ie would not say . If the fishermen had unloaded today 's trips , a typical trawler would ' have returned its 17-man crew approximately $2,700 for a nine-day trip , but out of this the crew would have paid $1,200 for their share of the oil , ice , and food for the voyage and the wages of the lumpers who discharge the fish . In explaining why the men ) were unwilling to accept a cent less ' a pound for fish than the price under OPA whereby both men and , owners made large profits , Mr. asserted that the cost of living had gone - up 20 per cent . ? Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 hours a day on the banks and sell their fish for less than the price they now demand . " The only fish unloaded yesterday was from a dragger which arrived in port in a leaking condition . Another dragger , the Venture II , alio was at the dock today in a leaking condition and the crew was meeting with union officials to consider taking out its load of fish . These catches were the only ones handled out of the 2,000,000 pounds brought in yesterday and today . Although the Boston Fish Pier was idle , a large fleet of draggers landed their cargoes at Gloucester , where fish sold for less than the prices offered in Boston . Many of these boats , however , were owned individually , whereas the bulk of the Boston fleet is owned and operated by large corporations . Fishermen interviewed at the Boston Fish Pier complained about what they termed the " unreasonable difference " between price they get for fish and prices in retail markets , which , in some cases they claimed , are higher than the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , laying idle at the pier . had made no statement . The action of the fishermen this week , it is understood , followed an agreement made at a union meeting two weeks ago . Meanwhile , a hearing is scheduled tomorrow in Suffolk Superior Court on the petition of Clarence A. Barnes , ? Attorney General , against the union ? and its officers charging conspiracy to fix prices . A legislative investigation of selling and marketing practices in the Boston fishing industry is also under way . The Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior reports that nearly 25,000,000 pounds of fish is in New England cold storage plants .                     