@@708327

txt Americans are not , told ' the truth about ' conditions in. liberated portions . Of Europe and on the war fronts , Frederick C. Crawford , chairman of the executive c o m - mittee of the National Association of Manufacturers , charged here today .. Addressing the New York State Chamber of Commerce , he gave'his own version of the truth on the following subjects , based on a recent overseas tour made at the request of the war department : French attitude : " I thought France would be deliriously happy when we came . I found a cold shoulder . " French prosperity : " I saw fat horses drawing wagons equipped with rubber Aired wheels . I ? had been told that France was suffering ? told that we must give the French 100,000 tractors to plow with or we would have to feed them for a year . French workers had been-paid liberally by the Germans , who made it a point to stimulate farm . production . There was every indication , I was told , that the Germans expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told that if things went on as they did for another year and a half the French would have wanted those conditions permanently . " Underground : The Fiench underground , he asserted , is made up " largely of Communists . " He quoted an American officer as saying that " for every train the underground blew up five other trains were robbed by the underground . " ? Collaboration : 4 " new racket " exists in France , Crawford said , wherein labor leaders brand employers ' whom they dislike as collaborationists . Censorship : " Our home front is degenerating because we do n't know what 's going on . What 's the matter with censorship which keeps America in semi-ignorance ? I have talked to correspondents in France who told me it is not their fault . They said it appeared that America must be told only Pollyanna stuff . " Munitions : Crawford said the Ger . mans had tanks with eight inch armor . " Our shells bounced off those tanks , " he declared . " Gen Eisenhower said if we do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or before the Ger F. C. Crawford. mans get into mass production , it will be a serious matter . " ' German food : American units captured from the Germans 2,000,000 pounds of Argentine beef , Crawford said , pointing out that this beef " Must have passed thru our blockade . " 