@@706405

txt Registration of New York City 's family units and individuals for sugar rationing will begin tomorrow and continue daily through Thursday as part of the nationwide enrollment for the first food item to be rationed as a wartime necessity . As the rationing machinery was finally geared to the task in this city , Mayor La Guardia , as well as the Office of Price Administration in Washington , emphasized the importance of registering , explaining that the war ration book issued for sugar might be used for other commodities . At the same time that Lee S. Buckingham , acting Federal rationing administrator for New York City , announced that some 1,500,000 persons were expected to make application for sugar ration books on behalf of the city 's 7,500 , - 000 population , Washington spokesmen for OPA explained that no one was compelled to register , but warned that those failing to register between tomorrow and Thursday inclusive would be unable to obtain ration books until May 21 . OPA authorities further made it plain that Army and Navy personnel who eat " in organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and men who eat at home should apply for ration books . Places of registration here will be in 1,036 elementary , parochial and private schools . More than 80 , - 000 registrars , including teachers , members of parent-teacher organizations and other volunteers , are prepared to handle the gigantic job of registration . The registrars have been taking instruction for several days under direction of Dr. William Jansen , Assistant Superintendent of Schools . Schools used for registration will be open from 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. tomorrow and from 3 P. M. to 7 P. M. on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday . Applicants are directed to go to the nearest elementary school in // SUGAR ENROLLMENT FOR CIVILIANS NEAR // their neighborhood . A number of parochial and private schools are being used , but inasmuch as the facilities of many are limited , registrants are advised to go to the nearest public school . Mayor La Guardia assured the 7,500,000 citizens of the city last night that every one was going to be treated alike under sugar rationing . In a ten-minute address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor declared that while time did not permit him to explain all the reasons for sugar rationing , he wished to point out that the government would not have adopted this expedient unless it had been necessary . Regardless of station , every family is going to be treated alike , according to the Mayor . The Mayor cautioned applicants that even diabetics should be listed in family units since the books may be used for other commodities . He suggested that registrants requiring information call the office of the assistant Federal rationing administrator for New York City , James W. Danahy , BRyant 9-5320 . To spread the registration load the Board of Education has arranged for registration tomorrow morning of all persons whose last names start with the letters A , B or C. Tomorrow afternoon persons whose last names start with the letters from D to H , inclusive , will be registered . On Tuesday persons whose last names begin with letters from I to L , inclusive , will file aplications , and on Wednesday those whose names are in the M to R group will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those whose names are in the S to Z bracket . " Persons who live alone or who live with others , but are not members of the family unit , should register as individuals , " explained yesterday 's release from Mr. Buckingham 's office . " Family units on the other hand , which consist of persons related by blood , marriage or adoption and living together , should be registered by a single adult representative . Any one living away from home a large part of the year , such as a college student , should register as an individual and should not be included in his par-1 ticular family unit . " The local rationing administration was advised yesterday by the Office of Price Administration in Washington " that every individual and family unit should make applications for war ration books , irrespective of the poundage of sugar which they possess . Where the amount of sugar on hand is in excess of permissible poundage , the registrar will cross out the statement in the application that a war ration book has been issued . The application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book will be issued when the excess sugar stock has been consumed . " The Bronx has been divided into two zones with Burnside and Tremont Avenues and 177th Street as the dividing line , " it was announced . " Manhattan consists of three zones with Forty-second Street and 125th Street as the boundaries . Three zones exist in Queens with boundary lines along Grand Central Parkway and Forest Park and on Liberty Avenue , Sutphin Boulevard and Rockaway Boulevard . " Three zones have been created in Brooklyn with Broadway , Howard Avenue , Kings Highway , Ralph Avenue , Flatlands Avenue , Flatbush Avenue and Fort Hamilton Parkway as the dividing lines . Only a single zone has been established in Richmond . It is essential that persons should register at a school within the zone in which they live . " In appealing for public cooperation to make registration a success , Mr. Buckingham declared : " The rationing of sugar has become an actual necessity , but if the public cooperates this registration , which is the most stupendous clerical undertaking of the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anybody . " We hope that every one will be tolerant if any short delays occur . Eighty thousand teachers and others are giving their time gratis in an effort for which we have no precedent . There may be instances , therefore , wherein we will run short of supplies at certain school centers . Reserve depots have been established , but it may require time to obtain the necessary forms and get them into the hands of the registrars . " Sugar will be available to registrants in New York City on Wednesday , and in other localities on Tuesday .                     