@@709449

txt To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : For millions of Americans twentyfive years ago Armenia was a word charged with passionate sympathy and deep moral challenge . It is the purpose of the American Committee for Armenian Rights to renew and revivify that challenge in order that . the still Unresolved " Armenian question " may receive a just and long overdue answer . The committee believes that the United Nations is the agency by which civilization 's and democracy 's debt to the oppressed Armenian people can be discharged . From the time of the Turkish massacres of the Armenians in 1894-96 , the world was shocked and astounded by a calculated policy of oppression and destruction of an innocent minority people by Turkey . In the period of the First World War Turkey , then an ally of Imperial Germany , deliberately put to death , under circumstances of the utmost brutality and cruelty , a million of the Armenians living within its borders , a number equivalent to 75 per cent of the present population of the Armenian Republic of the U.S.S.R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their accompanying deportations , the Turkish Government was aided and abetted by high-ranking officers of the German Army . Nor did the Turkish program of systematic extermination of the Armenians end with the Armistice . The killings and wholesale deportations continued and Turkey Invaded and seized considerable territory of the then struggling Armenian Republic . Arbitration Award These events occurring over a series of years caused consternation throughout the democratic and Christian world . The need to accomplish justice for the Armenian people also became a matter of major political interest in America during and after the First World War . The independence of Armenia from Turkey was one of the Wilsonian Fourteen Points . In 1920 Woodrow Wilson was asked by the Supreme Allied Council to make an arbitration award defining the boundaries of the new Armenian state . This task was also conferred on him in the draft of the Treaty of Sevres in the same year , to which Turkey was a signatory . Wilson accepted the assignment and in November of 1920 issued an award giving Armenia certain districts ( Kars , Ardahan , Van Bitlis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkey . The award never went into effect , due to the operation of conflicting power politics and the fact that the United States did not join the League of Nations , where it could have raised its voice on behalf of the Armenian people . Meanwhile , the Armenian Republic , within its present narrow boundaries , had become a constituent republic of the Soviet Union , a status which it presently occupies . During the twentyfive years of its Soviet affiliation the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic has made marked strides in the economic and cultural fields . While the Armenians in Soviet Armenia have been rapidly rising from a state of economic degradation to a greatly enhanced standard of living , the situation is quite different with the dispossessed Armenians , particularly in the Near Eastern and Mediterranean countries , who fled from Turkish terror . With their families they are living in large numbers , and with some exceptions in exceedingly dire straits , in such countries as Syria , Lebanon , Egypt and Greece . Recently the Armenian Republic has offered to repatriate its fellow-countrymen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already registered for return to'Armenia . Demands of Justice Armenian organizations and friends of Armenia all over the world have become articulate in their demands for the restoration of Armenian territory by Turkey . Unfortunately , in certain important quarters in America this demand has met with opposition on the ground that strategic and economic interests of the Soviet Union would be served by such an act of restitution . In bare essentials the argument against restoration of the Armenian territory is a plea to disregard the demands of humanity and justice because incidental aid would at the same time be given to one great ally in the recent war , and in the United Nations , as against another . Such partisanship is unbecoming the ideals for which Americans , Russians and British , and Armenians too , fought and died . The black pages of past Turkish history , not the Soviet Union , created the Armenian question . The conscience of the American people can not permit the Armenians ' cause to be shelved because of political balancing within the august frame of the United Nations . EDWIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , April 29 , 194. a . Bishops ' Letter Criticized To THE EDITOR OF TEE NEW YORK TIDIES : The article " U. S. Blocks Protest by German Bishops " which appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES quoted the letter of the Bishops as follows : " We are obliged to declare that the German people 's sense of justice is sorely touched by the dismissal of thousands of officials and managers without a moment 's notice , by the arrest of thousands of others without judicial sentence , by their being deprived of freedom without any possibility of self-defense , without any connection with their nearest relatives . " I am of the opinion that the strict execution of the denazification program is a matter of first importance , and that , in its course , cases of hardship will be created . From the humane point of view , I also fully understand that the church brings forward her complaint . It seems to me , however , to be the height of hypocrisy to speak in this connection of " the German people 's sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly those who are affected by the denazification program , with their sense of justice , did the same and much more despicable things during twelve long years , until the Allies stopped them . I therefore believe that the protest . because of the above quotation , falls short of its purpose . One could even find a deplorable sense of humor in it were it not for the depressing fact that the paragraph in question constitutes ' a mockery to all the German people 's victims , living and dead . GEORGE RACKWITZ . M. D. New York , April 29 , 1946 . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Are we becoming as serious as Topics of the Times implied last Sunday ? Does the absence of humorous periodicals imply that we have less desire to laugh ? Are the subjects of our preachers ' sermons and the ominous silence of the bobby-soxers signals of anything important ? To all the answer may well be " no . " The bobby-soxers , healthy youngsters for the most part , can be counted on to break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to educate them to ideals which will afford a normal and happy outlet for their buoyant energy . The parsons will once more revert to secular themes ; the public concern with profound values is a transitory manifestation . and not too widespread at that . Our absorption in matters political and economic will retard the " back to religion " movement which developed as a result of the shock at our expenditure of human life . Changes in manners and conduct can not be appraised at short range . Our humor blood-count is another matter . We never had any funny papers . A few that flourished and expired , which dealt with farce or broad comedy , hardly count when the field is viewed retrospectively . Puck and Judge and Life ' ( Topics mentioned the last two ) , which dominated up to about a generation ago , published jokes , light literature and humorous illustrations , but they were not primarily comic papers . Puck and Judge secured their support on strictly political lines and undoubtedly received some sort of subsidy ; no decent Republican would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge , unless his barber kept him waiting too long . The front page of each invariably bore a cartoon on party lines . Life , neatly shaped and well printed , never descended to curry favor of the average person ; it was ostentatiously superior . There was in it fine stuff ? Martin 's editorials , Kerfoot 's book reviews , for example  --  but the paper was a snob , or seems so on a backward glance , and held ordinary people at arm 's length . What Topics ignores is the complete public satisfaction with the quality and quantity of humor dealt out to it . Newspaper circulation depends greatly on the comic strip and comic supplement ; the business of supplying such material is enormous and the competition is great . Then there are the comic books . " which Topics evidently does n't study ; neither do I , but they are displayed in the subway and on railroad stations everywhere . Their circulation runs into the tens of millions , I am told . As a people we want our entertainment aurally and visually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ev1ry emotion which can be stimulated by seeing ; the - , ? aclio does the trick by way of the ea , and when we have had enough of hot from our armchair we go to the movies and get sight and sound in combination . What need , then , for humorous papers when thrills are packaged for the millions and can be enjoyed without the effort of thinking which reading implies ! B. W. HUEBSCH. , New York , May 1 , 1946 . Silver Production Encouraged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your diatribe against the " Senate silver bloc " implies that Western Senators should make no effort to raise the price of a metal to encourage its production . You also state , " There is no justification for this proposed action , " and that " such a price increase is not required to stimulate the output of silver . " You make blunt statements that sound sectional and political-minded for a great newspaper . On the contrary , the world needs hard money with a widespread an eraditional value to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in buying power . Hard money gives confidence to fiat currencies . World prices for silver are rising everywhere . People are seeking money that will always have some value no matter how crazy the advocates of paper tokens become . A gold or silver coin two thousand years old is still valuable . How valuable are pre-1923 marks or pre-1914 rubles ? Arabs and Chinese respect silver and have had bitter lessons with paper money . Our Government has not lost money by encouraging the production of silver . Its stores of the metal have shown an excellent profit . Many foreign Governments would like to have such a nest-egg , and silver busbars helped to win the war . P. B. New York , April 29 , 1946.                     