@@710208

txt The welfare of more than a million homeless persons stranded in refugee camps in Germany , Austria , and Italy hinges primarily on Congress ' approval of United States ' membership in the Inter-. national Refugee Organization . President Truman has just asked congress for such approval . United States ' leadership in the I. R. 0 . is considered essential to its success . Other potential members naturally will " watch closely the attitude of the United States before making their own definite commitments , " the President has reminded Congress . Care and repatriation of these war-stranded thousands are provided for under a joint program of the Army and the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration . UNRRA to Close The UNRRA program terminates on June 30 . " It would indeed be serious if it ( the I. R. 0. ) were not in a position to begin operations on July 1 of this yew , " declared the President in his message . With no other organization prepared to take over this responsibility , the entire burden would fall upon the Army which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility singlehanded . Included among these homeless hordes are thousands of Poles , Yugoslays , Ukrainians , Baltic peoples , Romanians , Hungarians , and Jews . It is expected that most of these will be repatriated eventually , as they are cleared and transportation funds provided to their former homelands . Not Forced to Return The United Nations has provided , however , over the protest of Russia , that displaced persons who have valid reason for not returning to their homelands should not be forced to do so . These will be left to be resettled in other nations , and it is hoped that immigration bars in many countries will be lowered in their favor . Purpose of the I. R. 0 . is to providp the funds and personnel to continue the repatriation and resettlement activities now supervised by the Army and 13NRRA , and carry out whatever final action is necessary to find national homes for those uprooted by the war . The President impressed upon Congress that the Allied victory in Europe brought with it a practical and moral responsibility with regard to Axis victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Austria , and Italy are under United States care and control , he said . The I. R .. 0 . constitution was drawn up by the Economic and Social Council of the United Na tions after an exhaustive study of the problem , and the General Assembly approved that constitution . It was signed by United States representative to the United Nations , Warren Austin , subject to approval by Congress . " This constitution represents an earnest effort by the United Nations to solve one of the most poignant and difficult problems left in the wake of the war , " declared the President . Participation by the United States in the I. R. 0 . was proposed by the President in his budget message- to Congress , and provision made in the budget for the necessary funds to make up the United States contribution to the project . The President 's budget message listed $75,000,000 for American contributions to United Nations organizations in the fiscal year 1948 , A State Department official said most of this would go to refugees . " I feel sure that with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Organization will be in a position to function as an international body to perform an essentially international service , " declared the President . Senate Resolution Immediately after his recommendation to Congress for approval of Atherican participation in the I. R. 0 . , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg ( R ) of Michigan , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and Senator Tom Connally ( D ) of Texas introduced a resolution to carry out this request . United Nations authorities , as well as all officials concerned with the solution of this problem , feel there is urgent reason for haste in this matter .                     