@@712293

txt Plans for developing the Charles River Basin and its adjacent shore line into one of the outstanding public ' recreation grounds in the country were disclosed today by Governor Dever , in cooperation with the Metropolitan District Commission . The plans envisage a long chain of islands and small-boat lagoons , swimming pools , bath houses , athletic fields , and highway and pedestrian overpasses and underpasses all the way from the Charles River Darn Bridge to the newly named Boston University Bridge ( formerly Cottage Farm Bridge ) . Three Sections Constructed in conjunction with the planned Esplanade depressed highway , the Museum of Science at the Charles River Dam Bridge , and the reconstruction of Harvard Bridge , the projected Basin improvement will provide Bostonians with an outlook said to be as impressive as'the Riviera . The prOgram , as outlined by the governor and blueprinted by Arthur and Sidney Shurcliff , Boston architects , will be done in three separate sections , each lying between two of the four bridges . The intown section between the Charles River Dam Bridge and Longfellow Bridge will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 260 feet long , a bath house , and bleachers for the pool , a baseball and football field with bleachers , a children 's playground and wading pool and field house , and a shelter . 60-Foot Canoeway Parking space for 100 cars will also be provided , and a pedestrian bridge over the lock at the Charles River Dam will make easy access to the modern Museum of Science that will be started shortly on land adjacent to the dam . Between Longfellow and Harvard Bridges , along which the proposed new highway will run , the chief recreational development work will be launched . There will be a 60-foot-wider canoeway more than a mile long for small boats and for skaters in winter . The canoeway will be devised to utilize the present shore line without alteration . Seven pedestrian overpasses , one of which utilizes Harvard Bridge , will carry walkers over the new highway , which will be depressed from 31/2 to 4 feet , from Dartmouth Street to Boston University . The highway will come up to surface level from Dartmouth to Arlington and connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of overpasses and underpasses . Three new children 's playgrounds will replace the two existing ones . A new boat and skaters ' house will replace the old one , to be torn down . Seven new foot bridges will connect the lagoons with the mainland . A concert lagoon will make it possible to listen to the Esplanade concerts from canoes and small boats . 26 New Acres ' There will be new locations for ; the Curtis Memorial . the Holmes Memorial , and the Lotto Foun7 tain , if approved by the State Art Commission . Between Harvard Bridge and the Boston University Bridge on the river side of Bay State Road , nearly six new acres will be added by new fill . In this section will be built four pedestrian bridges over the express road , one footbridge ! over the mile-long canoeway , an overlook terrace complete with a ! power boat landing , one children 's playground , and new landscaping . All this mirk will require the addition of at least 26 new acres by filling in the basin . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of open water for present and foreseeable motor and sail-boatin g requirements . Bids are already advertised for the dredging of the basin from which the fill will be obtained by the MDC . Express road plans are practically completed . The highway , being depressed for most of its distance , will carry vehicular traffic at sufficient depth to deaden the traffic noise and to keep the cars mostly out of sight of recreational areas . Substantial Bridges By depressing the highway , it will be possible for pedestrians to get to the recreational areas from points along Beacon Street and Bay State Road without conflict with the streams of traffic , Substantial pedestrian bridges will be located at 11 different spots . There is no question in local circles that the completion of this project will place Boston in the forefront of recreational planning in the country . The landscape architects are the same who laid out the grounds for the Williamsburg Restoration in Virginia , Work on the project will get under way promptly . Redevelopment of the basin is actually part of the express road project recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its way towards completion by the fall of 1950 . The westerly portion of the Storrow Memorial Embankment will be altered substantially when the new Esplanade highway is built . An additional 5.6 acres of land will be filled in to provide additional park land . Shown above is the architect 's plan for the area between Harvard Bridge and Boston University Bridge . It will include four pedestrian overpasses , one foot bridge over the canoeway , an over-look terrace and power-boat landing , small children 's playground , trees , shrubs and grass to replace those occupied by the highway , and a screen planting between the highway and Back Street . The rowing course for university crews Will be unimpaired , according to Metropolitan District Commission officials , The shore line will be undulating rather than straight . The MetropOlitan District Commission was especially catieful in preparing its plans for this area between Longfellow Bridge and Harvard Bridge . This is the . site most heavily infringed . upon by the new highway . The major feature of the . new arrangement will be a 60-foot-wide canoeway of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skaters . A concert lagoon will make it Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . possible for persons to heai ? the Esplanade concerts from canoes or small boats . Other features of the architect 's plans for this- area are three new small children 's playgrounds to replace two existing ones , seven pedestrian overpasses , and seven foot bridges er the lagoon . A screen planting will hide Back Street from the Esplanade . Also , a new boat and skate house will be constructed .                     