@@711236

txt Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington The United States Government has seized the strike-threatened railroads , and President Truman is calling on every railroad worker to cooperate with Federal authorities by remaining at his post . The seizure took place at 1 o'clock eastern daylight time this afternoon by executive order of the White House . Officials of the . three strike-threatening railroad brotherhoods and management representatives are continuing their negotiations with John R. Steelman , the President 's labor adviser , who has been trying for the past few days to promote an agreement between the railroads and the brotherhoods of engineers , firemen , and switchmen that would avert the nationwide rail stoppage . scheduled for 6 a.m. eastern standard time tomorrow . Yount Summoned Brig . Gen. P. F. Yount , Assistant Chief of the Army Transportation Corps , has been summoned to the White House , presumably to advise the President on means of . carrying out the seizure . Authority for the President 's action to avert a tie-tip of the nation 's vital rail system stems from a 1916 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' in time of war , is empowered through the Secretary of War to take possession and assume control of any system or systems of transportation or any part thereof ; and to utilize the Same to the exclusion as far as may be necessary of all other traffic thereon for the transfer or transportation of troops , war material , and equipment or for such other purposes connected with the emergency as may be needful or desirable . " Legislation Spurred Technically , the United States still is at war . While administration officials were striving to find a peaceful settlement to the railroad labor dispute , legislation was being introduced in Congress by Senator William F. Knowland ( R ) of California to make the railway labor unions subject to the national emergency injunctive provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act . Senator Knowland 's State stands to suffer heavily from a nationwide rail stoppage , owing to the dependence of its produce growers on the railroads to move their perishable commodities to the big eastern markets . Already , freight embargoes on perishable products have hurt food growers throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to meet the fast - developing transportation crisis is whether or not railroad men will comply with the President 's request to keep the railroads running while the dispute                     