@@704510

txt Blanketed with more than seven inches of snow , New York City and neighboring communities were fighting traffic obstacles and drifts at an early hour today in what appeared to be a winning effort to keep essential services functioning . Part of a storm that was driven by a high wind along the entire Eastern part of the country , from Southern New England to Virginia and inland to the Ohio Valley , the snow-blocked streets halted traffic in outlying areas completely for a time , caused railroads and subways to muster emergency equipment to keep their lines open , hampered ferries and disrupted air service from New York completely . Off the New Jersey coast the motor vessel Aztec was drifting with disabled steering gear , after sending out an S 0 S shortly before 11:30 P. M. Radio bearings indicated that the ship was about twenty miles south of Barnegat at 3 A. M. The steamer Exmoor was reported just after midnight to be standing by , and the Coast Guard cutter Pontchartrain , en route from a point near Ambrose Light , was expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible because of the gale , the master reported . The ship is owned by the Aztec Petroleum and Trading Company of Houston , Texas . Shortly after midnight the Police Department ordered the West Side Elevated Highway closed to traffic I from Canal Street north to Seventyninth Street . At about the same time passengers were informed that all bus service across the George Washington Bridge had been suspended . In other parts of the city , however , the main highways were open for bus , surface car and automobile traffic , but were little used . The police said very few automobiles had used the Brooklyn , Manhattan or Williamsburgh bridges after midnight , although the roadways of all three were open . The Queensboro Bridge had heavier traffic , with its upper level closed . The Triborough Bridge was little used , but cleared for traffic , with automobiles moving slowly . Two deaths traceable to the storm were reported yesterday in New York City , the police said , listing more than fifty persons as injured . Wind velocity was set officially at forty-nine miles an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result that snowdrifts caused much of the traffic trouble in outlying sections . Buses were able to maintain their schedules in most boroughs . On Staten Island , where other motor traffic was at a virtual standstill because drivers hesitated to risk travel , the Staten Island Coach Company reported l-ttle delay . In Manhattan , the Bronx and Brooklyn service was described as approx- imately normal , but the B. M. T. reported that in Brooklyn surface cars were hampered on some routes by stalled automobiles . In Queens , the North Shore Bus Company reported delays in service running up to half an hour . Traffic on the various elevated lines in Brooklyn was described as even better than normal , since the B. M. T. System operated double the normal number of trains , in order to make sure that the lines remained cleared . In Manhattan , the Bronx , Brooklyn and Queens , the I. R. T. reported all lines in opera tion early this morning . Ferry Routes Open All the principal ferry routes , hampered by poor visibility and the high wind , managed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was said , by the difficulty of bringing the ferries into ther slips under storm . conditions . The Long Island Railroad , which had taken steps early yesterday to make sure that its lines remained open , said at 2 A. M. that service was virtually normal on all lines from Manhattan and Brooklyn . The ra4roads serving commuting areas reported also that salt crews and extra workers were succeeding in keeping the lines open . The principal delay in incoming trains was on those arriving from New England , the Pennsylvania and Grand Central lines reported . Four northbound trains , including train No. 61 , for Albany , which were to have left Grand Central Terminal at intervals before and after midnight , were held up here for more than two hours because of snow that blew into switches near Harmon , representatives of the New York Central system said . Other service approached normal , they added , with the prospect that the commuter traffic would be near normal time today . All airplane flights from La Guardia Field , as from most other landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when visibility dropped sharply , and the planes not in hangars were weighted with gasoline or anchored to resist the force of the wind . The outlook for resumption of service was still uncertain early today . Among the persons injured were two Coast Guardsmen and three policemen , taken to Rockaway Beach Hospital suffering from exposure after they had been soaked with Icy spray when a picket boat was wrecked on a bulkhead at the foot of Beach 118th Street , Rockaway , Queens . In some parts of the city ? lighting and telephone lines were down , but not sufficient to interfere seriously with service . The Western Union and Postal Telegraph Companies declared that their service had been somewhat affected in the storm area , but not sufficiently to prevent the rerouting of messages . Damage in the Times Square area was largely to business , the storm keeping away thousands of potential customers of restaurants and other establishments . Six persons were Injured , one of them seriously , when a trolley car of the 167th Street line , operated by Motorman Harold Collins , went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on slippery rails at Sheridan Avenue on the underpass beneath Grand Concourse , the Bronx . The front truck of the car veered from the track into a sidewall of the underpass . Mrs. Anna Adonick , 60 years old , of 830 Caldwell Avenue , was taken to Morrisania Hospital to be treated for a scalp wound . I Five others of the twenty passengers received minor injuries but were able to go home . Late last night State police barracks at Hawthorne , N. Y. , advised motorists to avoid three main highways leading north from New York , the Albany Post Road , the Boston Post Road and the Bronx River Parkway extension . All were blocked in places , the report said . In Lewes , Del. , Highway Department snowplows struggled through drifts to rescue fourteen small children marooned for six hours in a school bus caught in the snow , according to The Associated Press . High winds extended out to sea , and storm warnings were hoisted from Boston to Cape Hatteras . The Weather Bureau predicted clearing skies and colder temperatures for today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy damage in its wake . Temperatures below freezing followed the snow in many cities . In Cincinnati the thermometer registered 18 degrees , and in Atlantic City the barometer was 28.74 , the lowest February level recorded there since 1874 . Pittsburgh had a record snowfall of 15 inches , the heaviest in thirty-eight years , and harried Florida fruit-growers , already the victims of unprecedented cold , were warned of further frost today . In New York the snow was ushered in by misty rain , turning to sleet , which glazed the streets and highways and caused many of the injuries during the morning hours . At 2 P. M. the Department of Sanitation ordered mobilization of 12,500 regular employes and later augmented its forces by the night shift of 2,500 men . The mechanized equipment at work included 177 rotary brooms , 377 flushers and plows , 619 cross-walk plows , fortysix sanders and 1,246 trucks with plows attached . Deputy Commissioner Edward C. Nugent said last night that the department was ready to call out its reserves if the continued snowfall warranted , and an additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Outlying sections of the city suffered particularly . In the Bronx , early morning lighting and telephone service was interrupted by falling wires , and the entire Orchard Beach section of the borough was for a time without lights . Ambulance service from Bronx hospitals was put on an emergency basis because of many calls from victims of storm accidents . From Philadelphia The Associated Press reported that a 5,000-ton British freighter was torn loose from its anchorage and set adrift in Delaware Bay . Tugboats were unable to locate the helpless vessel because of a blinding snowstorm . The name of the ship was not revealed because of her belligerent registry .. All sailings from Boston Harbor were canceled for the first time in more than two years . In Provincetown Harbor at least six small fishing vessels were sunk at their moorings and the 6,737-ton freighter Exchange , out on a trial run , was forced to anchor there instead of returning to Boston . A party of 189 , including officials of the Bethlehem Steel Company , were marooned aboard . At Ellicottville , N. Y. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a heart attack attributed to overexertion while carrying wood . A New York City fireman , John Schwinck , 45 , of Engine Company 202 , died while shoveling snow in front of the firehouse at 199 Van Brunt Street , Brooklyn . Harry Beechy , 63 of 24-52 Kindred Street , Long Island City , Queens , was found dead in his living room , where he had gone to rest after shoveling snow from the sidewalk in front of his home . A man identified as Carl Anderson , 79 , was killed while walking on Route 10 , at Livingston , N. J. Jersey State Police at Flemington found the body of an unidentified man on the tracks of the Lehigh Valley Railroad one mile east of Stanton , N. J. , with both legs amputated . They believed he had been blinded by the snowstorm while walking on the tracks and had failed to see an approaching train . Among the freakish accidents of the storm was the collapse of the flagpole in City Hall Park  --  the fifth to stand there since the original Liberty Pole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though most trains were running on or slightly behind schedule , many hotei3 in the neighborhood of railroad terminals reported 20 to 25 per cent increases in overnight guests  --  apparently commuters fearing they would be unable to reach home . In the suburbs heavy snow caused many accidents and traffic jams , but brought hope that the threatened water shortage in New York might be minimized . Four to six inches of snow fell on the Croton watershed , where New York 's string of reservoirs are situated . Collisions resulting from skidding on glazed highways were common in Nassau County , but the injuries to motorists were slight and the property damage was confined to battered fenders , headlights and bumpers . Throughout the afternoon many residents were intermittently without electric power . The failures , usually lasting a minute , were caused principally by the wind blowing overhead wires in contact , resulting in short circuits . In Westchester County the Park Commission , the Department of Public ; Works and individual communities had 3,000 men plowing snow and sanding dangerous intersections . Two hundred accidents were reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey 's Highway Department turned out 1,500 men and 300 trucks to fight a snowfall that was reported as high as twelve inches in some communities . Pittsburgh , where the snow was deepest , excused 136,000 children from classes , according to The United Press . No let-up in the snowfall was in sight there . Rochester , N. Y. , reported the storm there the worst in many years , with nine inches of snow . Drifts piled up by high winds off Lake Ontario lay four and five feet deep . City traffic by bus and trolley was crippled , and outside the city State police reported automobiles marooned on the roads in groups of forty to fifty .                     