@@707038

txt Frenchmen gained new confidence in their great tradition of " liberty , equality and fraternity " today when General Henri Honord Giraud announced the broad principles on which democratic government would be speedily reintroduced to French North Africa and promised the people of metropolitan France that their government would be reconstituted under the laws of the Third Republic once victory had been won . The Civil and Military Commander in Chief of French North and West Africa made his stirring and momentous speech before the , Alsace-Lorraine Society here . It was intended not only for French North Africa and the Allies but for the 40,000,000 Frenchmen living under German domination . The speech will be followed by a series of decrees carr'ing out the promises made by General Giraud today to end religious discrimination and to reintroduce municipal assemblies and Councils G ? neraux " elected by the people " in French North Africa . Members of the Comite de Guerre ? North Africa 's present governing body  --  approved the contents of the general 's speech . Robert D. Murphy and Harold Macmillan , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do with the liberal tone of the speech . The speech and the decrees that will implement its promises should end dissatisfaction with the French North African political situation . There are four salient points that give ample ground for the belief that'first French North Africa and then France will return to the principles that made the mother country great . They axe : 1 . All legislation enacted after the armistice of 1940 is " null and void " ; ? the laws of religious discrimination " no longer exist " and an order is being promulgated that will abrogate these laws and all decrees relating to them . 2 . The municipal assemblies and Conseils Genera.ux will resume their place in the government of French North Africa , with their members " elected by the people . " 3 . Once victory has been won , " the people of France will become the masters of their destiny " and will construct their " provisional government " according to the laws of the French Republic . 4 . General Giraud offered full cooperation with General Charles de Gaulle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " fundamental and traditional principles of which I have spoken . " ? Praises Resistance in France General Giraud warmly praised the " heroes of resistance " in France who carried on guerrilla warfare after the armistice . He appealed for support to French elements that until now had been considered followers of ; - or at least sympathizers with , General de Gaulle in these passages , in which he asked all Frenchmen " reverently to salute " those who had died for liberty in this type of warfare . The question whether General Giraud seeks anything besides the liberation of France was dealt with frankly in the speech . " I am the servant of the French people ; I am not their master , " he declared , in direct answer to hints that he hoped to erect some type of military dictatorship with the aid of the army now being mobilized . The General 's disavowal of personal ambition in post-war France was in keeping with the general tone of the speech . Well-informed political figures here believe that the political situation in North Africa  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last November  --  will be finally cleaned up as a result of the speech and the decrees that will follow it . In the past there has been a disposition to say : " Wait and see " after each democratic manifesto by the regime . This time General Giraud has spoken so frankly and plans have been so well made for removing the regime 's remaining links with Vichy that any one close to the situation realizes that a turning point has been reached and that French North Africa has been completely and finally ranged on the ideological side of the United Nations . American , British and French flags hung above the platform . His speech lasted twenty-one minutes and was interrupted twenty-six times by applause and shouts of " Vive ! " Governor General Pierre Boisson of French West Africa , Governor General Marcel Peyrouton of Algeria and Messrs . Murphy and Macmillan sat on the platform , but General Jean - Marie - Joseph Bergeret , General Giraud 's deputy for civilian affairs , was absent . The re-establishment of representative government in French North Africa will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Giraud . The true political temper of the people is such that some of the incumbents will not be tolerated . It is probable that this sentiment and General Giraud 's expressed hatred for the " dictates.of the occupying power " will result in ' the ousting of such leading figures as General Bergeret and Governor General Charles Noguas of Morocco , . who were friendly with the Axis . General Girana emphasized that it would be impossible to throw out all the Vichy laws at once , since ' this wield " create disorder in overseas France that , would increase the present . difficulties . " But the annulment of the antiJewish , laws included the repeal of the Cremieux decree of 1870 . This decree , named for Isaac A. Cremieux , a . Jewish publicist , affected only native Jews . It gave them the right to become French citizens without going through certain steps required of the Arabs . With the abrogation of this decree , both Arabs native Jews are placed on a similar footing as far as becoming French citizens is concerned . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the Arabs must still give up certain Moslem tenets . The general 's appeal for co , operation with General de Gaulle was placed on the basis of the acceptance of the fundamental laws of France  --  a basis that Frenchmen here now recognize followers is still absolutely essential . A foundation has been laid for real cooperation among all parties . But , as long as Generals de Gaulle and Giraud are separate leaders , confusion in France will be inevitable . The offer for cooperation has been put in such a way that it would seem to be impossible for General de Gaulle to refuse it or to postpone its acceptance for long . de Gaullists Demonstrate An incident that occurred today shows that the division among Frenchmen here is very real . A few hours before General Giraud spoke , the weekly parade of American , British and French troops through the streets of Algiers was the scene of a demonstration . A band of Senegalese , playing the " Chant de Depart , " was at the head of the line of march . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for France , " shouts of " Vive de Gaulle ! Vive la Republique ! " arose , answered by other cries of " Vive Giraud ! " Finally a , group of young men pushed through the police cordon , fell in behind the American and British contingents and marched singing in the parade . This indicates that de Gaullism is deeply rooted here and that , whatever General Giraud 's regime does to return North Africa to republican principles , his name is anathema to the whole-hearted followers of General de Gaulle , who want no other leader .                     