@@709437

txt The Far Eastern Commission laid down the policy today that the United States should send only enough food to Japan to safe- ' guard the Allied occupation forces . As expected , the Commission also asked the United States Government to review immediately its decision to ship more than 500,000 tons of food to the Japanese during the first six months of this year . This two-point policy statement  --  the first one made public in the two months in which the Commission has been functioning in Washington  --  was approved unanimously without a formal vote . The commission chairman and United States representative , Maj. Gen. Frank R. McCoy , voted with the 101delegates to ask for reconsideration of the American food import program for Japan . Later , General McCoy told a new conference he had no doubt that the Commission would re- ceive an early reply from the Government . He said he had told the Com-. mission this country would go along with the rest on the policy statement , but declared he wanted it understood that the policy laid down on food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Nelson T. Johnson , Commission Secretary-General , will transmit the policy statement to the State Department . which will refer it to other agencies and departments involved . Allied officials have acknowledged privately that the concern over the food issue is only a part of a growing , general resentment by other commission members at the go-it-alone policy the United States , through Gen. Douglas , has followed to date in Japan . Jap Assets Claimed WASHINGTON , April 25 ( PP ) ? The Government today emphasized it expects Japanese assets abroad , as well as those in the home islands , to be used as reparations for Allied countries which fought the Pacific war . A State Department announcement , saying the United States shortly would propose creation of an inter-Allied reparations agency for Japan . made no reference to Japanese industrial equipment reportedly removed from Manchuria as war booty by the Russian Army . It said , however , that all transfers of industrial facilities as reparations would be made to the Governments whose claims  --  based on war costs , war damage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the inter-Allied agency . Today 's announcement said the State Department , as soon as Congressional and other authority has been obtained , will release information on how American citizens with claims to , or interests in Japanese assets may seek compensation . It also will outline procedure on sales of industrial equipment and other assets received by this Government as reparations from Japan .                     