@@707403

txt Assembly in Algiers In the semi-classical , white-columned Hotel de Ville in Algiers , fringed with palm trees that overlook the port , the French Provisional Consultative Assembly met last week for the first time . It was the first collective " voice of France " to be heard outside of German-dominated France since the fall of the motherland in June , 1940 . Forty-two delegates were present . Many among them had been duly elected in the last general election of 1936  --  a Parliament that was not officially dissolved until 1942 . Eventually , Around Italy 's Throne The Moscow declaration on Italy , " based on the fundamental principle that fascism and all its evil influence and configuration shall be completely destroyed , " coincided last week with new pressure on the leaders of Italy to devise a new government . The Allies have stipulated little more than that the government shall be a democratic one . From a practical viewpoint it must be more ? it must be stable from the start and it must command the loyalty of the people if Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this problem rests is Marshal Pietro Badoglio , designated Premier by King Victor Emmanuel after the fall of Mussolini , and so recognized by the Allied authorities . The Marshal has repeatedly disclaimed political ambition for himself . Most observers feel he has but one personal feeling in the matter of a new government : a reluctance to ask his King to abdicate . That he may have to put aside his personal fealty has been clearly indicated by statements of liberal Italian leaders . To them , and to many in Allied lands , Victor Emmanuel is too close to the " evil influence and configuration " of fascism . There are , too , those who hold that the King has lost whatever respect and affection he may have had among the Italian people . On a visit to Naples last week the King received both cheers and jeers from the populace . That some form of monarchy is a strong possibility is suggested by recurrent talk of the King 's abdication , the renunciation of claims by Crown qwq members . For most of the delegates the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chamber suggestive , with its curving rows of desks , of the historic Chamber of Deputies in the Palaii Bourbon . In front , on the floor of the Assembly , sat Gen. Charles de Gaulle and Gen. Henri-Honore Giraud , side by side . Flanking the generals and behind them were other members of the French Committee of National Liberation , which ten weeks ago received limited recognition by the British and United States Governments and full recognition by Russia . Georges Buisson , French trade union leader , faced the Assembly from the presidium . General de Gaulle was the principal ? speaker . To the Assembly which has no legislative power but will act in an advisory capacity to the committee , the general declared in a speech which was interpreted as ' a pointed reminder to the three major Allies : " France thinks that any European settlement made without her would not be a good settlement . ' 4 ' g ' That is why the Committee of National Liberation now claims the right to present with the great nations the solutions which France judges necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world to come . " Following the speech , the French Committee of National Liberation issued an even stronger statement concerning the Moscow agreements . It served notice flatly that France would not consider herself bound by any decisions concerning her ancient foe Germany in which she had not participated . ceptable to the liberals  --  and the enthronement of the 6-year-old Prince of Naples , Umberto 's son . This would call for a regency , and Marshal Badoglio has been suggested for this role . For the post of Premier there are many possibilities . One of them is Count Carlo Sforza , 71-year-old scholar , former Foreign Minister and now in Italy after years of exile . There are some Italians who want to abolish the monarchy and establish a republic . This viewpoint is headed up by the National Liberation party , the principal underground group during the long fascist regime . 