@@709521

txt pg . Letters to The Times TOMAS CONFESORJOHN SLAWSON , JANET B. HOLLAMAN , PresidentIDA ROLAND COUDENHOVE ... 18 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Unhappy Philippines " is based on misinformation . Minority Senators did not challenge the Roxas election but the legality of the proclamation of his election in joint session of the Philippine Congress wherein the eleven Senators present did not constitute . a quorum . Before the Philippine Congress met in joint session to proclaim the election of Roxas the majority Senators , lacking a quorum , took advantage of the absence of minority members to pass a resolution refusing seats to three minority members . Sultan Saramain , majority Senator , was absent . Majority Senator Sotto , who was sick , did not attend the joint session . Minority Senators absented themselves from the joint session in protest against the flagrant violation of Section 10 , Paragraph 3 , Article VI of the Constitution , providing that the Senate may expel a member only for disorderly behavior with the concurrence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution , which provides that " The Senate shall have an electoral tribunal which shall be sole judge of all contests relating to election , returns and qualifications of its members . " This is a radical departure from the principle embodied in the Constitution of the United States that each house of Congress shall be the sole judge of the election of its members . The refusal to seat three members violates Section 12 of Commonwealth Act 275 , which requires that memberselect of the Senate shall , upon proclamation by the Commission on Elections , assume office and meet in twenty to fifty instant regular sessions . The expelled minority Senators were duly proclaimed by the Commission on Elections . If the minority allows to go unchallenged these flagrant violations of the Constitution , fascism will take deep root and destroy constitutional democracy in the Philippines . We want to nip in the bud Fascist tendencies in the new Administration . Simultaneously , the Lower House proposes to oust nine members without benefit of constitutional processes . The injustice of this move is patent when two majority Senators indicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against whom no criminal charges have been filed are ousted . Roxas , in his inaugural , referring to collaborators with the enemy , declared " errors of mind rather than of heart must be forgiven . " Systematic , determined attempts on the part of majority Senators and Representatives to terrorize and destroy the opposition are being made . The dragon of fascism now rears its ugly head in both houses and receives inspiration from Roxas . Roxas ' speeches in America , making vehement profession of his love for democracy , his loyalty and affection for the American people , are nothing but a smoke screen to cover the march of fascism The expelled Senators have appealed ' to the Supreme Court , declaring unconstitutional the ouster resolution . The minority , now engaged in death grips with a ruthless majority to save democratic institutions and practices , calls upon you to join us to preserve democracy in the Philippines . TOMAS CONFESOR . Manila , May 30 , 1946 . By Wireless . Mr. Eisenmann Misquoted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMES of Feb. 25 , it was stated that " Samuel Eisenmann of The Netherlands , on the other hand , said that of the 28,000 Jews left from the pre-war population of 140,000 , few wished to remain in The Netherlands and many desired to go to Palestine . He said that anti-Semitism was a serious problem now , whereas it had never existed before in modern times . " A careful examination of the verbatim records of the conference , which has just reached this country , indicates that Mr. Eisenmann made no statements similar to those attributed to him in this report . In justice to Mr. Eisenmann , we will appreciate it if you will publish this correction . JOHN SLAWSON , Executive Vice President , the American Jewish Committee . New York , May 15 , 1946 . Seventeen dollars and fifty cents wilt send one boy or girl for two weeks at Stepney Camp . Thirty-five dollars assures two children or a child wag/ mother a similar period . Ten dollars means one happy week at 1p for some city-cramped youngst Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Camp and Vacation Fund , East Side House Settlement , 540 East Seventy-sixth Street . JANET B. HOLLAMAN , President . New York , May 28 , 1946 . Parcels for Austria Urged Potential Individual Aid Curtailed by Restrictions , It Is Said To THE EDITOR OF THE gNv YORK Tains : It has been report ? d again and again by reliable authorities that Austria 's food situation is the worst in Europe . One-fourth of all Austrian babies die from undernourishment , while industrial workers are collapsing in factories . In spite of this a main source of relief to Austria is still blocked : the admission of parcels sent by mail from America to Austrian relatives or friends . Just in the last few days food to Austrians can be sent through the services of CARE . We greatly appreciate and welcome the opening of this new relief channel . But those Austrians here who can not afford the minimum rate of $15 for CARE parcels are still barred from sending supplies to their starving friends as long as they are not permitted to mail individual , regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument that some of them might find their way into the black market . This is absurd , for it could just as well be applied against sending parcels to all other distressed nations of Europe . At present it is possible to send parcels from America to Munich or Stuttgart , but not to Vienna or Salzburg . Everybody interested in charity beyond political arguments will applaud this American generosity toward ex-enemies . But nobody will understand this paradoxical discrimination against Austria , which never was at war with the United Nations and which figures among the liberated and not among the defeated nations of Europe . We therefore appeal to American fairness and generosity to drop this discrimination against Hitler 's first victims , and to authorize without further delay the mailing of individual food parcels to the starving people of Austria . IDA ROLAND COUDENHOVE-KALERGI , Vice Chairman , Auxiliary Committee of the American Relief of Austria , Inc . New York , June 1 , 1946 . Islanders and Good-WillAmbassadors To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Just a few words , on behalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orderly conduct of the captains , officers and men of the following American ships which were at anchor here for some time during February and March of this year : " A.T.A. 207 , " " Sepulpa Victory , " " Augustus S. Marrimon " and " Rattler . " All the personnel of these ships were most friendly and courteous , left a very good impression here and were real " good-will ambassadors " and all withcut any lavish spending or distribution of largesse . No , they were just rea ! nice people to meet and gave us all a good time to the limit of their ability and we were all a little sad when they sailed away . Through the kindness of the commander of " A.T.A. 207 " my family and I were able to go to the " talkies " for the first time when he invited us aboard for that purpose . To say the least , for us " bushmen " it was sublime . BOB MACKITTRICK , ( Retired Trader ) . Taiohae , Nukuhiva Island , Marquesas , March 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with interest the discussion in THE TIMES following the British degision to drop the " h " in the word Charta . I should like to call your attention to another " h " that , too , has slipped into the Engish language by the mistake of a medieval scribe and will hardly find any defenders . It is the " h " in the word lethal ( deathly , fatal ) that is commonly used in all American and British hospital records ( e. g. lethal exit for death ) . This word is spelled " letal " in every other language except English , and rightly so . For it is the Latin letalis , from letum , death . Letum , a noun , was originally the past participle of the obsolete verb lere with the more familiar compositum delere ( to destroy ) . Obviously , the scribe mistakenly connected it with the Greek word lethe , oblivion , an understandable er-ror , Would the abolition of that " h " need an act of Congress ? EGON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1946 . Philippine Senate Ouster Legality of Proclamation Challenged By Opposition Leader Summer Camp for Children To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : May I call the attention of your readers to a situation which this year makes camping vacations more important than ever for city children ? In addition to the usual number of children from congested areas who need the relief from city heat and the fresh country air which camp periods provide , there are many other youngsters suffering from the increase of tension and unrest that has come to our thickly populated districts with the aftermath of the war . To these exciting factors has been added the return of heavy pre-war traffic , with its multiplied hazards for youngsters forced to play on streets that grow ever more noisy , ever more perilous . This fifty-five-year-old neighborhood center is bending every effort this year to increase the number of boys and girls for whom it can provide sojourns at its Stepney Camp farm , near Botsford , Conn . Workers recognize that these children poignantly need the healing quiet of a country interlude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is freedom from noise and sleep unbroken by noisy neighbors across an air-shaft.                     