@@705033

txt Encouragement of the use of private enter . prise and capital as much as possible in the defense program was stressed at the A. B . A. convention in Atlantic City yesterday as one of the most important tasks now confronting bankers . Commercial banks were reported as eager to aid in financing defense projects in their localities . Meanwhile , steps to spur private financing of plant expansion for defense made progress in Washington . Federal Reserve officials launched a survey of member bank resources available for this purpose . At the same time . the House adopted a bill permitting the assignment of government contracts to banks as loan collateral . ( Column 5 . ) BY B. H. Mecoiu.tA.cx Staff Correspondent of The Wait Street Journal ATLANTIC CITY  --  With a potential capacity of industrial production " probably greater than that of all the rest of the world combined , " the United States is in a position to carry out its defense program with a minimum of interference to normal ways of life . This is the conclusion of the economic policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report to the 88th A.B.A. convention here yesterday , the commisMon , composed of a dozen leading bankers . warned however , that : 1 . This country 's preparations are lagging behind the 1917 pace . 2 . Individuals must be awakened to the seriousness of the situation . 3 . Most efficient use of industrial capacity in this country can be accomplished only by a reduction in governmental red tape and " bureaucratic interference . " Ayres Heads Commission The economic policy commission is headed by Colonel Leonard P. Ayres , vice president of the Cleveland Trust Co . Mr. Ayres was one of the most important economic advisers to the War'Induatriefr - Board of ' the- wOrTd war . Supporting and supplementing a. speech on this subject the previous day by W. Randolph Burgess . vice chairman of the National City Bank , the economic policy commission held that " our most pressing economic problem , other than that of rearmament , is that of encouraging private enterprise and capital to exert its ineenuity and resourcefulness in the rebuilding and expansion of our productive plant " There are three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the commission : 1 . Increased industrial production . 2 . Restriction of civilian population consumption . 3 . Diversion of new capital expenditures from peace time projects . Because the United States has large available supplies of productive capacity and of labor there is no need " for some time to come , to impose many important restrictions on civilian consumption , " the report asserts . The most important need now is to spur production . It is also neeessery that some peacetime projects be temporarily abandoned . Would Hold Down Public Debt The economic policy commission urged that as much as possible of the defense program be financed directly by banking institutions . In this manner , it pointed out , the prospective increase in the national debt can be held down . To achieve this same end of holding down the national debt , the commission recommended that a larger proportion of expenditures should be paid out of current taxation . " The banks of this country , " stated the commission 's report , " are eager to finance , or to aid in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their localities . They are well equipped to do this , for they have the resources , the trained personnel , and the intimate knowledge of their own communities , which will enable them , along with the investment markets , to handle major portions of the new financing which the carrying through of our national preparedness program will make necessary . " Declaring taat " we have belatedly realized that we live in a world of angry and hungry nations , " the commission warned that there is danger from within as well as from without . The fact that this country may become strong enough to defend itself from any aggressor nation or nations does not necessarily provide assurance that our economic and political ways of life are safe . It will be extremely difficult to maintain them in the years after the present war is over , according to the report . Looking to the future , the report held that " our present problem is how to prepare for the continued success in the new competition that is coming " Moreover , it asserted , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on our ability to apply our capital and labor to our great resources so as to produce more abundantly and more cheaply than can the regimented economies which now exist , or may then exist . " Dependest as Production " In the long run , " the commission decided . " the defense of democracy will depend on efficient abundant production " If our system of free enterprise is to rise triumphant in a largely totalitarian world it must do so through its own efforts , and by means of its own inherent strength . declarei the report- " It must demonstrate that it offers a better method of earning a living than is made available by autocracy and regimentation . It can do that if it functions effectively , which is only possible in political atmosphere of encouragement for all the factors which constitute our economy . " " In order to speed up our effort for rearmament , " stated the commission , " the government should simplify procedures , remove obstacles , and avoid bureaucratic interferences . " Comparing preparedness efforts now with those of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of actual expenditures are much better guides than are reports of appropriations made , or of contracts placed . Such a comparison shows that our efforts towards preparedness in 1940 have been decidedly leisurely as compared with those of 1917 , and this is especially true with respect to Army expenditures . " The commission held that munitions were produced must faster in 1917 than now . Foreign Trade Problems Present problems of foreign trade may become even worse , the commission 's report warned . Figures showing large increases in foreign commerce of this country are deceiving. it contended . " They appear to indicate that our foreign commerce is in flourishing condition . whereas in reality , we have lost at least for the present , most of our foreign markets . " In addition to Chairman Ayres . members of the economic policy commission are Winthrop W. Aldrich , chairman of the board . Chase National Bank , New York ; M Pun Beebe. president , Bank of Kimball , Kimball . South Dakota ; Lindsay Bradford . president . City Bank Farmers Trust Co. , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Nashville . Nash ? vine , Term. ; A P. Giannini , chairman of board , Bank of America , San Francisco : Richard S Hawes , vice president First National Bank , St. Louis ; Harold H. Helm , vice president , Chemical Bank &; Trust Co. , New York , William M. Massie , vice president , Fort Worth National Bank , Fort Worth , Texas ; Harry B. president . National Bank , Sharon , Pa. ; Charles L. Smith . president , First National Bank , Salt Lake City . Utah , Charles E. Spencer . Jr. , president , First National Bank . Boston . and Gurden Edwards , American Bankers Association , secretary of the commission . Bankers took it relatively easy in their sessions yesterday In contrast with the eight separate sessions Monday , there were but two yesterday and both of those were " round table conferences . " a more informal type meeting . The first general session will be held this morn , ing . At one of the conferences yesterday , Joseph M. Dodge , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real estate mortgages , warned against repeatin  --  nustakes of the past in advancing credit on real estate . Banks have a duty to provide credit for real estate . but have an equal responsibility to borrowers and to depositors to prevent encouragement of " a speculative real estate cycle . " Ernest M. Fisher , director of research in mortgage and real estate finance for the A. B. A. , said that mortgages have a place in a bank 's portfolio only as a part of its total investment program . He emphasized the importance of amortization provisions in mortgages , a practice spurred in recent years by the Federal Housing Administration . Two farm area bankers , C. W. Bailey , president of the First National Bank of Clarksville , Tenn. , and C C. Neumann , president of the Nebraska Bankers Association , and executive vice president of the Farmers &; Merchants National Bank , Oakland , Neb. , told the other round table conference the most important factor in advance of credit to farmers is a complete understanding of their credit needs and of their ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on these points .                     