@@705327

txt The question of " all-out " aid to Britain , discussed in Congressional committees and in the press for several weeks , finally will go before the Congress tomorrow . The House , meeting at noon , will take up the Administration 's bill to this end when it convenes , and is scheduled to spend three days in general debate on it . Then the measure will come up for amendments under limitations which are expected to produce final action by Saturday . Representative Bloom , chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee , which offered the measure after two weeks of hearings , said today that he expected the bill to pass by a 2-to-1 majority . In the meantime , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will continue its hearings on the bill , with a group of witnesses scheduled to appear . Senator George , chairman of this committee , said today that he expected that the committee would end its open hearings after receiving the testimony of Wendell L. Willkie , who is reported planning to fly back from England to make his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed his committee would approve the bill within a day after it takes it into executive consideration . He added that the draft approved by the House committee " goes a long way toward allaying fears " voiced by critics and that this version would be the basis for Senate committee action . Republican Group Plans Attack In the House a group of Republican members plans to attack the bill by offering a seven-point program including a grant to the British Government of $2,000,000,000 in credits for purchase of armaments here , and a limitation of the Presidential powers in the present measure . The fact that the House will open debate on the bill tomorrow has intensified the public conflict over it . John T. Flynn , executive chairman of the New York Chapter of the American First Committee , asserted here tonight that the House measure was a " war-dictatorship " bill . Mr. Flynn centered his attack on William Allen White , Kansas editor and until recently chairman of the Committee to Aid America by Helping Britain . He read what he said were excerpts from writings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like those in Hitler 's " Mein Kampf . " These statements , in general , were to the effect that only " Anglo-Saxons " know how to maintain democratic government , he declared . " When you hear this sort of thing , " he said , " you understand why certain Americans who are excessively conscious of their English blood are willing to take the risk of plunging this country into war to aid Britain . But even William Allen White says he is against going into the war . " J. T. Flynn Sees " Dictatorship " Mr. Flynn stated that if the " wardictatorship " bill were passed " the power to save ourselves " would be gone and that never in history would " a smart people " have been " fooled so slyly . " " Yes , when Britain wants men after that the same men who have led you along thus far will call on you for men , " he added . " But , of course , they tell us now that Britain does not need men . That is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Addressing a club here tonight , Representative McCormack , House majority leader , held that the leaselend bill was designed first to keep this country out of war , secondly to keep war away from American shores , and finally to " prevent the vicious forces of paganism and world destruction from being successful . " " The opponents of this bill are a combination of various groups , with different motives , " Mr. McCormack said .. " We find among them some of those who hate President Roosevelt . We find some , who short of actual and direct attack , place party considerations first ? blind partisans . We find some who , through fear , close their eyes to practical and realistic action . " We find the outright isolation- ists . These groups are fine Amerleans , but in this imminent crisis taking a position harmful to our best interests . Also opposed to this bill are the Communists , Nazi and Fascist elements in the United States . The great majority of our people who favor the passage of the pending bill should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Women Voters will support the bill as reported by the House Committee , it was announced tonight by Mrs. Louise Leonard Wright , foreign policy chairman of the organization . Women Voters ' Stand Explained " The proposed amendments which have been added by the House Foreign Affairs Committee do not add or subtract from the objective of the bill , " Mrs. Wright said . " The League of Women Voters supports this bill because we see in it a way to assist the British by nonviolent means . As Secretary Stimson testified , the opportunity offered by this bill may be ' the last call for that sort of procedure ' . " While the House debates the Lease-Lend Bill and the Senate committee continues hearings on it , other defense proposals will be up for Congressional study . The House Naval Affairs Committee will start hearings tomorrow on a bill offered by its chairman , Representative Vinson , to prevent strikes in defense industries through establishment of a mediation and conciliation system similar to that in effect in the railway field . The House Judiciary Committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense-industry strikes , " fifth column " activities and the like . The House Appropriations Committee will continue at its regular task of grinding out departmental bills , with the Postoffice measure next on the schedule . The Senate Is not expected to have much business before it .                     