@@708212

txt In 12 brief and surprising days the island of Leyte has ' become Ithe scene of the major battle of Ithe approaches to Japan . The Japanese , even after a disastrous naval defeat , after their original garrison had been overwhelmed , and after they had lost most of the strategic positions on the island , still have chosen to contest Leyte more vigorously than any place the long American advance has challenged since Guadalcanal . They have poured four new divisions into the island , including one of their best , the 1st Imperial . They already have spent 13 destroyers and 7 transports out of their dwindling fleet to do this and still are risking more men and more ships every night . They have assigned one of their best generals to the task and they continue to ? fly air reinforcements down steadily from the home islands . Thus , instead of fighting only a delaying action on Leyte as orthodox strategy would have indicated after their naval disaster , they have chosen to make it the scene of their - second great counterattack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our ground forces a major action where it obviously had not been expected . For 12 days ' ago Gen. Douglas estimated officially that the end of the Leyte campaign was in sight . This is not irreparable to us . Such a major action was inevitable sooner or later and it can come on Leyte now probably more ? advantageously than on Luzon , or perhaps Formosa later . What it does more than anything else is to high light the importance of time in the present pattern of war in the Far East . The enemy still is engaged in consolidating his grip in South China . And he is known to be still shifting industry from Japan to Manchuria where it in theory would be less vulnerable to air attack . If this process were complete , Japan probably could afford to let us approach its inner defenses better than it could afford such a costly defense of the Philippines as at present . It certainly has accepted by this time the in evitability of the loss of Malaya and the Netherlands Indies . That loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , we can assume with considerable reason that the violence of Japanese reaction on Leyte is an expression of a need for time so desperate that it justifies an extraordinary price . But having said this , it needs also to be recognized that Japan is in a fair way to gaining time on Leyte and perhaps more on Luzon before American forces have broken through the Philippines barrier . One high American naval officer remarked that their reaction on Leyte was probably " more tenacious than shrewd . " Yet they have had advantages which have not been noticed in the rush of good news from the Philippines and which have been capitalized shrewdly . The typhoon which covered their first reinforcement operations also delayed the development of American air strips . The continued presence of Ad- miral William Halsey 's carriers in Philippine waters and the continued strikes of his planes against the staging bases on Luzon indicates that the American air strips on Leyte still are far from sufficient to take over the task of air cover for ground operations . By their reaction , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the central Philippines and thus /delayed the next stage in the development of our plans . Airfields , Major Need He will not be free to move on again until the Leyte airfields are independent of carrier-borne support . And General will not be ready to make his nea:t move against other Philippine bases  --  prestimably " on Luzon  --  until Leyte is completely in his By Gordon Walker Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor SIXTH ARMY HEADQUARTERS IN THE PHILIPPINES , Nov. 15 ? A double envelopment of the head of the Japanese assault column in the Ormoc Valley marks a distinct improvement in the military situation in Leite . After failing for nearly six days to push through the center , over ridges at the top of the Ormoc corridor , American infantry then moved around both flanks and now holds positions about two miles behind , and on either flank of the point of the enemy assault column . This move threatens the position of several thousand first-line troops of the Japanese crack 1st and 26th Divisions . Scattered Counterattacks While this is the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are countless other smaller fronts in mountains which flank the Ormoc corridor on the east . The Japanese are apparently committing large numbers of their ground troops to widely scattered counterattacks by group of between 50 and 250 men . While some of these groups have been successful in penetrating far behind the general front lines , none is sufficiently powerful to pose any big threat . One of the tricks being employed by the Japanese is the dispatching of small groups of four or five men who at night attempt penetration of American positions , with the object of knocking out artillery which is blasting at the main enemy supply route from Ormoc . Thus , the situation is extremely fluid , with skirmish lines scattered all over the mountains and even beyond in Leyte Valley . American forces are attempting to contain the Japanese on a single front , learning once again the lesson which they were taught in their lives in the Solomons and on New Guinea  --  namely , that Japanese ground troops adhere to no set battle tactics . They also are finding out again that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which can operate over practically any type of terrain , even to the extent of transplanting medium artillery , with each foot soldier packing unassembled pieces . For this reason , it is incorrect to refer to ' the enemy disposition as a single line of defense . The Japanese are believed to have concentrated some major defenses on a low plateau in the central Ormoc Valley as a rear-guard bastion in case they are driven back , but the so-called Yamashita Line has little stability or integ , ralion . This tendency toward vast dis- persal of ground troops is higitly effective against an equal number but not against an overwhelming superiority . This eventually may be the enemy 's undoing . Probably the best barometer of the American Position was given yesterday by Lieut . Gen. Walter Krueger . Sixth Army chief . " There is certainly no ground for complacency in this present engagement . " he said . " There have been times when the situation has been touch and go . However . now I can truthfully say I am not losing any sleep over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base from which he can mount his next attack . There can be no serious concern about our forces on Leyte . Their position is immeasurably safer and stronger than that of the Marines during the critical days on Guadalcanal . There are four identified divisions ashore on Leyte . Their original advance cleared two thirds of the island and they continue , to advance . They have reserve areas which are free from all enemy interference except bombing and Admiral Halsey 's fleet is in complete control of the sea approaches . It can be stated authoritatively that all warships sunk or lost in the Philippine campaigns already have been replaced by new units and that the Third Fleet is every bit as strong today as it was when the campaign opened . But , as on Guadalcanal. the Japanese have reacted more vigorously than was anticipated . This means more than anything else that while the next step will be easier because there will be less force waiting at the next stop , it will be longer to that next stop than it seemed when General felt free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight . Domei Snorts Reply ! By the Associated Press The Japanese news agency Domei today snorted wrathfully I at Admiral William F. Halsey 's warning to the United States against a possible Nipponese peace feeler , calling the ? Admiral 's state- ! I ments " ludicrous " and " boastful . " " There will be no compromise peace with arrogant United States H and Great Britain , " said Domei , in a radiocast heard by Federal com-munications monitors . Admiral Halsey , whose Third Fleet has clone much to hasten Japan 's eventual defeat , said . " The ' high-up monkeymen see the handwriting on the wall . " Domei said Japanese determination to fight until the United States ' and Britain " are crushed " ! is " immutable . "                     