@@708658

txt Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius returned from Washington today and called in top ministers of the four other big nations for a conference . Prior to this meeting , the head of the United States delegation - met with his colleagues , both to report on his conference with President Truman and receive a detailed account of Conference developments during his brief absence . By Roscoe Drummond Clue/ of the Washington Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor SAN FRANCISCO . May 25 ? The new , clarifying statement on voting procedure , prepared by the Big-Five powers in answer to the 22 questions raised by the smaller countries , contains no softening of the veto at any point , it was learned authoritatively today . Russia , Great Britain , the United States , China , and France remain solidly united to date against any softening of the veto over either peaceful measures or enforcement measures by the security council . The pressure of the small countries against the retention of such sweeping authority continues active and is potentially combustible , but there emerges at present no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield . Discussion Not Barred Although the text of the Big-Five interpretation of the way the voting arrangement , settled at Yalta , will operate is yet to be made public , it can be said on the basis of reliable information that the only point at which they say the veto will not apply  --  apart from minor procedural matters  --  is that any dispute can be " discussed " by the council . ' Beyond discussion , big-power unanimity is required . This is no new concession . It is only reaffirmation . That much was agreed when the Yalta procedure was announced . " The Big Five are in harmony on the whole vote arrangement , " an authoritative spokesman told a representative of The Christian Science Monitor . " It is inconceivable that what the Big Five consider absolutely vital to the effective functioning of the world organization and their full allegiance to it would be overruled by numbers at this Conference . " Reports that the Soviet Union has made any offer whatsoever toward liberalizing the veto as applied to the pacific settlement of disputes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the known content of the Big Five clarifying statement , which stands on the veto as heretofore expounded . In other fields , the United Nations Conference has : 1 . Heard Senator Tom Connally. acting head of the United States delegation , assure Canada and the smaller powers that the security council will not have authority to call upon the armed contingents beyond the scope of the military agreements which each state will make with the world organization . 2 . Voted in committee to adopt , unchanged , all of the American amendments designed to , relate the Western Hemisphere security system to the United Nations world system . 3 . Given the secretary general of the organization a term of three years and made him eligible for re-election . Secret Treaties 4 . Put final committee approval upon the new provisions banning secret treaties . One clause makes tit mandatory to register treaties or international agreements with the secretariat , and the other clause renders unregis- 1 tered treaties invalid before any organ of the United Nations . These ! requirements are not made retroactive. 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  which at its inner core prob- ; ably will comprise the chiefs of ! staff of the Big-Five powers  --  to set up regional staff committees I in different areas of the world . It develops today that the Big-Five powers are not very pleased with the procedure which the subcommittee on voting has followed . This group was formed to prepare a rlarification or the Yalta voting plan , and instead of acting to prepare such a clarification , it passed along to the Big-Five powers 22 direct and pointed questions on just how the veto would operate under almost any conceivable circumstance . General Answer Now that the permanent membelt have these questions dumped in their laps , they do n't quite know what to do with them . It appears that they are going to do virtually nothing with them , including not answering them specifically . Instead , the ' statement which is being framed passes over the specific queries  --  probably because they raise hypothetical future conditions which they would rather not face until the time comes  --  and offers , instead , ' a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on present evidence , will not add new facts- on the working of the veto . It will say that the security council can not by the negative vote of one-of the permanent members be precluded from " discussing any dispute or situation which might threaten the peace and security . " This never has been in serious doubt . It also will say that , when getting Into the field of decisions even affecting pacific measures , unanimity of the Big Five powers is essential at this stage if there is going to be unanimity . when ' it comes to the necessity of enforcing these decisions . " In ? such decisions . " it will be made clear , " the vote of seven must include those permanent members which are not parties to the dispute . " Under what is now said to be a Big-Five-agreed interpretation of the voting procedure , there can be a big-nation veto on the following eight kinds of council decisions when that nation is not a party to the dispute : ' Whether the council should call investigated . Whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its continuation is likely to threaten the peace . Whether the couoncil should call on the parties to settle a dispute by means of their own choice . Whether , it the dispute is referred to the council . a recommendation should be made as to methods and procedures of settlement . Whether the council should make such recommendations before the dispute is referred to it . What should be the nature of this recommendation . Whether the legal aspect of the dispute Should be referred to the court for advice . Whether the dispute should be referred to the general assembly . Except for the assurance- that any dispute can be discussed by any member of the council at any time without veto , this clarification places the veto as applicable to virtually all of the hypothetical conditions which the small powers raised in their questions . There always is the possibility that the Big Five powers could decide to reinterpret the voting procedure  --  which would , in effect , be altering it by interpretation  --  until it is actually approved in the final draft of the , charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to small-nation pressure on the veto issue . By Richard L. Strout staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , May 25 ? Congress is going to pass the far-reaching Bretton Woods bill  --  one arch of the great structure of postwar American economic co-operation . But as to the other arch  --  the reciprocal tariff agreements measure  --  that hangs in doubt in Congress , with a difficult test to face , first in the House and then in the Senate . Meanwhile . the Senate Finance Committee , after one day 's hearings on the Administration 's plea to repeal the 10-year-old Johnson Act barring loans to nations which owe money from World War I. prepared to report the measure out favorably . All but a few extreme isolationists were jubilant in Washington today over the victory achieved fc.r the Bretton Woods measure in the House Banking and Currency Committee . After months of protracted discussion , in which the pressure of public opinion from all parts of the country slowly but surely exerted itself , the Committee voted the bill out yesterday with only minor amendments by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ignored An air of nonpartisan harmony and general good-feeling prevailed which is as welcome as it is rare . The Administration had repeatedly pointed to the need of the Bretton Woods agreement to complement the work at the an Francisco Conference . So big is the vote that it is felt the measure will almost certainly pass through House and Senate without great difficulty . Much credit for the vote goes to the Republican side and particularly to Representative Jesse P. Wolcott ( R ) of Michigan , ranking minority committee member , who steered most of his suspicious party members to final support of the bill . Three isolationists he was unable to bring along . Jessie Sumner of Illinois , Frederick C. Smith of Ohio , and Howard H. Buffett of Nebraska , all Republicans . But they were the only votes cast against the measure , and the other five G. 0 . P. members approved the bill , as well as the 16 Democrats and 1 Progressive . World Fund and Bank In brief , the Bretton Woods agreement would set up an $8,000 , - 000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of each other , and an internaional bank for reconstruction and development , with an authorized capital of $9,100,000,000 . Representatives of 44 nations meeting at Bretton Woods , N. H. , last year , agreed on the great financial design , and America 's adherence means certain acceptance . More important , the legislative action forecast by the committee vote indicates to the world that the United States is not going to crawl back into economic isolationism alter World War II . But on the other test cases of America 's postwar intentions on economic collaboration  --  the reciprocal tariff act  --  uncertainty prevails in Washington as the decisive test approaches . For two days the battle has gone on in the House , and the vote is expected before the week is out . If successful in the House a second battle will commence in the Senate . Division on Tariff Act Over the tariff issue the Legislature is divided on sharp party lines . Anything but harmony exists . Republicans are resisting the proposed three-year extension of the Hull Reciprocal Tariff Act bitterly . They demand only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of executive authority to carry the bargaining process further : the provision by which the United States bargaining team could cut tariffs by as much as 50 per cent additional if they received equivalent concessions from other countries . Two days of debate haVe produced arguments so stereotyped in party vocabulary that newspapers are giving them slight attention . Democrats insist that postwar trade barriers threaten world recovery , and that the United States must buy more goods in order to sell more . How can the other countries pay their debts to America if America refuses to buy their goods is the question . Industrial Issue Raised Republicans , who are supported by some Democrats with home industries seeking protecting , argue that the American workingman must be protected from " cheap foreign ? abor . " Leader of the fight against the tariff act is Representative Joseph W. Martin . Jr . ( R ) of Massachusetts , the G. 0 . P. House Leader . " Let us not recklessly consume the seed corn of our economy , " he told the House yesterday as the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the utmost care in this matter until the pattern of the pcistwar world has evolved . " He said he feared small business " might easily be made the victims of foreign competition and thus fatally wVken our national economy . " His voice rising to a shout he cried : " I do not feel that any further grants of power would be wise ; frankly , the people are now demanding that Congress recapture some powers already grantqd . " Although speeches have been continuous , only 50 or 60 Members of the 435-man total have generally been present during the debate , the minds of most members being already made up .                     