@@706041

txt That big sack Santa Claus carries on his back has been socked by the war . Some of the bulges have been flattened completely , This story is not designed to send little children to bed crying . Only to warn papa and mama that if their infants have their hearts set on certain kinds of playthings , they had better shop early . It may be early or ersatz . For one thing , wheeled vehicles , capable of bearing the weight and standing the abuse of an eight-year-old are already at a premium . Even baby-walkers are hard to get . Tales of Woe A survey of Washington toy stores and the toy departments of the large stores brought major and minor tales of woe . The stores look gay and crammed . But managers explained that a good deal of the toy displays were made of wood , cardboard and plastic objects and that some familiar items were depleted , changed or missing . Office of Production Management priorities also have taken the umph out of others . There are " full size " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they lack the fancy chromium trim and fitting that so delight the junior G man . Scooters are scarce . Balloon tires are noticeably shrunken . Those push-pedal things faintly resembling fire trucks . station wagons and racing cars that kids get into are trimmed a la 1941 in aluminum paint instead of gaudy metal plating . One smart manufacturer has put out a U. S. " tank , " for age about six , which did n't need anything but a coat of olive drab and some black stencilling . Metals Crack-Down It is mostly in metals that the priorities pundits of O.P.M. Director William S. Knudsen have really cracked down . " Kiddie-Kars ! " barked the owner of one of the capital 's best-known toy and novelty stores . " I 've been in business 38 years abri I expect to go out about the first of January . I ca n't get anything with wheels on it . I ca n't get any kind of pins  --  nickel . brass or cast iron . I ca n't get thumb tacks . I ca n't even get paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that come back ? frcen the manufacturers . " The , look-see revealed that nilulature planes . toy army trucks . searchlight truer , .. " jeeps " and even toy aluminum pots and pans are plentiful . But there is a local shortage of electric trains that threatens unwary fathers who like to spend Christmas Day on their hands and knees " helping " Junior . And , oh yes : If you want to do things up in a gay manner . you 'd better buy that Xmas wrapping paper right away . It 's going to be hard to get , and so is plain wrapping paper , for that matter .                     