@@705830

txt President Roosevelt today branded as vicious rumor , distortion of fact or falsehood published reports of misuse of lease-lend funds and materials by or on behalf of nations benefiting wider the American policy of " all out " help to the nonAxis Allies . Things had come to the point , the President asserted , where it I could be said that an organized campaign to spread rumors , distortions , untruths and falsehoods had been started by certain groups for the purpose of sabotaging the prograin of aid against Hitlerism . Responding to a question at his press conference , the President thus took cognizance of a growing number of rumors . These have ranged all the way from one that the British had accepted American oil tankers and put them in commercial service , carrying oil in regular trade , to others that British purchasing officials in this country had wined and dined themselves in Washington restaurants on funds intended by Congress to be used for guns and ammunition . Condemns Makers of Rumors A reporter asked the President as to the authenticity of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held a dinner at the Occidental Restaurant and had charged the check to the lease-lend program . The President first answered that he was quite certain that no dinner of British officials was ever charged to the lease-lend account . Before another question could be asked , he picked up a memorandum from his desk . Then he directed a withering barrage of condemnation against the rumors and the persons who circulated them . He cited the column quoted by the reporter as an example of the activities to which he referred . He said he thought it was perfectly fair to say that all such rumors were distortions of the facts or falsehoods . Having used the word " falsehood , " he turned to his press advisers sitting near by and repeated it . The actual truth , he said , was that some types of stories in some newspapers ought to be labeled just plain , dirty falsehoods . Asked where the stories of which he complained might have originated , the President took up one , published some weeks ago , that the British had been selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American steel in South America . He explained that some time past , before passage of the leaselend act , the British had made contracts requiring the delivery of certain amounts of steels to other nations . One of these contracts was with interests in Argentina , he said , and British firms delivered the materials as agreed . The President insisted that the steel was British steel and in no wise could be considered material advanced under the lease-lend act , although steel from the United States might have replaced metal sent by Britain to Argentina . The President said that the published reports of the British-Argentina steel deal were representative of the half-truths which characterized many of the rumors relative to the conduct of the lease-lend program . A correspondent asked about reports going the rounds at the Capitol to the effect that the British are using oil tankers in normal commercial service while the United States is transferring title of similar ships to them The President demanded that the correspondent be specific . He asked where the tankers in question were supposed to be operating . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had arrived at certain conclusions by calculating the number of tankers Britain had in service before the war , and subtracting the estimated losses since hostilities began  --  the conclusions being that the British had more tanker tonnage than they needed for war-supply purposes  --  the President replied that such a calculation did not hold water . Mr. Roosevelt insisted that he was not denying the rumors of misuse of lease-lend funds and materials . They , he said , were not worthy of denial . He simply branded them as plain , dirty falsehoods.                     