@@708099

txt Householders who weathered last winter 's storms In oil-heated dwellings can keep at least as warm this season , though their furnaces may turn a hit balky because of lower quality fuel . That 's the opinion of petroleum experts a ho are hoping an extended cold wave wo n't upset their ' calculations . Industry , too , they say , ran count on adequate supplies of heavy " residual " oil for factories , power plants and ships . Oil men warn , however , that householdtype ( light ) fuel will be of lower quality because the ' process of making high octane military gasoline leaves fewer heat units for the oil . Also in order to stretch supplies the lighter oils sometimes are blended with heavy , industrial fuels which do not burn so smoothly in small furnaces . So greatly has the Industrial fuel oil picture improved in comparison with a year of so ago that the War Production Board has authorized some conversions from coal to oilburning appliances by apartment houses and small industries in the eastern area . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when consumers were exhorted to change their heating apparatus to handle coal . Homes are not affected by the new ? V.P B ruling , since they use a lighter oil which is still relatively scarce . Industry Fared Best Last Year Last winter , home owners managed to get about 65 , of their normal requirements of fuel oil . Industry , with higher priorities , fared considerably better than that . Statistically . the outlook for civilian consumers is at least as favorable this fall as in 1948 . A severe winter could complicate it : a sudden end of the European war before the season is over might make the picture somewhat brighter , if East Coast oil storage stocks , now destined for Europe , could be drawn upon Military secrecy cloaks the size of Government stockpiles of fuel oils which have already passed through the refining process . Officials of the Petroleum Administration for War are hesitant to predict an increase in civilian allocations should Germany collapse soon . This is the moat an official spokesman will say : " Should the European war end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sup lies undoubtedly would be available , but not , sufficient to bring complete relaxation immediately of current restrictions , " Balanced against any cutback in military fuel needs which Might follow Germsiny 's downfall will be an immediate increase in supplies destined for the Pacific zone . This will put a heavy drain on West Coast stocks and will mean that more oil will be required to , power the armada of ships and planes which will concentrate on the defeat of Japan . Military Needs to Remain Heavy The poll industry estimates that , barring a sudden collapse of Japan , victory over Germany is unlikely to mean a substantial decline in Army-Navy needs for petroleum products for at least six months . However , as soon as the war in the Pacific is won , refiners predict an immediate excess of sisrply over demand . Increased shipments of fuel oil to the Atlantic Coast states  --  the region where it is moat used for heating purposes  --  stern from two factors : Higher production of crude oil by the petroleum industry , and improvement in transport Iron : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oil distillates , the home-heating varieties of liquid fuel , though still scarce in relation to demand , are being produced in larger ? quantities than a year ago . However , because the quality is lower consumers may find they mustuise more to get the same heat value as in former years . This could prove troublesome toward the end of the winter when rations run low , especially if the winter is longer and more severe than in 1943 . East Coast Supplies Higher East Coast supplies of gas and oil distillate now approximate .12.7 million barrels , coinpared with about 7.3 million barrels on hand at this period last year , and 17.3 million barrels at the same time in 1941. when stocks ? were none too , plentiful . Residual fuel oil , used by industry in heating units , gas and electric power plants and similar . installations is in much better positron from a supply standpoint . Stocks now approximate 10.8 million barrels , compared with 8 4 million barrels in the early fall of 1943 In 1941. inventories approximated 9 3 million barrels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial backlog in the event of a squeeze on the distillate type of ail used by home owners . The heavier grades can he blended back into light fuel oils , though quality suffers in the process . Kerosene , another fuel used extensively in the northeastern part ? of the country for lighting and space heating , is also In better supply this year than last . Stocks on the East Coast are now in the neighborhood of 5.9 million barrels . This compares with about 3.9 million barrels at this time a - year ago , and only 2.6 million barrels in the pre-war fall of 1941 . Type of Demand Has Changed Demand for all types of petroleum fuels has gone through marked changes since the beginning of the war . Railroads , with many More diesel locomotives operating on heavier schedules than in pre-war days , now rank second on the list of customers , preceded only by home consumers . For all 1942 , the consumption of fuel oils , both home and industrial types , was about 675 million barrels , of which home-heating grades accounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry 's residual oils . O.P.A. estimates that current fuel oil consumption is at the rate of about 1.8 million barrels daily , of which 600,000 are for heating homes , apartments and office buildings , and 1.1 million barrels for industrial and farm purposes . Merchant ships and tankers are heavy , consumers of heavy fuel oils , while smelters , mines and manufacturing industries take about 16% of the tole ) , Gas and electric power plants use in normal times as much as 18% of production , but in recent years with conversions to coal ? their share has been reduced . Petroleum firms themselves use residual oil as fuel in their , refineries , normally to the extent of about 10% of production ; lately , greater use of coal has cut this to shout 8 ' 7r . New York state is the heaviest user of heating oils . It takes about 21rs , of the total . The state 's consumption in 1013 was about 36 million , barrels . Illinois is the second largest user , followed by New Jersey and Massachusetts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gulf Coast  --  Texas and Louisiana ? where about 10 , : - of the U. . S. refining capacity is concentrated . Normally , the product moves by tanker from here to the consuming areas on the Atlantic seahoard , but since the pinch in coastel shipping , substantial quantities have been moving through newly-constructed pipelines , by railroad tank cars , and by barges on inland terways . California has the second largest concentration of refining capacity , and is also a large consumer of fuel oil . The East Coast , with about 800,000 barrels daily refining capacity , is about on a par with the California output . The 1943-44 winter heating season in the East , because of transport difficulties , saw a particularly tight squeeze on supplies , and many homes got along with a bare minimum of fuel oil . But the course of the war in Europe and the . utter ' defeat of the German submarine menace , has permitted restoration of tanker movements from the Gulf ports and front Venezuela . From the latter country , crude oil is shipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a secondary product in the refining of crude petroleum . In recent years , because of gasoline rationing , it has become a primary pr oduct in point of ; volume . In the relining process , average yield of products from 100 gallons of crude oil would approximate 44 gallons of gasoline , 36 gallons of fuel oil . 8 gallons of miscellaneous products such as coke , asphalt . paraffine wax , etc. , 6 gallons of kerosene , 3 gallons of lubricants , and a loss of approximately 3 gallons . ' This is the first of three articles discussing the winter 's fuel outlook for industry and householders The second article wall appear in an early issue .                     