@@706820

txt The Japanese have launched a massive air , land and sea attack against the American forces on Guadalcanal , in the Solomon Islands , the Navy announced in a communique issued tonight . Word of this long-expected attack came a few hours after the Navy had announced that the aircraft carrier Wasp had been sunk on Sept. 15 , as the result of a Japanese submarine attack , while engaged in covering the movement of reinforcements and supplies to Guadalcanal . About 90 per cent of the Wasp 's personnel were saved . In the cuiTent fighting , the later Navy announcement said , the Navy has suffered " severe damage " to another carrier and has lost the Elestroyer'Porter . In addition , " other United States vessels have reported ' legiCr , damage . " The shock of the announcement of the loss of the Wasp , qpickly manifested in official circles here , was overshadowed by the later announcement of news that had been expected here for almost a month , but thatthe less came ncteD as a dramatic climax to the venture that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way onto Guadalcanal . A Decisive engagement No one in authority would hazard a guess as to the outcome of the current engagement , but there was a general agreement in informed circles that the engagement probably would be fought to a decisive finish . On it , most authorities agreed , probably will depend the course of the war in the southwestern Pacific for the next year . The Japanese are believed to have thrown into the fight the bulk of their sea power , as well as air power , which has continued to function despite the enemy 's loss of about 400 planes in the Solomons . What forces the United States Navy carried into the fight to support the Marine and Army troops on land necessarily was not announced . The Navy 's communique on the new Japanese attack was unequivocal in picturing the seriousness of the enemy 's effort to wrest from American hands the small airfield hewn out of the jungle on Guadalcanal . This airfield , in American hands , represents a threat to Rabaul , on New Britain , a major Japanese base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporting the Japanese invasion of New Guinea and it might help to break the American line of communications to Australia . Task Force Is in Action " On Oct. 25 ( Solomon time ) , " the Navy bulletin said , " the Japanese launched a coordinated land , sea and air attack against our positions on Guadalcanal Island . Army and Marine Corps troops and aircraft on Guadalcanal opposed these attacks in heavy action throughout the day . On Oct. 26 a United States carrier task force exchanged aerial thrusts with a strong enemy force northeast of Guadalcanal . " The news indicated that the American forces were holding their own and it was noted that the American air forces had done extremely well . Our planes damaged two Japanese aircraft carriers and hit at least two cruisers , leaving one cruiser " burning and dead in the water . " At the start of the all-out Japanese attack , as reported last night , the Marines and Army troops on Guadalcanal repulsed five enemy tank attacks against their western positions . During the early morning of Sunday , tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de-1 termined attack " against the ' southern flank of the American positions , but our troops held their ground . In the middle of the morning a force of enemy cruisers and destroyers moved into the waters north of the American positions and shelled them . In the early afternoon a force of Douglas dive-bombers took off from the Guadalcanal airfield and attacked a force of enemy cruisers and destroyers as they lay north of Florida Island . One bomb hit " damaged and stopped " a Japanese heavy cruiser . A short time later sixteen Japanese dive-bombers attacked the Guadalcanal airfield , obviously in an effort to make it impossible for our own planes to use the field . Five of the planes were shot down . Soon nine more Japanese bombers attacked the field , but they inflicted only minor damage . Late in the afternoon American dive-bombers again took to ' the air from Guadalcanal and again attacked the force of enemy cruisers and destroyers north of Florida , Island . One bomb hit an enemy heavy cruiser . Then Flying Fortresses , which had come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the cruiser  --  a light one  --  that " was left burning and dead in the water . " The Japanese sent fighter planes over the Guadalcanal airfield throughout the day , but " seventeen of these planes were reported to have been destroyed by our Grumman Wildcats . " The American carrier ? not named  --  that was severely damaged was hit today in an exchange of air blows between sections of the Japanese and American fleets .                     