@@707923

txt Lifting the veil of secrecy from Germany 's secret weapon , Prime Minister Churchill has revealed the full menace , but also the limitations and the vulnerability of Hitler 's flying robot bombs . They are no joke and no mere nuisance , but a major weapon of murderous potency , especially designed to bring death and destruction to the civilian population . They have put London in the front line of a new Battle of Britain , and made advisable at least a partial evacuation of the British capital . They have also compelled a considerable diversion of the Allied war effort to still developing measures for checking this attack . But as Hitler 's touted wonder weapon , which was to win the war , the robot bomb has already proved a failure . For the British nation , which withstood the first German blitz that took a monthly toll of more than 6,000 lives , at a time when British prospects in the war looked darkest , is again demonstrating that it can stand up under a battle the monthly toll of which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure . It is only the unessential residents , the aged and the . children , who are advised to leave London on a voluntary basis . All others , including the Government and House of Commons , are told to remain at their posts and discharge their daily duties . Britain can take it , and , though the wounds smart , the British lion is again roaring his defiance across the Channel : " London will never be conquered , will never fail , and her renown , ? triumphing over every ordeal , will long shine among men . " The Commons cheered , and its cheers will be echoed throughout the world wherever freedom and decency still prevail . From the technical standpoint , the . flying robot bomb is in effect a cheap air force for the murder and terrorization of civilians . Nevertheless , possibly because they have again misunderstood the temper of the British , possibly because they found themselves hopelessly outmatched in the air , the Germans devoted much time , effort and ingenuity to this development , to the obvious detriment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If they had been able to launch their attacks at the time and on the scale they had planned , the results might have been far more devastating . But every weapon develops a defense against it , and this time the British were wide-awake to the impending menace . For nearly a year and a half they have waged a silent war against this weapon , ferreting out its secrets , blasting its experimental stations and its experimenters , destroying many of its major bases , with the result that when the Germans were at last able to launch the attack from comparatively light and speedily erected bases it was their turn to bemoan that it was " too little and too late . " They are able to launch only 100 to 150 bombs a day , many of which are destroyed before they reach their goal . And though their aim on London appears to be more accurate than hitherto admitted , even in that crowded area they have killed so far only one person for every bomb launched . That falls far short of the terrific punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German cities . It will not decide the war , and the measures of protection and prevention are being constantly improved . But while the Allied bombings have a definitely military purpose , the flying bomb , as Mr. Churchill emphasized , " is a weapon literally and essentially indiscriminate in its nature , purpose and effect . " It is characteristic of the British that in his , speech Mr. Churchill did not whimper about the 10,000 mostly civilian casualties , including the wounded , inflicted in three weeks . He merely raised some " grave questions " regarding the introduction of such a weapon by the Germans ? questions which he reserved for later treatment . No doubt he will have an answer to his questions when the time comes , but this much the world will agree upon : By resorting to indiscriminate murder of                     