@@709155

txt Although definite information about the progress of the conference of Foreign Ministers of the United States , the Soviet Union and Britain is almost entirely lacking , it can be reported today , for what it is worth , that the mood is earnest on all sides . Commenting on the question ' whether the Big Three unity is necessary , the magazine New Times declared , " You might just as well question the necessity of the poles or the five continents . " The conferees are only now getting down to basic issues . The discussions have to be translated ; that takes time . All State papers have to be accurately translated ; that takes considerable time and limits the work on any particular day . Anything except trivial news is going to be scarce until the Ministers decide the time has come to report what they are doing and how well they are accomplishing it . All the work during and preparatory to the conference is being done behind closed doors by the Ministers and their staffs , who are ' keeping silent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well or badly or whether this most critical conference on world affairs is going to succeed . All the available news is austere and terse . The first two conferences lasted two and a half hours . Foreign Commissar VyacheSlaff M. Molotoff was chairman of the first meeting and Foreign Sec1 retary Ernest Bevin of the second . Yesterday and today Mr. Bevin visited Mr. Molotoff outside the regular conference hours . After 8 A. M. Secretary of State James F. Byrnes was busy reading telegrams from the United States and conferring with advisers on special subjects . The entire staff usually joins the general conference in the Spiridonovka House . The atmosphere everywhere is serious and without excitement . Mr. Byrnes and the advisers he is working with at the moment keep in seclusion in the ballroom of Spasso House , home of Ambassador W. Averell Harriman , which has been converted to a workroom . Members of the delegation who are not needed at the moment stand by until something in their domain rises . They are glad to talk , at their leisure , about anything except the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with advisers and administrators , looks much the same . You can see Ambassadors if you keep your eyes open and may even shake hands and conduct a conversation . The minds of the Ambassadors , however , have retreated these days into long spaces . Old friends in both embassies receive correspondents warily and ' with nervous cordiality . There has been nothing yet to put under a headline that shows which way the future is going to be shaped . If relationships are cordial now all around , it can be taken as normal in the circumstances . Every one is fully aware that 1the task of this conference is enormous . The differences between the three big powers is not imaginary , they involve fundamental divergences of viewpoint . It is by no means certain that all three powers can agree on a policy on atomic energy . On this question they do not meet as equals . There is no easy solution to the differences about Japan , the Far East and Iran . Differences in policies in the Balkans are deep and of long standing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be settled on paper or casually over a conference table . At the most they can work at problems and revive collaboration among the Big Three . Apart from details , nothing vital is known yet except that the effort to resume collaboration is genuine . In its article on Big Three unity the New Times concluded : " The lessons of the recent war is still fresh in the minds of humanity . The freedom-loving countries have by this war once more convinced themselves that all attempts to infringe on the lawful rights of sovereignty of great and small countries and unilateral emphasis on the interests of any single power will be a threat to the cause of universal security . " Talks With Stalin Slated MOSCOW , Dec. 18 ** was believed that on or before Friday Secretary of State Byrnes and Foreign Secretary Bevin would confer with Generalissimo Stalin , newly returned from a two-month vacation on the Black Sea coast . Friday is Premier Stalin 's sixty-sixth birthday . The Swiss radio , heard in London , reported that , Premier Stalin received Mr. Byrnes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Bevin with Foreign Commissar Molotoff opened at 4 P. M. today . Mr. Bevin presided . Mr. Byrnes last night conferred with Chinese Ambassador Fu Pingsheng , and he spent this morning consulting his advisers and reading reports from Washington . Dominion Envoys Consulted MOSCOW , Dec. 18 ( Reuter ) ? British Foreign Secretary Bevin conferred here today with Joseph Maloney , Australian Minister to Moscow ; Leon Meyrand , Canadian Charge d'Affaires , and Charles Boswell , New Zealand Minister . Optimism Turns to Obscurity LONDON , Dec. 18 ( Reuter ) ? The Moscow talks between the Foreign Ministers of Great Britain , the United States and the Soviet Union , begun in an atmosphere of optimism , have become obscured in what appears to the outside observer to be a cloud of secrecy . There may be good reasons for this , but all indications are that news of the conference is passing through the iron system of Soviet censorship , which was recently reestablished.                     