@@709616

txt Two conclusions are in order today from the fact that the Foreign Ministers in Paris have ended their peace-preparing task successfully , including agreement on Trieste and on an early date for the formal 21-nation peace conference . The first is that a policy of firmness toward Russia pays . The second is that Russia is more interested in peace than in war , and more interested in a peace settlement on terms short of its own desires than in a politically divided and unsettled world . Both conclusions spring from the fact that while the Trieste settlement represented a compromise on all sides , that compromise involved heavy Russian concessions , the heaviest Russia has been willing to make in any peace conference up to this time . The extent of that Russian concession can be appreciated by Western minds only in terms of what Yugoslavia means to Russia , which is a very different thing from what Yugoslavia means to the Western World . Out of Western Orbit In- Washington and London eyes , Yugoslavia is a country which has gone Communist of its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is , therefore , out of the Western orbit more completely than any other part of eastern Europe . That being the case , the Western capitals have looked upon the Yugoslav demand for Trieste as representing the spearhead of a Russian imperialist advance toward western Europe . But for Russia it is a different nutter . Russia is a country which has carried its ideology into eastern Europe with its conquering armies , and found that ideology spurned by the general mass of the population in all countries except Yugoslavia . Russia has imposed " friendly " governments on the Bulgarians , Hungarians . Romanians , Czechs , and Poles . Yet the process has gone far enough to make it clear that these " friendly " governnients rest more on the proximity of Russian bayonets and on Russian economic pressures than they do on popular affection . Russia knows as well as London or Washington that if any turn of history should eliminate Russian pressure from these countries , they would swing at least to a middle , neutral position between East and West , and might even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Loyal Soviet Satellite But this is not true of Yugoslavia . It has embraced Russian ideology , and its diplomatic orientation toward Moscow is genuine and voluntary . The result is that Yugoslavia is the one loyal satellite Russia has  --  its one and only true friend of its own free will . Further , Yugoslavia had every reason but the ethnic one for Trieste . Yugoslavia is in real need of a modern seaport . On economic grounds its case is better than Italy 's , for Italy has many good seaports . And while Trieste is now an Italian-speaking city , that condition dates from the Versailles Treaty only . Previous to 1914 , Trieste was the major Adriatic outlet for the trade of eastern Europe . The modern seaport was the work of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire , not of Italy . Thus in abandoning the Yugoslavian claim to Trieste . Russia was abandoning an ambition dear to its best friend . And it was abandoning control , through Yugoslavia , of the biggest shipping and shipbuilding center on the Adriatic . Further , in the indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original list of claims to a new position in the Mediterranean Basin . Molotov Cave In All this was put into the peace settlement at Paris by Russia . It was put in reluctantly . Mr. Molotov made the fight of his diplomatic career for Trieste . He threatened , cajoled , blustered , and stalled . But when he saw that he had to give in to obtain a peace settlement , he gave in . His concession was a minimum one . He won the compromise French line for the new Yugoslav-Italian frontier . And he settled for internationalization of Trieste , not for the American proposal that it be granted to Italy . However , internationalization was the original British preference . So what Mr. Molotov got was the best ( from his point of view ) of the various Western proposals . However , what he got was in every particular what some Western.power thought he should have , and no more . Thus Paris ended in a major diplomatic victory for America 's Mr. Byrnes and Britain 's Mr. Bevin . They settled Trieste on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace conference by July 29 on their terms . It is impossible to escape the implication that this was also a victory for the " get tough with Russia " school of thought , built on Winston Churchill 's speech at /Fulton , Mo. , last March . But while that is undeniably true , the reverse of the coin is also true  --  that by accepting the settlement on Western terms Russia made a major contribution to the peace . Unless Mr. Molotov had given in , there would have been no settlement at Paris , no peace conference scheduled for July 29 , and no reasonable prospect of a stabilized world within the foreseeable future . There is much stabilizing still to be done . The Paris settlements take care only of the Mediterranean area and the Balkans The freeing of Austria is still to come , and so is a settlement of Germany . But the way has been cleared now to approach those problems .                     