@@706655

txt According to the propaganda fed the Japanese people by the military clique that has seized control of the Japanese * Government , Japan is prepared to wage war for a hundred years and will not stop till the United States and Britain are crushed , till Japanese troops parade down Piccadilly and the Japanese Navy holds a victory review off New York . Some of the more fanatical visionaries of the ultra-nationalist organizations led by Toyoma Nakano go further . To them the Japanese Emperor , as a direct descendant of the Sun Goddess , is by divine appointment both Emperor and god of the mundane world , and therefore entitled to rule the earth as the Sun Goddess rules the heavens . Though they are willing to concede JAPANESE SEEKING WORLD CONQUEST // that establishment of this divine rule may take some time and trouble , their doctrine is that Japan can never rest till that rule becomes an actuality , till every nation receives its " proper place " according to the principle of Hakko Ichiu , which is to make the whole world one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As imperialistic principle this Shinto doctrine surpasses anything that Adolf Hitler ever thought of , and though for the moment it is directed in the main against the United States and Britain , its proponents do not conceal that in the end all other nations  --  including Germany , Italy and Russia  --  must bow to it . Even hard-headed Japanese " war gods " are fully aware  --  and occasionally say so in public  --  that if Germany should win in Europe Germany and Japan will have to fight it out for control of the world , though they hope this will not be necessary till Japan has consolidated her expected victory and organized the " one thousand million " people of the Orient , including those of India . But as regards Russia  --  if statements made to me by the police during my examination are an indication  --  the decision has already been made and Japan is merely waiting for a good opportunity to stab Russia in the back , when the Soviet is pressed hardest . At the same time Japanese strategists are already looking forward to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basra on the Persian Gulf . And , according to the Japanese press , the Japanese invasion of the American Continent has already begun  --  through the Aleutian Islands . " Light " From the East Japanese spokesmen explain that " from the East comes the light . " To the outside world there is a natural temptation to laugh off such flights of fancy as being war propaganda . But in fact it is good war propaganda for home consumption . It provides religious sanction to Japanese Imperialism and thereby not only stiffens the national morale but also justifies the systematic treachery and savagery for which , according to Japanese mythology , 800 myriad Japanese gods themselves set illustrious examples , emulated throughout Japanese history . The Japanese " war gods , " led by Premier Hideki Tojo himself , boast that they have both the physical and spiritual means and opportunity to make good their claims . The easy capture of the ill-defended outposts in the Far East of the Western nations appears to have completely warped Japanese ideas regarding their own prowess and the fighting power and spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coral Sea may have corrected the ideas of those in the know , but to the Japanese populace these battles are still presented as decisive Japanese victories . The Japanese press is filled with contemptuous references to United States , British and Australian troops as " cowards " and " chocolate soldiers " who are " worse than the Chinese " and who lay down their arms wherever the Japanese appear so that they might enjoy Japanese concentration camps and return to their dancing . Some Have Second Thoughts How far the Japanese populace swallows this propaganda is difficult to judge , though the few contacts that I and other United States and British nationals were able to make during our imprisonment or internment suggest that some Japanese , at least , are beginning to entertain sober second thoughts about the war and feel ashamed at the atrocities perpetrated by their police and soldiery . However , the general impression of the uninformed public is probably accurately illustrated by a remark made to me by a girl police interpreter : " We did not know , how strong we were . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently prisoners of their own war propaganda and their own success . At the same time , in so far as their own statements in their press reveal their thoughts and in so far as competent military and naval observers are able to judge , the Japanese leaders feel themselves to be in a strong position mainly because of three factors  --  Japan 's geographic position , her military and naval strength and the increased resources obtained by her conquests . Without a first-class military and naval power on the Asiatic continent to guard against , Japan , in her geographic position , has been always strong , far stronger than Britain , and the strength of this position has been vastly increased by the war , the results of which so far have eliminated all Western bases in the Far East and compelled the United Nations to wage war against Japan from distances difficult even for airplanes to span . These distances are highly deceptive on flat maps and can be fully appreciated only by a glance at a globe showing the equatorial curvature of the earth  --  or by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evacuees aboard the Gripsholm . Japan 's Armed Power As for Japan 's military and naval strength , it is probably still stronger than anything that the United Nations can throw into the fray at the moment . According to best estimates , Japan has at least 2,500,000 to 3,000,000 men under arms , and her Navy , despite its heavy losses , is presumably equal , and possible superior , to the United Nations ' Pacific fleets . At the outbreak of the war Japan had in active service ten battleships . Four are believed to have been added since by a rush job on the 1944 naval program , which called for eight additional battleships by that year . According to the best available information , one of her battleships has been sunk and three have been damaged , leaving her battleship strength unimpaired and easily augmented . Of Japan 's forty-six cruisers at the outbreak of the war , however , sixteen are believed to have been sunk and five or six damaged . Though Japan may have added cruisers since then , it is obvious that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same is presumably true of destroyers and submarines , since Japan is believed to have lost at least twenty-eight of 125 destroyers and at least ten of her seventy-one submarines . Particularly encouraging also is Japan 's heavy losses in aircraft carriers . She had eight carriers when the war started and is believed to have added two more since , but at least four or five of these have been sunk and two or three damaged , leaving her largely dependent on converted merchantmen . Air Arm Weakest Link Perhaps the most vulnerable point in Japan 's armor , however , is her air arm , though it was this that made her initial victories possible . Entering the war with some 4,000 naval planes and presumably a like number of military aircraft , Japan was able to knock out the Allied air fleets and seize the essential air superiority in the Far East while her vaunted " suicide squads " and " sure-death patriots " who raided Pearl Harbor sank the British battleships Prince of Wales and Repulse and temporarily crippled the Allied fleets . But losses and wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aircraft of all types is figured by competent authorities at no more than 500 to 600 monthly . This is supposed to be sufficient for replacement at the present rate of consumption , so that Japan 's air strength is still as great as it was at the outbreak of the war , but it is not believed to be greater , and her production is held to be scarcely sufficient to maintain that strength once the air war is carried to her . As for resources , Japan 's conquests have given her much that she needs , including the greatest war essential of all  --  oil . According to Japanese calculations , oil resources in the conquered regions are 10,000,000 tons yearly . Two cracking plants producing aviation fuel were operating at the outbreak of the war and another is supposed to have been added since , but Japan is still definitely short of iron , copper , cotton , wool and possibly nitrates . The Japanese hold that there are big iron-ore deposits in the conquered regions , but these are undeveloped and Japan 's facilities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only about one-fourth of her requirements , and this is of the poorest quality . The Japanese Army has decreed a cotton-production plan in the Far East that is supposed to assure a sufficient supply  --  in five years . Financial Totals Soar The efforts that Japan is making to build her war machine are indicated by her financial figures , which she is pyramiding to dizzier heights on a more slender basis than any other nation . According to Finance Minister Okinori Kaye , who raises the national income figure by simply adding to it whatever the government spends above its revenue  --  and onl that basis arrives at a national income of 45,000,000,000 yen  --  Japan is spending this year 24,000,000,000 yen for war and governmental purposes and 6,000,000,000 yen for industrial expansion , which leaves only 15,000,000,000 yen for the nation 's daily living requirements . Japan 's national income in 1930 amounted to less than 11,000,000 , - 000 yen . This financial distribution is also the key to the straitened living conditions in wartime Japan . Partly because of poor distribution and partly because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other large cities in Japan were suffering from a shortage of certain foods even before the war , and these shortages have been intensified since . Meat , sugar , eggs , fresh fish and even salt , bread and rice , can be obtained only with great difficulty , except on the " black market , " where they are sold at two to three times the regular prices , which most Japanese are unable to afford . The few trips through Tokyo that I had during my imprisonment and internment revealed long queues of women seeking to purchase daily supplies . One family of which I knew was able to get for three persons for a whole month only one-half pound of meat , six eggs , four and a half pounds of sugar , a pound of bread but no potatoes , and two apples . Butter is scarce and has been replaced by ill-smelling whale-oil margarine . Sweets , cakes and jams are unobtainable in the stores . In fact , the police examiners often expressed envy at my being able to get meat daily when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Clothing Severely Rationed The situation is even worse in respect to clothing , which is drastically rationed throughout the land . Clothes and shoes except of the shoddiest kind are unobtainable in Japan . As a result , petty thefts of clothes are becoming epidemic . Prison guards constantly fingered my American clothes with envy , and after ceasing to torture me , even policemen swallowed their pride to beg me for cast-off clothes and shoes . Quite unmistakably , day by day in every way , Japan is getting shabbier and more aown at the heel than ever before . Though the war has already produced numerous profiteers , who are now throwing their money about at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo , their money is good for little except sake . But Japan is following Germany 's policy of " guns before butter " and is tightening her belt . Moreover oriental living standards never made the Japanese belly fat  --  a fact that permits application of that policy to a degree unthinkble in the West . As long as the Japanese " war gods " are able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which there are substantial supplies in the conquered regions , Japan is fairly proof against blockade . Nevertheless this set-up contains a double weakness . Japan has been unable to conquer any industrial ' regions and her industries remain concentrated in the Japanese islands , principally in Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe-Osaka regions and Northern ' Kyushu . This necessitates the shipping of all newly gained foods and raw materials to Japan across vast distances . Expansion of industrial production is further limited because Japan 's meager technical resources and industrial labor shortage have been made more stringent by mobilization . There is nothing to indicate that Japan 's industrial production has been stepped up since the outbreak of the war , though a further shift from consumption industries to war industries is very likely . Supply Linea Vulnerable Japan 's long supply lines expose them to submarine and air attacks and her industrial concentration makes her highly vulnerable to air bombardment once that starts on a substantial scale . The United States air attack on Tokyo had a propaganda value as a promise of what is to come and in that respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed to have been very slight . Sinking of Japanese shipping , on the other hand , is believed to have been more effective , not only in respect to military transports but also in supply ships . Rumors of spectacular sinkings were so widespread in Tokyo , Hong Kong and Saigon in Indo-China that they reached even concentration camps , though reliable information was naturally impossible to obtain . Indeed , the shipping situation is serious enough for Japan to take a leaf out of America 's book in World War L She is building in Kyushu and other places a large number of small wooden vessels of approximately 500 tons as " marine trucks , " each of which , it is held , will be too small for a submarine to waste a torpedo on . Nevertheless , quite irrespective of whether the Japanese " war gods " are able to carry out their larger plans , it is obvious that Japan is in a strong position not only to defend herself but also to hold the Far East at ransom . Competent military and naval opinion agrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can muster to break down that position .                     