@@709861

txt In the face of this , President Truman has discussed the meat shortage again at a Cabinet meeting attended by Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P. Anderson and Price Administrator Paul Porter , both just back from the western cattle ranges . There is , however , - no indication that any new Administration solution is in view  --  or that any new governmental action , including a meat-control holiday , would produce more than a temporary month-or-two-long fillip in the meat supply . The Office of Price Administration has ordered a 15 per cent increase in price Ceilings on meat meals in restaurants and hotels , effective Oct. 10 . This will bring a little- more meat to restaurant menus , a little less to household dinner tables . This represents a victory for the restaurants and hotels in a bitterly contested battle begun when meat meal prices were ordered rolled back to June 30 ceiling levels . With meat costing more , restaurant operators argued they would lose money on meat dishes at the old prices . The OPA now recognizes this , Consequently , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The precise jump would be .27.75 cents , but OPA has decided that costs can be rounded out to the nearest nickel . ) O'Dwyer Appeal Meanwhile , the Administration is pondering what to do about the telegram from New York 's Mayor O'Dwyer , recognizing the political problems therein . Mayor O'Dwyer appealed to Mr. Truman to order the Federal Bureau of Investigation to investigate the meat industry , charging that livestock is being withheld from market in a conspiracy to defeat price controls . The Mayor also urged the President to requisition meat supplies to cope with the crisis , to retain meat controls , and to remove bans against importation of meat from the Argentine . This last appeal concerning Argentine beef , if granted , would bring down on the Democratic Party the full wrath of the cattle states . In like vein was an appeal by Senator Kilgore , contained in a speech in his home State , in which he urged : An investigation to stop meat hoarding ; special allocations for hospitals and industrial areas ; increased quotas for Class II slaughterers : licensing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To these appeals for investigations , officials of the Department of Justice have made clear to newspapermen that they do not feel there is evidence of a conspiracy warranting assignment of investigators . As ? for Federal requisitioping of meat , this , as well as any threat to bring in Argentine beef , would stir the cattle country to greater hostility against the Administration . A Gallup Poll shows that the majority of American voters , who last May wanted OPA price ceilings kept on food , today want ceilings removed from food and especially from meat . The October figures show 42 per cent favoring retention of meat price ceilings , 53 per cent opposing them . Simultaneously , a busy " Republican congressional food study committee " reports back from Oklahoma that big ranch operators , some of whom in past years marketed more than 20,000 steers annually , now complain that Government restrictions , the narrow profit margin , and a severe shortage of young animals are forcing some of them to curtail operations or close down altogether . Some ranchers admitted that the shortage of young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their stocks by rushing to market almost every available animal during the recent pricecoptrol holiday when Congress was writing a new OPA measure . Meanwhile Government spokesmen were insisting on much the same explanation for the meat shortage as that advanced a week ago by Mr. Truman , namely : Government Explanation That Americans during the control holiday ate up more meat than they should have , that with higher incomes people are able and willing to buy far more meat than in pr ' war days  --  yes , including steaks  --  and that the cattle ranges have n't caught up with this new demand ; finally , that a new price control holiday would give only temporary relief , leaving the shortage worse than ever . " You just ca n't go on from holiday to holiday , " commented Mr. Anderson , leaving the latest White House meat conference . " There is still a fairly good supply , but you see what happened when controls went off . " New support was given Reconversion Director John R. Steel-man 's statement that the meat supply would continue for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming from the 1947 outlook report issued by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics . Not until the last quarter of 1947 , said the B. A. E. , Will meat supply catch up with demand . Then it will be due in part to decreasing consumer income as well as to increasing livestock supplies . The shortage also will be relieved , in 1947 , by smaller meat exports and smaller purchasing by the United States armed forces . The Administration problem was to get this explanation across to unhappy nonvegetarian voters . Store Sale Normal By Everett M. Smith Sta ft Writer of The Christian Science Monitor And now it 's fish ! Climaxing New England 's most acute meat shortage ? which forced greater use of fish as a substitute  --  a dozen of Boston 's largest wholesale fish companies remained closed today because of labor troubles . The dispute , which yesterday forced the closing by members of the Boston Fish Dealers ' Association , involves 200 fish cutters , countermen , shippers , and other workers of the Boston Seafood Workers Union of the International Longshoremen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except in a few instances where the wholesalers had retail outlets , was not affected immediately . But a large number of hospitals , schools , hotels , clubs , and restaurants either Nv i 11 have to go without fish , or seek unprocessed fish from other sources , if the strike continues for any length of time . A conference of union and company representatives has been i called for Oct. 7 at the State House ibv Brig . Gen. Charles H. Cole . by Chairman of the State Board of Conciliation and Arbitration . Strike Background The strike was called by John Donegan , President of the Boston Seafood Workers Union , Local No. 2 , A. F. of L. , to enforce demands in negotiations for a new contract which have been under way since last May . The union stated that it demanded retention of the " privilege " clause in contracts , and declined to sign an over-all contract covering all 12 companies represented by the Boston Fish Dealers ' Association . Under the " privilege " clause , workers are permitted rest periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to a company spokesman , the dealers have agreed to union demands for a 29 per cent wage increase , reduction of the work week from 44 to 40 hours , and retention of the two weeks ' vacation plus 10 days ' sick-leave provisions . The companies , the spokesman added , also agreed to purchase special aprons , gloves . and boots for use by the workers . Victory for Restaurants Meantime , hitting the food picture from still another angle , the Office of Price Administration has authorized a 15 per cent increase on meat meals in the nation 's public eating places . The new prices become effective Oct. 10 . Abandoning its attempt to roll the prices of restaurant meat items back to June 30 levels  --  the date on which meat ceilings went off for two months  --  the OPA yesterday approved the new increase which represents a major victory for the restaurant and hotel industries which have been fighting the issue for weeks . New regulations , detailing methods for figuring prices for menu items based on decontrolled foods . will be issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniform for all restaurant offerings where meat is the entire or major ingredient , " the OPA stated , On still another food front , the United States Department of Agriculture yesterday turned down a request from flour millers to abandon price controls on wheat flour , farina , and semolina . The Department said these products still " must be considered in short supply . "                     