@@708918

txt At 3:30 P. M. tomorrow the Foreign Ministers of the five great powers will gather in Lancaster House to face the first great test of the post-war world . - A series of conferences will then begin that will almost certainly last for a year , and may last for two years or more , for this council will be . the instrument for tachieving world peace in each of its manifold and tortuous details . The days of general principles ended in Berlin , and now come the hard realities . The first and , if the American delegation has its way , the exclusive problem to be tackled in this particular series of meetings over two or three weeks will be to draft a. peace treaty for Italy . Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and ? his associates , who reached here today , will - have to fight to keep the agenda so simple , for the French at least are determined to press for the inclusion of the Ruhr and Rhineland problems . that Gen. Charles de Gaulle outlined in his interview with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now be said , represents France 's official view at the conference . Bidault Sees Bevin Foreign Minister Georges Bidault saw Foreign Secretary Ernest Sevin today to urge the French viewpoint . Later . he said that , although the agenda did not inelude the question of Germany , " this question is of great interest Ito France , which was not represented in Potsdam . It is desirable that this question should be examined and settled in common . " M. Bidault attempted to.counteract one obvious interpretation of General de Gaulle 's suggestion for the formation of a western ' European bloc of nations by insisting that " Europe is a unit and must remain so . On no account must a system be evolved that would divide Europe . France and England must ' proceed in harmony and good partnership . " General de Gaulle 's statement // had immediately been interpreted as a drive'for a bloc aimed against Russia . This , the French Embassy said , was not intended at all . What General de Gaulle had in mind , one spokesman said , was simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , and not to organize against any country . General de Gaulle had said in.his interview that " western Europe constitutes a natural complex that is a geographical economic , political and cultural fact , bounded on the north , west and south by the sea and on the east by the Rhine basin . Economically each of its constituent national areas has asurplus production of some essential commodity and a deficiency of some other , so balanced that the whole has the elementary means of livelihood in adequate quantities to form an economic aggregate . " It would not be self-sufficient but it would have the same ' sort of completeness that is possessed by other economic masses of the world in the face of which it woad not be in a position of inferiority . The Netherlands , Belgium , Italy and western Germany and , in normal times , the Iberian Peninsula and others are naturally drawn toward economic and cultural cooperation with France and Britain . " If this historical and traditional factor were disregarded , it would prove a source of unrest in Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countribute to a constructive organization of the whole Continent of Europe ; and as such it should be looked on with good-will in every quarter . " It was made clear that the French would try to insist on a discussion of Germany , but it is also clear that they have a considerable interest in the settlement of the peace with Italy , so it may be possible to induce them to - take up Italy exclusively at first . It was learned that the French demands for Italian territory would be .. pushed and they had good hopes of being satisfied . The most important point is the territory including Tetida and Brigs , just north of Mentone , but it now appears that France is also demanding the rectification Of " the frontier farther north near Briangon to give her complete control of the watershed . Moreover , she is going to demand not only certain oases in the Lake Chad district but also an unspecified but apparently large part . of Fezzan , which goes deeply into the southeastern , corner of Libya . The French are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trieste to Italy but making the port itself international . The Chinese will also Undoubtedly agree , leaving Russia an enigma . The general feeling on the Tyrol among the French and British and apparently the Americans is to let it alone as long as possible until they see What kind of government is formed in Austria and Italy . Draft Treaty Ready Mr. Byrnes is going to find that Mr. Bevin , who will preside . over the first meeting as representing the host country , also has a draft treaty for Italy ready . But their first and crucial task will be to agree on the agenda . Mr. Sevin , like Mr. Byrnes , wants to settle the Italian question now once and for all , so the two countries will be working together on that score . Ii Russia agrees , one can count or relatively smooth sailing for this opening meeting . Mr. Byrnes put the problem ver3 mildly in his only statement lc ( newspaper men . " There will be a lot of work and there will be a lot of talking , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That 's why we are meeting . " There will be more and longer talks outside than inside the actual council room , for each delegation has its experts and , taken together , they run into dozens . Russia , as usual , has turned up with the largest group , having thirty-three members and sixteen secretaries . Each Foreign Minister will have seen Mr. Bevin privately before they all gather tomorrow . Each will have his own private room adjoining the conference room , and the 200 other rooms of the building will be used by experts , secretaries and officials of all kinds .                     