@@706852

txt It would be possible to forecast at least in rough outline the future course of the war if we could fill in with accuracy the great letter " X " in the equation which represents Germanys military strength today . But the veil of uncertainty which has fallen more heavily around Germany since Hitler began war on the United . States reduces us to considerable guesswork . In the absence of really accurate information it is possible to find plenty of evidence which can be added up to an optimistic : picture of early German collapse . Yet the tendency is to search for such heartening scraps of news and ignore much equally valid information which leads to an entirely different conclusion . Balancing the bits which we do not like to hear , and which therefore gain extremely little notice in the press , against the much more widely publicized items leads to a word of caution . There is no doubt whatever that Prime Minister Winston Churchill is justified in terming the Anglo-American landing in Africa " the end of the beginning , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the beginning of the end " or that the end is in sight Reproduced with would be to indulge in wisthful thinking and to lay our hopes open to very serious danger of disillusionment . Extent of German Ttenor  --  p ? The war certainly has not yet been won . Germany has reserves of resistance which are far from exhausted . There is no valid t ea-son whatever for discounting Hitler 's ability , if he chooses , to assume a defensive role for the next year and actually thereby husband and increase his reserve strength and regain the power to open another great offensive in 1944 if not in 1943 . It must be remembered , to begin with , that the campaign in Africa has for its strategic purpose only the investment of the continent of Europe , not an attack on it . If it succeeds , as we have every reason to believe it will , we have only accomplished the consolidation of a seige line around an area which contains the world 's greatest single concentration of industrial power and a population of over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once the siege lines have been consolidated we can begin the attack on Hitler 's great continental fortress . But we have not yet ' even completed the siege lines and certainly are a long way yet from opening ' the attack . Riddle of Resources Meanwhile , what are Hitler 's resources within the great continental fortress which we are in-vesting ? He is certainly not yet'approaching any serious shortage of military manpower . His armies had reached a total of at least 6,500 , - 000 when he launched his invasion of Russia . Although some estimates are considerably higher , his casualties , killed , wounded and missing , may be conservative , placed at 2,500,000 . But additions from new classes joining his colors must have been nearly a million , and some of his casualties in wounded have either been restored to military service or at least to home front duties which release other manpower . It is unreasonable to assume that he has less than 6,000,000 men under arms today . This means that while the strength of 300 divisions with which he opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Premier Joseph Stalin 's latest estimate , such an estimate leans on the optimistic side and we can not be certain of Hitler 's inability to control more nearly the 300 which he had at his peak . Army , Morale Tested The morale of his army has suffered from two years of incredibly bitter and unsuccessful efforts to break Russia , yet no front has so far produced evidence of any disposition of German troops to surrender rather than fight . They have lost their early enthusiasm and ? lan . Reports from occupied countries indicate that units shifted to quiet areas from Russia have certainly lost all thought that they belong to any " master race . " But they show both the will and the ability to go on fighting and they certainly have great defensive power left in them , Civilian morale has serious weak spots , but those weaknesses are heavily counterbalanced by the fear of reprisals which defeat means in their minds . The food situation has become worse over the past two years . But some rations were increased this fall . Meat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 300 grams last summer . It can improve again next year from exploitation of the Ukraine . The Germans did not expect to obtain any food advantages from the Ukraine in 1942 , but they do expect them beginning in 1943 . Russian Granary Open Even if they fall back to last winter 's defense line they will still hold most of Russia 's great granary and can draw from it so long as they can hold a defensive line in Russia . Their food situation could Improve steadily beginning with next summer and continue to improve so long as Hitler could hold the boundaries of his continental fortress . In military equipment there has as yet been no evidence of serious shortage , of motor vehicles , guns of all types and tanks . The one spot where real weakness appears to have developed is in planes . General Field Marshal Rommel 's defeat in Africa is directly traceable to progressive weakness in the air . The Luftwaffe has been on a minimum defensive basis in Western Europe for over a year . Some air resistance has been offered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a calibre which seriously challenges the operation , Unless Hitler has a powerful air reserve which he is still holding under wraps , he has lost the power to take the offensive in the air . And there is reason to believe that this is the case . He has built an aircraft industry which , working at capacity , could produce 4,000 planes per month . But latest reports indicate that this actual production today is not much over 1,500 combat , planes a month and may even have fallen below that figure . By Edmund Stevens Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor AGEDABIA , Libya , No. 23 . Delayed. ? General Field Marshal Erwin Rommel 's Afrika Korps will in all probability make their last desperate , stand in the narrow coastal strip around El Agheila , through which the road to Tripoli runs . As this is written the retreating Axis forces are less than 100 miles from El Agheila . Marshal Rommel knows El Agheila terrain well . Twice in the past it has saved his forces , permitting him to re-form and prepare for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sort ol Libyan El Alamein  --  a narrow bottleneck , with the sea on on ! side and loose sand and swamps similar to the Qattara Depression on the other side , with the difference that whereas the El Alamein bottleneck was some 40 miles wide El Agheila is less than 20. in width . Swamps and Loose Sand its counterpart of the Qattara Depression is provided by two tracts of . swamp and loose sand known as " Small and Big Sebkas , " about 20 miles either side of El Agheila . Small Sebka , which is opposite the coastal point Mersa Brega , may be by-passed by the south , but Big Sebka , west of El Agheila , extends far out into the sandy desert . All day today Axis echelons wound westward down the coast toward El Agheila . In the distance their vehicles crawled like bedraggled ants in a seemingly endless procession over the low brown hills toward the gray horizon  --  the rain which has been almost constant through the Libyan drama provided a backdrop for this closing scene . May LaCk Ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Some 3,000 motor trucks laden with troops and materiel , according to Allied reconnaissance , plus a considerable assortment of guns ranging from 105 and 88 millimeters to Bofors antitank guns , and 50-caliber machine guns . But many of these must be un- paign . The chances are that he has been losing planes all summer at a rate equal to his estimated production and perhaps even higher . While he has been cutting his losses of late , very probably to build up a reserve for exactly the type of thing which has happened in Africa , his qualitative air position is probably bad . But numbers are not so important . It has been said that there is no such thing as a " second best " plane in warfare . Types which have been rendered obsolete by new models might as well . be scrapped . They do n't count , The real question in the European air war is whether Hitler has some superior new model which has not yet shown up in combat , Even if he does not , he still has excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitude than the Hurricane or Spitfire , is maneuverable and possesses excellent fire power . He certainly has not yet fallen hopelessly behind in the qualitative race . bound forces . But we are far from having theoretical superiority within his range . If he is psychologically capable of drawing back where he ls over . extended to sound defensive positions there is nothing in our in ? formation about his condition to justify serious doubt of his ability to hold a defensive position for some time to come , His relative weakness in the air is far less serious for him defensively than of . fensively . And on the defensive his great numerical strength in men and land weapons count heavily  --  particularly when it comes to de . fending coastlines . He has been employing , accord . ing to M. Stalin 's figures , 179 divisions o , ' the Russian Front . But that is wnat he used to attack . If he turner , to the defensive in Russia there is no r Cason to doubt his ability to hold last winter 's well prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 100 divisions . With the balance of about 200 divisions deployed defensively he might dedicate 1943 to rectifying his air , transportation and food deficiencies . Allies ' Hope The weakness of his resistance in Africa and his withdrawal of forces from Russia would both seem to point to such a decision . Our hope is that he will prove psy. chologically incapable of planning to spend a year on the defensive . Every offensive move he makes on the outer fringe consumes his resources where we are strongest . But if Hitler is capable of pursuing the conservative policy then it becomes necessary to seek his forces inside his areas of greatest strength and force him to battle there to deny him the breathing spell he needs after his costly failure in Russia . If we are forced to take the offensive against the continent it can prove a long and costly undertaking . Of course many things could happen to ease the task , If Italy fell into our hands , or if the Fascist Governments of Spain and of the satelite states of the Balkans decided that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned the sinking ship in the hope of preserving their regimes by a double-cross it would enormously simplify the military problem , even though it might compromise the validity of the antiaircraft guns for ' direct artillery purposes . It is significant that the Russian reports of the present battles make little or no reference to resistance by the Luftwaffe . Yet the usual German practice in combating a break-through has been to rush up a heavy force of bombers , thus making the most of their numerical air superiority . Although full information is not available , the facts so far known make it clear that the Germans have been unable to mass sufficient strength in bomber squadrons to halt the Soviet advance . Sent to Mediterranean The news that the British and American forces are encountering increasing heavy air opposition in approaching Bizerte and Tunis confirms the.impression that Hitler has been obliged to divert a considerable section of the Luftwaffe to the Mediterranean . Readiness on the part of Soviet circles to acknowledge the importance of the North African diversion is appreciated in Allied quarters . But there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own magnificent achievement in Stalingrad counteroffensives , On the contrary the news has aroused marked enthusiasm on the part of the general public , thepublic , the press , and military ob . servers . Three Maior Aspects Military experts point out , how . ever , that the Russians ' success has emerged from the category of a tactical development and is assuming great potential strategle importance . There are three major aspects . 1 . The siege of Stalingrad has been at least partially eased as the relief army , driving down from the north has linked up with General Rodimtseff 's Guards who are holding the northern factory area If the beleaguered industrial city . 2 . The Russians have driven the wedge inside the bend of the Don River about 80 miles west of Stalingrad and have cut the Germans ' rail connection between Stalingrad and Kharkov . This has increased the threat of encirclement to the Axis armies before Stalingrad . 3 , The Russians apparently are able to broaden the bases of both their northern and southern drives , and have met with striking success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable developments are seen here as providing material ground for Moscow 's assertion that the Soviet successes in the Stalingrad area mark the turning point on the Eastern front , and that the Russian Army 's strong attackr there constitute the beginning 01 a far-reaching olfensive.                     