@@711754

txt Indications pointed tonight to an immediate test of President Truman 's strength in the Eighty-first Congress when the session opens at noon tomorrow . This would be a vote by the House on a change in procedure to limit the power of the Rules Committee . House Democrats in caucus yesterday voted 176 to 48 to seek the change . The House Republican Steering Committee will meet tomorrow morning to decide whether it should go along with some Southern Democrats in an attempt to defeat the change . This could give a speedy inkling of Mr. Truman 's prestige . Under present regulations the Rules Committee decides whether legislation should go to the floor for consideration after it has received the approval of the appropriate legislative committee . If the Rules Committee does not swish such consideration it can bottle up the bill pretty effectively . 218 Signers Now Needed The only present way of getting a bill to the floor without Rules Committee sanction is by the signing , within a stated time , of a petition by 218 members of the House . The proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have bills brought to the floor twentyone days after they were sent to the Rules Committee ( not twentyfour days , as erroneously reported as a result of a typographical error in a dispatch printed today ) . But to do this the chairmen would have to get recognition by the Speaker , who will be Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas . However , whether this question would become a major issue was in doubt tonight , as some Republicans appeared to favor the rule change . " Whether we fight or not , " Representative Joseph Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , the minority leader , said , " will depend on House Republican Steering Committee action tomorrow morning . " In any event some Republican support would be needed to pass the rule change , which would require 218 votes , if the forty-eight Democrats who voted against it in the caucus continue that stand . Some of them have indicated they will . Like its predecessors in the present decade the Eighty-first Congress faces a critical year , but unlike the Eightieth it is controlled by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats control the House with 262 members against the Republicans ' 171 . One Democratic seat is vacant as a result of a post-election aeath and there is ' one American Labor representative . In the Senate the Democrats out-number the Republicans 54 to 42 . It is this Democratic Congress that will test the " mandate " of President Truman in his stunning upset victory last November . It will test , too , the cohesiveness of a party which has-many septional differences  --  chiefly those of the conservative Southern wing . The first day in the Senate promises to be strictly routine . But before the Senate meets , its Republican conference will have a session , beginning at 9 A. M. , at which the controversial question of the leadership of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio will be settled . It is pretty well conceded that Mr. Taft will be elected to continue as chairman of the party 's policy committee . His leadership has been challenged by a so-called liberal wing in the party , which has suggested the elevation of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican conference will fill tomorrow are the chairmanship of the policy committee , chairmanship of the conference , floor ' leader and whip . The whip is an assistant floor leader whose principal duty is seeing-that members are present for important votes . In order for Mr. Taft to remain as the policy chairman the conference 's rules must be amended because as they stand now they would prevent his holding the post more than four years , which he has served . He- is confident that this will be done and today he rejected d proposal from the dissidents that he give up the leadership and shift to the . : conference chairman and Senator Kenneth Wherry of Nebraska the floor leader . Senator Levered Saltonstall of Massachusetts , one of those fighting Mr. Taft , can have the job as whip if he wants it , it is understood . The Republican . conference consists of all the party 's representatives in the Senate .                     