@@708105

txt By Wireless to TEE New YORK TIMES . WITH AMERICAN FIRST ARMY , in Germany , Sept. 26 ? The fickle fortunes of war have combined to slow down the advance of the First Army to a point where only a comparatively slow advance toward the Rhine can be expected . At the same time the strategic situation to ' the north has changed to such a degree that , barring a complete collapse of the German field armies , this is no longer the most important or decisive front in the west . However , if ilia British thrust through the Netherlands around the end of the Siegfried Line does not make rapid progress , there is a strong chance that the Allies will be stuck on the Rhine and in the northern Netherlands this winter . The Rhine will be reached by the United States First Army but the forbidding country beyond it and the manifold difficulties of largescale operations in northwestern Europe during late autumn and winter make a break-through into the heart of Germany on this front highly unlikely . There is always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After talking with several persona who recently returned from neutral countries near or contiguous with Germany in Paris , this correspondent has come to the conclusion that internal disruption of the Third Reich is far more remote than it has been for more than a year . Thousands Shot in Reich According to one source , no fewer than 100,000 persons were shot i'by the Gestapo after an attempt Ion Hitler 's life . Anyone who is even remotely suspected of favoring peace and being forceful enough to argue fellow Germans into it is hauled out of his home and shot or put in a concentration camp . Admittedly , this is rather far afield from the present task of the // First Army , but it Is an indication of the difficulties ahead . The First Army reached the German frontier and cracked the Siegfried Line by an amazing success:on of brilliant victories , aided by a no less amazing run of hick with the weather . Of the victories the most important was the destruction of the German Eighty-fourth Army Corps around Mons. This corps had the task of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Americans . Thus when the First Army did bite into that rsection of the line it found it held by a motley crew of replacements rushed up from Germany . This accounts for the comparative rapidity of the American penetration through the line , although it is certain that the line would have been cracked in a longer period by the same troops . Then the weather intervened , as it so often does in this part of Europe ? as it did in the last war when the commanders limited major offensives to late spring , summer and early fall . Clouds closed down and under their cover , which forbade large-scale Allied air opera tions , the Germans moved a new German infantry division to hold the area east of the First Army 's break-through . It is a good division with Russian experience . It fought with customary German ' bravery but with more skill than the odds and ends that had tried to stem the American advance . At the same time our main supply bases were even farther in the rear than they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and involved greater amounts of supplies . Since then the weather has been spotty . Maximum air power can not be exerted . The Germans are gathering guns and reinforcements , and the exploitation of any future break-through will be a long , bloody job . This correspondent believes that Cologne and Bonn will fall this year . But their fall should not be seized on as an indication that the Germans are defeated in the field . Reaching the Rhine will be merely a completion of yet another phase in the protracted invasion of Germany . Indeed , the First Army 's ... function may turn out to be the pinning down of a considerable number of Germans . The war in the west is not going to end in five minutes or even in five weeks . The First Army will get through to the Rhine , but it may see it first through snowflakes.                     