@@705045

txt Appeasing or Opposing We Are . Accused of Refusing to Face the Realities of the Situation To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A recent letter in your correspondence column advances substantially the following argument : We take leases on the British bases knowing that the title is clouded by German claims to annihilate the landlord and knowing that if Great Britain loses the war Germany will succeed to the landlord 's title ; consequently we risk facing the alternative of being evicted or resisting invasion of these bases ; and resisting such invasion would be a war of aggression against Germany . This bizarre idea typifies the manner in which some of our countrymen would inhibit themselves from facing the realities of the international situation . If it be aggression to resist the acquisition by our enemies of territory upon which England has only a reversion , it would seem even more aggressive for us to resist German conquest of Canada , which is a , full-fledged and unencumbered member of the British Commonwealth of Nations . Of course , what the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Our belief in a law-abiding world is to refuse to recognize the fruits of real aggression . The United States maintains that the governments of Czecho-Slovakia , the Netherlands , Norway and others have been unlawfully ousted and we do not propose to recognize the divestment of their titles as long as anything is to be gained by refusing the recognition . If Germany should conquer England we would of course take the even more solid position that title to the bases held by us would not pass by conquest until the conquest extended to them , and we would resist any attempt to conquer them . It is clear , however , that our national policy has not yet fully embraced the necessity of one fundamental choice ? we must either appease or oppose . Every area where the dictators are not strongly , promptly and effectively opposed will be sucked in to nourish their destructive machines . Even while the courage of the British aviators is giving us new faith in ourselves and encouraging little Uruguay to oppose the Nazi termites within , vacillation concerning Dakar and IndoChina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great resources of Africa and the Indies into the laps of our enemies . We need the use of Singapore , Port Darwin and other British Pacific bases as well as recovery of the fumble at Dakar . But we are not yet offering Britain all the help we can . Canada needs southern aviation fields this Winter . We damage ourselves , perhaps irreparably , by keeping our bomb sight from our friends  --  which it is even money the armies of Nazi spies have already pirated . The cash-and-carry provisions are a relic of days of even greater befuddlement . The shipment of scrap iron to Japan until Oct. 16 and the continuance of other trade with her bears no indications of sanity . Using diplomatic and naval pressure to give China access to our supplies is a much wiser if less easy undertaking and much safer in the long run . Appeasement renders opposition ever more costly . Ultimately , appeasement involves certain death to our nation , opposition only the chance of death , as well as the chance to preserve the decencies of life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1940 . Mass Starvation Feared At Least an Attempt at Feeding Europe Strongly Recommended to Us To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Can we afford to stand by and see a situation develop that is fraught with latent danger to America and unforeseeable consequences to the world ? The growing food scarcity in Europe can not be denied . Observers , official and otherwise , agree that the situation will become critical . It is immaterial whether the danger point will be reached soon or six months hence . Those who think that the Germans , severely pinched themselves , will not let these people starve and , if they riot , will not shoot them wholesale , are tragically mistaken . Perhaps they do not know the Germans . I do . The food relief plan advanced recently by the relief bodies of Belgium , Poland , Norway and Holland states explicitly that certain conditions must be fulfilled before one pound of food is shipped . Germany must agree to . take none of the domestic crops of the four mentioned countries ; to replace food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food shipments ; and to grant absolute control and distribution of foodstuffs by these relief agencies . Britain must agree to pass all such food cargoes through the blockade . Violation of any of these guarantees leaves the British free to suspend all further operations . The cost of feeding the populace of these four countries  --  France is not included in the plan ? is estimated at between $20,000,000 and $40,000,000 a month . The American people are not asked to , entribute one penny . Financing is to be done by the fugitive governments of the four countries , which possess large financial resources in the United States . It is rightly pointed out that no reliance can be placed in German promises . That is why the establishment of an intergovernmental relief agency is necessary , with full powers to direct , control and supervise food shipments and their distribution . The slightest infringement by Germany empowers the British to immediately stop further transports . The plan seems to me constructive and safe enough to be given at least a fair trial . If it is wrecked on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass robbery , there will be no further doubt and vacillation . The British record will be clear . Germany will be put on the spot . Whether we like it or not , we are confronted with the appalling problem of mass starvation . Those who condemn this or any other food relief plan should bear in mind that nothing is more destructive , more demoralizing and in the final analysis more advantageous to incipient Hitlers and the , preachers of totalitarianism than acquiescence by word and deed in the death sentence that now hangs over the heads of millions of innocent people . Must there always be other Versailles and Munichs that sow new seeds of undying hatred and merciless revenge ? ALEXANDER S. LIPSETT . New York , Sept. 30 , 1940 . School Problems Complex Well-Equipped High Schools for Trade Training Seen as One Solution To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter from Saul Bernstein , chairman of the Education Committee , Yorkville Chamber of Commerce , strikes a responsive chord in many of us who have been interested in the education of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning , however , the problems are not amenable to simple solution . The existing unsatisfactory school situation has been produced by many factors , psychological and physical . Among others are the phenomenal growth of the city , its constant spreading over greater areas , its constantly shifting population and the fact that no one district has any degree of permanence in so far as business and residential characteristics are concerned . A case has been known where a lower East Side district begged for additional school facilities and by the time the school was ready for use the residential population had removed to another district and there were no pupils for the new school . New routes of transit produce new school requirements . The first generation here is content to work with their hands . The second insists on white-collar jobs . The third must have professional training , and all more or less in keeping with the characteristic restlessness , mental and physical , of the average American and his desire for quick progress and higher educational attainments . It has always been difficult to keep up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been recognized by educators and city officials for many years and , usually , generous and consistent efforts have been made to meet the growing requirements for school buildings . Prior to 1931 the lag between requirements and production was not permitted to become serious . The depression of the next half-dozen years , however , produced a lapse in school construction that is now very evident and will continue for some time to come , Even if construction is continued as it has been during the last three or four years it will take a long time to catch up with the school needs . If the hysteria for new parkways ? parks , boulevards , tunnels , bridges , etc. , continues there will be no money left for schools . Also the sudden disposition on the part of city authorities to be ultra-cautious in the inauguration of improvements is not very encouraging to an attempt to cut down school shortages . Thousands of boys and young men are idling on the streets , out of employment and not fitted for any occupation except , possibly , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is crying aloud for trained artisans . What is the answer ? Plenty of well-equipped high schools for training for the trades and the arts . Also a vigorous and sustained demand from civic organizations for a continuation of school construction . If the existing situation is not general . ly realized and if a concerted effort is not made to improve it , we will con. tinue to have a further exodus to the suburbs , a further increase in our un ? employed youth and a further tendency , toward juvenile crime . A. L. L. MARTIN . Brooklyn , Sept. 29 , 1940 . More About the Bit To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Frank Parker Stockbridge 's letter on " Early Coin Terms " concluded as fol. lows : " How the real acquired the name of bit ' * * and how the fip became a picayune in New Orleans , are questions for philological numismatists . " Although I am definitely not a philological numismatist and , for that matter , do not possess even a fraction of Mr. Stockbridge 's enviable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I believe that I can offer at least one explanation of the term " bit . " When small coins were scarce , the Spanish and Mexican silver pesos , worth 100 cents , were sawed pie-wise into eight pieces called bite . These bits therefore had the value of 12i dente . Hence the original whole coin came to be known as a " piece-of-eight . " The real , because it was one-eighth of a peso , was also called a bit . Our quarter owes its popular name of two-bits to that same origin , EDMOND() D'AZLTICO . New York , Sept. 30 , 1940 . Public Service Procedure Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If the Consolidated Edison Company supplies electric service to apartment dwellers , the consumer can complain to the Public Service Commission if meters do not register accurately . If electric service is furnished through a submetering company , the Public Service Commission has no jurisdiction . This does not seem fair . In comparing my present bills from a submetering company with bills previously received from the Consolidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 per cent . HERMAN Numoul . New York , Sept. 30 , 1940.                     