@@705222

txt President Roosevelt applied increased economic pressure against Japan today through a proclamation placing iron ore , pig iron , ferro alloys and certain iron and steel manufactures and semi-manufactures under export license requirements , effective Dec. 30 . In addition , he restricted exports of these articles to the British Empire and the Western Hemisphere ? permitting exports to other countries to be made " for the present " and so far as national defense requirements permit in quantities " approximating usual or pre-war exports . " Japan was not mentioned , and the action was based upon national defense requirements as outlined by Colonel R. L. Maxwell , administrator of export control of the Defense Commission , but the intent was obvious . Japan , it was clear , is the nation principally affected , for not only is she dependent upon this American market but in recent months she has been buying increasingly large amounts of these materials for her war machine . This has been especially true since the export ban was placed on iron and steel scrap in October . Further Action Expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected . That taken today and other steps , diplomats believe , may follow in consequence of an appeal from China for assistance . According to informed diplomatic circles , China recently in notes to both Great Britain and the United States demanded to know whether assistance would be forthcoming . She let it be known that if none were coming she might be inclined to make peace . Assurances promptly were given in response . One result , diplomats pointed out , was the $100,000,000 credit of the United States to China and the financial aid to her in the amount of $40,000,000 by Great Britain that was announced today . Now comes the restriction on iron and steel exports proclaimed by President Roosevelt . Some predictions are being made that before long the United States may let China have 100 or 200 older type planes and that even Britain may supply her with some old planes . Nor would it come as a surprise if the list of articles placed under export control by the United States were enlarged by further additions . New Fleet Manoeuvres In the meantime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for manoeuvres ; this is the second time that has happened within a year . Although naval officers insist that there is no diplomatic significance attached to the concentration , diplomatic circles expect that Japan will take due note of it . The various developments have come at a time when Japan is speaking through her officials and publicists for understanding with the United States and when some do not believe that she is intending to quit China , even though she is shortening her military lines . On the contrary , this body of opinion feels that she will watch the European war closely and , if developments provide the opening , move to the south and seek expansion there . All in all , the factors make for a tense rather than an easing situation . The President 's licensing action was announced by the White House by direction of the President in the following statement : " The President announced tfalay that national defense requirements for iron and steel have increased to such an extent that it has become necessary to subject , as of Dec. 30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and certain iron and steel manufactures and semi-manufactures to the licensing requirement . Licenses will be granted for exports to the British Empire and the Western Hemisphere ; and for the present , so far as the interests of the national defense permit , for exports to other destinations in quantities approximating usual or pre-war exports . " Proclamation Is Issued This was followed by the customary proclamation , issued under authority of the National Defense Act of July 2 , 1940 , stating that the exigencies of national defense impelled the President to extend the system to the articles enumerated . The articles placed under the export restriction were set forth in an accompanying executive order , as follows : Iron and steel : A. Iron ore . B. Pig iron . C. Ferro alloys , ferromanganese , spiegeleisen , ferrosilicon , ferrochrome , ferrotungsten , ferrovanadium , ferrocolumbium , ferrocarlbon-titanium , ferrophosphorus , ferromolybdenum . D. Semi-finished products  --  Ingots , billets , blooms , slabs , sheet bars , skelp , wire rods . E. Finished Products  --  Structural shapes , steel piling , plates , skelps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , merchant , concrete reinforcing , cold finished , alloy , tool steel ; hoops and baling bands , pipe and tube , drawn wire , nails and staples , barbed and twisted , woven wire fence , bale ties , fence posts , black plate , tin plate , sheets , strip , wheels , axles , track spikes , castings , forgings . No Black List Planned Colonel Maxwell eplained that the license requirements actually will cover almost all new iron and steel production in fabricated and nonfabricated stages . No embargo or black list was contemplated at this time , he added . However , the intention to hold the exports to other than Britain and the Western Hemisphere down to " usual or pre-war exports " means application of a system that will cut down Japanese purchases considerably . This method of ap- plying a yardstick was first used in the moral embargo on exports of petroleum that was applied against Italy in the Ethiopian war of 1935 . It has not been utilized recently . ? How much Japan is now limited in supplying her war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deduced from the fact that for long a moral embargo has been in force against exporting airplanes and parts to her , as well as permitting her to use American patent processes for producing aviation gasoline . A moral embargo also applies against her with respect to the export of aluminum , molybdenum and designs and specifications for airplanes and parts . Some Partial Embargoes A partial embargo on exports to other than the British Empire and the Western Hemisphere also applies to high-test aviation gasoline and iron and steel scrap . The application of the export licensing system to the articles proclaimed today expands a list that already contained approximately 150 articles . Under previous proclamations licenses are required for export from the United States of ten types of chemicals , thirteen varieties of metals and ores , sixteen basic materials , sulh as raw silk , hides and asbestos , motor fuel and lubricating oils among the petroleum products , thirty-two categories of machine tools , eighteen kinds of explosives , twenty-one types of poison gas , twenty-nine varieties of fire control instruments , military optical glasses and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implements of war .                     