@@711712

txt This correspondent periodically is asked why he becomes exercised about Communist espionage in the United States without showing equal indignation against American espionage in Russia  --  or , at least , without recognizing that the moral offense , whatever it is , is the same on both sides . That 's a welcome question , and it deserves the best answer that can he produced because it sincerely misstates the point . One questioner has written : " I do n't in the least question your statement that every Communist is a potential spy . And it would n't be quite so accurate to say that every democrat in Russia ( what civil liberties is a Russian democrat allowed in Russia , or a German democrat in the Soviet sector in Berlin ? ) is a potential spy . But the tendency is to assume that spying is a horrible thing when it 's done against us , and then to boast of our secret information about foreign countries . We should n't allow ourselves the luxury of having it both ways . Espionage is not evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitle us to a holier-than-thou attitude . " A Right . Espionage is not a virtue when Americans practice it  --  as they do  --  against a foreign country and a crime when foreigners practice it against the United States . In varying degrees , it is standard practice in the world we now live in. and this fact should temper our moral indignation . But I believe that much more needs to be said . Let 's not let the magician 's left hand distract our attention from the real spy danger . The real danger is not primarily the spying of Soviet agents planted in the United States . The real danger is the enemy from within  --  not the Soviet Communist agents , but the American citizens who , because they are Communists , have given over their loyalty , allegiance , and devotion to the Soviet Government . The Communist Party in the United States , as in France , as in Italy , as in Britain , as in every independent country , is seeking to elect and to infiltrate its members into office in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation and in order to carry out the purposes of a foreign power . Let 's not forget that Whittaker Chambers was not an official of a foreign government ; he is and was an American citizen who , because he was a Communist , was acting as the agent . of a foreign government . The following is not from the House Un-American Activities Committee ; it is from Lenin : " We must be able to with -- stand all this bourgeois opposition to communism , to agree to any sacrifice , and , even , if COMCRAUS POOL NAVE ... L. A TOCION-rimr ** ME Our PROM 44EMINO MORE need be , to resort to all sorts of stratagems , artifices , illegal methods , to evasions and subterfuges , so as to get into the trade unions and governments , to remain in them and to carry on Communist work in them at all costs . " Is that the worst ? The following is not from the " imperialist press . " It is from the constitution of the Third international . Consider what the Communist Party in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet sources : " Every party must renounce social national patriotism . .. and pacificism . " Every branch and member of the universal Communist Party is pledged to indulge in national treason in case of war with the Soviets  --  no matter who , in such a war , should be aggressor . " Each affiliated party is obliged to render every possible assistance to the Soviet republics . " The object of the struggle , which must inevitably turn into civil war , is to obtain political power . Eventually the proletariat must resort to armed uprising . . . . The party must adapt itself to the idea of the Soviets . . ... " A A A                     