@@709174

txt DETROIT , Jan. 2 ? President Truman was warned today by a spokesman for the employers of 350,000 workers in the automotive and aviation parts industry that the successful operation of the " ability-to-pay " theory as a basis for future wage scales would foredoom small business in the United States . The final result of such a method of determining the level of wages , the President was told by Frank Rising , general manager of the Automotive and Aviation Parts Manufacturers , Inc. , would be the evolution of a monopolistic manufacturing system in the country . Since such action in the present circumstances would come about with the endorsement of the national administration , Mr. Rising 's letter to the President was taken here by many leaders as constituting a danger signal against a possible socialistic trend . The " ability-to-pay " theory has // been advanced by Walter P. Reuther , vice president of the United Automobile Workers , CIO , in his fight to " open the books " of the strike-bound General Motors Corporation to sustain his case that wages should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek a method of settlement of the General Motors and other existing or impending strikes , President Truman held that such agencies had the right to look into the secrets of a corporation to determine its ability to pay , although he declared that such revelations should not be made available in general to the public at large or to competitive corportions in particular . General Motors withdrew from the hearings before the fact-finding board in its own case , alleging usurpation of legislative power in the putting forth of what it called a new concept of labor-management relationship . Such a change , General Motors said , should rest wholly with the Congress . Mr. Rising told President Truman that the association believed that " the position taken by General Motors on the question of ' ability to pay ' was fair , straightforward and logical , and that " the decision to be made by you and the people of the country , and by their Congress , is of utmost importance . " " The gravity of the question as it concerns the public welfare can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he declared that the " ability-to-pay " theory , if adopted , " may have very serious destructive effects on our companies . " Mr. Rising told Mr. Truman that the letter represented the position of 403 automotive and aviation parts manufacturers on the situation arising from the forty-threeday-old General Motors strike . Meanwhile , a report originated in New York City today that General Motors had offered to settle its strike on the basis of a wage increase , across the board , of 17.5 per cent in the hourly rate . This was denied " categorically " by Charles E. Wilson , president of General Motors , and laughed at by officials of the UAW . Negotiations between the UAW and General Motors , it was stated by Harry W. Anderson , corporation vice president , will be resumed Monday afternoon . Mr. Reuther is in Washington to attend a meeting of UAW , United Electrical Workers , and United Steel Workers representatives with Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , tomorrow . Negotiations between the union and the newly-formed KaiserFrazer Corporation will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford Motor Company will be taken up on Monday after a holiday recess . MR . RISING 'S LETTER The text of Mr. Rising 's letter to President Truman follows : This letter Is written to discuss the situation arising from the General Motors strike and subsequent appointment of government panels . It is written on behalf of the automotive parts plants , of which 403 are members of the undersigned association . Our companies make the wheels , carburetors , axles , valves , piston rings , spark plugs , radiators , and all other constituent parts of automobiles , trucks , and tractors , sell these parts to General Motors , Chrysler , Ford , and all the other vehicle manufacturers . In normal times the parts companies employ about 350,000 persons , and the factories are situated in some 30 States . Most of these companies are relatively small in size , the majority having less than 600 employes each . Our smallest member employs 37 persons . We have been proud of the record we made in war production , and are very anxious to get back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all have been gravely worried by the course of affairs , and we believe that you will welcome a brief exposition of our views at this time . Our manufacturing employers accept and adhere to the law of the land which provides for the right of American labor to bargain collectively through its own representatives . The parts companies have contracts with many unions affiliated with the AFL and CIO , and there are current some 250 contracts with one large union , alone  --  the UAW-CIO . Yet today we feel that these relationships are endangered by the policy which is being pursued by some of the unions and which is approved to some extent by your fact-finding panels . GM Stand Called Fair We believe that the position taken by General Motors on the question of " ability-to-pay " is fair , straighfonvard , and logical , and that the decision to be made by you and the people of the country , and by their Congress , is of utmost importance . The gravity of the question as it concerns the public welfare can hardly be exaggerated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have very serious destructive effects on our companies . If this principle is established , a General Motors or a U. S. Steel would inevitably drain off from other shops and factories the cream of industrial labor , and in the end there would be but one big company in each industry . We believe that It is recognized by you , Mr. President , but perhaps not by the public generally , that even in good years there are many sound and going companies which do not make a profit . This is true for a variety of reasons , and is not concerned with the relative efficiency of management . We think it should be pointed out , too , that wage scales seldom are immediately affected by temporary recession in business . In this connection , we think it is fair to recall your statement that , after all , wages are paid out of earnings and that therefore earnings must be considered in connection with wages . May we respectfully point out that wages can be paid entirely out of earnings only when there are profits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surplus or previous earnings , so that the period of unprofitable business will not cause a reduction in wage levels . It should be remembered that all of the present discussion takes place in days which , are very unusual . We should pause to calculate the effect of " ability-to. pay " in normal times , when fluctuations in trade bring slightly more sales and profits in one year , slightly less the next . These periods , as noted above , ordinarily witness no serious change in the wage scales , but under " ability-to-pay " a continuous and disturbing instability in wage rates would result . It seems to us that there are only two courses which the union policy may take in the future , if the " ability-to-pay " theory is adopted . These courses obviously are : 1 . After the setting of the wage scale for General Motors , all other companies would be expected to match those rates despite any relative inability to pay , or 2 . The " ability-to-pay " theory would be aplied , resulting in a variation of wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union adheres to the theory that the same wage for a designated classification should be paid by all companies in the same industry . The War Labor Board followed this policy , with allowance for geographical and interindustry differentials . Consequently , it is to be expected that the union would insist upon " ability-to-pay " being used for the largest and most successful company in each industry , and " equal pay for equal work " for all other companies . This , we feel , would most certainly result in the speedy disruption of the entire industrial economy . We feel sure , Mr. President , that you want to help the individual to remain free to exercise his incentive and ability in the traditional American fashion , under a system of law and justice . That is what we want to maintain . We hope most earnestly that in the light of more complete facts you will realize the fairness of these statements , and we , further hope that you will call upon the Congress to undertake restoration of industrial peace through a revision of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and justice . We feel that this communication to you , and the subject matter which it discusses , is of such importance as to warrant our bringing it to the attention of the Congressmen and Senators and others interested in this momentous public issue , and we trust that we may be honored with your views . In closing , may we offer our help in any way in which you think it might be used , in finding a fair and reasonable solution to our common problems .                     