@@710948

txt France today , rejected the Soviet Union 's note after a Cabinet discussion had con : eluded that its terms were " unac .. 1 ceptable . " The Soviet note as published in Moscow announced the expulsion of the French repatriation mission from Russia , claimed to recall the Soviet mission that the French say they expelled , and in reprisal for what it called French unilater al annulment of the repatriation accord , broke off negotiations for the delivery of wheat to this country . It warned the French Government against " hostile acts con-1 trary to the spirit of alliance and mutual assistance , " saying that it ' , held France " responsible for , the consequences . " The head of the French repatriation mission in Russia accused his Government of a " systematically malicious attitude " toward Moscow , saying it hqd plotted for the last Wee months to expel the Soviet mission in France , The Associated Press reported . Both the Soviet attitude , as expressed in the note , and the French reception , indicated that a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance between/ the two countries against future German aggression . L'Humanit ? Scores " Insolence " The French charg ? d'affaires in Moscow was instructed today to return the note to the Kremlin because the text was published prior to its transmission here and because it contained an inadmissible reference to French internal policies . That was in the phrase asserting that the French Govern-1 mont had sought to mislead French ' public opinion on the subject of the true position in France . As a precursor of Soviet reac- ' tion , an editorial in the Communist newspaper l'Humanite , to ap- pear tomorrow declared the action of the French Cabinet was marked by " unspeakable vulgarity and insolence . " It added that " on orders of American billionaries. the French Government is moving , like Brazil and Chile , toward breaking relations with the Soviets . " Informed Government quarters here also commented that Moscow 's charge that the accusation against members of the Soviet repatriation mission in France was " foul slander " was wholly unfounded . The French position goes so far as to involve Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to describe the departure of the twelve Soviet officials as expulsion . Regret is expressed that the Soviet Government should have seen fit to mix these questions with commercial exchanges and to break off the wheat negotiations , which are considered here as beneficial to both countries . However , - the failure to obtain wheat from Russia will not prevent the French bread ration from being maintained at the present rate in view of United States deliveries and prospective French collections , it is stated here . Many quarters in France see the dispute less a quarrel over technical missions in these two countries than a pretext seized upon by the Soviet Government to express its resentment first with the course Of recent events in France and , second , with the growing anti-Russian sentiment in this country . They link it with the trend in the Council of Foreign Ministers in London , where the French have sided with the Western powers against the Soviet Union more wholeheartedly than ever before . They foresee that the Soviet Union , in its efforts to convince the German people of the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annulment of the alliance that Charles de Gaulle negotiated in Moscow while the war was on . At any rate , the present situation is viewed as a definite turning point in French relations with the West and as opening the way to important developments in the international field . It has taken years and much discouragement from the Soviet side to work this change in French diplomacy . In the Governments subsequent to M. de Gaulle 's in France , the trend has been even slower . The last act of the Ramadier Cabinet was the raid on Camp Beauregard , the Soviet repatriation center ; this was followed under Premier Robert Schuman by the arrest and expulsion of some nineteen Soviet citizens for subversive activities during the strikes . This precipitated the present crisis with Moscow . The French contend that these moves were made necessary by the conduct of the Soviet representatives in France . They hold that the expulsion of the additional twelve members of the Soviet military mission was in keeping with contingencies . The Soviet Union , in a note . delivered to the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recall its mission , it is declared .                     