@@707266

txt Price control is a " remarkable success " despite the fact that food costs increased 21 per cent in the past year , William H. Davis , Chairman of the National War Labor Board , said today . With this pat on the back for the Office of nice Administration , the NWLB turned down a general wage increase asked by 1,000,000 workers in the nation 's shipyards . Even while the NWLB was " holding the line " on shipyard wages , the Office of War Information , in the first of a series of monthly roundups on the battle against inflation , pointed out that with rent controls , established in 370 as eas , price controls placed on 97 per cent of foods and wage controls , Americans , even after bond buying and tax paying , will have more to spend this year than last and to spend It on , " This , " Government information chiefs said , " could lead to a bidding for scarce goods which would force prices up and break controls unless everybody pulls together . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Federation of Labor Metal Trades Department , and the Congress of Indust ' ial Organizations ' International Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers , had asked a 9 per cent general wage increase and a further payment of 5.83 per cent of one year 's wages to meet rising living costs , Mr. Davis denied that the NWLB had broken faith with shipyard workers in not giving them wage Increases under the shipbuilding stabilization agreement of June , 1942 . Under the agreement , the workers agreed to forego wage increases to width they were entitled upon the plea of President Roosevelt that the increases ' iyere " irreconcilable with the nitiohal policy to control the cost of living . " The NWLB Chairman denied that skyrocketing food prices was sufficient reason for breaking the " Little Steel " formula on which it allows wage Increases . " We do not agree that the Government has in any sense repudiated any contract with the shipbuilding workers or any assurances given to all wage earners , " Mr. Davis declared . Single Exception " We think the policies Announced , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and with the single exception of food prices , have been remarkably successful when we take into account the tremendous readjustment in the national economy.that has been brought about since the spring of 1942 under the war program . " It is clear , " Mr. Davis added , " that food costs have gotten out of line with the general stabilization policy . This does not mean that stabilization has failed . " On the contrary , this single ex ? ception , when contrasted with the control of all other items of the cost of living , proves that the policy has , In general , been a suc-1 cess . " The sound conclusion Is not that the policy should be abandoned but that it should be held on to , while giving particular attention to better control of the cost of food . That is precisely the policy that has been followed by the Government . " Between May and June of this year ceilings on fresh vegetables , price roll-backs on meat and but ter , and better enforcement at groceries brought the first decrease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his point that , outside of food , the price stabilization program has been a success , Mr. Davis cited the Bureau of Labor Statistics cost-of-living index which rose only 3 per cent between May , 1942 and May , 1943 , when food was excluded , In the previous year it rose 11 per cent . About one third of the wage earner 's money usually goes for food ,                     