@@706435

txt Rationing of gasoline along the Eastern seaboard became effective at midnight last night for most motorists , but card-holders faced aifficulty in buying gasoline today because many filling stations had sold their entire quota for the first two-thirds of the month and will not be able to replenish their stocks until next week . The end of the registration and card distribution period last night saw a reversal of the demand evident earlier in the week for cards entitling the holders to substan- ' tially more than the minimum ration of three gallons a week . About 2,500 such cards were surrendered in New York City alone for less liberal allowances and many other similar exchanges took place at other registration centers from New England to Florida . On orders from Washington , a special registration board was set up yesterday in the regional headquarters of the Office of Price Administration in the Empire State Building , to grant X cards to a selected group of members of the American Women 's Voluntary Services . 125 to 150 Get Coveted Cards On Wednesday a number of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 150 were in the group getting the coveted cards , entitling them to unlimited purchases . It was explained that those getting the cards are engaged on confidential work on assignment of military officials . At the same time Westchester officials were complaining that many members of their volunteer defense organizations were resigning because of a threatened cut in their gasoline supplies and addressed telegrams to Albany and Washington asking for relief Due to an acceleration of the efforts of car owners to get their tanks filled before the card rationing system became effective a number of additional filling station pumps went dry during the day . Many others that were not dry posted signs announcing they were discouraging shoppers from stopping to buy a gallon or two . John Dressler , president of the Gasoline Dealers Associations of Bergen County , N. J. , predicted a " gasless " week-end for many communities as a result of this rush to stock up . Many Stations to Close Saturday Similar forecasts were made by many other dealers , some of whom planned to close Saturday as well as Sunday so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a card guarantees them the right to buy the specified amount of gasoline . As a means of discouraging dealers from refusing to sell gasoline to card holders who are not regular customers , the text of the rationing regulations contains a provision that says : " No dealer , dealer outlet or supplier shall discriminate , in the transfer of gasoline , among consumers lawfully entitled to acquire gasoline pursuant to ration order No. 5 . " Many dealers , particularly hidependents , have been threatening to refuse fuel to any but known customers because of the additional restriction on their own supplies that becomes effective today . They had been receiving two-thirds of their normal supply , based on past years ' experience , but now get only half . The return of liberal-allowance cards began simultaneously throughout the seventeen Eastern States in which card rationing goes into effect today and caught many officials by surprise . A large number of the returned cards were of the X variety , entitling the holder to buy in unlimited quantities . The next largest batch of returns consisted of those in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to July 1 . James W. Danahy , Assistant Federal Rationing Administrator for New York City , said the offers to exchange the X and B-3 cards for lesser allowances started almost as soon as his office opened for business yesterday . About 100 were waiting in line to make the exchange during the noon hour . All were told to go back to the school where the card was obtained and make the exchange there . Among those making the exchange was Bernard M. Baruch , chairman of the War Industries Board of World War I from which the present War Production Board is patterned . Mr. Baruch 's chauffeur had obtained an X card at School 6 on Eighty-fifth Street near Madison Avenue on the plea that Mr. Baruch was in the government service and needed his car for frequent conferences with Federal officials . When he discovered this , Mr. Baruch took the card back in person and asked for an A card , calling for the minimum of three gallons a week . " We 're not going to get anywhere with rationing  --  or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they believe they have got to do their best to win the war , " he said . " The country needs gasoline for vital services . I came to New York sixty-two years ago and I hoofed it then . I can hoof it now . " Many of those returning X cards for cards in the B series or A cards explained that the school teachers serving as registrars insisted " that I take the X card , " Mr. Danahy said yesterday . Others said that a mistake had been made . The change of heart suffered by some did not dull the intention of authorities to check statements made as the basis for getting B and X cards . Dr. John E. Wade , acting superintendent of schools , suggested yesterday in a letter to Lee S. Buckingham , acting Federal rationing administrator for New York City , that windshield stickers identifying motorists as B , X or A card holders would help in obtaining universal observance of the rationing regulations . Motorists who looked hopefully to Washington for an easing of rationing restrictions obtained small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a press conference of the possibility of extending the rationing area , which now covers seventeen Eastern States , to other sections of the country as a ' means of conserving rubber but added that there was no need for such rationing " from a petroleum point of view , " except in the Pacific Northwest , where restrictions similar to those in effect here are expected to be put in force by June 1 . Mr. Ickes reported that railroads and the petroleum industry had set a new record last week in moving 652,000 barrels of petroleum products eastward . He also expressed approval of suggestions that the government subsidize the oil industry to cover at least part of the additional costs resulting from wartime operations . Transportation costs are reported to have gone up about $79,000,000 and war-risk insurance by another substantial amount . Mr. Ickes also announced that a third application will be made next week to the WPB for the priorities needed to obtain steel for a 1,500-mile pipe line from Texas to the New York-Philadelphia area . Similar applications have been twice rejected . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A slight easing of restrictions was made by the OPA in its first amendment to the gasoline - rationing regulations . In addition to dropping the so-called " twilight " zone between rationed and unrationed districts , this amendment provides for supplementary rations to motorists caught away from home with their cars on May 15 and to those who change their residence and need additional gasoline to move their cars to their new homes and also for persons transporting children to and from school if the children are too young to walk and other methods of transportation are not available . The amendment also provides that persons needing gasoline for vehicles actually engaged in defense activity under the official supervision of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps or Coast Guard may receive it upon presentation of official identifications and that the military services and . Federal lawenforcement agencies may receive X cards for their officers and employes performing duties requiring secrecy . Meantime there also was talk in Washington that widespread chiseling on rationing cards may result in cutting the present threegallon allowance to a smaller amount , while in Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Office of Defense Transportation , was reported by The Associated Press as expressing a belief that sightseeing and race-track buses may be barred from the streets to conserve fuel and tires . Joseph B. Eastman , director of the ODT , in Chicago warned that an adequate supply of synthetic rubber will not be available for at least three years . An ironic bit of comfort for motorists was contained in an announcement from the War Production Board in Washington that it was imposing restrictions on antifreeze preparations for automobile radiators . Production of these solutions takes substantial quantities of various alcohols . The production cut ordered amounts to 50 per cent but even with the decrease , the announcement said , the supply " will probably be adequate for the reduced number of automobiles in use . " If the card rationing system does not increase the number of cars taken out of use , it certainly will reduce the number of gasoline stations available , the Eastern , States C - so .. 1 . ? Dealers Conference declared in a resolution adopted yesterday at a meeting at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ card rationing is thoroughly unsound and has led already to wholesale charges o. : cheating and conniving , " the resolution said . " It will result in pressure on retailers to evade its provisions and will not secure equitable division of gasoline for all . " They asked for a return of the dealer rationing system in effect for several months . They also asked for the appointment of a special Senate committee to inquire into the petroleum situation and asked that full control of the gasoline situation be vested in the Office of Petroleum Coordinator instead of being divided , as it now is , among five separate agencies . The conference also asked that all ' available transport facilities be pressed into use to supplement the gasoline supply here and asked that inquiry be made into the feasibility of diverting some of the tank cars now supplying other . sections to the East coast service even though this action might require a mild rationing elsewhere . The dry pump situation that threatens to make a pyrrhic victory of the achievement of some motorists in getting B-3 and X @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gasoline Limitation Order L-70 . This order provides a method for computing the quota of each dealer and provides that a supplier may not deliver more than one-third of a monthly quota every ten days . The quotas are based on the adjusted normal gallonage demand for separate months . Many dealers , particularly those whose gallonage is small , received their full second-third quota shortly after May 10 and since they sold it all will not be able to obtain any more until May 19 or 20 , depending on their supplier 's delivery schedule .                     