@@711144

txt AID VOTED SWIFTLY House Passes , 318-75 , $6,098,000,000 Bill for Europe , East SENATE IS ALSO QUICK Conference Compromise Unchallenged  --  Spain Ignored in Action By FELIX . DELMER Jr . Special to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , April 2 ? Congress passed and sent to the White House today a $6,098,000,000 foreign aid program without precedent in peacetime history . Built around a four-year program of European economic recovery for which it authorized $5,300,000,000 in the first twelve months , the measure provided supplemental military assistance for China , Greece and Turkey . Final action by the tvA legislative branches came on adoption of a conference report resolving differences between the House and Senate versions . The House acted first , approving the report by a vote of 318 to 75 with less than 15 minutes of explanation . The Senate followed suit soon afterward by a voice vote . Only minor changes were made in the legislation by the legislative negotiators in the final meeting which adjourned a few minutes before last midnight . Total aid to China was held to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of military assistance to $125,000,000 and cut economic aid to China to $338,000,000 . A total $275,000,000 was authorized for military aid to Greece and Turkey . This was supplemental to the $400,000,000 voted to those countries last year . It was intended to bolster the government 's battle against Communist aggression in the one country and the // threat of it over the Dardanelles questions in the other . In the Howie , Representative John Vorys , Republican , of Ohio who managed the legislation on the floor , said it is to enable the United States lo " wage peace while preparing for war , " voting for the bill were 167 Republicans and 151 Democrats . Against it were sixty-two Republicans , eleven Democrats and two American Laborites . No effort was made to restore Spain to the list of nations eligible to participate in the European Recovery Program . Senate adoption of the conference report was even more perfunctory . Chairman Arthur H. Vandenberg of the Foreign Relations Committee explained such changes as had been effected since - the measure left the Senate in piecemeal fashion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was all set to make a foreign policy speech , but was dissuaded by Senator Vandenberg to delay it until the measure was passed . Administrator to Have Charge Although slightly beyond the April 1 deadline set by the Administration , final action on the legislation was well ahead of the crucial elections in Italy in which the Communists are expected to make their major bid for power . As finally agreed to , the measure placed the recovery program under the direction of an Economic Cooperation Administrator at the head of an independent agency to be called the Economic Cooperation Administration . The administrator will draw a salary of $20,000 a year , and is to be assisted by a deputy administrator at $17,500 . A special representative abroad will draw the same pay as a chief of mission . Intended by the Administration to be administered by the - State Department , the program was removed about as far as possible from the working jurisdiction of that agency . The Secretary of State is permitted only to appeal to the President in matters of foreign policy if he disapproves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriation of $4,300,000,000 and directs the administrator to raise the other $1,000,000,000 from sale of notes to the Treasury Department . The smaller amount is earmarked for loans through the Export-Import Bank and for guaranteeing the convertibility of foreign currencies into dollars for the benefit of American enterprises investing funds in furtherance of the program . Pending Congressional action on an appropriation bill , the omnibus measure makes available $1,000 , - 000,000 from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for loans and grants to the sixteen western European countries that are to participate in the recovery program . Additional amounts of $50,000 , - 000 each to China , Greece and Turkey are made available from the same source pending action on the appropriation . Although assisted by a Public Advisory Board , the Economic Cooperation Administration has the final voice " in consultation with " the National Advisory Council in determining whether assistance to participating nations should be in the form of loans or mints or a combination of both . The Bretton Woods Agreement Act is amended to make the administrator a member of the National Advisory Council along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the head of the Export-Import Bank , The Council is the top coordinating agency for Federal financial policy in the international field . The administrator is authorized in determining the form of assistance to consider " the character and purpose of the assistance and whether there is reasonable assurance of repayment , considering the capaCity of such country to make such payments without jeopardizing the accomplishment of the purposes of this title . " Although called upon to administer the loans , the Export-Import Bank is absolved from responsibility for terms and conditions which will be prescribed by the Administration in consultation with the National Advisory Council . Neither are loans supervised by the bank to be held against its maximum lending authority under its organic act . In agreement with participating ' countries , the Administrator is authorized to require repayment of loans or grants in strategic materials in short supply in this country so as to facilitate stockpiling of critical items . He is empowered also to direct the Secretary of State to negotiate agreements for the development of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procuring commodities and equipment , the Administrator is in-structed : " 1 . To minimize the drain upon the resources of the United States and the impact of such procurement upon the domestic economy , and " 2 . Avoid impairing the fulfillment of vital needs of the people of the United States . " The Administrator is instructed to satisfy any demands for petroleum from resources outside the United States . He is required to purchase the surplus agricultural commodities of this country except where one participating country has a surplus available for transfer to another participant or where the surplus here is required domestically . Although the measure commits the United States conditionally to participation in a four-year program through June , 1952 , it makes it necessary for Congress to authorize and appropriate every year . In other words , besides providing the money for each year 's commitments Congress will have to renew the basic authorization . While seeking to restrict trade between eastern and western Europe in materials subject to United States export controls , the final draft of the bill modified the Administrator 's embargo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to the President provides : " The Administrator is directed to refuse delivery insofar as practicable to participating countries of commodities which go into the production of any commodity for delivery to any nonparticipating European country which commodity would be refused export licenses to those countries by the United States in the interest of national security . Pledges of Self-Help Included " Whenever the Administrator believes that the issuance of a license for the export of any commodity to any country wholly or partly in Europe which is not a participating country is inconsistent with the purposes and provisions of this title , he shall so advise the department , agency or officer in the executive branch and , if differences of view are not adjusted , the matter shall be referred to the President for final decision . " To prevent a repetition of LendLease experience and the continued delivery of materials long after termination of the assistance program , the measure provides that deliveries shall terminate automatically on cessation of any aid program . Congress adopted and wrote into the authorizing legislation the pledges of self-help and mutual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Committee for European Economic Recovery . Providing generally that all participating countries shall put their houses in order economically and financially , the pledges will be emboth ed later in a multilateral treaty between the ' United States and the Continuing European organization . Renewal of the pledges through the treaty will be a condition precedent to any aid from this country , as will a separate bilateral treaty between the United States and each of the participants . The latter will be intricate and specific ; whereas the multilateral pledges will be general : - Failure of any participant to live up to its pledges and more specific commitments is made justification for termination of further aid , and the continuity of assistance to European countries is made contingent on . the continuity of self-help and cooperation all around . " The legislation contains a blanket termination clause designed to anticipate political conditions beyond the control of participant nations , such as a loss of or limitation of sovereignty through Communist aggression . To remedy this , it is provided that aid may be terminated when , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the national interest of the United States . " - Within three months of the effective date of the - legislation all employes of the Economic Cooperation Administration must be screened by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for loyalty to the United States and must be certified as such by the Secretary of State or the Administrator , acting independently or on the basis of the FBI findings . The omnibus foreign aid measure contains provision for a $60 , - 000,000 contribution to the International Children 's Emergency Fund of the United Nations and $20,000,000 for rehabilitation in the free territory of Trieste : The latter funds are authorized either from ERP or the unappropriated balance of the European interim aid authorization.                     