@@710783

txt In 1927 the Bishop of Ripon created a sensation at the Leeds meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science by advocating a tenyear cessation of scientific and engineering research so that a breathless world could catch up with the laboratories . The scientists were outraged , and so was the public . Yet now come scientists suggesting that we postpone ilhe development of atomic power houses so as to simplify the international control of uranium and its uses . The suggestion appears in their testimony before the Special Senate Committee on Atomic Energy . It has appeared more than once in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists . It appears in the current issue again in the form of an article by Prof. David F. Cravers of Harvard Law School and an approving editorial . The sum and substance of the argument is that neither the United States nor Soviet Russia lacks coal , and that if we prohibit the 1 development of atomic power at the cost of demolishing Hanford and Oak Ridge until a safer stage is reached in the evolution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be reduced to negligible proportions , with the probability that the way would be cleared for disarmament . Very different is the tone of the speech that David E. Lilienthal delivered at Detroit yesterday . There is no suggestion of a moratorium . Like others who have studied the possibilitiep of uranium and thorium , he warns us that we must not expect a full-sized atomic power plant for ten or twenty years , but only because of the scientific and engineering problems that still remain to be solved . Who is to solve these problems ? Private competitive companies . In his opinion , " unless American industry and American engineering skills become an active living pant of the Atomic Energy Commission 's undertaking , the expectations and the needs of this country in this field will be inevitably doomed to disappointment . " This does not mean that the Government is to relinquish its control over uranium or fail to supervise private atomic power companies , but it does mean that , short of maintaining secrecy where secrecy is desirable for the time being , economic and technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate an atomic power plant should be freely disseminated . Which of these conflicting views is right ? We can be sure of this much : The public may not understand the difference between fast and slow neutrons and the part that they play in an atomic pile , but it knows what it wants . From the very beginning its imagination was fired by the prospect of smokeless cities and of wheels turned in some mysterious way by the heat given off in a pile as neutrons do their work . It is willing to wait a decade or so for the development of the first big atomic central station  --  more than time enough for the nations to come to some agreement about the use of uranium 235 and plutonium in war  --  but it is not willing to wait until the scientists have decided when a moratorium on atomic power should be abandoned .                     