@@704854

txt Preparations for eiepansion of aircraft production continue to play an important part In the national defense plans . Packard Motor Car Co . Is ready to spend $30.000.000 putting Its plant in shape to produce the Rolls-Royce Merlin aviation engine for the U. S. and Britain , contracts for which are being negotiated . The defense program as It now stands is understood to call for aircraft Industry plant expansion of 6500,000.000 . Large additions to the nation 's shipyards also are contemplated . ( Page three . ) From Tas WALL Srnenr JnI  --  AsAL Detroit forma DETROIT ? Packard Motor Car Co. will spend approximately 630.000,000 to expand and equip its plant for production of aircraft engines if pending contracts are closed with United States and British authorities . This was announced yesterday by M. M. Gilman , Packard president and general manager . Contracts now under negotiation call for an initial order of 9.000 Rolls-Royce Merlin aviation engines , Around $150,000,000 is involved . This total provides for tooling costs as well as the delivered cost of the engines . The tentative contract also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After the contract is signed . Packard can be in production within 10 months at a monthly rate of 20 engines which will increase rapidly to 840 monthly by the end of the following five months . 14,000 New Workers When this maximum total is reached , Packard will have added approximately 14.000 new workers . The company 's automotive operations require 10.000 employes Directors of Packard will meet Monday or Tuesday to approve terms of the contract. - which still is subject to final approval by the British Purchasing Commission and the National Defense Advisory Commission Most of the expansion expense will be for machinery , tools and production equipment , Mr. Gilman said , with probably the only new buildings being test sheds . Approval Anticipated While it is anticipated that the directors will approve the contract . Mr. Gilman stressed that the order hinged upon agreement on terms between the company and the United States and British authorities and that no final agreement yet had been reached . He also emphasized that the airplane engine building program would not interfere with the company 's automobile business in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early autumn as usual . How the expansion program will be financed and amortized are questions not yet answered , Mr. Gilman declared , but he said that there would be no trouble in obtaining whatever funds were necessary and that amortization of production expense was one of the details remaining to be settled in Washington The 9.000-engine order now being negotiated with Packard is the one rejected by Ford Motor Co. when Mr , Henry Ford learned that 6.000 of the engines were to be built upon direct order of the British . Mr. Ford maintained that he had made it clear from the start of the negotiations that he would build only on behalf of the United States and under no circumstances for any foreign power . Ford Experimenting The Ford engineering department has been busy for many weeks with preliminary work and experiments on the Rolls-Merlin engine and has found several means to simplify its production . This engineering data will be turned over to Packard engineers , a Ford spokesman said . Meantime , Ford is continuing its airplane engine study and roughly 300 men in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Ford believes that eventually his tremendous River Rouge plant facilities will be needed to produce airplane engines under the national defensL.rtygram and he is making all preparations , a of actually tooling a plant , to be ready when he is called upon .                     