@@705731

txt Hitler Is Plotting Peace Drive Here With Pacifist Help , Mayor Warns Mayor La Guardia declared yesterday that Hitler was now laying the groundwork for a series of peace proposals through representatives of a peace movement in this country , to mask his ultimate objective of dominating the entire world . The Mayor made his statement to forty South American educators en route to the University of Michigan , who stopped at the Summer City Hall yesterday afternoon . He would not disclose the source of his information but said it was entirely reliable and would be announced soon . Within the last few days , the Mayor said , a representative of the German Government in Washington had disclosed the peace proposals of the Nazis to members of an organized American peace movement . When the German Embassy in Washington was questioned about this ? statement yes-. terday  --  it denied that any representative of the German Government had made any such proposals to anyone in America . The State Department said it had no knowledge of the proposals mentioned by the Mayor . After notifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Summer headquarters , Mayor La Guardia received the group at 4 o'clock . The ties between North America and Latin America , he told his visitors , were becoming stronger because of their mutual desire to retain their own institutions in the face of a menace to the Western Hemisphere . Declaring that there could be no blending between this desire and the philosophy of dictators , the Mayor continued : " For some time there have been subtle . attempts to influence the life and the very form of government on the part of the dictator countries here in the United States as well as in the sister Republics of Central and South America . This propaganda hags been going on for a long time . We , naturally , are rather liberal , permitting the complete expression of thought in our country and perhaps even a little too indifferent to what has been .. going on . It has reached a point now that in natural selfdefense , we must take notice of this kind of propaganda and must be able to analyze it and to understand it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Let me give you a- specific example of this subtle propaganda . It is so timely because this new attempt or this new program has been started in our own country within the last few days . " Hitler considers himself victorious because of his conquest of such powerful military countries as Denmark and Norway and Holland and Belgium and Croatia and Greece , so that now he feels that he can dominate not only Europe but the whole world . Hitler is now and at this very moment , through his agents , seeking to exploit wellmeaning , well-intentioned , peaceloving citizens in our country and in Central and South America as tools to get across what may be announced very shortly as the Hitler Peace Proposals . Charges Talks in Capital " Not very long ago  --  a few days ago  --  in Washington a representative of the German Government disclosed the peace proposals of the Nazi government to representatives of a peace movement in this country , with instructions to try it out and to prepare the foundation for its reception when it will be laid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noticed it  --  and in keeping with this very plan , statements have been made within the last few days in Italy and in France , both countries controlled by the Nazi government , for both countries have lost their status as free and sovereign nations  --  both countries being under the domination of the Nazi government  --  but within the last seventy-two hours statements have been made in France and Italy of the ' blood ties ' with Central and South America . This is the forerunner of the socalled Hitler peace proposal , to take in and to control commercial , political and military life of Central and South America . " Declaring that the plan had several " sugar-coatings , " the Mayor said it called for a " United States of Europe " giving autonomy to the various countries of Europe , perdeleted 2 lines Mayor pointed out that kitler doiminth aeucoonnomofic focontrol trade , ed the the could control world trade . " The plan is , first , the control of trade , end second , by reason of the control of trade , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First you would have a commercial mission coming down , then you would have a financial mission , followed , as in Europe , with military missions to get bases . " Mayor La Guardia declared that the peace plan was not bona fide in any sense , and was - intended merely to deceive those to whom it was offered . He said the thinking people of this country would see through it at once and expressed the belief that the rest of the Western . Hemisphere would take the same position . Describing Hitler as " an irresponsible fanatic , " the Mayor said the entire Western Hemisphere would refuse to permit him to dominate . the world . The group of educators was headed by Dr. Joseph A.-Buisley , dean of the University of Michigan .                     