@@708706

txt Having swapped German domination for what they call " Russian liberation , " the Czechoslovaks today wearily hope for an immediate and radical change in Moscow 's political and economic policy toward the nation . The signs of national discontent ? in part also directed against the American " occupant " ? have been amply demonstrated to this correspondent during a nine-day tour of Czechoslovakia by automobile , which took him far behind the Russian lines and has just been completed . The national discontent in common with similar sentiments in other European countries today , both co-belligerent and enemy , is increasing rapidly in direct proportion to the growing lack of food , which is spreading despite the homeric efforts of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration , the International Red Cross and several Russian relief agencies , which are sparing neither man nor beast in their almost hopeless battle against incipient starvation . Complicated by Varied Policies In Czechoslovakia , I found the situation characteristically complicated by the diversity of the occupation policies being applied by the Anglo-Saxons in the west as far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the west the policy was one based on a broad camaraderie and " we will help you to restore order in your own house provided you pitch in and help . " In the zone under Russian control there appears to be a scarcely veiled determination to effect a sort of " voluntary Sovietization , " ' particularly of the industrial centers , by the application of direct politico-economic pressure . At this juncture , scarcley a month after the end of hostilities as this policy has accentuated a national stagnation to the point of almost total inhibition of the country 's own efforts toward rehabilitation . Without some self-help from the Czechoslovaks no power on earth will be capable of restoring either order or industry in that part of central eastern Europe . My tour , which took me some 2,500 miles , gave me an ample opportunity to study at first hand the effects of the Russian stranglehold on Czechoslovak economy . It is true that militarily the capital , Prague , and many other large towns have been " turned back " to the central Czechoslovak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Prague , for instance , this restitution has been accompanied by a token occupation of about three divisions on the outskirts of the town . Further control of Prague is effected by the mere fact that not a single green vegetable can go into the city from the surrounding countryside unless it is moved in with Russian permission . This permission , as far as I could gather , has been almost invariably forthcoming . There have been " incidents , " however , when , according to my informer , the Russians wished to " punish " certain towns for fancied or real grievances and food movements were held back for periods of varying duration . The lack of green vegetables in the larger cities incidentally has led to a distressing prevalence of scurvy , particularly among the younger children , which is now being tackled by the Russian medical services . This tendency on the part of the Russian military authorities to treat the Czechoslovaks generally as " bad children " who still need political education , applied militarily if necessary , is , psycholog ically speaking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet spread to the extent of inspiring " racial laws . " It is even doubtful that should the Czechoslovaks wish to do so , the Russians would let them . But the antipathy directed against foreigners can not be ignored . This contention can possibly best be illustrated by a description of a mobilization rally I attended last Wednesday evening in a town not far from the capital . My interpreters at that meeting were both Czechoslovak and neutral and their reliability was beyond any question of doubt , politically or otherwise . The occasion was a meeting for the recruiting of volunteers for the new Czechoslovak Army . Speakers came from all political walks , for the Russians are encouraging the reorganization of the liberal political party , as well as trade unions , throughout the areas under their control . In passing , let it be said that as far as I could ascertain beyond the compulsory registration of the leaders of these parties with Russian authorities no control whatsoever is being exerted . Carried away by his own eloquence , one speaker  --  who incidentally received the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cat out of the bag at one point when he cried : " ' Our country has been liberated , ' you say to yourselves , ' therefore we need only an ' army capable of maintaining our national sovereignty and nothing more . ' Well ! I tell you right here and now : our army must be much stronger than that . It must be strong enough to drive our liberators from our gates and keep them out . Czechslovakia must return to its countrymen ! " Some of this national discontent can be discounted as possibly justified . There have been cases of looting and worse among the complaints leveled against the liberators . There have also been cases of apparently wanton destruction long after the military expediencies would seem to have warranted it . And all this the Czechoslovaks quite naturally resent and then make no bones about their feelings . But when the same speaker released storms of applause toward the end of his speech by appealing for action so that " the Government may take over itself the delicate task of restoring the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both American and Russian occupying forces . Negotiations Under Way The Czechoslovak Government " is planning to cut short the length of the Russo-American occupation of Czechoslovakia , and the Government believes that the Czech forces will shortly be able to take over from the Soviets and Americans , " the London radio reported yesterday , quoting a London Observer correspondent from Pilsen . " According to the Czech plan the Americans will withdraw from Czechoslovakia as soon as the Red forces leave the country , " continued the broadcast , recorded by the Columbia Broadcasting System . " The Soviet occupation zone in Czechoslovakia is larger than that of the Americans , and the Russians plan to remain in Czechslovakia for six months . Negotiations are in process to shorten this period . " After the withdrawal of Russian occupation forces , small Soviet units will remain in strategic Czech airbases , in accordance with last year 's agreement between Marshal Stalin and President Benes. "                     