@@709418

txt Seldom has a peace conference been prepared in a more unpromising atmosphere than in the one which prevailed among the great powers this week . The preliminary conference opens in Paris on April 25 . As the day drew nearer the attitude of irreconcilability adopted by both Russia and the United States was unrelieved . Only Britain showed signs of hunting for some possible meeting ground . But Russia continued to ask for things which western diplomacy is unwilling to grant . And the ' United States State Department let it be known that it would prefer separate peace treaties to peace on Russian terms . Major Diplomatic Move This iexpression of the American position was the major single diplomatic development of the week . It was a drastic move , su drastic that London promptly repudiated it , without however , repudiating the purpose behind it . London Foreign Office circles went along with James F. Byrnes . United States Secretary of State , up to a point . They agreed that the stabilization of Europe is an urgent matter . They agreed that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that if it can not be achieved on compromise terms , then it should be made clear that failure to reach peace treaties is due to Russia 's position . Where they differed was only over a point of strategy . They doubted the wisdom of using the threat of separate peace as a bargaining weapon at the conference . And they were disinclined to look upon separate treaties as constituting a practical alternative to real treaties . At the same time . London could only welcome the intransigeance of Mr. Byrnes ' position for it served every immediate British interest . Mr. Byrnes was unwilling to concede a single Russian trusteeship over Tripoli , or a Russian naval base in the Dodecanese , or a Russian military grip on the Dardanelles , or Yugoslav sovereignty over Trieste , or abandonment of a western outpost in Austria  --  all things which Russia appears to be demanding with a stubbornness equal to that of Mr. Byrnes . The net effect of it all was that Mr. Byrnes prepared to take ' off for Paris with a suitcase full of " noes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved every specific " no , " but wished that something conciliatory might be added , although with no very specific idea as to what it could be . The official Byrnes ' thesis was that peace must be based on a fair exchange , and that no fair exchange is represented in a settlement which would add to the eastern Europe already built into the Russia orbit the further grant of a Russian military position in the Mediterranean are . Behind this lay the assumption in western capitals that Russia already has frozen the West so completely out of eastern Europe that to ' give it any more would threaten the addition of western Europe to the Soviet orbit and thereby cause the greatest conceivable danger to world peace . Stated in its simplest terms , Mr. Byrnes was ready to wage diplomatic battle for western Europe while the British questioned , not his purpose , but only the wisdom of stating his position so drastically before the conference opens . What could come out of this line-up of rigid attitudes was the great and unresolved question of the week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fundamental weakening of Mr. Byrnes ' hand by emasculation of the draft in the House of Repre sentatives was not changing Mr. Byrnes ' own personal position . He had less potential strength behind him , but he continued to play his hand as though America 's military strength remained unchanged . A the other western nations watched this spectacle of Mr. Byrnes championing its cause against the appearance of Russian expansionism , they only wished that American assumption of a world role in diplomacy would be matched by an equal assumption of responsibility in economic matters . They noted Washington 's reluctance about drastic food relief measures , and its political inclination toward inflation and only hoped that American leadership would not be canceled out by dwindling military strength , by unwillingness to use food as a diplomatic weapon , and by a price rise which would close the American market to Europe during the period of recovery from war devastation . Meanwhile , there was one trouble spot in the world where America was not leading the majority of the Allies against Russia , but was alone facing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chief of General Mac-Arthur 's Military Government Section in Tokyo , staged a caltuhated " filibuster " in the Allied Advisory Council for Japan , which the other members of that body resented to a man . The Council had asked for in- formation on the de-indoctrination of Japan . They asked for the oocuments . General Whitney came to the Council , took the seat at the head of the table , and prOceeded tn read every document on the subject , in full . When the Council tried to have hire leave the documents , he declined and persisted in reading a list of over 1.000 names and organizations , first in Japanese and then in English . The British delegate called it an effort to reduce the Council " tu ridicule . " All the delegates reported to their home governments that they had been subjected to deliberate indignity . Back at General 117acArthur 's headquarters , there was disagreement as to the wisdom ' of General Whitney 's action . Some applauded . Others wondered if it had been wise or necessary to treat the Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to whether General personally approved . The question remained whether General Whitney had given Mr. Byrnes something to bargain with at the Paris peace conference , or the Russians , a new idea on how to treat Allied control bodies . Conceivably Mr. Byrnes could offer the other Allies more cordial treatment in Tokyo if the Russians would pay more heed to others in the countries they control . On the other hand , no Russian supreme commander has yet treated the representatives of his Allies with such manners . They might cite it now as a precedent for less courtesy in the countries which they control .                     