@@707815

txt About 1,400,000 German civilians have been trained to use rifles and revolvers in defense of the Reich , according to an announcement on the German xadio today . Thus almost exactly four years after the formation of the British Home Guard in the face of the threat , of a German invasion the enemy is belatedly instructing civilians to meet a similar onslaught from the base of Britain . It is significant that the guarded statement by the German radio does not admit that civilians have been armed , but merely that they have been instructed in marksmanship and the handling of small arms . The final week of instruction will be known as the " defensive shooting course of the German people . " A review of German newspapers and magazines in the last six weeks shows that the enemy 's main preoccupation is invasion from the west . Estimates of Allied strength in the invasion and of the effect of tactical bombing on the German counter-offensive overshadow discussions of the Russian front . Despite this , propagandists are trying to assure the world that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Helmuth Suendermann , deputy press chief of the Reich , told foreign correspondents in Berlin that the German man in the street was expecting coming events " calmly . " At the same time the enemy is belaboring two points  --  first , the " completeness " of German defensive preparations in the west ; second , the " omnipotence " of Field Marshal Gen. Erwin Rommel . Yesterday the world was told of " hedgehogs " off the European coast . Today it was treated to a description of Netherland defenses . According to the Wehrmacht , German Army newspaper , large areas of the Netherlands have been flooded . Underwater barbedwire entanglements strengthen the flooded areas , and those buildings , that still show above water have been turned into " nests of resistance . " Trenches have been dug in lightly flooded areas to trap motorized units while barbed-wire entanglements have been constructed to catch " invasion barges and rafts " in these areas . The same report adds that in the areas where flooding was either unnecessary or impossible Netherland canals have been turned into anti-tank trenches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German morale for the invasion even more than in the last three months . The general 's every move is chronicled by the newspapers . He recently told German commanders of western garrisons , " We . shall win , " in a speech published and broadcast throughout the Reich . He counseled officers to employ all their " modern arms " to repel the invasion . Shortly before Rommel arrived to make his speech , the defense area had been heavily bombed . According to a German war correspondent , the ground around the coastal batteries was torn up by bomb craters but little damage was done to concrete walls protecting the guns and the guns themselves . A direct hit had been scored on the dome of a concrete ' bunker , causing temporary deafness of gunners , according to this reporter . A. special corps of German sharpshooters is being trained " to pick off the commanding officers of each wave of invading ' troops as they hit the beaches , " the Berlin radio said last night , according to the National Broadcasting Company . The broadcast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were being equipped with special rifles with new telescopic sights . While most of the propaganda pouring out of the Reich at present has no basis in fact , some of the reports " seem " logical . It would be unwise , for instance , to think that the Germans , the most martial race in Europe , have failed to fortify the coast of the Netherlands extensively . Similarly , Allied observers are willing to admit that many of the German defensive positions are immune to all bombing but direct hits by the heaviest bombs and shells , and even though he was defeated in Africa Rommel still represents hope of victory or at least a negotiated - peace to the German people . Hence the policy that places him continually before the German people is wise from the standpoint of Hitler 's propagandists . The weather over the Strait of Dover tonight was good , with visibility extending ten miles . There was a high ceiling with broken clouds and the sea was calm . The temperature was 48 degrees tonight , with the barometer falling . High @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M.                     