@@707657

txt Not in two generations has anything as spectacular . in the field of commercial iniperialisni been proposed in the United States as Harold Ickes ' 1,200-mile Government pipe . line through the heart of Arabia . The proposal has . alreadY encountered praise and attack and seems . headed  --  fOr a nation-shaking controversy . ? ? " ' Many . Americans who are startled by the proPosal are keeping their , minds . open , realiiing that the full argument , . pro and Continued on Page 8 , Column A con , his ' not been given . Some observers who have f ? llowed the liberal NeW . Deal through all its deviations , profess now to see a. similarity with the days of Thomas Jefferson , one of Mr. Roosevelt 's particular ' heroes . Mr. Jefferson ' negotiated- the plexed by the proposal . Secretary Frank Knox deviated from Lend-Lease testimony yesterday to defend the $50,000,000 pipe-line scheme . " We are building a pipe line in China now , " he said . " This is the same thing . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil man who was chairman until last fall of two companies holding important Persian oil concessions , attacked the proposal again yesterday . The attack stems largely from fear of Government ownership and control in the world oil field . Thus there is now extended into the international sphere the same apprehension which has distinguished domestic American politics since Roosevelt 's advent . Nations Need Oil Mr. Ickes will probably present his formal case next week . On certain facts most people are now agreed . All industrial nations need oil ; the bigger they are , the more oil they need . Practically every other major government , for reasons of national security , has imoosed greater oil control , by regulation or outright ownership , than the United States . The result is that the foreign oil business is not conducted on a free enterprise , competitive system , preferable as that might be to American interests . World oil trade is conducted on a cartel system . Several governments , like the British and Dutch , participate- as direct operators ; American oil companies are direct competitors with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign field have had bargaining done for them by the State Department , or have received concessions through government intervention . Many Big Problems While an overall world oil agreement would be the ideal way of meeting the issue , short of that , the cartel system seems destined to grow . Some of America 's biggest oil companies in the foreign field , like those represented by Mr. Moffett , are ready to compete with all corners for world markets . But this poses the question , too important to sidestep , of whether it is better to have international diplomatic dealings conducted by private ? companies with foreign governments , or by the United States Government itself . All these subjects are involved in the Arabian oil deal . Mr. Ickes has been on . good terms with the American oil companies down- to the - present . Their mutual admiration has been the wonder of . Washington . Even the Petroleum Reserves Corporation , set up to handle such matters as this , was ' originally . popular with the oil companies . Its proposal for the 1,200-mile Arabian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Staff and the Army-Navy . Petroleum . Board . Oil Firms Suspicious Oil companies , however , are now suspicious , on the ground that Mr ... Ickes is seeking Government ownership of the Arabian pipe line and a greater degree of Government control of this and other extensions than has heretofore existed . Under Mr. Moffett , 55 oil companies have joined in attacking the proposal . The proposal , is defended , of mune , by the American-oil coin 'm panies - for which -1 the  - -  Petroleum                     