@@705123

txt Concerning Slum Clearance Recent Statements of USHA Head Held to Have Been Misinterpreted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Two statements made by Nathan Straus , Administrator of the USHA , while addressing the American Institute of Public Housing recently , have been characterized by an important officer of the New York Real Estate Board " as obviously intended to mislead the public . " The points in question are : ( 1 ) That " every cent the USHA loans to local authorities to build projects is repaid with interest " ; ( 2 ) that the " slum clearance program requires demolition of unfit dwellings , step by step , as new homes are completed . " This , however , is not the first instance where one 's own confusion has been attributed to another . It should be noted that in the first contention Mr. Straus intended to dispel the widespread misconception  --  for which , incidentally , real estate officials have been in large measure responsible  --  of lumping together loans and subsidies in assessing the cost of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inform his audience that a maximum of $28,000,000 in annual contributions , designed to reduce the rent in housing projects to levels which the low-income groups can afford , was appropriated in conjunction with the loans . It is true that the report of the address in TEE NEW YORK TIMES does not mention this directly , but in it there is a reference to Mr. Straus 's assertion that " it costs the government $1.65 a month to take an individual out of the slums . " The second contention may not have come " as somewhat of a surprise " if the author of the criticism had taken the trouble to inspect the act or study its administration . All that is required by the law is " the elimination by demolition , condemnation and effective closing or the compulsory repair or improvement of unsafe or insanitary dwellings situated in the locality or metropolitan area substantially equal in number to tip number of newly constructed dwellings provided by the project . " If projects are erected on vacant sites the local authority is required by the USHA to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ( b ) that it is done in connection or compliance with this provision . And while an expanded program , if not obstructed by real estate boards , eventually contemplates the eradication of all " rookeries , " it need not necessarily proceed by the immediate tearing down of whole neighborhoods of slums . With the exceedingly low vacancy rate that now prevails throughout the country , such a course would precipitate an unprecedented housing famine that could only redound to the benefit of landlords and real estate operators because of soaring rent levels , as well as those who myopically see a hope of having their well-nigh worthless property investments bailed out by the government . Slums have remained because people needed to live somewhere . Slums will disappear only when decent dwellings at rentals that present slum-dwellers are able to pay are available . Every one who has seriously reflected on housing problems has learned to appreciate the validity of this truism . Naive or deceptively speciou , proposals may often be rewarded with public acclaim , and only when they are translated into action do we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , that those who are interested in public housing have learned to suspect their new self-assumed friends who have arrogated to themselves the task of preventing the " damning of the cause of housing in the public mind . " LLOYD ROSENBAUM . Brooklyn , Oct. 22 , 1940 . Fascist Activities Here Professor Salvemini Replies to Charges of Inaccuracy in Report To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issue of Oct. 22 I have been honored with a letter from a gentleman who signs himself John F. X. Brown and with a " filler " giving the thoughts of Luigi Criscuolo with regard to a report of mine on Italian Fascist activities in the United States . Mr. Brown brands as " inexcusably defamatory " my statement that " the Italian-speaking Catholic priests , with rare exceptions , are carriers of Fascist propaganda in the United States . " To support his condemnation he makes it known that he had never heard before of the institution which published my report , and points to the fact that for the past two years THE NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , only institutions already known to Mr. Brown and only people publicized by THE NEW YORK TIMES can be right . Mr. Criscuolo digs more deeply into the matter . He writes : " Those of us who have had intimate relationships with the Roman hierarchy for years know that fascism and Fascist agents have never had any standing with the hierarchy . " I am too inconspicuous a man to have had intimate relationships with the Roman Catholic hierarchy . Therefore I do noi. know whether fascism or Fascist agents have ever had any standing with that body . My point is that , standing or no standing , almost all the Italianspeaking Catholic priests are carriers of Fascist propaganda in this country . Whoever has any knowledge of what life is in the " Little Italics " can testify to the truth of my contention . Just a few days ago a high American prelate , speaking with a friend of mine , told him : " Do n't try to get in touch with Italian priests . They are all Fascists . " Mr. Criscuolo finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascists . He reckons that , assuming that there are 10,000,000 Italian-horn in the United States , there must be 500,000 absolute Fascists here . I beg him to take notice of the following facts : ( 1 ) There have never been 10,000,000 Italian-born in the United States . According to the American census of 1930 , there are 4,600,000 , of whom Mussolini claims 4,150,000 as his subjects . ( 2 ) When one speaks of a people engaged in political activities one has to put aside the new-born babes and most women ; thus the mass from which my 5 per cent are drawn amounts to no more than 2,000,000 people . As a consequence , my 5 per cent Fascists all over the United States amounts to about 100,000 persons . This is my estimate , " if I might venture to give definite figures on phenomena which by their very nature are fluctuating and nebulous , " to quote my own report . I have to add that not all those 100 , - 000 Fascists are of the same caliber . There are among them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred leaders , lay and ecclesiastical , were to be deported to Italy , the whole Fascist machine would collapse . GAETANO SALVEMINI . New York , Oct. 24 , 1940 . Town Hall Debate Audiences Effort Is Made to Preserve a Balance in Distribution of Tickets To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; Since the matter of the audience attending the Willkie-Jackson debate on Jan. 6 , 1938 , has been raised again and again , and as I find upon investigation that my memory was at fault in answering your reporter 's questions last Thursday night about the number of tickets issued for this meeting , I will appreciate it if you will allow me to set the record straight . Mr. Willkie and Mr. Jackson were originally scheduled to participate in a Town Meeting at Town Hall on Thursday evening , Dec. 9 , 1937 , to discuss the subject , " How Can Government and Business Work Together ? " According to our custom , we began to give out tickets free to the public for this meeting , dividing them equally , as nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tremendous interest was generated by the announcement of this program , and , according to those responsible for the distribution of tickets , no other meeting before or since brought so many requests . To meet the convenience of one of the speakers , the program was postponed to Jan. 6 , 1938 . During the time between the first announcement of the meeting the third week in November and the date when it finally took place more than nine hundred tickets were distributed to the public . Two hundred of these went to Mr. Willkie 's office with the first date and two hundred were sent later stamped with the eon. rect date to replace the others . Shortly before the meeting Mr. Willkle 's office informed us that they had run out of tickets with the correct date and asked if they could change the date on the first lot and use them also . ( A checkup later revealed that not more than ten or fifteen of these tickets were used . ) I had the assurance of those who actually distributed the tickets that more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ler bor groups in the city which would balance the attendance of those who received tickets through Mr. Willkle 's office . Although more than thirty-two hundred members of our morning lecture division were entitled to admission to the Thursday evening broadcasts ; " ar two and one-half years the al/creole attendance of these members had been less than seven hundred . On the occasion of the Willkie-Jackson debate twelve hundred of these members were in the audience . As the hall seats only fifteen hundred , only three hundred seats were left for nonmember guests , a situation which had not occurred before , nor has it occurred since . Our records show that there were one hundred and twenty-three standees and two hundred who listened over a loudspeaker in the north dining room of the To- , vn Hall Club . Several hundred , including morning lecture members , were turned away . For five years it has been a source of considerable satisfaction to Town Hall that the audiences have been so evenly balanced in their support of speakers , and that on the whole they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be recalled that this discussion took place at a time when there was considerable tension between government and business , which would account in some measure for the behavior of the audience . Town Hall never has had and never will have any part in " packing " the house one way or the other . Such a thing would be most detrimental to our self-interest and to the purpose for which Town Hall exists . On the contrary , we take every possible precaution to see that every audience for a Town Meeting is carefully balanced . To our great pleasure , Mr. Jackson has appeared on two subsequent Town Meetings , one last April with Dr. Glenn Frank on " What Are the Essential Differences Between the Republican and Democratic Parties ? " each time before normal Town Hall audiences . GEORGE V. DENNY Jr. , President , Town Hall . New York , Oct. 29 , 1940.                     