@@711415

txt Housing Shortage to Ease In Year , Survey Indicates Moses Calls on Savings Banks and Congress to Aid  --  Ross Urges Public Projects , Real Estate Group Backs Private Industry By WILLIAM M. FARRELL The housing shortage , here will ease appreciably in the next year , but earnest efforts on the part of Government , financiers and builders are necessary if the improvement is to continue . This is the consensus of experts , including Robert Moses , who see the situation from a variety of viewpoints . The bright aspects of the picture , Mr. Moses pointed out , are apparent to anyone who travels about the city and neighboring Long Island , Westchester and New Jersey . Rows of tiny bungalows are going up , and larger one-family homes are under construction everywhere , while big apartment houses and garden-apartment communities are being erected in the city and in suburban communities where once they were rare or unknown . The brightness dims noticeably when rentals and prices are considered , but nevertheless the new construction will provide for thousands of families . With available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed the present rate of housing construction , the City Construction Coordinator said . But he pointed to large-scale moves that are necessary to improve the city 's ability to win the constant battle against obsolescence and to meet the needs of the growing population . Savings banks , Mr. Moses said , have failed badly to contribute to the construction of new housing . Excepting the Bowery Savings Bank , he asserted , they have refused to meet an obligation to help in the development of the community they serve . " They are public institutions , " Mr. Moses said , " and of course they ought to protect the dimes and dollars of the poor who are their depositors , but they ought to invest locally . I believe it is almost time to have public representation on their boards of directors  --  by the State Banking Commissioner , perhaps . " The Veterans Administration also should devote more of its re // the present volume of dwelling construction . " If people were willing to leave locations close to ' transit and move to outlying sections such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Y. , they will find accommodations available at rents as low as possible for new buildings being built under today 's conditions . " Mr. Ross , who is chairman of the New York Tenants Councils on ( Rent and Housing , differecli- from both Mr. Moses and Mr. Koppel on the part Government should play in housing the lower-income group . He called for public production of housing to whatever extent it is needed to provide homes for those unable to pay the rentals charged for new private housing . In this group he emphasized those earning $50 to 870 weekly . Mr. Ross had no personal estimate of the amount of new housing needed , but pointed out that various governmental bodies had placed the figure at a minimum of 150,000 units for families now living doubled up . He emphasized , as did Mr. Moses , that new homes would have to be found by about 10,500 veterans now living with their families in Quonset huts and converted barracks . These places give privacy , and can be pleasant in good weather , but they are deteriorating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide for the city 's population with anything approaching adequacy has been estimated variously . Points that may be taken into account include high marriage and birth rates in recent years , and increased demand caused by higher general employment rates . According to Mr. Koppel and others in the real estate and building field , estimating the exact need is somewhat academic ' because building is going on now as fast as labor and material supplies permit . However , one gauge was suggested in a recent report of the City Planning Commission . This report noted that from 1920 through 1939 the population increased by 1,834,948 persons and 947,396 new dwelling units were built . Without looking into the number of buildings demolished , or the quality of those allowed to remain , this had the practical effect of producing about one new dwelling unit for each two persons of population increase . In 1940 there were plenty of vacant apartments  --  the- number was estimated at 170,000 , though this includes some of seasonal character . Had the same ratio of building to population increase been maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been built . The Consolidated Edison Company , in a survey just anHOUSING SHORTAGE SEEN EASING . IN ' 49 // sources to the construction of new housing , Mr. Moses declared . It has . done pretty well with singlefamily homes , he said , but shouldl do more to spur the building of multi-family developments . Congress , the official went on , has spent enough time studying the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill and should adopt it promptly to help with slum-clearance and public housing for the poor . It should also extend the powers of the Federal Housing Administration to help private builders : Mr. Moses continued . Speculative builders , he went on , are doing all they can , but should be better regulated so that construction standards will be good and site planning and accessibility to schools and other facilities will receive due consideration . Being concerned with the development of highways and other long-term city improvements , Mr. Moses declared that the cost of rehousing persons living in the path of these developments should be realistically considered a part of the total cost of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this relocation vary , but a surprisingly effective one is simply to offer a tenant a cash payment and free rent for a reasonable period if he will find his own new home . Rehabilitating unused buildings is costly , but offers definite possibilities when not complicated by laws that would restrict a private landlord on tenant selection or impose uneconomic rent ceilings , Mr. Moses said . He declined to estimate the number of new dwellings needed to ease the housing shortage in the city . On this , as in the matter of public housing , he took a position between those of Paul L. Ross , former chairman of the City Rent Commission , and Arthur D. Koppel , a private real estate operator who is vice chairman of the Metropolitan Fair Rent Commission . Mr. Moses maintained that , with the added features he specified , the housing condition of the city would improve steadily . He made it clear that he was not aiming merely at a return to a " normal " ( situation , which has traditionally included congested and substandard neighborhockds . Putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of schools , parks and other improvements , he said it would take far less than a decade to ease the pressure of doubling up among families and to make a reasonably adequate supply of housing available . As signs that the process already has begun , Mr. Moses noted that there has been a sharp decrease in tl number of complaints from families living , against their wishes , with relatives and friends . Also applications for eviction certificates now come in to the City Rent Commission at the rate of about eighty a day , against 100 or 120 formerly . Mr. Moses was eager for a resumption of slum clearance , which has been shunted aside by the New York City Housing Authority so that building may proceed while occupants of substandard housing can not quit their dilapidated dwellings . But he declared that the city 's production of self-sustaining housing to rent to veterans at $16 to $18 a room a month was " no Solution " of the housing problem . Here Mr. Moses was in partial agreement with Mr. Koppel . But Mr. Koppel went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step toward socialization , not only of housing , but , of the other essentials , food and clothing . " Public housing can not produce . one more dwelling unit than private housing , and can not do it as speedily or economically , " Mr. Koppel said . " There is not one pound of building material that is not being used today , nor are there sufficient mechanics available even to handle flounced , estimated the population rise in this city at about 550,000 , to a total of 8,005,000 . The City Department of Housing and Buildings reports that from 1940 through 1947 new construction added 108,336 new dwelling units ? apartments in two-family houses and apartment buildings , and single-family houses . 4 This would leave a minimum need , as of Jan. 1 , of about 167,000 new Were these to have been miraeunits. ulously suratlied , on New Year 's Day , at rents and prices acceptable to tenants and purchasers , they would still have left nearly half a million families living in tenements built before 1900 and more in substandard dwellings that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to the City Plan . ning Commission report . The need , whatever it may have been , has been increasing because of the continuing high birth rate and the migration here of Puerto Ricans and others . It has becn mitigated somewhat by the removal of families going to live in the suburbs . It has been mitigated also by the opening of apartments in Stuyvesant Town , Peter Cooper Village and Riverton , Metropolitan Life , Insurance Company projects in Manhattan , whin when completed I will contain 12,491 apartments ; at Fresh Meadow , New York Life Insurance Company development for 3.200 families in Queens ; by the Trump , Gross-Morton and RothSchenker private developments for thousands more , and by innumerable private apartment projects . The New York City Housing Authority program , for this and immediately succeeding years , calls for about 30,000 apartments in new low-rent , subsidized or partly Ilsubsidized buildings . In the first six months of this ' year , according to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics , private builders started work on 10,609 new units and the housing authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going forward , it has been estimated that the population will increase about 70,000 a year ? births for the last two years were 171,174 and 152,736 , against deaths numbering 80,773 and 78,481 , for a two-year natural increase of 164,656 . To keep up the standards of the arbitrary 1920-1940 building-population ratio of one dwelling for two persons would require another 35,000 units each year , besides those needed to catch up on the backlog of at least 167,000 units . The City Planning Commission re ' cently suggested a rate of production approximating 45,000 units ! yearly as necessary to replace sub ' standard dwelling and accommo , date the rising population . The need is there , if agreement can be reached on who is to carry ' on the work of construction .                     