@@707523

txt A new lend-lease agreement is in process of negotiation between Washington and London . The matter under discussion is not a new over-all agreement but revisions " to meet special problems which have arisen in the circumstances that exist today . " These negotiations coincide with other Anglo-American discussions but are not directly connected with them . These concern , first , modification of the restrictions which were accepted by the British Government as governing British export trade in return for lendlease aid , and , second , British cooperation with the United States in the imposition of economic'sanctions against Argentina . Factors which have made necessary understanding with regard to lend-lease aid include the approaching defeat of Germany and the partial resumption of civilian production and overseas trade which will follow it ; the growth of reverse lend-lease since Pearl Harbor and its still wider expansion due to the inclusion of British raw materials within its scope . Another is the contention of Leo T. Crowley who , as head of the Federal Economic Administration succeeded E. R. Stettinius Jr . as lend-lease administrator , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital goods hitherto supplied under lend-lease. ! Post-War Question Is Raised Such capital goods would include machine tools and machinery . The contention is that British industry is.now fully tooled for war and if it needs machine tools for post-war production it should be prepared to pay for them some of the dollars which , it is argued , Britain has been acquiring . Industrial materials and food would continue , it is understood , to be shipped under lend-lease . As against this , it is believed , the British argue that they have no real dollar surplus when their commitments are considered . The matter of British obligation to restrict its export trade while receiving lend-lease aid has been under discussion for a longer period . In a White Paper issued in 1941 , the British Government undertook not to apply any materials similar to those supplied under lend-lease to enable'their exporters to enter new markets or extend their export trade at the expense of American exporters . No materials of a kind short in the United States and supplied to the United Kingdom either for cash or lend-lease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a few very minor exceptions . As a result of the White Paper undertaking , British export trade , especially to the United States , shrank to attenuated proportions . Now , with the prospect that the war in Europe may end this year , British traders would like to do business again here . Export Drive Is Involved The current issue of Trade and Engineering , a London trade journal , for instance , urged : " Regarding the general question of Britain 's post-war export drive , particularly in South America , it may be presumed that the restrictive implications of Lend-Lease have now been dissipated in the light of the recent government White Paper and other announcements . " The White Paper referred to was issued on Nov. 11 to describe the scope of reverse Lc-nd-Lease , or , as the British call it , " Mutual Aid . " It concluded with the statement : " What we give to the United States in mutual aid in relation to our national income does not fall far short of what the United States gives to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This , it is added , takes no account of " the very large contribution to the external finance of the war made by the United Kingdom for cash expenditures abroad . " The British Government is therefore trying to reach a new " White Paper " understanding which would presumably free British export trade from some of the restrictions which it earlier accepted . As regards Argentina , the situation is that Washington would like for the United Nations to cease buying from her to teach the pro-Axis Ramirez government a lesson . The British Government , it is understood , has not refused but has asked that before such action is taken the consequences be thoroughly considered . This would mean the discussion of such questions as where Britain could obtain the leather , meat and to a lesser extent the wheat which she now gets from Argentina . The British , it is understood , see no comparable alternative source of supply .                     