@@706918

txt The Board of Estimate rejectedI yesterday the pension application of Philip A. Hines , former first deputy city clerk , who resigned on Sept. 5 after Investigation Commissioner William B. Herlands , in a report submitted to Mayor La Guardia , had accused him of improperly accepting gratuities for performing marriages . Denial of the Hines application was voted under circumstances that forecast , in the opinion of persons familiar with court decisions in pension cases , a reversal of the board 's ruling . The vote was taken after the board 's reading clerk had read a report , dated Jan. 13 , submitted to the Mayor by a committee of three designated by him on Dec. 6 to investigate the Hines matter . Copies of the report were placed in the hands of members of the Board of Estimate only a few minutes before the pen-1 sion application came up for con-1 consideration . The report , consisting of an interchange of letters between the Mayor and his committee , headed , by former United States Solicitor General Thomas D. Thacher , en-1 dorsed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city payroll on Nov. 5 as a clerk in the Hospital Department , for the avowed purpose of enabling him to present his pension claim to the Board of Estimate free from any technical defects precluding consideration on its merits . Four Recorded Not Voting A total of eleven negative votes against the Hines application was cast by Deputy Mayor Rufus E. , Controller Joseph D. , Council President Newbold Morris and Borough President Edgar J. Nathan Jr. , of Manhattan . Borough Presidents James J. Lyons of the Bronx , James A. Burke of Queens , John Cashmore of Brooklyn and Joseph A. Palma of Richmond asked to be recorded as not voting . The general sentiments of the board members not voting were expressed by Mr. Cashmore , who declared that he had received a copy of the Thacher report only a few minutes before the roll-call , had had no chance to study it and was therefore not voting , although " in my opinion , on the record , this man is already retired . " Mr. Hines , who is a brother of former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison term in Sing Sing for protect ' ing the policy racket in Manhattan , declined to comment on the denial of his pension application . It is understood , however , that he will take early action to enforce what pension rights he may have . Such action may take the form of an application for reconsideration , a move to obtain a court mandamus directing the Board of Estimate to reverse itself or a suit against the city to enforce payment of the pension . The Thacher report , signed by him and by his associates , former Supreme Court Justice Edward J. and George B. Back , actuary for the city pension systems , made it clear that there was no intention to advise the board concerning action on the Hines pension . The report called attention , however , to the fact that no charges had ever been preferred against Mr. Hines by his immediate superior , City Clerk H. Warren Hubbard , and to the additional fact that he was not dismissed from service , but had resigned . The report noted that the Municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , had approved the re-employment of Mr. Hines and certified the payroll carrying his name . It did not , however , mention the date of that action , which was taken on Dec. 14 , five days after Mr. Thacher , in a letter to the Mayor , had notified him that " if Mr. Hines remains In the service of the city until after Dec. 15 there may be very serious question as to the power of the Board of Estimate at that time to consider any charges contained in the Herlands report in determining whether or not he should be allowed to retire and enjoy his pension rights . " On Dec. 9 , according to the report , the committee received from the Mayor a letter declaring that " I am quite aware of the fact that if Mr. Hines remains in service until Dec. 15 he will be permitted ' to reapply to the Board of Estimate . In the event that the retire ' ment is denied he will then have an opportunity of having his case reviewed in court . Assumed Full Blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reenter city service . I assumed full responsibility for that . Notwithstanding the risk of being misunderstood , misrepresented and vilified , I did not want to deprive anyone of a day in court which the law and the Constitution of the State and the American system grant to everyone , even a person charged with a heinous crime . " The Mayor 's letter then noted that Mr. Hines was deprived of his day in court by the Mayor 's own action in permitting him to resign almost immediately after the Herlands accusations were made , so that he was not in city service on the retirement date set in his first application for retirement , filed Sept. 3 and rejected by the Board of Estimate on Oct. 8 . That defect , the Thacher report conceded , made a pension grant illegal at that I time . The Thatcher committee began to function on Dec. 7 , the day after its appointment by the Mayor , who acted after a number of civic groups , including the Citizens Union , the Citizens Budget Commission and the Civil Service Reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hines to the city payroll . Representatives of these groups were present yesterday but the board declined to listen , before taking its vote , to the only one who tried to speak . He was Samuel Smoleff , counsel for the Citizensi Union . The Board of Estimate 's rejection of the Hines application was voted without explanation by any of its members and without any discussion of the merits of Mr. Hines 's claim for pension rights . Deputy Mayor , after calling for a reading of the Thacher report , criticized those who " through ignorance , carelessness or sheer maliciousness " drew improper inferences about the Mayor 's motives in getting Mr. Hines back on the payroll . The Mayor 's action , he declared , was " realistic , forthright , with the sole object of clearing up promptly and completely a very had situation in the marriage license bureau . " The Thacher report , Mr. added , must " put to shame " the Mayor 's critics . As the board was adjourning Mr. Smoleff remarked that if any false inferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Hines matter had been surrounded from the beginning . " There was n't any secrecy , " Mr. retorted . The Thacher report outlined briefly the chronology of the Hines case . He resigned as of Sept. 3 and the same day applied for a pension based on retirement as of Oct. 3 . On Oct. 8 his request was rejected . Later he asked reconsideration but then withdrew that request . On Nov. 5 he was appointed a clerk in the Hospital Department at a salary of $960 a year and stationed at a city sanitarium at Otisville , N. Y. On Nov. 9 he filed a new retirement application to take effect Dec. 15 . On that date he gave up his city job . In the meantime , on Dec. 14 , while the Thacher committee was investigating the matter , the Municipal Civil Service Commission certified the payroll .                     