@@706345

txt The besieged defenders of Bataan Peninsula today repulsed two onslaughts by the Japanese , in each case after " savage " fighting , the War Department reported tonight . Late reports from Lieut . Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright , received up to 5 P. M. today , stated that the fighting still continued but that " our main line of resistance has been restored and the enemy advance halted . " The Japanese had penetrated the main line , but the defenders closed the gap and caught a " considerable number of Japanese units " in the pocket . Not much detail was included in two communiqu  --  s issued by the War Department , but their contents made it obvious that the battle now in progress was the great attack by the Japanese expected since Lieut . Gen. Tomoyuki Yamashita , conqueror of Malaya and Singapore , was sent to the Philippines to try to complete a job in which his predecessor , Lieut . Gen. Masaharu Homma , had failed , despite overwhelming superiority in numbers . General Homma committed suicide . Foe Has Superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at their disposal troops in overwhelming superiority compared with the American and Filipino soldiers , sailors and militia ; a first-class air force that is unopposed by any serviceable American planes , and control of the China Sea , which prevents rein , forcements or new supplies from reaching the defenders . Despite these factors , General Wainwright 's troops have withstood three days of increasingly intensified attacks with " surprisingly " few casualties and loss of ground that is negligible , consisting only of a line of outposts that had to be abandoned yesterday . The Japanese attacks today were made in force against a defense line that runs approximately fifteen miles across Bataan Peninsula from Manila Bay to the China Sea . Manila Bay is useless to the Japanese because of sustained operation of the American forts guarding the entrance to the bay and certain other units that keep raiding parties from crossing from the western side . On the western side , from the China Sea , Japanese naval vessels can hurl heavy shells into the tip of the peninsula . The Japanese have kept up a fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the defenders ' position on Bataan and of Corregidor , the principal fortified island . In addition , heavy guns planted by the Japanese in the vicinity of the abandoned Cavite naval base today joined in bombarding the island forts , a fire to which the forts responded . Enemy Loses Four Bombers The day also witnessed extraordinary marksmanship by American and Filipino anti-aircraft batteries , which destroyed four heavy bombers . Three of these crashed to earth , while the fourth , according to official reports , exploded and fell into Manila Bay . General Wainwright reported how the Japanese launched two heavy ground attacks in adjacent sectors of his line last night and today . The first attack , he said , was made near the center of the defense positions . In it the Japanese advanced beyond a line of outposts " from which our troops had previously withdrawn . " As this attack came close to the main line , the defenders ' artillery laid down a barrage on the Japanese infantry , " after which our forces counter-attacked and regained possession of the outposts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported , " was begun at 10 this morning ( Manila lime ) . Enemy assault troops , supported by a heavy concentration of artillery fire , advanced against the left center of the line held by General Wainwright 's American and Philippine troops . Savage fighting ensued and the enemy succeeded in penetrating our main line . In a fierce counter-attack our forces closed the line , pocketing a considerable number of Japanese units . These hostile units are n9w being mopped up . " Our Casualties Small Information was added that " Japanese losses are believed to have been heavy , while our own casualties were surprisingly small . " Prior to these attacks the Japanese kept up a harassing form of operations designed to soften the defenders ' positions for the attacks described in the latest communiqu ? . These preliminary operations were described in a communiqu ? issued here this morning . It stated that there had been " aggressive patrol activity on both sides " in the past twenty-four hours but no general action . The Japanese contented themselves during that time with artillery operations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several enemy air raids on our rear installations , beach defenses and troops in forward areas , " this communiqu ? stated . " Intermittent air attacks on our harbor defenses continued throughout the day and night . Enemy bombers were forced by our anti-aircraft fire to fly at extreme altitudes and consequently the bombing was inaccurate and ineffective . "                     