@@708306

txt I One woman was known to have been killed and about 30 other passengers injured , two critically , at 7:45 p. m. last night in a derailment of four coaches of the Chicago &; North Western railway 's Viking passenger train a mile and a half least of Poplar Grove , Boone county . Scores of other . ' Chicago-bound Christmas Eve travelers were jolted as the 12th and 13th coaches of the 15 car local train from Minneapolis and St : Paul , Minn. , left the rails and rolled over a 15 foot embankment In the shape of a half open jackknife . The last two cars also left the rails but rolled to a stop without overturning . Woman Killed Under Coach . The body of the woman was found pinned under the 13th coach . A silvery haired woman , about 70 , she apparently had been catapulted thru a train . window . Wrecking crews ? were sent out from Madison , Wis. , and Chicago . Poplar Grove is 70 miles northwest of Chicago . Every available ambulance and Police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles , together with 25 squads of state police under Capt . Clayton Hamlin , hurried to the scene and removed the injured to hospitals in Rockford , Belvidere , and Harvard . Fourteen persons were hospitalized , in St. Joseph 's and the Highland hospital in Belvidere . Most critically injured of these are Robert F. Miller , 22 , Beloit , Wis. , a sailor , and Arthur Mclnnessey , who gave his address as 64th st. , Chicago . Three men and two women , none severely Injured , were taken to the Harvard Community hospital . Hamlin said railroad crewmen told him the 12th coach apparently hit a broken rail . They showed him a section of about seven feet which had been broken from one of the rails along the single track Wisconsin division right of way . Hamlin called the federal bureau of investigation in Chicago and agents were assigned to make an investigation . First aid to victims of the disaster came from soldiers on leave from the Truax army air field , who boarded the train at Madison . All the injured were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the woman was found pinned . Soldiers Aid Injured . The soldiers climbed into the cars and carried out the more severely injured and placed them on seat cushions on the right of way . Railroad officials said the train was running on time and traveling between 55 and 60 Miles an hour as it approached a slight curve near the Jess Ball farm . They said they had not determined what caused a break in the rail . Hospitals recalled their staffs of surgeons and nurses from Christmas eve parties and they stood by until the injured began arriving by ambulance and squad cars . Red Cross volunteers accompanied an ambulance from Woodstock and helped the soldiers and trainmen give first aid and wrap the victims in blankets . The cold increased the discomfort of the injured while awaiting ambulance stretcher bearers .                     