@@708613

txt With the war in Europe over and VE-Day celebrations finished , Britain is tackling the problems of transition  --  not yet from war to peace ; but from a war in Europe to a war in the Pacific . Already emergency security regulations imposed when Britain was under the constant threat of invasion have for the most part been abolished , including the famous 18-B which withdrew the ancient right of habaes corpus . All detainees under this rule are now been released except one alien who is to be deported . New . censorship regulations to meet the diffei-ent situation are now been issued , though they wo n't come into effect until certain military and naval adjustments connected with the end of hostilities in this theater been put into effect . The problem of prisoners of war is being reconsidered . Germans , it has been announced , will be used to help rebuild the homes which their bombs and V-weapons destroyed . Both German and Italian prisoners are expected to be available on land at least until after this year 's crops are harvested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking , British at all , it is American . It is the problem of redeployment of United States armed forces from the European theater to the Pacific . The American policy at present is to use France and not Britain as a base from which to redeploy the Army and Air Forces bound for the Far East . In accordance with this policy , rear bases of the American Army now situated in the United Kingdom are being closed up and transferred to France . This has given rise to considerable criticism both here and in France . The British , it is conthnded. are in a much better position to continue to support at least a part of the burden of serving ' as a base for another six or . nine months than in France , where the transportation situation is still so bad and where food and raw material shortages cause such a critical situation for the French peaple themselves . The question was asked whether it would n't be better to divide the burden and use existing American facilities already well organized in the United Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of American . men from . Europe out to the Pacific rather than add to the already severe strain imposed on France by the presence of American troops in such large numbers .                     