@@710422

txt GREENVILLE , S. C. , May 14 ? Three written statements in which white men described for the first time in Southern court history how other white men actually lynched a Negro were read to the jury to-1 day in the trial of thirty-one men ' of this community . Thetrowd which filled the court ' room and included 100 Negroes in ' the balcony heard details of how a Negro was punched and clubbed and then given the coup de grace with a shotgun by a man who asked for a third shell after pumping two shots into the victim 's head . Among those who heard the recitals were wives of defendants who sat , some of them , with children in their laps or toddling atl their feet . As was the case on the second // day of the trial yesterday , when presentation of evidence began , the jury was paraded in and out of i'the courtroom to protect it from inflammatory statements . This precaution was occasioned I by defense charges that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had adopted Trojan Horse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induce other Southerners to " talk " on the basis of a common " sympathy " attitude on race prejudice . 100-Year-Old Decision Cited The defense also introduced a 100-year-old court decision in an effort to rule out key evidence supporting the conspiracy count in the indictment . This count is generally regarded as one on which the jury conceivably could compromise . Conspiracy is a common law misdemeanor punishable under state statutes by imprisonment up to ten years . Defense counsel continued to attack the written statements of their clients on the ground that they had been made under threats and intimidation . The prosecution countered by presenting evidence that one of the defendants had sat alone in the police station and typed out his version of the lynching . Twenty-three witnesses and six written statements by defendants were offered today by the prosecution . Written into the record was a picture of taxicab drivers , bent upon avenging an attack by a Negro on another taxicab driver , cruising about this textile city 's streets in the pre-dawn hours to assemble the lynching mob . Through telephone calls and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuel vehicles ) and obtain arms , according to the statements , and an arsenal of several shotguns was assembled , One of the statements told of ; how two taxi drivers discussed I plans for the lynching in a cab , 7. arrying a Negro passenger . Most of Defendants Named Three of the six statements read today described the death of the Negro mob victim . Virtually all of the defendants had been named by the time reading of the six statements was completed . The prosecution has statements made by twenty-six of the defendants , all except three of whom are local taxi drivers . Covered in the statements is the Story of how Willie Earle , Negro , arrested for the stabbing of T. W. Brown , a taxi driver , was taken from neighboring Pickens County jail house at Pickens Feb. 17 and killed on a country road . Five hours after the lynching the taxi driver died of his wounds . When the lynching was over , according to the prosecution 's evidence , members of the mob turned against one another . The statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which prisoners demanded to know what other prisoners had said about them . Three of the prisoners allegedly spent several hours identifying a parade of suspects as members of the mob . Defense attacks on the validity and admissibility of the statements were led by Thomas Wofford and Benjamin A. Bolt , Rainbow Division veteran of WorldWar I and battlefield friend of Father Duffy , famous Catholic chaplain of New York 's " Fighting Sixty-ninth " Infantry Regiment . Both are Greenville attorneys . The first statement read today was that of James Truman Quantrell , who said that at the murder scene he heard two or three shots but did not see them fired . His statement was followed by that of Hubert Carter . He said he questioned the victim about the stabbing of the taxi driver and heard the death shots . The third statement read was that of Charles M. Civington , who purportedly said he heard Ernest Stokes , a defendant , say he wanted to put on the Negro the same scars. " that he put on Brown . " The statement declared that ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front seat and talked nice to the nigger . " It proceeded : " He told the nigger he did n't have long to live and that he should n't want to die with a lie in his heart . The nigger confessed and said he stabbed Mr. Brown . " The statement then said that Hendrix Rector and Paul Griggs , defendants , knocked Earle to the ground and that Fleming beat him in the head with a shotgun . It added that Roosevelt Carlos Hurd Jr. , a defendant , said , " Give me the gun " and that Hurd shot Earle twice and then " asked for another shell , but nobody gave it to him . " The fourth statement was by Walter T. Crawford , which also described Hurd as the man who shot Earle . It stated that at the jail delivery the jail keeper asked that no profanity be used before his wife and someone in the mob shouted " No more cursing . " It named twenty-one of the defendants as being present . The fifth statement was by Marvin Fleming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recorded the victim as crying " Lord , you done killed me " while being beaten with the shotgun butt . The sixth statement was by John B. Merchant , nephew of a textile mill official . He described how he had heard of the lynching plans and drove to Pickens alone to wait* for the mob . He declared that he waited a half a block away from the jail during the delivery . He followed the caravan to the murder scene , he added , came to a stop when the cars turned off the road and then drove away .                     