@@707681

txt The shortest session of the Legislature in many years still dragged toward a close early this morning , after clocks had been stopped at 3 P. M. yesterday . Both houses continued to dispute either routine or agreed legislation . Dominated from start to finish by Governor Dewey , program legislation went through as scheduled . While the legislators were still grinding away , Governor Dewey signed the State soldier vote bill and sent to President Roosevelt a copy of the measure and a telegram commending it to him . Soon after midnight , after passing and sending to the Governor what the Democrats described as an " Albany County ripper bill , " changing the system of selecting jurors and grand jurors in the capital county alone , a measure demanded by the Governor , the Assembly droned through its calendar , while the Senate , its business completed , waited , in recess , for the lower house . With Republican majorities in both houses , the possibilities of the nomination of Governor Dewey for President exercised a preponderant influence . Interest in the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Senate , by a vote of 21 to 23 , killed the Young bill , which would have prohibited an enrollment member of one party from being nominated in a primary election as the candidate of another . Mayor La Guardia had attacked the measure as aimed at him , although he need not have , been affected if he refrained from enrolling at registration time this year . Because Republicans in New York City races for State Sena , tor , Assemblyman , judge and member of Congress who benefit by dual nominations from the American Labor party would have been affected , Senators Baum , Di Costanzo , Halpern and Coudert , from New York , bolted on the measure , along with Senators Williamson of Westchester , Mahoney of Buffalo , Desmond of Orange and Bontecou of Dutchess . The Democrats voted solidly against the measure . The Assembly defeated , through the process of casting only sixtyeight affirmative votes against sixty-four negative ones , a proposal seeking to limit the Federal income tax on corporations and individuals to 25 per cent . The measure would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method of proposing amendments to the Federal Constitution , and , in the form of a resolution , would have had the binding effect on Congress of mandating a Federal Constitutional Convention to consider such a proposal , after adoption by thirty-two States . Fifteen States had adopted the proposal when it came up in the Assembly yesterday . Irwin Steingut , minority leader , opposed the measure as ill-timed , in view of war-time uncertainties , and the majority leader , Irving M. Ives , voted against it . Assemblyman Justice Morgan of Erie , its legislative sponsor , argued that lower tax rates produce a greater yield because of the bonus they give to private initiative . When the resolution got a majority of those present many thought it had passed , but the Speaker ruled that constitutional proposals are treated as bills and require seventy-six votes . With only three dissenting votes , the Senate sent to the Governor the Todd bill requiring industry to pay to women wages equal to those paid to men foe the same work . The Senate also sent to the Governor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , giving local health officers the right to require persons found to be affected either to be quarantined or treated . Judicial District Voted The Assembly sent to the Governor the Duryea bill creating a tenth judicial district on Long Island . rt is composed of the counties of Nassau and Suffolk , now joined with Kings , Queens and Richmond in the Second Judicial District . The measure , prize patronage plum of the session for the Republicans , is a substitute for a proposed constitutional amendment , carrying out the same plan , which was scrapped as unnecessary . The only one of Mayor La Guardia 's anti - gambling bills which emerged from committee , the bill giving wives and children of horse-race bettors the same right of recovery against a " bookie " that the bettor now enjoys , was beaten in the Senate . Program measures which passed either or both houses in the closing hours and went to the Governor were the mortgage moratorium extension , with 4.2 per cent amortization clause ; the supplemental budget , bringing State expenditures up to $375,000,000 for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed by Herman T. Stichman , Moreland Act Commissioner , revising the procedure in workmen 's compensation cases . Debate on the Stichman proposals took up the greater part of the day in the Assembly , with the Democrats contending that the bills were being rushed through . Two Stichman Bills Killed In the course of the six hours of Assembly debate and roll-calls two of the Stichman measures were killed . One , permitting other than lawyers to be named to advise claimants , was beaten by a vote of 64 to 75 . The other , making corporations failing to secure compensation civilly as well as criminally liable , was defeated by a vote of 59 to 66 . Another of the bills attained just the needed seventy-six affirmative votes , against fifty-eight.negative ones . This bill strips the medical societies in Kings , Queens , Manhattan and the Bronx of the right to name the physicians functioning in Workmen 's Compensation cases , transferring the power to the industrial commissioner . In attacking it , Mr. Steingut declared that New York City was again being discriminated against and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement by the people of the city to divide the State so that the city gets a fair deal . " 9rilk Measure Causes Stir The nearest thing to a revolt came when a resolution by Grant Daniels , St. Lawrence County Republican , calling for an investigation of the " milk spread , " received seventy-three affirmative votes on a motion to discharge , against forty-two negative votes . As a result , the Assembly leadership agreed to bring the proposition to the floor for a vote . The proposal passed the Assembly but died in committee in the Senate . The Assembly passed unanimously the Hampton-Devany proposed , onstitutional amendment giving preference in civil service appointments for five years to veterans of all wars , with a superpreference for disabled veterans . The proposal will have to be repassed next year and approved by the voters at a referendum . Also passed was the Dewey proposal for a commission of twentythree to investigate racial discrimination and propose a program for the State which will serve as a l " basie policy . " A special message from the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation , accompanied the measure . Vote Bill Protest Fails Despite a charge by Mr. Steingut that a voting bill was " a Republican trick to toss out as many Democratic and American Labor party ballots as possible in the coming election , " the bill was passed in the Assembly by a straight party vote . It provides that ballots , such as will be cast by soldiers , will be void for a particular office if a vote is cast for the same candidate under two separate party lines . While this counting procedure was for years the rule , it is not in the law now and Mr. Steingut declared that it would be a " shame and a disgrace " if the Governor signed the measure . The Senate passed and sent to the Governor the Molinari bill requiring shops which deal in horse meat to be labeled by an outside sign , but , through an error in drafting , the bill required that the ' sign , rather than its letters , be not less than a foot high and two inches wide . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readable . The Senate also sent to the Governor the Allen bill permitting the sale of a mixture of milk and cream , containing between 10% and 11% per cent butter-fat , under the name of " victory mix . " For Study of Harbor Tunnel The Senate sent to the Governor , the Molinari bill authorizing an appropriation of $10,000 for a study of a tunnel between Brooklyn and Richmond for either vehicular or rapid transit traffic . It also approved two Mitchell bills designed to increase the use of arbitration in legal cases , by providing that the arbitrator may be called upon to decide the facts , with questions of law appealable ? to the Appellate Division . The Assembly sent to the Governor a series of bills revising the law in relations to children 's courts throughout the State . The program had been agreed upon by various welfare groups as well as court officers . Most of the changes were technical .                     