@@707672

txt The Office of Price Administration reduced the rations of all A book holders west of the Allegheny Mountains today to the level of the Atlantic Coast States and sliced permissible mileage of B rations from 460 to 400 miles a month in California , Oregon , Washington , Nevada and Arizona . The reductions , effective March 22 , were made " reluctantly , " according to Chester Bowles , Price Administrator , " but , " he continued , " we are entering a period in which critical demands will be made on our limited supplies of gasoline and we are entering it with supplies that are sharply limited as the result of war demands . " For the three months , April through June , the allocation by the Petroleum Administrator for War of gasoline for civilian use is expected by the OPA to be about 9 per 2ent below previous quarters , although needs , particularly as a result of widespread seasonal agricultural activities , are expected to mount as much as 18 to 20 per cent . " The situation must be faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclaimed . " We can not afford to have farm . tractors idle for lack of fuel , as happened on the East Coast last May . There is no present alternative but to cut rations sufficiently to bring consumption within civilian quotas . " Drive Opens on Black Market Simultaneous with the Price Administrator 's announcement of the ration reductions , his aides in charge of enforcing gasoline rationing regulations started a campaign for " public understanding and public support " of the OPA 's drive to smash the operations of black market gangs . Illegal dealings in gasoline coupons , by means of stolen or counterfeit paper , is draining 2,500,000 gallons a , day from regular civilian channels , according to Shad Polier , chief of the OPA 's Gasoline Enforcement Section . If it were not for the activities of these " crooks , chiselers and human swine , " Mr. Polier said , the . OPA could either raise the value of the A coupon 25 // EAST 'S ' GAS ' RATION EXTENDED TO WEST // per cent , boost the permissible mileage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every motorist in the country another three gallons of gasoline a month . " The big trouble , " Mr. Polier declared , " is that the public does not yet know that ' something new and ' very sinister nas been added " to gasoline distribution , it has not awakened to the part it can play in discouraging black market operators , and it does not know its stake in the need for crushing the black market . Limits to Enforcement Told The enforcement official stressed the need for public assistance in the drive now under way to elimi ! nate the illegal operator , adding that , without the authority and the funds to make test purchases of evidence , " one arm is tied behind us . " To remove this disadvantage , he said , an amendment to the OPA appropriations act , not to the emergency price control law , is needed . Mr. Polier set out early in his presentation to correct what he said was probably popular misconception , namely , that there was black market gasoline . Actually , he emphasized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thieves are able to obtain and distribute . All gasoline is accounted for by the PAW , the said , except , perhaps for " the drippings " which escape from re'fineries and pipe lines . Mr. Polier asserted that the black market operators and the counterfeiters of ratiop coupons included the worst gangs in the country , numbering members in " the liquor , numbers , white slave and narcotics rackets . " lie said r that 101 professional criminals " with records as long as your , arm " had been picked up and arrested in the last eleven days . In the last two months , 245 have been apphrended , he said . " If these people get a bigger hold on gasoline distribution methods , " he warned , " there wo n't be any rationing system . " 