@@707841

txt As the war in Europe approaches a climax , the British Government is striving to make its foreign policy conform both to the imperative exigencies of the war and to the equally imperative demands of the postwar world . Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's speech in the House of Commons and the foreign policy debate which followed it yesterday and today can only be understood if this dual problem is kept constantly in view . Otherwise contradictions which emerge from Mr. Churchill 's speech and its reception by Parliament and press are hard to explain . One Dominant Purpose As outlined by the Prime Minister , Britain 's wartime foreign policy is almost entirely a typical British combination of tradition and realism . The key to almost everything Mr. Churchill said is to be found in the following sentence : " At this time , in policy and in war , our object is the same  --  namely , to beat the enemy as soon as possible " ; and he went on to say , " I am not aware of any action or of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has not been directly related to that single and dominant purpose . " Criticisms which are today being directed against Mr. Churchill 's speech are  --  with perhaps a single exception , that of his overindulgence toward Generalissimo Francisco Franco  --  due largely to failure to appreciate the full im- , portance of this point . Those who know Mr. Churchill best and who have been closest to him in recent weeks and months agree that it is not rhetoric but deepest realism when he declares By Charles Gratke Tr , elgn Edtto , ' of Thu Christmn Selene ! . Voi:tor Shall we split up Germany ? Prime Minister Churchill , before the House of Commons yesterday , made clear that " territorial changes " are not excluded in the plans for dealing with the defeated Nazis . Russian designs  --  not yet clearly articulated  --  are believed to foresee a Germany kept militarily impotent through the fragmentation or the German state . Some segments of opinion , with Wagnerian intensity , contend that it is unwise to break up a nation  --  that if the Germans are denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will never rest until they re-acquire it . " Responsibilities of Liberty " But the reply to this argument is beginning to be heard with increasing authority  --  the argument that the Germans will dislike any peace that is arranged for them . This school of thought warns that after World War I , the Germans proved expert at making the rather bad treaty of Versailles look a great deal worse than it really was . ? Any peace of sufficient sterness to correct the basic conditions thigh caused the present war will oubtless have to be " imposed . " he criterion is not whether the , ermans happen to like it , but ' hether , in fact , it will set them n the road to understanding the responsibilities of liberty " which . ould entitle them to the enjoy-lent of liberty . The phrase " responsibilities of liberty " is that of Secretary of State Cordell Hull . lie and other diplomatists in recent months have I used this and similar words to modify the Atlantic Charter . The Charter pledges to all peoples the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they will live . But it is being made clear that this right can not be extended , as Prime Minister Churchill has pointed out , to nations which " do not value freedom themselves . " The objective is clear . Yet it is still necessary to determine the form of control for Germany which will make it possible to divorce tyranny and slavery from their concepts of government . ' Decentralization ' Proposed The Royal Institute of International Affairs in Britain has de ! voted extensive inquiry to this I problem . Its consultation groops have arrived at the conclusion that the " political unity " of Germany must be assumed " as a matter of principle . " This is another way of saying that no attempt should be made to dismember Germany . to divide it ' up into completely independent states . But the Institute studies make an important reservation . They find that " decentralization " would be desirable . Acceptance of this distinction opens the way for ether students of international affairs who are coming to believe that the solution for Germany is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What Germany needs is the development of a democratic tradition . It can not be imposed . But what can be done is to create the conditions from which it can grow  --  to create the opportunity for the nation to gain political experience . Steps to Local Autonomy How can ithe done without giving unregenerate elements in Germany a chance to again endanger the peace ? A federal system could provide a wide range of local autonomy  --  the fullest opportunity for the Germans to begin the redevelopment of a social consciousness in the modern liberal sense . It could also provide centralized federal control , with either Allied or international retention of the final powers . until conditions permitting the transfer of those powers to the Germans themselves were demonstrably established . Such a proposal faces the basic question of whether nationalism has become so deeply engrained in the German political scene that it can not be rooted out . Some sin-dents believe that it has , But from my own experience in Germany both before and after Hitler I have felt that the weight of argument lies with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can indeed be exorcised . Strident Nationalism There are far greater trends toward " particularism " than is generally realized . Many a German recalls that the greatest cultural accomplishments in his tradition sprang from a period in which the individual states were politically dominated . The strident nationalism , which has come to be so characteristic of Germany . has had great elements of artificiality . It flared briefly in the days which led to the revolution of 1848 , but was almost completely wiped away in the reaction which engulfed this premature liberal movement . Bismarck himself , when he welded the Reich together in 1871. used nationalism , not as an objective . but as a tool . It was the weapon by which he made the other states subordinate to Prussia . Similarly the Nazis intensified German nationalism for reasons not necessarily related to any congenital German feeling . Again nationalism was made into chrome-hardened weapon eliminate political resistance  --  this time to the Nazi one-party system . States ' Rights ignored The last vestige of " States ' Rights " was swept away , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because no kind of political thinking could be tolerated opposition to German Fascism . A federation of German states  --  including the breaking up of Prussia from which the dominating military thought has sprung  --  would not , of course , provide new political allegiances over night . But there is reason to believe that all German thought is not irrevocably committed to nationalism  --  despite the fact that many of the most objectionable aspects of modern nationalism have sprung up East of the Rhine . Development of local loyalties sufficient to stimulate political experience in time may lead to development of sufficient political responsibility to return their peoples to acceptable citizenship . // that to beat the enemy as soon as possible is his and his Government 's unswerving object in foreign policy as well as in the war " Let Sleeping Does Lie " Viewed in this light , Britain 's relations to the rest of the world as outlined by Mr. Churchill fall into a fairly clear strategic pattern . While you are at war with wolves . better let sleeping dogs lie , is the gist of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fairest explanation of the way in which Mr Churchill , in terms of one British editorial writer today , fairly - purred " over General Franco . Spain , he declared , in effect had rendered a most valuable service to Britain and the Allies by refraining from joining the Germans in the war and by abstaining from hostile action against British and Allied ships , convoys , and planes in the harbor and on airfields of Gibraltar . It is plain today that his justification of General Franco 's regime is widely regarded as unnecessarily fulsome . This emerges not only from the Parliamentary debate , but from press reactions . Two Types of Fascism For instance , the Labor Party organ , the Daily Herald , strongly attacks Mr. Churchill 's defense of General Franco . It agrees with Mr. Churchill 's friendliness toward Spain , but draws definite distinction between Spain and General Franco . It finds a striking contradiction in Mr. Churchill 's hostility to the " subtle tyranny " of Mussolini 's Fascism and his broad toleration of General Franco 's Fascism , In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco as the principal feature in his address . It is by no means impossible that this may develop into one of the major issues of Britain 's first postwar election if the Govern ment continues to follow a pro-Franco line . The Manchester Guardian calls the speech " curiously unsatisfactory . " saying that " so far as it exhibited immediate policy , it was one entirely of expediency . " It joins the Daily Herald in strong criticism of Mr. Churchill 's defense of General Franco and points out that Secretary of State Cordell Hull said the other day , " We have moved from careless tolerance for institutions to the conviction that free governments a:cirld. ? Nazi and Fascist governments can not exist together in this It draws the conclusion that " while no one proposes that we should intervene forcibly in Spain , we must not deprive ourselves of the right of moral judgment . " Mac Be Election km .. There is no detibt that the feeling in Britain today  --  especially perhaps in inc armed forces as far as it is possible to assess this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dictatorial Fascist regime as represented in popular thought by General Franco , and it is by no means impossible that if Mr. , Churchill 's Government were to persist in following the sort of sympathetic line traced by Mr. Churchill yesterday , the issue might well become an important one in postwar " elections which would react strongly to the Conservatives ' disadvantage . Apart from military expediency , explanation of Mr. Churchill 's friendliness toward Spain may perhaps be found in the reference in his speech to the " extremely fertile trade " between Spain and Britain . " The iron from Bilirm and the north of Spain is of great value to this country both in war and in peace , " the Prime Minister emphasized . " Sheer Common Sense " Here again he struck the keynote which dominated his view of relations with virtually all European countries . He underlined the British Government 's determination to give the fullest support everywhere to those who are making and can make a practical contribution to the overthrow of the enemy . In this he receives today the full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " This is sheer common sense , " and goes on to exalt the " inevitability of so practical a criterion of expediency . " It was from this viewpoint of the main purpose of winning the war as soon as possible that Mr Churchill was exceptionally blunt in criticisms of Turkey 's cautious attitude and refusal to join the Allies ; strikingly conciliatory toward Italy and optimistic about the Badoglio government there unusually cheerful at the new trend toward unity in Greek affairs ; and severely practical it support of the Marshal Josip Bros ( Tito ) element in Yugoslavia . ?                     