@@705405

txt Museums Too Musty for Moses ; He Says They Intimidate Visitors Criticizes ' Sacred Atmosphere , ' Asks Mayor to Revitalize Institutions  --  Wants No More on City Park Property A thorough overhauling of the museums that occupy city park property or are in part maintained at the expense of the taxpayers is recommended by Park Commissioner Robert Moses in a report to Mayor La Guardia made public yesterday . Mr. Moses is ex-officio member of the boards of trustees of the institutions he would have " revitalized . " Among other things , the Park Commissioner declares that museum trustees must abandon their atmosphere of the " sacred " or " exclusive , " must " let down the bars " for the great masses of the people , should eliminate exhibit duplications and end the practice of having self-perpetuating boards . " I strongly recommend that no additional museums be placed on park property , " says Mr. Moses near the end of his report , where he asserts that it was a mistake to put in Flushing Meadow Park the American Museum of Health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Museum of Natural History . After pointing out that his report to the Mayor is " not a technical report , " Mr. Moses writes : " The greatest mistake a public official can make is to concede that there is something occult , esoteric or sacred about these institutions . This is , of course , the atmosphere with which , in the past , the trustees have surrounded them . Not only public officials but the public generally have been intimidated by the vast treasures in their vaults . " City administrations come and go , but the trustees go on forever and up to recently it had been the more or less accepted principle that the city 's ex-officio representatives on these boards were not expected to attend museum meetings , but if they did were supposed to be seen and not heard . " There have been great men in the history of our museums . The second and third generations of Morgans , Davisons , Osborns , Roots , Rockefellers , Webbs , Pricks , Blums and others now appear on the roster . The founders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men with a curious one-sided sense of public obligation . " All the larger American cities had them  --  mostly new millionaires determined to show that they could bid Duveen more per square inch of canvas and cubic inch of marble or bronze than any European competitor . They bargained better than they knew , and we can now sift out and rearrange the loot . " The records show that fewer and fewer philanthropists appear on the horizon , eager to further the cause of art and science and to perpetuate their names in stone , oil , bronze , armor , ceramics , heads , horns , hoofs and century plants or other more or less durable media . " No doubt , the more endowment an institution has , the more its trustees are justified in sustaining traditions of aloofness , independence and aristocracy . " The aristocratic tradition is withering . The trustees now recognize that in a democracy in which taxpayers foot many of the bills , and where there is much competition for public money , nothing is quite so important to a museum as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own people as well as visitors from other parts . It is worth noting that within the last three months the practice of collecting entrance fees has been discontinued by three museums . " Museums have a natural tendency to become musty , and this tendency should be combated . In the combat some trustees must change fixed ideas , some must become a trifle more liberal in their outlook , and others must stop patronizing public officials even if they seem dull , opinionated or even political . " Steady Progress Made Mr. Moses says he is happy to report " that the reorganization of the museums has proceeded steadily in the last seven years , " and to " herald the disappearance of some trustees who outlived their usefulness and the substitution of others who are bound to give the institutions new vitality , " adding : " The board of a museum is not a House of Lords nor yet an exclusive social club . The present incum , bents must let down the bars grad , ually . There must be less emphasis on wealth , old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masses of people potentially interested in the museums and their work . " Reorganizations have proceeded more slowly below the top , and there are still altogether too many employes , technical and otherwise , who have outlived their usefulness and who should retire . This goes all the way down the line to the kind of attendant who treats the visitor as an intruder . An attendant need not be an eager salesman , but he certainly should n't act like a grumpy night watchman disturbed in his slumbers . " The pension systems at the American and Metropolitan Museums and the New York Zoological Society , while " not ideal , " are " reasonably satisfactory , " according to Mr. Moses , who recommends that " something should be done about pensions in the other institutions " because " this IS the only way of rewarding service and getting rid of deadwood . " Discussing changes under way or contemplated in different museums , Mr. Moses further reports : " The Metropolitan Museum of Art through its new director is about to prepare plans for drastic reconstruction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Museum is in a more favorable position financially than most of the other institutions , largely because of substantial endowments which have been invested and managed in an admirable way . " The recent gift of Mr. John D. Rockefeller Jr . of Fort Tryon Park and the Cloisters will rank high among acts of private munificence . This was no conventional donation . We must go back to the Renaissance to find its equal . Discusses Planetarium Debt " The American Museum of Natural History has gone through a considerable administrative and physical reorganization and further changes are contemplated . New endowments have been raised , but something further must be sacrificed to bring income and expense closer together and to reduce deficits . The Hayden Planetarium has to get rid of its bonded debt or close shop . " The New York Zoological Society has also reorganized its board and staff and detailed plans are proceeding for an entirely new zoo in the Bronx . The Aquarium at the Battery should be moved up to the zoo in Bronx Park . " Mr. Moses declares that the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adequate program but has under consideration the preparation of plans for a new physical layout . " He points out that " much has been done " and " further plans are being made " by the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences . After complimenting the " excellent up-to-date plant " of the Staten Island Zoological Society , Mr. Moses further reports : " As to the Museum of the City of New York , which has an alert management and makes a constant effort to present new pictures to the , public , I am still at a loss to unH derstand why it was necessary to establish an entirely new and independent museum to cover a. field already in large part pre-empted by the local exhibits of the New York Historical Society . " This latter organization is pretty dead , but it has a fine building on a large and valuable piece of land and many remarkable records . Must we have two old fire engine exhibits in our fair city , one facing west and the other east on Central Park ? Why should there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mar-ket ? " No doubt the same criticism might be brought to bear against new in , dependent museums of art , but ! there is much more reason for such institutions , especially if they are properly endowed . I can not , however , see why those interested in the Museum of Modern Art were driven away from the Metropolitan , where modern art might have been strikingly housed in a new wing of the old museum . Certainly , the opportunities for contrast and comparison would have been welcome to an ingenious director . " Mr. Moses criticizes the " ultraconservative " trustees of the Metropolitan Museum who have ruled that " the year 1900 or some other magic date represents the end of art " and so have barred some of the best of modern art . His report continues : " No semi-public institution in this city so badly needs reorganization and revitalizing as the New York Public Library in Bryant Park . This library needs a director who stands for something significant in the world of letters . The choice of , Archibald to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been fully vindicated . " With reference to the general problem of membership of boards of the museums , I believe that there should be three groups instead of two as at present . The three groups should include self - perpetuating members , ex officio members and a third class consisting of a minority appointed for overlapping terms by the Mayor . " Egyptology and Indians Mr. Moses recommends that " the museums should give more and more attention to exhibit and local extension work as distinguished from scientific research and publication . " He criticizes the duplication of Egyptology in the American , Metropolitan and Brooklyn Musuems and the New York Historical Society and suggests that " there is n't that much interest in Egyptology in any community . " He adds : " Similarly , I do n't know why the American Indian must have a home in several museums , not to speak of two entirely separate foundations , one known as the Museum of the American Indian on upper Broadway , Manhattan , and the other a sort of branch of this institution known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an utterly unsuitable location in the Bronx . " I have passed the Bronx institution frequently and at all hours and have never yet seen any one go in or come out of it . On Sundays and holidays it is shut tight . On weekdays admission is by appointment only . No doubt it affords a peaceful hideaway for the curators . " The surrounding grounds , dotted with totem poles and tepees , would make a swell playground for our small contemporary savages . There is nothing in the Museum of the American Indian or in the Heye Foundation which would not be better shown in the American Museum of Natural History with a large resulting saving in overhead . " There has been talk of placing the Museum of Science and Industry on public land and of consolidating the Metropolitan Opera , Philharmonic Symphony Society , National Academy of Design , the Museum of Costume Art , the Musical Library and the New York City Broadcasting Station on additional property to be acquired by the city at Rockefeller Center or elsewhere . These plans must be shelved to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should concentrate on putting new life into institutions for which , in one way or another , they have a responsibility . "                     