@@707071

txt Plant of the " Waste-Oil Kings , " Pierce Brothers in Waltham , was rocked by two explosions early today , and resultant fire destroyed 50,000 rose plants with estimated damage of $75,000 . One of the largest rose greenhouses in the nation , the plant was heated entirely by waste fuel oil . Cause of the disaster is believed to have been an overheated flue . Acute shortage of gasoline loomed in Boston today . Some filling stations were completely out of the product , but strenuous efforts were being made by all supplying companies ' to distribute quickly and evenly what stocks were on hand . Relief was promised by the Office of the Petroleum Administration for War . Page 2 . Boston Fish Pier strike of A. F. of L. processors , packers , and handlers ties up unloading of 1,250,000 pounds of fresh fish . Page 2 . Because of Congressional duties in Washington , former Gov . James M. Curley is unable to come to Boston tomorrow for the opening of the retrial of his $500,000 libel suit against the publishers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , before whom the trial was to open , ordered it off the list indefinitely . Washington : Gold Standard Plans for World Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau disclosed to an extraordinary session of three Senate committees that the Administration 's plans for postwar currency stabilization include a partial return to , the gold standard for most of the nations of the world . Attorney General Francis Biddle announced that a Federal Grand Jury has indicted Otis T. Wingo , Jr. , of Washington , on charges of willfull failure to register as a foreign agent . Brig . Gen James L. Frink , Deputy Quartermaster General , said a concerted attack on food wastage in the Army had resulted in a 10 per cent saving and that a further 5 per cent cut is in prospect . The food conference on postwar problems , to be held April 27 in the United States , has extended invitations to four additional countries  --  Egypt , Iran , Iceland .. and Liberia. ? making a total of 43 . Stephen Early , Presidential Secretary , said that a press office will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excluded from direct coverage , would be admitted . Wages in excess of the " Little Steel " formula have been granted by the Wage Adjustment Board for the building construction industry during December and January , an official analysis shows . An " administrative " reduction in draft calls for April has been announced by Selective Service , with only a temporary slackening of demand that will be made up later . A letter from Director Lewis B. Hershey also has clarified the status of men 38 to 45 , subject to call after May 1 " if and when the armed forces determine they can be used in the military establishment . " Page 9 . Arthur B. Newhall , former Rubber Co-ordinator of the War Production Board , has been appointed Executive Director of the Combined Production and Resources Board , which integrates the munitions output of the United States , Britain , and Canada . The Treasury 's slogan for the $13,000,000,000 war funds drive starting April 12 will be " They Gave Their Lives  --  You Lend Your Money , " in an effort to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit restaurant owner convicted of treason against the United States and sentenced to hang , failed to obtain a Supreme Court review . He was alleged to have harbored Peter Krug , a German aviator who escaped from a Canadian prison camp . The Office of Price Administration said that restrictions on the export of processed foods have been lifted . The announcement was made following reports from Hawaii and other territories indicating that continental packers and wholesalers are hesitant about filling orders for export . is versing an earlier stand , the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation requiring Senate confirmation of most Federal jobholders receiving $4,500 or more a year , including employees of the Tennessee Valley Authority . In Europe : Eden Returns From American Visit Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , has returned by air to England after his visit to the United States and Canada , and went into conference immediately with Prime Minister Churchill . Col. Mary Booth of the Salvation Army has returned to London after being in the custody of the German Army for 21/2 years . Her rescue was brought about in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ancient King 's Chapel of the Savoy in London was delivered by Gen. James J. Blakeney , United States Army Chaplain of Little Rock , Ark . Gen. Charles de Gaulle has cabled the Mayor of Cayenne , French Guiana , that the French National Committee is unable to ratify the appointment of Jean Rapenne , Gen. Henri Giraud 's representative , according to the Brazzaville Radio . All Frenchwomen between the ages of 18 and 25 are being registered as the initial step toward conscription for work in Germany , Fighting French Headquarters in London reports . Gen. Charles de Gaulle , leader of the Fighting French , will leave " immediately " for North Africa to confer with Gen. Henri Giraud , a Fighting French spokesman raid . Italian women in Tunisia are being urged to " return to Italy as soon as possible , " according to a Rome Radio broadcast recorded by the Federal Communications Commission . Admiral Carlo Bergamini has been appointed Commander in Chief of Italian naval battle forces , with Admiral Eduardo Somigli named Commander in Chief of Naval Forces protecting merchant traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to quit the war by the Algiers Radio , which warned that " thousands " of Allied planes will be sent against Italy and that , " no other country has ever experienced such horror as will befall you . " ? National : Five Naval Launchings Over Week End Naval launchings over the week end included the aircraft carrier Cabot at the Camden , N. J. , yard of the New York Shipbuilding Corporation , the destroyers Badger at New York and The Sullivans at San Francisco , and the destroyer escorts Scott and Burke at Philadelphia Navy Yard . Orient : Red Cross Co-ordinator in Australia Nyles Christensen of the American Red Cross has arrived in Australia to co-ordinate Red Cross activities in Australia , New Guinea , New Zealand , the Solomons , and other South Pacific islands .                     