@@710847

txt World attention now focuses on congressional reaction to the Marshall Plan , and the time for decision is near at hand . A far more sympathetic congressional attitude toward large-scale aid in putting western Europe back on its feet exists in Washington today than could possibly have been expected last June , when Secretary George C. Marshall first launched his momentous ? and precarious ? program . Even before Congress acts on the Marshall Plan , tile proposal itself already has had marked effect , perhaps decisive effect , on world policies . This fact is so evident , and the results on the whole are so satisfactory to congressional leaders , that many are implicitly committed in advance to the program . Big Results Expected This does not mean that a tremendous battle may not lie ahead over the size and administration of the proposed aid . But the feeling here is general on the eve of the plan that something big will be done . Maybe not big enough  --  but big . Three major developments occurred in Europe to bring about this situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . First of all , Soviet Russia was asked to come in under the Marshall Plan but chose to stay outside , and showed its domination over satellite states like Czechoslovakia by compelling them to stay out , too . History may record this as one of the great decisions of modern times , and it came about as a test of the Marshall Plan , when the latter was still only a hazy proposal of the American Secretary . Europe Co-operates Second , a definite series of re construction budgets were drawn up by 16 co-operating nations at Paris , and while these left much to be desired from the State Department point of view , they were , on the other hand , unprecedented in modern history as an example of international cooperation . Third , as these tremendous 1 events were going on , the power of the Marshall Plan as an idea , in the world duel of ideas , already was showing its potency in the municipal elections in Italy and France , where Communists suffered defeats . Communism was not an issue in Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , showed a conservative trend . Walter Lippmann , among other acute international observers , returned to Washington with the comment that the Marshall Plan already has won initial victories , and that the Communist tide may be retiring . That is the foreign background for one of the world 's greatestdiplomatic duels , and sets the issue now squarely before Congress . Capital Timetable Here are highlights of the Marshall Plan discussion in Washing-ton : Timetable : The special House 19-man Foreign Economic Committee under able Representative Christian Herter ( R ) of Massachusetts met here today to start debating its final report , after touring Europe . Simultaneously , the 16-man Citizens ' Advisory Group under Secretary of Commerce W. Averell Harriman held its final meeting , preliminary to submitting its report to President Truman . Both reports are expected this week . On Nov. 10 , Secretary Marshall is Iiitely to be first witness at opening hearings before a joint session of House and Senate Foreign Relations Committees . And on Nov. 17 ? one week later  --  Congress meets . Mood  --  the temper of Washington on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the Marshall Plan still generally holds . More than 200 congressmen have toured Europe ; there is a more intimate personal curiosity about and knowledge of foreign affairs in Congress than at any time in American history . Partisanship Flickers On the other hand , disagreements over many details burn bright . Partisanship flickers at the edges of the plan , for the latter necessarily is economic , linked with domestic issues of inflation and price control , and the results are necessarily uncer-tain , Amount  --  The Administration is crystallizing proposals for $1,000 , - 000,000 for stopgap aid , and between $6,000,000,000 and $7,000 , - 000,000 for the first year of the plan . Succeeding years are expected to be less . The congressional tendency is to cut this down . This probably will be the big battle . Administration  --  Shall the Marshall Plan administrative agency be autonomous , or co-ordinated with the State Department ? Republicans who control Congress want ? to pick the new agency . There is some danger of setting up a group which could follow foreign policies at odds with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely . Procedure  --  The last big question is whether stopgap and longterm aid will be handled together or separately . Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio proposes a " one-bite " procedure . With final results still obscure , the Marshall Plan nevertheless has come further than almost anybody could have expected last June . As an imponderable in world affairs it has few equals .                     