@@711460

txt The National Labor Relations Board , in a decision officially described as its most significant under unfair labor practice provisions of the Taft-Hartley Labor-Management Relations Act , ruled today that the union hiring hall as operated by the National Maritime Union on the Great Lakes was illegal . It found that the union , an affiliate of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , and seven officials , by insisting on and striking for a contract clause continuing the " illegal and discriminatory " hiring hall practice , had violated the act on two major counts  --  they had refused to bargain in good faith and attempted to cause an employer to discriminate against non-union employes . The board ordered the union and its officers to cease such activities and to bargain collectively upon request with the four companies involved so long as the union was the majority representative of the employes . The ruling is enforceable by Federal courts , and a board spokesman said steps would be taken to force compliance if necessary . New Injunction Possible This raised the possibility of a new court injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an eightyday injunction , issued under the national emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act , which ended a month-long walkout last June 15 . The board 's order , according to the spokesman , also invalidates the union hiring hall provision of an agreement already reached by the union and the Texas Company , one of the four firms in the case . The others are the Cleveland Tankers , Inc. , Lake Tankers Corporation and Great Lakes Transport Corporation . The order is subject to court appeal , which the union is expected to take . Consequently , it was pointed out , the hiring hall practice can be carried on without penalty pending final adjudication , if the ship operators agree . The board emphasized that its ruling specifically applied only to the hiring hall as operated in Great Lakes shipping . The effect was to establish official policy that may have a profound effect not only throughout the shipping industry , where the hiring hall is a key issue in currently widespread disputes , but also on such union security controversies as those involving the International Typographical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Affect Other Agreements A precedent possibly was set , for example , for a board decision in a ' similar case now pending , and affecting the Maritime union and forty-two Eastern and Gulf Coast ship operators . These companies agreed last night to a hiring hall contract provision which the board may find to be illegal and seek to invalidate . In the Great Lakes case the board said that the hiring hall provision did not " on its face " require ' the companies to discriminate in favor of union members . It merely required the employer to hire persons supplied by the union unless the union was unable to provide the needed replacements . " We do not pass upon whether the hiring-hall provision would be unlawful absent evidence that in supplying the companies with per- ! sonnel NMU discriminated against non-members , " it stated . " The record establishes , and we fmd , that in the operation of the hiring halls in question , such discrimination against non-members did exist and that the respondents and the companies contemplated that such discrimination would continue if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At these halls , the board found , jobs were assigned in rotation to registrants , who had to be members in good standing of the union . Non-members could be assigned to job vacancies only if no member was available , and their assignments would be good only for one round trip or for thirty days , whichever was shorter . " It is clear from the record in I this case , " it added , " that what INMU was demanding - in its negotiations , and in its strike , was not merely a continuation of the form of the hiring-hall clause in its agreement with the companies , but a continuation of the practice outlined above , by which preference in job assignment and job retention was given to NMU members . " That the union failed to bargain collectively in good faith , as required by the act , was borne out during the negotiations when it was made clear that no agreement would be concluded which did not contain a hiring-hall provision comparable to that in the 1947 contract , not only as to language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the board held . " By their insistence upon the continuation of a practice which the act now forbids , as a condition precedent to entering into any agreement , the respondents refused to bargain , " it held . These findings represented the unanimous decision of the five-man board : Chairman Paul M. Herzog , John M. Houston , James J. Reynolds Jr. , Abe , Murdock and J. Copeland Gray . Mr. Gray , dissenting on one further point , said that the union , by attempting to bring economic pressure on individual employes , had also violated the act 's prohibition against restraint and coercion of employes . Robert N. Denham , the Labor Board 's chief counsel , had so argued and trial examiner Howard Myers , in an intermediate report , had so ruled . " Mr. Gray 's reasoning , carried to its logical conclusion , would require outlawing practically any strike opposed by some employes , " the majority held . To a union contention that the " peculiar characteristics of maritime employment require that a union control and regulate the supply of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignities which have in past years attended job-seeking in this industry ; the board unanimously replied : " It is our duty to administer the law as written , not to pass upon the wisdom of its provisions . " The board 's order was directed against the union as an organization and Joseph Curran , president ; Josh Lawrence , director for the Great Lakes ; Chester Young , vice president ; Jack Lawrenson , vice president ; Harold McCormick , Chicago port patrolman ; Michael , Buffalo port patrolman , and Charles Monroe , Detroit port agent . The officers were found to have violated the act as agents of the union .                     