@@707014

txt : . Four weeks ago Mohandas K. Gandhi was one of several members of the All-India Congress party who were in - prison at Poona for advocating " open - non- violent rebellion " against British rule , " non-violence " that last Sun-nner brought rioting and bloodshed . In the eyes of the Indian Government , Mr. - Gandhi was an ordinary political prisoner . On Feb. 10 Mr. Gandhi began a fast aimed at winning unconditional release . Last week the fast was over . .. 111. r . Gandhi was still an ordinary political prisoner . . At the start few people expected the fast to end the way it did . At 73 , there - was a grim prospect that Mr. Gandhi would not last the three weeks he had set for his abstention . His followers expected public pressure at home and abroad to bring about his release or , if he died , to loose a great rallying to the cause of Indian independence . British Indian officials apparently foresaw . widespread outbreaks of violence that - would place India at the peril of the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; fulfilled . The fast came to a formal , end and Mr. Gandhi 's physicians began - the long and careful task of rebuilding his physical strength . . What the cause of India had gained and what it had lost could not be assayed at once . Mr. Gandhi had shown the words of Herbert L. Matthews , the NEW YORK TIMES correspondent in India  --  that he could " stand on the brink of the grave and not go over it . " But he had not budged , the . Indian Government . The Viceroy had offered to release him for the period of the fast , but had held that otherwise he should remain , with the others , in confinement . Congress party leaders were forced to admit that the principal reaction in India was like that in the outside world  --  concern for Mr. Gandhi but no great marshaling of support for immediate and unconditional Indian freedom . Accordingly , Mr. Gandhi 's lieutenants are now apparently ready to seek a new approach . Some observers believe they may offer a greater measure of cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but which they would doubtless make conditional on a hard-and-fast commitment to cause no more trouble so long as the war shall last . ABROAD Poland and the Peace Russia and Poland , though Allies , were at odds last week . At issue was the 78,000-square-mile area of pre-war Poland , containing a peacetime population of 12,775,000 persons , which the Red Yirmy had occupied at the- fall of the Polish Republic in 1939 . The area , part of a defensive belt hastily : devised by the Soviet Union , was overrun by the Germans in their invasion of Russia in June , 1941 . Forty days after that invasion started , Russia and the Polish Government-in-exile signed a treaty abrogating the borders Germany and Russia had set inside the old Poland . New boundary lines were not established . Now , with the Red Army again pressing toward the old frontiers of Poland , the question of future borders has become a live issue . The Poles insist their 1939 frontiers be re-established . The Russians , through their official news agency , Tess , have replied that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Russians to be united with their national States . " Both sides appealed to history , for the disputed region has belonged at various times to both Poland and Russia . Both sides cited the make-up of the population ; here the evidence was not clear , for Ukrainians , White Russians and Poles are all present in large numbers . The Defensive Belt In the dispute  --  Britain brought pressure to end it and asked British and foreign-language newspapers to print nothing on the subject except official utterances , lest it endanger the wartime unity of the United Nations ? many saw one of the most difficult problems of ultimate peacemaking . Russia , in establishing her defensive belt , occupied not only part of Poland but also part of Finland , all Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania and parts - of Rumania . All this land ? it totaled about 175,000 square miles , something more than twice the size of Kansas ? had . belonged to Czarist Russia , but had been lost to the Soviet Union when . the Western powers after World War I created a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians once seemed reconciled to their loss , except for Bessarabia , which Rumania had taken .. Now Russia appears to regard the territory as Russian and its people as Soviet citizens .                     