@@706429

txt The end of all civilian air travel except that considered vital to the war effort appeared near today with announcement in part by . the War Department of a program to control operations of the airlines . When the reorganization ordered by President Roosevelt is announced in detail within a few days , the Civil Aeronautics Board will make public the new routes and schedules constituting the war-operations plan . But the intent of the new program was made clear by an announcement which stated : " All persons who can travel by train are to do so , except in real emergencies . " Curtailing of Air Mail Restriction of air mail service was also indicated in a statement that " while air mail will be flown for the present over the new routes to be operated by the airlines , it may become necessary to curtail this service still more at a later date . " The War Department indicated further that a new priorities system would be established to limit use of airline facilities by officials to those trips in which speed is absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans under consideration to create a government agency to supervise pooling of trans-ocean air transport facilities for more efficient operation of planes that carry essential commerce overseas . 3 Uses for Commercial Fleet The procedure in the domestic field was described as designed to take over about half of the current equipment of the airlines . Such equipment , which has not been increased for almost two years , was reduced by 25 per cent under Army requirements last February . " The plan about to be put into effect will utilize the commercial fleet in three separate ways , " said an official statement . " A substantial proportion of the available flight equipment will be transferred outright to the Army Air Forces to be available for operation by Army personnel in the various services and commands . " The airlines themselves will convert approximately seventy ships into ' cargo carriers , title to most of which will remain in the companies , to be operated by airline personnel , under contract for the Air Service Command . " The remaining ships , aggregating about half of those now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned and flown by the airlines , but will be considered always available for emergency military missions . " The half of current equipment to be left with the airlines for general service , it was indicated , would be pooled and reassigned to routes considered most essential for war operations . This probably means that service will be held at high levels on the trunk routes , but with a few exceptions will be canceled on the feeder lines . Even now airline seats seldom are available between many important cities except for holders of priority rights . Fewer Routes , Stricter Priority " All routes and services not regarded as essential to the war program will be terminated , " the statement continued . " Announcement will be made shortly of the schedules ; carefully prepared by the Civil Aeronautics Board , which the various lines will operate in accordance with this policy . " Air travel vital to the country 's needs will continue , subject to a strict system of priorities to be enforced through agencies in various centers in different parts of the country . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except in real emergencies . " Merely because an individual is a member of our armed forces or is engaged in war work will not , in itself , entitle him to the use of air transport . " The statement added that " the entire plan follows the intent of the law setting up the airlines as an element of national defense and has been drawn up for the purpose of further utilizing in the war effort the equipment of the airlines and the valuable experience of their trained personnel . " Current air travel on the more than 300 planes now in commercial service is subjected to a system of priorities which lists the order of precedent , as follows : White House personnel , military and naval airplane pilots traveling under orders , other military personnel , military equipment and ammunition , other government officials or employes traveling under orders to fly . Heretofore it has been necessary only for an official to approve air travel by invoking the proper priority . Hereafter military selection will be exercised over this type of order . Airline Officials Surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program for wartime operations indicated here last night that the move had taken them by surprise , but they declined to comment In some aviation quarters it was believed that the War Department 's program would mean the elimination of duplicating services and the end of air service between points where train service was fast and frequent .                     