@@712284

txt Attorney General Tom C. Clark was confirmed as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court in the Senate today by a vote of 73 to 8 . Party lines broke down in the ballot . Forty-seven Democrats and twenty-six Republicans approved President Truman 's nominee for the high court , while the opponents were these eight Republi-cans : Senators Forrest C. Donnell and James P. Kern , both of Missouri ; Homer Ferguson of Michigan ; Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont ; Robert A. Taft of Ohio ; Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan ; Arthur V. Watkins of Utah ; and John J. Williams of Delaware . Immediately after the vote , Senator Flanders explained that he believed Mr. Clark would make " a good justice , " but he had been forced to vote " no " because this was the only way in which he could express disapproval of the Senate Judiciary Committee 's failure to call the Attorney General for questioning . Almost at once , and in less than two minutes , the Senate by voice vote and without debate unanimously confirmed Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark as Attorney General . Attorney General Clark , elated over the confirmation , called at the White House to thank President Truman for appointing him . The Justice-to-be told reporters he would like to have Chief Jus- tice Fred M. Vinson swear him into office , but his plans were in abeyance until he consulted with the Chief Justice and Mr. . Mr. Clark may now take a vacation at his home in Texas , and he is considering also visiting his brother in Santa Monica , Calif . ' In the Senate , bitter exchanges came during the closing moments of the three-and-one-half hour discussion of the Clark nomination . Senator Tom Connally , Democrat , of Texas assailed opponents of the Attorney General , especially , Senator Ferguson , who had carried the main attack . Senator Con-I nally resented " having slop thrown over my friend , Tom Clark . " Senator Taft shouted that it was " outrageous " that Mr. Clark had not been summoned to testify before the committee . " That was utterly unjustified ; it ' was arbitrary and outrageous ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft exclaimed . But Senator William Langer of North Dakota , who had spoken for Mr. Clark , broke in with this : " Here 's one Republican Senator ? who is n't taking orders from the Senator from Ohio or any other 1Senator ! " Ferguson Speaks 112 Hours Senator Ferguson 's speech lagainst Mr. Clark was a long written indictment lasting an hour and , a half . Defending the nominee were Senators Connally and Lyndon Johnson of Texas ; Brien of Connecticut , a former Assistant Attorney General ; Estes Kefauver and Kenneth of Tennessess ; John L. McClennan of Arkansas ; Francis J. Myers of Pennsylvania , acting Democratic /eader ; and Pat McCarran of ( Nevada , chairman of the Judiciary Committee . All these are DemoIcrats . Mr. Ferguson , opening his onslaught against the Attorney General , spoke of the nomination as " transparently political . " It was , he exclaimed , " an appalling thought " that the people of the United States " may be resign : ing themselves to a fate of being dictated to by political appointments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with considerable heat , he deplored the " apathy with which this political appointment has been received . " The Michigan Senator drew various counts against Mr. Clark . These allegations concerned : 1 . A 1937 Texas legislative investigation of Mr. Clark 's legal activities and rise in income . 2 . The " gross mismanagement " of Mr. Clark in the Gerhart Eisler case , whereby the United-States was subjected to " humiliation . " 3 . What role Mr. Clark played in the " parole of four criminals known as Capone gangsters. " 4 . The Attorney C-eneral 's " failure to cooperate in the . efforts of Congress to evaluate the workings . of the Government 's loyalty program . " 5 . " Did Tom Clark , the trust-buster , let the fires go out ? in his anti-monopoly activities until it was politically expedient and politically popular to create a contrary impression ? " 6 . Mr Clark 's " condonance " of wire-tapping , which Senator Ferguson quoted the late Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes as saying was a " dirty business . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansas City vote fraud cases and in part of which , the Michigan Senator charged Mr. Clark with responsibility for having certain papers stripped from the files and the serial numbers changed , so as to perpetrate a " fraud " upon a Senate subcommittee . Kansas City Case Stressed On all these matters Mr. Ferguson said he had wanted to crossexamine Mr. Clark before the Judiciary Committee . The Michigan Senator bore down hard on the Kansas City vote frauds , which he investigated as a Senate committee chairman in 1948 . The reference to the Texas legislative investigation of Mr. Clark 's affairs drew sparks from his champions . Witnesses before the Senate Judiciary Committee had said Mr. Clark refused facts in his 1935 and ' 1936 income in the Texas inquiry . But Senators Langer and Connally hotly answered today that Mr. Clark had given full data to the Senate committee when he was confirmed for Attorney General in 1945 . " The Senator from Michigan tMr . Ferguson voted for Mr. Clark when he appeared before the committee in 1943 for confirmation as Assistant Attorney Gen-1 eral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in 1945 for confirmation as Attorney General , " Mr. Connally cried . " He did n't say there was any- ' thing wrong with Tom Clark then ! Why did n't he say so then ? " Senator Ferguson conceded that ) , he did vote for Mr. Clark on those occasions , but insisted that the situation was different now , involv-1 ing a non-political office . Senators McCarran and Connally ) begged Mr. Ferguson to reconsider and join in a unanimous vote for the nominee , but Mr. Ferguson refused .                     