@@712027

txt Western resolution to push organization of a federal German republic is meeting slight but potentially important hesitancy among Western German politicians who see a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers on all Germany on the horizon . Both Gen. Lucius D. Clay , United States Military Governor , and Ambassador Robert D. Murphy , State Department representative in the Western drive to form a west German state at the earliest possible moment , today reiterated their belief that nothing ? would halt this drive of seduce the Germans from their support of the state . Discussing predictions that the Russians in the Council of Foreign Ministers would support withdrawal of all occupation forces from Germany , a consummation devoutly wished by millions of Germans , Mr. Murphy declared ' that the United States had no intention of removing its troops from Germany in the immediate future . Against their statements , which are to be expected from men so intimately concerned with success of this policy , must be weighed the words of , one of the most influential of West German politicians . Discussing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions over lifting of the Berlin blockade and subsequent convening of a Council of Foreign Ministers , this man said : " That is what everyone wants to hear . Now if the Russians continue with deeds we all must re-examine our positions . " Yesterday , in the high tide . of Western success at Frankfort , German delegates to the meeting with the Western military governors appeared adamant in their pursuit of the Western state . Today there are signs of some wavering . The immediate Western political task in Germany is to maintain the impetus for a West German state generated at Frankfort yesterday . The Soviet objective is to sell a " wait and see " attitude to the Germans through assertions that the Foreign Ministers Council will produce German unity and the withdrawal of occupation forces . In Berlin the only indication of any relaxation of the blockade is a report of the British-licensed northwest German radio that for the first time since the measure was imposed the Russians have granted permission to the capital 's Evangelical Relief Organization in West Germany to ship parcels to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the victim of those " technical difficulties " that the Russians advanced last June as an excuse for halting traffic to Berlin . It has been known for some time that the line is functioning . American observers speculated whether permission granted to the Evangelical Relief Organization was a signal from the Russians that once arrangements were completed on a diplomatic level that the road would be open for supply trains to Berlin . On the other hand a Swiss Red Cross train coming to Berlin via Erfurt did not receive Russian permission to bring ten tons of supplies to the Swiss community in Berlin . The train will carry 350 Berlin children to Switzerland Thursday . for health treatments . It arrived today minus ten tons of food and other supplies that the Swiss had hoped to send . The Swiss said that the Russians never refused permission for the train to carry these goods  --  they just did not give permission . The three powers in the Western sectors of the city have almost completed a written agreement for the Western half of the city that will approximate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was learned authoritatively . Provisions Made for Airlift Terms of this statute will be applied to the Western sectors but the agreement also will include , in addition to reservations listed for the Western powers under a federal German republic , specific powers covering supply of the city by air . Under the agreement almost a free hand would be given the municipal government in place of the present close but not onerous supervision . Brig . Gen. Frank L. Howley , United States commandant in Berlin , favors an end to all Military Government in the city , reasoning " if the zones deserve to have an end of Military Government , Berlin certainly does . " Whether or not the Military Government in the city is replaced by a civilian organization there will be sharp reductions in the number of Allied personnel . At the moment the British favor retention of the Military Government . Final details of the agreement are being worked out in committee and it is hoped that the entire document will be examined . when the three Western commandants meet Thursday . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for the West German state , declared today that lifting of the blockade and a subsequent meeting of the Foreign Ministers Council would have " no effect on Germans one way or another " as far as establishment of that state was concerned . He declared that he did not visualize any German withdrawal from agreements on the Constitution reached yesterday and emphasized again the American intention to encourage speedy organization of a federal republic . These sentiments were echoed by Mr. Murphy , although the diplomat was less positive than the General . He admitted the possibility of fourpower discussion on the entire German problem might apply brakes to German efforts to form the state but declared that he saw no signs of this in his talks with Editor Carlo Schmid and Dr. Konrad Adenauer , president of the Parliamentary Council , . yesterday . At Frankfort both Genera/ Clay ana . Mr. Murphy emphasized to the Germans that whatever happened in current discussions on the blockade the United States would continue to seek formation of a West German state . German politicians , 74-r . Murphy suggested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks from the East and believe a German federal republic once organized is the best answer to Russian ambitions in Western Germany . Mr. Murphy , who has been out of Germany for nearly two months , remarked that he did not think that Russian emphasis on German unity and withdrawal of occupation forces as a result of a foreign ministers meeting would have discernible effect upon West German opinion . General Clay raised the question of how the counter blockade of tin . Soviet zone could be lifted without some previous agreement on trade and payments between Eastern and Western Germany now that no common currency exists in the two zones . Despite assertions of General Clay and Mr. Murphy and other officials that establishment of a West German state will continue , American observers sense considerable concern in these quarters over the effect of a discussion of the entire German problem by the foreign ministers on the life of that state . No one can doubt the resolution of the Western powers to follow their policy . What is in doubt is the willingness of the Germans to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance , however slight , for unity in Germany exists .                     