@@704400

txt Fighting in Finland saw the Finns consolidating their positions within five miles of the Russian frontier in the center of the line , where a whole Russian division had been recently wiped out . Finnish airmen meanwhile flew over Leningrad scattering leaflets urging the Russian people to stop a senseless war . Finnish bombers at the same time raided the Estonian islands of Dagoe and Oesel which have been converted into Russian naval bases . On the Western Front clear weather brought a renewal of air reconnaissance and an unusual amount of skirmishing between the Moselle and the Rhine . The Polish Army in France was reconstituted by agreement signed between Premier Daladier and Wladislaw Sikorski , Premier of the Polish Government in France , with Gen , Victor Denain designated to supervise relations between the French and Polish units fighting on the Western Front . Anglo-U . S. Ties By Mallory Browne TheSg1+ Correspondent LONDON , Jan. ** the impact of President Roosevelt 's recent speech , the graph of Anglo-American relations has registered a new wartime high . As viewed from London , relations between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war present the aspect of a sawtoothed graph , marked by peaks of intermittent enthusiasm and valleys of momentary irritation 7igzagging across a slowly rising curve of better-than-average cordiality . From the situation thus graphically depicted , two high points stand out . These represent the repeal of the American arms embargo and President Roosevelt 's latest speech emphasizing the Important role which America can not help playing in connectio ? with the war , and even more in the construction of peace . Points of Conflict The low-water marks on this graph indicate instances of friction and irritation arising chiefly from the unavoidable conflict between British policing of the seas and America 's neutral rights . But the steadily rising curve which charts the long-range average between these extremes represents a growing conviction here that the war is already making more apparent the underlying unity of ideals and interests between Britain and America . The address of the British Ambassador , the Marquis of Lothian . in Chicago yesterday is held here to have echoed President Roosevelt 's remarks in confirmation of this . The President 's statement that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helping to bring about the " kind of peace that will lighten troubles of the world , " and his statement that such a peace will be impossible " if a large part of the rest of the world was compelled to worship a god imposed by a military ruler . .. or were forbidden to worship God at all ; if the rest of the world were forbidden to read and hear facts and if they were deprived ot the truth which makes rnen free . " These declarations are seen as constituting the recognition of the essential unity of aims between the two great democracies . Anglo-U . S. Unity Passages of this sort , and the emphasis that President Roosevelt , placed on the leadership which America can take when the tiime , for peace negotiations comes are unanimously interpreted in the , British press today as illustrating , the parallel views of Britain and America . Thus The Times in an editorial says " It will be seen how , closely the kind of peace which Roosevelt envisages corresponds with the peace aims of Allies as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R.zynaud . " Simultaneously , Lord Lothian 's address in Chicago , it is pointed out here , underlines the essential fact of Anglo-American unity when he declared in connection with the postwar settlement " we feel the only foundation for a stable , Liberal world will be the control of the seas on agreed principles by the democracies . " Problems of the Sea This basis of solidarity on the seas is very generally recognized ' in Britain today . In tact problems raised by the war at sea make it clear that the two countries must ? ther clash or collaborate on the , water . Active collaboration being admittedly out of the question-1 America 's determination to keep out of the war , at least in the preslent phase , is fully accepted here ,  - -  the alternative is passive cooperation and this is the present basis of Anglo-American relations . Washington 's protest against the opening of American mails on neutral vessels illustrates this situation . The British Government is genuinely desirous of avoiding any infringement of America 's neutral rights . But Whitehall 's position is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase of the blockade , because such letters are liable to contain money and one of the main aims of the British Contraband Control is precisely to shorten the war by preventing the Reich from obtaining foreign currency . The international legal issues behind this are very complex , and this accounts for Brit-sin 's delay in answering America 's protest . But it is understood that a reply soon will follow along the above lines while also proclaiming Britain 's desire to interfere with the mails from America as little as possible . New World Safety Belt A somewhat similar attitude is taken by Britain in regard to the Pan-American safety belt of 300 miles around the territorial waters of the New World . The British view is that unless the American Nations show they are willing and capable of enforcing the effectiveness of this safety belt against all , ships , the British Navy may obliged to reserve the right to pursue German ships right up to the three-mile limit . The general opinion here is that on the whole the American Goveminent , while reserving all pos sible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future , in practice has shown a great understanding of Britain s difficulties and necessities arising out of the war . This helpful attitude on the part ? of the United States is generally appreciated here , though in sonic circles there is a tendency to be irritated at American protests on the grounds that in reality Britain is lighting America 's battle as well as her own . The prevalent impression however , is that American understanding of the Allied cause should insure that cases of friction which are arising will be settled with as little inharmony as possible , and that the Anglo-American relations are thus likely to continue through an unavoidable series of ups and downs to follow its mounting curve of gradual improvement While warning the British Government that the United States would hold it responsible for damages resulting from " losses and injuries " if American ships are forced into British contiol ports , Cordell Hull , Secretary of State , today invoked an attitude of accommodation and flexibility to solve outstanding divergencies between Washington and London . The atmosphere of mutual consideration and compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many perplexing conflicts of neutral and belligerent rights growing out of the European war was illustrated here today by publication of a note which he sent to Britain on Dec. 14 . In it , Mr. Hull asked the British not to use their Navy to force American ships into British contraband control ports within the combat areas which American ships are forbidden by the Neutrality Law to enter . Should the British nevertheless do so , the note said that compensation would 1,0 expected for any losses or injurie1 which might be sustained . Co-operation by Ship Owners The ship owners , Mr. Hull said , ' have voluntarily indicated their willingness to co-operate with the British Government in every practical manner . It is my belief that such a spirit of liberality ... should be met by a corresponding degree of accommodation and flexibility on the part of the British Go  --  ernment , and that such mutual deferences should avoid giving rise to any occasion for the forcible diversion of American vessels to those belligerent ports which tney are by the laws of the United States prohibited from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of a report that an American vessel had been compelled to enter a British port within the combat area . Since the establishment of British control ports , vessels under United States registry have been " escorted " to such harbors as Kirkwall In the Orkney Islands , and Gibraltar , for examination . Delays of as much as a week hax been reported while cargoes have been examined for contraband , and the vessels permitted to proceed . Protests have emphasized that the American vessels are this forced into the prohibited belligerent zone and endangered by mines and surface warfare . The wording of the Hull note sets forth more clearly than any other document the method of adjustment and compromise which Secretary Hull has sought to follow in the many knotty problems of neutrality which have arisen . The fact that the British Government has felt itself compelled by naval necessity to refuse any substantial adjustment in many of these matters thus far , constitutes the single most important problem of American diplomacy at the present time with respect to the war in the west . Against this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a compromise arrangement on one of these issues , assumes a new significance Limited Concession The British Government has made a limited concession in practice , but not in principle , to the American request that neutrals be allowed to import goods fieely from Germany in neutral ships . Seizure of goods was ordered by the British on Nov. 28 , 1939 , and the United States formally protested a fortnight later . American firms may now apply for an exemption from liability to seizure , according to the answer of the British Ministry of Economic Warfare to a series of questions from the American Embassy . However , the exemption " will only be given in very exceptional circumstances , " the reply said . No assurance was given as to the speed with which applications would be approved or rejected , though the Ministry said it would seek to " minimize delay . " No indication was given as to what types of shipments would be con. sidered favorably . Decision Reserved Decision was reserved at the State Department , therefore , as to whether this represented a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It all depends on the degree of liberality with which exceptions are made , according to the general verdict on the arrangement . There remain unsettled , however , the problems of the British detention and censorship of American mails bound through neutral ports to Germany , and of the Inter-American safety belt which Britain has thus tar been unwilling to recognize .                     