@@709732

txt An economic time bomb has been tossed into the laps of the three members of the Price Decontrol Board . its explosion would make mincemeat of the average family budget . Its ominous ticking has been heard plainly during the four days of hearings before the Board on the subject of whether basic food commodities should be brought back under price control on Aug. 21 . Explosive Factors Its TNT properties are these : 1 . If these farm products are not brought back under price control and prices continue to soar , organized labor threatens another round of strikes for higher wages to match the increased cost of living . 2 . If they are brought back under price ceilings , organized farm groups warn of food shortages , a return of " black markets , " and in veiled threats intimate that farmers may go on a strike of their own by withholding products from an " unfavorable " market . Farmers t through their spokesmen at these hearings , have made it clear that they feel wages have been increased at the expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been to " increase wages on the one hand and to hold down farm prices on the other . " Antagonism between the two groups flamed into open accusations , not excluding a shot or two at the Decontrol Board itself . One witness , representing a group of southern farm leaders , charged the Board with bias on the ground that it has employed as assistants personnel formerly connected ' with the Office of Economic Stabilization and the Office of Price Administration . Members of the Board indignantly denied that the employment of this personnel to handle detail work in any way indicated any prejudgment of the issues or ' reflected upon the integrity of the Board . ' Inflation Spiral The sparks thrown off by these clashes serve to underscore the high temperature of the debate and the highly explosive nature of the issues , Price increpses , lead to wage Increases . Wage increases lead to price rises . They both lead to inflation and economic chaos . Evidence that the Board is weighing carefully these relationships is seen in its request for the opinion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged the recontrol of food prices and their roll-back " to the fullest extent consistent " with the new price control law . If this is not done , the Board warned , the " wage problem simply can not thereafter be satisfactorily met , " and the entire wage policy of the Administration will be thrown out of gear .                     