@@711651

txt The United States and British Military Governments turned over to German trustees today temporary and limited control of the administration of the Ruhr coal , iron and steel industries . Generals Lucius D. Clay and Sir Brian Robertson ordered the immediate promulgation of Law No. 75 , which will be in effect until a freely elected German Government determines the ultimate ownership of-the properties . In Paris French Foreign Minister Schuman protested to the United States and British Ambassadors against the plan to let a future German Government determine the ownership of the properties . The law will have the effect of decentralizing control , permitting improvements , and increasing efficiency in general . It also provides for the decarielization of an impressive number of far-flung enterprises which also is involved . Implicit in a l discussion of the points covered by the law  --  as expounded during a press conference held jointly by Clarence L. Adcock and Lieut . Gen. Sir Gordon , United States and British chairmen of the bipartite board ? was the acknowledgment that the unwieldy aspect of the administration of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potentials . The psychological effect of the new order on the miners and steelworkers , who have been campaigning many months for a clarification of the ownership problem , is expected to figure importantly in future production statistics . The immediate reaction from the Ruhr area was described as gratifying . The transfer of properties to the bands of German trustees , whose appointment will be ratified by the ' two military governments and who Will continue to be responsible to the occupation authorities will take place as rapidly as possible . It is expected that decentralization will expedite the solution of many obstructions to increased production , through the swifter repair and replacement of ! obsolete or damaged machines and equipment , the provision of safeguards now lacking for the miners , and similar measures . The Military Governments will not permit the restoration of a pattern of ownership that would constitute " an excessable concentration of economic power . " Schedule A attached to the law specifies twenty-six concerns designated ' for decartelization . Schedule B listed four huge electric power concerns , the title to whose assets was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when decisions are made to implement such action , they will be administered by the joint coal control group . In general these are plants Supplying power to the Ruhr mines and steel plants covered by the legislation announced today . Exempted from Law No. 75 are coal , iron and steel industries in which Western Allied interests owned a share of the capital in excess of 50 per cent on Sept. 1 , 1939 . Questions as to the extent and identity of these properties brought the comment that although it was difficult to provide a simple answer . The reference Was mainly to the former Stinnes holdings in the Aachen basin . These are currently owned almost .100 per cent by United States investors . Although they will be released from the current military government control and are not subject to decartelization , it was explained , the main effect of the law will be to permit the owners to appoint a representative with the power of attorney to handle the plants . No clarification was available on the situation of the Krupp holdings . Through the conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the verdict confiscating in toto his properties , the problem of the legal status of these industries would appear considerably complicated . I The Krupp case judgment is now before General Clay for confirma , tion . In the coal industry collieries " within an established definition " will be withdrawn from their iparent enterprises and set up under new companies to be formed under German law . Military Government decisions will determine the assets to be allotted each new company , which will then be seized and title transferred . The basis of the new groupings will be efficient operation . Three to five German trustees will be named after consultation with German administrative units . Shares will be held in equal proportion by the trustees on behalf of the owners , who will not have the right to influence or affect the trustees ' actions . Supervision will remain with the Military Governments . Reorganization of the German Coal Mine Administration into a joint stock company is envisioned in the law . Shares will be held by the Military Governments . A sales organization and a central purchasing unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A broad representation on the supervisory council of the German administration will be obtained through the appointment of trustees selected from among the new companies , including mines owned by investors of the Western nations . Similar procedures will be followed in the iron and steel industries . It is not yet apparent whether union representatives will be included among the trustees .                     