@@711547

txt John Foster Dulles , foreign affairs adviser to Gov . Dewey , will not be secretary of state if the New Yorker wins the Presidential election in November , it was learned tnnieht The linking of the Wall st. lawyer into the congressional investigation of communism and soviet spying in America was the straw that tipped the balance against Dulles . Called Hiss Backer Dulles has been questioned in connection with the house un'American activities committee 's inquiry into the Communist connections of Alger Hiss , former state department official and now President of the Carnegie Endowment for international Peace . Hiss , who has been described by Whittaker Chambers , confessed former Communist and senior editor of Time magazine , as a dues paying member of the Communist party , reportedly owes his Carnegie post to Dulles . Dulles is chairman of the foundation 's board of trustees . Members of the board of trustees , who recommended Hiss , said they accepted Dulles ' approval of the New Deal careerist . Off To Paris The Wall st. lawyer , before he could be questioned at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the meeting of the United Nations assembly to which he , with Mrs. F. D. Roosevelt . is Azmirten dsktsle : Committee members had planned to bring Dulles and Hiss face to face for questioning on discrepancies in their stories on how Hiss was named to his post and , on his Communist associations . Members of the committee would not discuss reports that Dulles was permitted to go to Paris without public questioning so that emphasis on his association with Hiss might be avoided during the Republican campaign . They said that he will be questioned on his return . It was acknowledged that this questioning might not come Until after the election . ' Report Accepted It was learned from sources close to Gov . Dewey that after the house committee made known its intention to question Dulles , a detailed study of Dulles ' career was placed on the governor 's desk . On reading it , Dewey ordered the study sent to Dulles , It was accepted by the Wall st. lawyer as offering an explanation as to why he could not be named secre efften @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to the Hiss association , the report covered Dulles ' legal . career , including his representation of the German government before the war . Dulles and his firm reportedly represented vast German industrial cartels . Also detailed in the report to Dewey were some of the Wall st. interests of the Dulles law firm . Dulles is a former director of the North American Holding company , , which controled many midwest utilities . He took this post in 1929 and resigned in 138 . At that time the securities and exchange commission investigated Union Electric company or Missouri , one of the holding company 's most important subsidiaries . eshargpst rernnuht Criminal charges were brought against various Union Electric officials for employing campaign contributions to influence politicians so that the company might promote bond sales to the public . The securities were handled by Dillon , Read &; Co. , investment firth of Defense Secretary Forrestal Dulles was questioned at length in this investigation . No action was brought against him , however . The report submitted to Dewey is reported to have said that rehashing of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named secretary of state . With Dulles definitely out of the picture , speculation turned to former Gov . Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota and Sen. Taft ( R. , 0. ) for the state cabinet post . Most observers dismissed Stassen as lacking in experience and because of his visit to Soviet Premier Stalin . Anyway it is reported Dewey is not too warm for the man who opposed him , successfully in Some states , in the presidential primaries .                     