@@707298

txt The strongest indication that the Office of Price Administration has already decided to lift the ban on non-essential driving next Wednesday was given yesterday when local rationing boards throughout the Eastern gasoline shortage area received confidential authorization from Washington to resume on that date the issuance of gasoline rations to service men on furlough and to issue rations for motor-boats , including pleasure craft , with inboard or outboard motors . These are the only two steps that local boards will have to take in line with a blanket removal of the pleasure-driving ban , since automobile drivers were permitted to keep their ration books when the ban was clamped down for the second time this year on May 20 . Although the amendment to the general gasoline ration order making gasoline rations available to service men and boatmen next Wednesday was drawn up in Washington , it has not yet been publicly announced there . Eastern Fishermen Get " Gas " Meanwhile , as a result of the disclosure that rationing officials in New Jersey had already made gasoline available to party fishing boats at Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended the same boon to fishing boat owners throughout New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Maryland , Delaware and Washington , D. C. The regional headquarters , in the Empire State Building , authorized all district OPA directors in Region 2 to permit at once the use of gasoline for fishing boats , provided a substantial part of the catch is made available for commercial use . This means that party boats with fishermen aboard will be able to put out this week-end from Sheepshead Bay and Long Island ports , but that other types of pleasure craft must wait until Wednesday to get their rations . I Without admitting that the decision to lift the pleasure-driving ban next Wednesday had already been made , Washington OPA officials said they still believed it could be removed on that date . They said resentment against the ban both with the general public and among ' officials was such that the restriction would be lifted unless some currently unforeseen development arose . Camden OPA Denies Secrecy T. Harold Dempsey , OPA district director at Camden , N. J. , admitted yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fishing boats along the Jersey coast last week , but denied there was any secrecy about his action . " There is no secrecy , but it 's true we did n't want too much publicity because we feared it would bring fishermen to the coast in droves , " said Mr. Dempsey , commenting on the assertion by the Atlantic City rationing official that the Camden // MOTOR BOATS TO GET GAS ' WEDNESDAY // office had asked the local board to " keep quiet " aboutthe grants . Elmer Burtman , Camden OPA attorney , said he had obtained permission of the regional office in New York to authorize the premature grants of gasoline for party fishing craft . The same regional office spokesman in New York who had said on Wednesday that the Camden action had come as a surprise to him , said yesterday that he had learned subsequently that the regional office had in fact given approval to the Camden district office . Baltimore Rations Out Earlier That admission was not the only surprise of the day . The regional spokesman said the Camden office had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office had taken . the lead a week earlier and had on its own initiative authorized the issuance of gasoline rations to party boats on Chesapeake Bay . Owners of party fishing boats that are laid up in yards along Great South Bay , Peconic Bay and other Long Island fishing ports prepared last night to make the most of the rapidly waning season . Cadman H. Fredericks , chairman of the Babylon rationing board , said that boat rations would be issued in accord with the terms of the amendment , which re-establishes the old formula for gallonage in terms of engine horsepower , up to a maximum of 125 gallons for a three-month period .                     