@@704634

txt What can be done to lift the average housewife , farmer , and businessman out of economic ignorance  --  on questions such as prices , production , and qualities of goods  --  is one of society 's foremost jobs , according to speakers at the eighth Conference on Educational Policies at Teachers ' College , Columbia University , yesterday . About 250 teachers , businessmen , bankers , agriculturists , members of women 's clubs , and research workers from eastern states discussed how economic illiteracy can be reduced . While much is being done by means of self-effort to " enlighten the community , " there are many fallacies in the- popular thought which spring fromtoo much emphasis on economic statistics , from partisanship in what is taught in schools , from too many theories , too little attention to cooperatiOn with others , and too light an understanding of how to get one 's money 's worth , speakers representing industry , consumers , labor , and agriculture held . Dr. Arthur E. Bestor , President of Chautauqua Institute , was Chairman . Doing Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding economics in his own fields , it was declared by Dr. Chris K. Christensen , Dean of the College of Agriculture , University of Wisconsin . " The American farmer has become commercial in the sense that he is producing for markets , " Dr. Christensen said . " Farmers today find their income influenced by many factors that lie beyond their farms and the immediate community . The chief trouble for them is not with the farm nor . the farmer . Rural economy is functioning . The bad situation is in the market where the farmer sells . " The farmer is asking why industry and labor in urban areas are not able to get together so that the nonagricultural income in markets in which farmers are selling may be increased . Farmers would like to see large pay rolls , but the farmer is confused . " Dr. Christensen added that a high hourly wage rate was not necessarily accompanied by high employment and a high total wage income . John C. Parker , representing Floyd L. Carlisle , Chairman of the Board of the Consolidated Edison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty lies not in lack of knowledge of economic conditions , but rather in the interpretation of them . " To get simple , general economic facts to be accepted by the people seems to me to be the beginning of economic literacy . "                     