@@706156

txt The Office of Production Management conference with automobile management and labor here today marks a turning point in America 's war preparation . It probably marks the start of a major OPM shake-up . It will allocate $5,000,000,000 of new war contracts . It represents the effort to redeem the " lagging " battle of production : a " defeat " likened to Pearl Harbor , which has closed down half the nation 's auto plants with a quarter of a million workers , many of them skilled mechanics , and 400,000 idle expected by Jan. 31 . It marks the victory one month after Pearl Harbor of the all-out , as against the business-as-usual , war program , which came in Britain only after the defeat at Dunkirk . It marks the first recognition of labor as an equal partner in production consultation : a goal sought for 18 months . Labor now seeks the same role in steel , aluminum , and copper . Similar to Britain II marks the possibility of greater participation of labor in the war administration more nearly approaching that accorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press conference William S. Knudsen and Sidney Hillman , OPM directors , said the Government has asked the auto industry to deliver between $5,000,000 , - 000 and $6,000,000,000 of finished weapons this year . The industry previously had been scheduled to deliver only $2,500,000,000 of weapons . To work out some of the many problems , the OPM co-directors said , an over-all industry-labor committee of 10 men will be named to function on a permanent basis , with all final decisions left to the OPM . This follows in some part the original industrial conference program recommended by Philip Murray . " We are asking them to convert as soon as possible , " Mr. Hillman said , " in order that we can do everything today instead of tomorrow . " Many of industry 's facilities may have to be pooled , Mr. Knudsen said . Spotlight on Idleness These developments have been preceded by a full-scale advertising campaign in eastern news , papers , presenting rival full-page views of the Congress of Industrial ' Organizations auto workers and the Automobile Manufacturers Association , and embodying the 12-months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the war effort , it spotlights present idleness in the vital automobile industry , where the delayed conversion to war effort threatens to close half the factories . Under the Reuther plan backed by the C. I. 0. , and other all-out conversion plans , the automobile industry would have devoted its full efforts to war production in its own plants . The goal set was 500 pursuit planes daily . Under the OPM plan , adopted instead of the Reuther plan , only parts of the auto plants were used for production of bomber parts , and they were assembled outside the auto factories in specially constructed and duplicating aircraft plants . Under this program , criticized as " business-as-usual , " automobile production in 1941 approached near all-time records and full airplane production , it is alleged , was sacrificed . With outbreak of real war , the debacle of Pearl Harbor , and the rubber shortage , full-scale conversion of auto factories is now at last ordered . But C. I. 0 . full-page advertisements in the form of a letter addressed to " Mr. OPM " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed by Walter Reuther , head of the General Motors Division of the United Automobile Workers of America , advanced slightly more than a year ago , means that half the nation 's motor plants are closed down , that 250,000 auto workers , many of them highly skilled mechanics , are idls , and that the number will reach 400,000 by the end of January . Failure to put the 400,000 auto workers to work building airplanes , tanks , and other war materials a year ago means the nation has lost 2,000,000 may days every week in war production , it is said . For comparative purposes , the Labor Division of OPM estimates that the total time lost in primary defense strikes in the 18-month period from June , 1940 , to Nov. 1 , 1941 , which attracted wide attention in newspapers , amounted all-told to only 2,556,000 man days . Since Nov. 1 , defense strikes have diminished to practically nothing . There is a disposition in Washington , reflected editorially and supported by findings of the Tolan Committee of the House of Representatives , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while not accepting it in toto , and to demand a full investigation of why labor 's co-operative effort represented by the Reuther plan was summarily rejected by Mr. William S. Knudsen and Army and Navy heads . It is believed OPM 's leadership is heading toward a shake-up and Donald Nelson , formerly of Sears Roebuck , head of OPM priorities , is increasingly mentioned as a likely new chief . Called Lost Effort Columnists Walter Lippman , Raymond Clapper , Ernest Lindley , and others have urged an OPM shakeup to rid it of those who have fought all-out war conversion . The conservative Washington Post , returning to the attack , cities the auto factory situation as one of " our lost battles of production , " likening it to Pearl Harbor . Arguments employed against Mr. Reuther , it recalls , included the charge that he was a " fifth columnist , " and that once he had visited Moscow . The Tolap Committee , on its part , found that only a " negligible part " of the auto industry is now engaged in war effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convert plants to war production and the Federal defense agencies have not required such conversion . Interpreting the C. I. 0 . ' s " open letter to Mr. OPM " as a personal attack , the Automobile Manufacturers Association counters with its own advertisements . It stresses its big war output ( unofficially said to include $4,000,000,000 of contracts ) . While not referring to the near-peak 1941 automobile output , it declares : " But the attacks on this industry 's war work constitute a gross attempt to deceive the American people , . . so that certain groups may obtain control of the productive machinery of the United States . " Call them by any name you will , the plans of certain labor leaders constitute a design to transfer management of the automotive industry from the men who know how to make things , to those who have no training or qualifications for the responsibility . " The men who led the original sit-down strikes , who tolerated and encouraged not scores but hundreds of sit-downs , slow-downs and other forms of production sabotage , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest single behind-the-lines responsibility  --  production for war . " The Association quotes the Undersecretary of War as telling the Tolan Committee that although he had urged " earlier curtailment of car production , " that it " probably would not have resulted in greater employment of our industry 's facilities because the Army did not have the work to put in them . " Figures available in Washington indicate that the automotive industry already has produced over a billion dollars worth of military equipment . At today 's conference , the automobile executives , labor and OPM will propose their separate programs for converting the industry . Primary object of the conference is to discuss conversion , spreading war orders , developing sub-contracting to the fullest , and assuring maximum war production . Although Philip Murray has been advocating a system of industrial conferences , embracing each big industry , with equal representation of labor and employ-en ever since he became C. I. 0 . head , this conference is the first that approaches his proposal . It will seek the same conference method in steel , aluminum , copper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor 's whole position in the war effort . Whereas labor has been accepted in British Prime Minister Churchill 's War Cabinet , there is no similar trade union representative in Washington , though C. I. 0 . vice-President Hillman is Mr. Knudsen 's co-partner in OPM . Defense strikes continued in America but practically ended when war broke out . A negligible number of strikes still . occur in Britain , despite legal bans .                     