@@706629

txt The German tank force that broke into Rostov 's defense area on Sat ' urday advanced again yesterday , but not without suffering severe losses , the Russian High Command announced this morning . Bitter fighting continued in other sections of the outskirts of the city . Stubborn combats still are in progress in the Novocherkassk and Tsimlyansk sectors , northeast of Rostov . The Germans persisted in their attempts to cross to the southern bank of the Don River , on which one large enemy force already had been established . These attempts failed , chiefly because of mass attacks by Russian planes , the communique states . Dozens of German attempts to cross the river have been frustrated in the last forty-eight hours . I.The German High Command reported that German troops had crossed the Don southeast of Rostov . Russian efforts to organize a defense on the southern bank were said to have failed . Axis forces in the region of the Don bend reached the river , it was stated . German planes attacked shipping on the Volga , the High Command said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still is extremely alarming and no amount of good news from the upper Don River area , where the Russians at Voronezh are continuing with great effort to improve their positions , can compensate for the deterioration in the Rostov and Tsimlyansk sectors . The defenders ' lines at Rostov were being subjected to heavy shelling and dive-bombing , but the Russians remained so full of fight that vigorous sorties were carried out , improving local positions . Despite the enemy 's overwhelming superiority in armor and men , it is clear from all dispatches that Rostov will not be yielded without bloody battles for every block and street . That fine city , with its beautiful theatre , university and numerous institutes , already has been terribly damaged . No doubt the situation is gravest in the Tsimlyansk sector , although now that Soviet artillery has found more favorable positions than the Don steppe offered , the price that the Germans are paying for their advance is much higher . Nevertheless , German tanks have been taken across the Don , and the newspaper Red Star says that the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday . Apparently the Germans have accumulated powerful forces along the lower Don and , with strong air support , are striving to cross the river on a broad front . Red Star reports that only at two places ? in the Tsimlyansk sector  --  have bridgeheads been established . German troops that crossed to one of these bridgeheads were immediately surrounded and met their death . However , a large force of enemy tanks and shock troops is using the other bridgehead and is being engaged in an important battle . One hundred German tanks have been met by Soviet gunners . Advance to Meet Enemy Details of the battle proceeding along the middle Don do not indicate clearly whether they refer to a southern or eastern German thrust toward Stalingrad . Each aside has engaged about 200 tanks land although the enemy has reached the river , he did so only after suffering heavy tosses . Some of the Soviet tanks are advancing to meet the enemy columns moving toward the front . One forestalling action developed when Soviet tanks and infantry in ambush surprised a German regiment with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week-end has brought no I significant change in the Voronezh area . German , Rumanian and Hungarian forces are being edged off the narrow triangular battlefield south of the city between the Voronezh and Don Rivers , but the Russians ' task still is heavy . The Don has been forced by the Russians at three more places and a severe battle is being fought for a locality on the western bank . In the northern Voronezh sector a battle for the river line is continuing , while on the approaches to the city itself the fighting is heavier than ever . In one sector , it is reported , Red Army troops launched a heavy and carefully prepared attack with all arms . The latest news of this ac-1 tion is that a tactically important wood was taken and the enemy driven back about two miles . Several hundred prisoners and forty-1 five guns were captured . For defense of the Don , on whose high western bank heavy artillery is being mounted , the German commander in the Voronezh area is calling on many reserve divisions . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division have been transferred from France to the east . Heavy fighting continues on the Bryansk front , which is absorbing certain German divisions intended for use in the Voronezh region . It is reported that . the enemy em , ' ployed 110 tanks in attempts to retrieve the situation , which has been developing unfavorably for him . Some German advance was made , but it was of local importance only . Aviation is extremely active on bah sides. % On the Leningrad front the Russians continue to hammer at the German lines and to register local advances .                     