@@710765

txt The United States is about to make another move in the East-West diplomatic struggle which may prove to have far-reaching significance in determining the future shape and influence of the United Nations . This country , it has been learned on good authority , will introduce in the General Assembly 's Political Committee a resolution calling upon the Assembly to establish its own " border watch " in Greece . This would take the form of a commission which would serve as an observation unit and as an intermediary in the dispute between Greece . and its northern neighbors . To Displace Council Unit . If the American proposal goes through , the Assembly commission presumably would supersede the Security Council 's subsidiary group in Salonika with which Yugoslavia , Bulgaria . and Albania have consistently refused to co-operate .. Presumably it also would be considerably larger than the 11-nation inquiry board which the Security Council sent to Greece last spring . The new American plan is cut from the same philosophical and tactical cloth as Secretary of State George C. Marshall 's proposal that the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security . In addition to creating another focal point through which the Assembly 's admittedly great power of public opinion could be brought to bear upon Russian intransigeance , an Assembly commission would serve to further the gradual shift of power in the UN from the Security . Council to the Gen eral Assembly , to which the United States and other countries now are committed . Broad Prestige As the representative of the General Assembly in the Balkans , the commission would have behind it the prestige of the UN as a whole and in a sense would be able to sneak and act in behalf of the collective conscience of the world . That it would strengthen ma , terially the power and influence of the General Assembly goes without saying . The resolution which the United States will introduce in the Political Committee , which , incidentally , began consideration of the Greek case Sept. 25 , also will embody three other objectives , it is learned . 1 . The United States will ask that the Assembly publicly cen sure Yugoslavia , Albania , and Bulgaria for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek frontiers . I ** will urge the As , sembly to recommend that both Greece and its northern neighbors grant amnesty to all Greek political prisoners . ' The United States will ask the Assembly to suggest that the four disputing powers agree to a fair exchange of exiles and that most of them be cared for in special refugee camps until they can be reabsorbed into the economies of their own countries . In pressing these objectives , the United States will seek to have the Assembly succeed in the Greek issue where the Council failed . Substantially the same aims were sought by this country in the measures which the Council was asked to take and which Soviet delegate Andrei A. Gromyko blocked with a succession of vetoes . In the Assembly , of course , Russia will have no veto power to fall back upon , but then neither is it legally bound to accept the decisions of the Assembly which have only the power of recommendations . Soviet Objection Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Y , Vishinsky , who heads the Russian delegation in the Political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia 's Balkan satellites be held responsible for the threat to peace and security which exists in Greece . Moscow spokesmen have insisted all along that the trouble in Greece is due to the Greek Government 's efforts to suppress the legitimate aspirations of a " democratic " majority with the aid of the United States and Great Britain . Mr. Vishinsky also can be counted upon to wage a heated battle against a proposal for an Assembly " border watch . " In the event , the East-West diplomatic struggle in the UN has got down to cases : Preliminary name calling and maneuvering for position are over . In taking up the Greek case , the Political Committee conies to grips with an issue which in many respects constitutes the crux of the American-Soviet split . New Russian-U . S. Rift Meanwhile , another sharp Russian-American clash appears to be in the making over the selection of an eastern European successor to pro-Soviet Poland on the Security Council . Some significant behind-thescenes bickering has been going on in recent days and , according to informed sources , it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Czechoslovakia apparently iS the only eastern European state which the United States wants to see on the Council . Thus far , however , the Czechs have refused all bids for the job . They admit frankly that they do not want to be ground between the upper and nether mill stories of American-Soviet rivalry ,                     