@@707463

txt " AFTER TAXES " AMENDMENT to the renegotiation law , approved by the Senate Finance Committee , probably will be accepted by the House ? if it stays in the Senate bill . However , the Administration is expected to put up a real fight to have the Committee eliminate it . If it falls , the effort may be carried to the Senate floor . But in SenateHouse conference . the representatives of the House will be inclined to accept the change The amendment is not surrounded by legal definitions and qualifications It simply says that departmental price adjustment hoards must " consider . " in deciding whether to recapture profits . whether profits after federal taxes are excessive . The word " excessive " is not defined It is left to executive departments to interpret its meaning in relation to other profit " standards " such as operational efficiency . reasonableness of costs , risks taken , etc The provision . therefore . ss flexible and nerd not affect profit reem cries in as great a degree as one . for example . which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Congressional intent ' mist await the Finance Committee report . ? WHERE TO APPEAL renegotiation decisions is an issue for conference settlement The House designated the U S Tax Court . The Treasury objected . contended this body ( which is not a court but an arm of the executive branch ) already faces a post-war crisis handling an immense volume of war tax litigation with excess profits relief provisions superimposed . It was also argued that the Tax Court might tend to mix other tax questions in with renegotiation settlements The Treasury won the first round in persuading the Finance Committee to substitute the Court of Claims . The outcome is a toss-up . ? THE TAX BILL 'S SPEED in moving through the Senate depends much on time consumed on non-committee amendments . Some are controversial and the Senate has no time limit on debate like the House , except by unanimous consent Senator May-bank iDem .. S. C ) intends to seek removal of some federal margarine restrictions but says he will not make a prolonged fight . Senator Gillette I Dem , Iowa ) plans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be rejected i . Other Senators plan to seek limited exemptions from some excise levies ? ? ? FISCAL YEAR TAXPAYERS have their tax status clarified back to 1941 under House-approved amendment to the pending bill The 1942 revenue act was uncertain as to the application of the SO ' , ceiling to corporations whose fiscal year began in 1941 and ended after June 30. 1942 . That law required companies to compute two taxes , one at 1941 rates and one at 1942 rates , paying a proportion of each according to the number of days in the fiscal year falling on either side of June 30. 1942 . It said nothing . however about the SO , .. ceiling The House Ways and Means Committee said it intended that only the second tentative computation be used in figuring the ceiling and ratified Treasury regulations to that effect The pending tax bill adopts the same pattern for fiscal year companies in applying the proposed 95 , , excess profits tax rate and reduced invested capital credit . Two tentative computations are required with the proportion of each to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after January 1 . 1944 . ? AN EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN of history-making proportions will have to be undertaken . Treasury officials say , to prepare the public for their March . 1944 , tax returns . The Victory Tax , ? netner or not Congress repeals it , will have to be figured in 1943 liabilities . It will have to be computed at a 5 ' ' c rate , though the effective rate has been cut to 3 ' , through abolition of the post-war credit . If the House 's 3 , , minimum income tax is adopted , 1944 liabilities will have to be estimated with that taken into consideration . These are in addition to changes in long-standing practice , such as elimination of the earned income credit and the deduction for excise taxes paid . Millions will make the job simple by using the short form . But Treasury experience is that less than half of those eligible to use it do so . Home buyers and others with sizable debt save money by , making the lengthy computations on the long form . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pending legislation is enacted . Producers of machine tools , machinery oils and greases and similar goods will be the ones affected . The reason is that while their products are used in turning out war contracts , the products themselves do not become a part of the item produced . The 1943 revenue measure now before Congress defines renegotiable contracts as those which were drawn to furnish to prime contractor . a contract item , or a component article . And it defines a component article , in turn , as one incorporated into , or becoming a part of , a contract item . The House bill provides that this section will become effective for fiscal years ending after June 30. 1944 . But a Senate amendment would exclude from renegotiation all such contracts retroactively to the date of the enactment of the Renegotiation Act , April 28. 1942 . Products supplied directly to a Govern ment department . however , would still be subject to renegotiation.                     