@@706993

txt According to still unconfirmed reports from neutral European capitals , the Germans are already withdrawing ammunition and supplies from the East and are pouring trainloads of seasoned veterans through the French Pyrenees toward the Spanish frontier . Simultaneously , Berlin announces that Hitler has gathered around him " a group of men endowed with special powers by the Fuehrer for concentrating all their respective spheres for a victory of German arms . " Other reports indicate that to this group belong Col. Gen. Franz Helder , the former chief of the German Army General Staff who is supposed to have been restored to his position ; General Fieldmarshal Walther von Brauchitsch , former Commander in Chief of the German armies , whose position Hitler took over himself , and Col. Gen. Heinz Guderian , expert on tank warfare . These men were removed or " retired " because - they opposed Hitler 's limitless and finally disastrous campaign in Russia , and their restoration to power , together with a shift of German troops and supplies to the West , if true , can have only one meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chief command without an internal German collapse , the generals have regained control over army operations by virtue of " special powers " delegated to them by Hitler , and these generals are preparing to carry out their own strategy , which calls for a defensive in the East and an offensive in the West . The Germans have been boasting of their preparations for a Spring offensive and Goebbels 's statement that this offensive will be launched in the East merely adds to the probability that it will come in the West . And if it does come in the West , it might well involve a German invasion of Spain in an effort to get at Gibraltar and perchance gain a foothold in Spanish Morocco for a two-front war against the Allied troops in North Africa . In such a case Rommel 's offensive in Tunisia would become an overture for far more ambitious German operations . Because of the secrecy surrounding all German plans , all reports regarding them must still be read with a due amount of caution . But there is nothing inherently improbable in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit into the general German picture , and it would be more than carelessness to disregard them or to fail yin necessary preparations to meet events which they suggest . But in the circumstances there is only one way for the Allies to forestall such an offensive , and that is to strike first . And since a " preventive " Allied attack through Spain without Spanish consent can not be part of Allied strategy , there is only one place of attack , and that is Tunisia . Yet even in Tunisia the Germans have been quicker on the trigger , and at the moment the Allied position there is less than comfortable . It is premature and profitless to try to assess responsibility for this situation . Front-line dispatches suggested that the inexperience of American troops , which enabled Rommel to spring on them some of the traps and scare devices that worked so well in France , but work no longer on the seasoned British troops , was partly to blame for the reverse . But the same dispatches also show that the new American Army troops stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distinguished themselves in individual feats of heroism . Moreover , with that quick adaptability which is an outstanding American characteristic , they quickly learned the tricks of war and are now ? setting traps that catch even foxy . Rommel 's tanks . And they are acquiring a new toughness that is making this war a personal issue between them and the Germans ? a toughness that can be acquired only by facing death and ' the inexorable alternative of kill or be killed . But these characteristics could have been acquired just as well , and possibly more cheaply , in attack . This was the experience of our marines on Guadalcanal . Why , then , was no offensive undertaken ? The conditions in . Tunisia can have been no worse than the jungle and malaria of the Solomons  --  or the blizzards of the Russia plains . Presumably the answer is that even three months after the landing Allied resources were still unequal to the task . And this merely emphasizes the point that the time has come to concentrate on the task of hitting Hitler in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still the decisive element in war , and Robert Patterson , Under-Secretary of War , warns : " We have no time to lose . Time is not on our side . If the Nazis are given time to recover from the blows the Russians have given them , and if the Japanese are given time to develop the vast resources they have seized , - we will not win a decisive victory . "                     