@@712305

txt New England has been selected for the first regionwide attempt to improve relations between labor and management by industries and promote industrial peace , D. F. Hurley , regional director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , said here today . A fundamental reason for this venture is to make certain that adverse labor-management relations are not contributing to the withdrawal of industry from New England and its relocating in other areas , Mr. Hurley added . The project of bettering labor relations on a larger scale than has been tried previously in any part of the United States was initiated by Cyrus S. Ching , Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service . Mr. Ching is a veteran Boston man , who got his start with the Boston Elevated , working himself up from the job of motorman on a streetcar . Policy Broadened Mr. Ching has assigned William N. Margolis , assistant director of the service , to introduce the new program . Mr. Margolis , who is stationed in Washington , has already begun his work in New England , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted itself chiefly to the settling of strikes after they had started or to preventing strikes on immediate issues . But soon after Mr. Ching was appointed director of the new Mediation and Conciliation Service in 1947 , he undertook to broaden its policy by emphasizing its preventive possibilities . This he aimed at by having federal commissioners of conciliation go into plants where labor relations had proved notably bad and see what they could do to help the situation . Now Mr. Ching has taken the next step by endeavoring to promote better feeling between labor and management within industries rather than on a plant basis , Mr. Hurley pointed out . In Preliminary Stage " This survey is still in its preliminary stages , but in our initial contacts with industry and labor we have ascertained one way in which our service can be of assistsance , " he said , " That is in providing expert technical assistance in aiding the parties toward the settlement of incentive and work-load problems . - " Other suggestions have been made , and the survey will continue until a program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming here to consult and advise , and to contribute his experience on a nationwide basis , leaving it to the local staff of the service to put the program into operation . " Of the progress already made in New England in promoting better understanding , Mr. Hurleysaid , " After two years of experimental work , we have found that success has attended our effort where management and labor have seriously tried to improve their relationships . Integrated Plan " Even though under our contemplated program we are using an industry approach , the work will have to be done on a plant basis and integrated with an overall view . " To illustrate the type of difficulties the service has been trying to iron out in New England the past two years , he cited a plant where a very bad relationship had developed between responsible but not top officials who were directly in charge of production and operation , and union leaders . There was constant suspicion as to the motives on the part of both sides . " The grievance machinery was not doing its job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day-to. - day disputes between employees and the company , " he said . " We assigned two commissioners with long experience in the field of labor relations and suggested they survey this situation and come up with a program to improve the labor relations . After one month of conferences with the parties separately and jointly , the commissioners undertook to offer suggestions for the speeding up of the grievance machinery and for the establishment of yardsticks to be used in the settlement of many of the wage incentive grievances . Improvement Noted " Relations between management and labor have improved but have not as yet reached the point that our service feels its job is finished . However , the commissioners are continuing their work with the company and the union , looking toward a more perfect type of relationship . " One result of the commissioners ' efforts has been that recent contract negotiations were concluded without a work stoppage , whereas there had previously been a work stoppage over contract negotiations each time within the past three years . That shows it can be done . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , while it got under way in the fall of 1947 , did not begin to roll until last year , Mr. Hurley noted . " We have had perhaps 30 or 40 cases of various types , " he said . " In some instances our efforts have been purely advisory to one or the other parties who were concerned over problems that they foresaw and wished to prepare themselves so as to obtain the most workable settlement . " 