@@711683

txt That a certain amount of government regulation of business and industry is desirable and even necessary under the private enterprise system has now long been accepted as fact by even the most vigilant and uncompromising foes of Statism . But where , precisely , is the line to be drawn between such necessary regulation , on the one hand , and , on the other , regulation which , by interfering with the free functioning of the economy , does more harm than good ? Yesterday 's news columns carried testimony on this question from representatives of two opposed points of view . One story summarized a monograph by Harold G. Meulton , president of the Brookings Institution , titled " Economic Systems , " a discussion of " Regulations Compatible with Private Enterprise . " This story may be said to have reflected the purely economic treatment of the subject . The other was a report of the address delivered by Philip Murray , president of the CIO , at the opening of the latter 's convention at Portland . The line of demarcation , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise and destructive interference with it should be drawn at the point where further intervention would involve the assumption by government of the management - function . Certain naturally monopolistic industries , such as public utilities , where competition is impracticable and undesirable , obviously require regulation . Regulation is also justified where its purpose is to preserve and strengthen the competitive system , to prevent exploitation of natural resources in a manner inimical to the public interest , or to establish socially desirable working conditions and standards of quality for such products as foods and drugs . But , notes Dr. Moulton , we crossed that dividing line between necessary regulation and undesirable government interference back in the Thirties . Since then , he finds , the country has been drifting in the direction of a hybrid type of economic organization that is neither communism , fascism , socialism nor free private enterprise . This new philosophy recognizes the right IA the individual to " furnish the motive power for economic development , " but at the same time permits ? and authorizes the Government to usurp the functions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the operation of the economic system . In this area Dr. Moulton is critical of the program pursued by the present Administration from 1946 to date , with its internal contradictions such as espousing increased purchasing power for labor while at the same time seeking to maintain ceilings on prices and profits . He is also critical of the Administration for electing to retain " a substantial part " of the vast control mechanism that had been developed to meet the requirements of war , and for " periodically requesting their restoration as the only means of checking inflation , preventing business depression and maintaining full employment . " Elsewhere in his study Dr. Moulton speaks of another type of government control . This he describes as " a form of control which is in no way related to the ideologies ( of Communism or Socialism ) , but has arisen out of prac-tical exigencies resulting from international economic disorganization , or special difficulties with which individual countries are confronted . " This type of control , " he observes , " appears almost inevitable where considerations of national security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a weak spot in Dr. Moulton 's thesis , then this , it seems to us , is to be found here . The author of " Economic Systems " has succeeded in drawing a clear line , as he phrases it , tbetween desirable and . undesirable goy ernme0 intervention in business in normal - On the ' other hand , the line which he draws between controls arising out of " practical exigencies " or the requirements of " national security " and controls associated with the " hybrid economy " is likely to seem to many persons so shadowy as to be all but indistinguishable . - If Dr. Moulton needed a practical illustration of where so-called " planning " could lead it was provided at Portland by Philip  --  Iurray 's proposals to the CIO convention . Mr. Murray demanded , among other things : ( 1 ) a roll-back of prices ; ( 2 ) restoration of the excess profits tax ; ( 3 ) the rationing and allocation of essential materials , cornmealties and foods ; ( 4 ) a general wage increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' an hour ; ( 6 ) supports for farm prices ; and ( 7 ) the raising of personal exemptions to a point where twenty-five million people would'be relieved , of income tax payments . In the face of such proposals as these it is small wonder that the attitude of many Americans toward economic planning is that the burden of proof is on the latter 's proponents .                     