@@709240

txt Letters to The Times CECILE PRESTON , JOSEPH BERNSTEIN.Mrs . C.N. EDGE , FERDINAND A. HERMENS.ELIZABETH ... pg . 22 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE New Yon Tn , zs : The editorial in your paper of Jan. 28 , anent the Di Costanzo bill to forbid laboratory experimentation on dogs , prompts this letter . We do not wish to indulge in name-calling or be insulting to the medical profession . We respect the profession , as a whole , and particularly pay tribute to many of its eminent members who have courageously declared that dogs are not essential to the promotion of medical science for human benefit ; that other " lesser " animals served as well . After sixty-three years of service , dealing with all types of animal problems , we have learned ? many fundamental truths , one of which is that dog stealing is a racket , national in scope . It is a profitable racket to those who indulge in it . Anti-Vivisection Measure Meets With Approval and Opposition known . Reduced to near-extinction in 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve as breeding , wintering . and resting grounds . Among these the Parker River Refuge is especially important because it is the only refuge between central New Jersey and northern Maine and because there has been less increase of waterfowl on this northern end of the Atlantic flyway than anywhere else on the continent . Both the birds and the sportsmen are entitled to help , not omitting the conservationists . Now again the waterfowl are slipping in numbers . And when the next open season comes the gunners will be increased by hundreds of thousands of men home from war . We dare not guess what the slaughter may be . It is at this , critical time that H. R. 4362 and 4364 and S. 1496 are introduced to abolish one of the most important refuges in our Federal system . If passed , they would stand as a precedent whereby other local groups may qwq and stockholders . The line of demarcation between benefits to mankind and profits to the manufacturers is very faint . From long study and experience , we are not awed or mystified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as whole truth , many claims made by those opposing the passage of the Di Costanzo bill . You mentioned in your editorial that pellagra was one of the diseases that had been conquered through dog experimentation . You were misled . Dr. Goldman discovered the cause and cure of pellagra in Alabama about 1915 . He stated that animal experimentation was of no value whatsoever . CECILE PRESTON , President , Westchester County S.P.C.A. North Tarrytown , N. Y. , Jan. 30 , 1946 . Di Costanza Bill Argued Other Animals Used To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial on the Di Costanzo anti-vivisection bill should be required reading not only for all legislators but for all people who take for granted the blessings of medical science without giving a thought as to how they originate . The emphasis on experimentation on dogs in the editorial , however , may lead to the impression that this is practically the only type of animal used for research purposes . As a matter of fact , most experimenters prefer to work with a smaller animal that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maximum validity of results , and tend to avoid the use of large animals such as dogs , unless absolutely required to do so for specific physiological or anatomical reasons . It is fortunate that people in general have not become sentimentally a Aached to the rat as a household pet , for the bulk of all experimental work is performed with this animal . The worldfamous white rat bred by the Wistar Institute of Anatomy is so widely used that its anatomical and physiological properties have been " standardized , " like those of chemical solutions used in laboratories , and learned monographs written on its use as an experimental animal . Perhaps a monument should be erected to this humble animal , from whose unsung services such tremendous benefits to humanity have been obtained . JOSEPH BERNSTEIN . Brooklyn , Jan. 30 , 1946 . Is To THE EDITOR OF TED NEW YORK TIMES : A. dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES from Frankfort states that municipal elections are to be held in " Greater Hesse " and that " the proportional representation system , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various communities according to the custom ' here . " So far as proportional representation is concerned  --  the majority system is evidently limited to elections of Mayors in some communities  --  the " custom " existed from 1919 to 1933 . Som of us think that the custom was extremely beneficent to the gravediggers of the republic . In recent years I have often been told that it was just another symptom of German political " immaturity " that P. R. was adopted . Whose political immaturity is involved this time ? Let it be remembered that once P. R. is adopted for constitutional assemblies the " vested interests " will see to it that it ' can no longer be abolished by constitutional means ; they may indeed do what the German National Assembly did in 1919 and what , according to a dispatch by Dana Adams Schmidt in the same issue of THE TIMES , a committee of the French Constitutent Assembly is now proposing to do ? carry the principle of P. R. almost to its logical limit and invite every little group to form a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitations a 're accepted , as they will be some time or other . It is difficult to save democracy from itself . If there were a determined demand for P. R. in Germany , little could be done to resist it . However , I doubt the existence of such a demand . In the years before Hitler came to . power , I was told again and again that P. R. would be abolished if there were a legal way of doing so . Some of the men with whom I discussed possible measures survive and are politically active . When I left Germany in 1934 I arranged with them that I would gather the results of subsequent research and experience and make the material available to them . when the time should come to use it . I now find myself in possession of ample material but without a way of making it known to those who should have it . The embargo on the mails maintained by our occupation authorities makes it impossible to reach either individuals , periodicals , or scientific institutions in Germany . President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Germany , but by the simple device of keeping the mails blocked the ban is being kept in full effect , despite popular belief to the contrary . Is it not time to remember that democracy , like charity , begins at home ? Wherever the Stars and Stripes fly , there should at least be an opportunity to discuss the essence of the democratic process before that process is tried out in such a way that it will again be perverted and discredited . FERDINAND A. HERMENS . South Bend , Ind. , Jan. 29 , 1946 . Parcel Post Rates Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Many people in this country , who have friends or relatives in Europe , are sending food parcels to them to supplement their near-starvation diet and to rebuild the health of the few who have survived , months , even years , in concentration camps . But to many senders the exorbitant postal rates pose a financial , obstacle which seriously reduces the scope of their efforts to help . While a food package weighing eleven pounds may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe for only 19 cents postage , the same package sent to a needy French or Austrian family will cost $1.59 ; to Czechoslovakia or ' Switzerland the postage will be as much as ; 1.70 Our Government has subscribed to a program of aid to Europeans through UNRRA . It seems entirely inconsistent , therefore , that , through a postal tariff barrier , the United States obstructs aid by individuals who are only too eager to lend a helping hand . A reduction in postal rates for individual relief shipments is a necessity which will relieve untold suffering . ELIZABETH TUSSAH . Englewood , N. J. , Jan. 29 , 1946 . New York , Jan. 29 , 1946 . State University Opposed Proposal Regarded as One Which Might Accentuate Discrimination To THE EDITOR OF TED NEW YORK TIMED : Permit me to comment on the proposed State University plan which is advanced as a remedy to counteract the discrimination against Jew- Catholics and Negroes in the colleges and universities of New York . The plan to my mind is fallacious . It will not curb but rather accentuate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segregation center for youth seeking education but barred from . other institutions . It will at once acquire a name and reputation which will reflect upon its graduates when they seek employment or connections with professional institutions . One does not fight bigotry and intolerance by setting up concentration camps for those against whom the bigotry and intolerance are directed . Rather we must bring to the light of day the offending colleges and universities , their trustees , directors and admission officers . We must know their names . A half-truth is worse than an untruth . I believe your newspaper advances the principle that only full exposition of all facts in foreign and domestic public affairs can curb the evils born and carried out in secrecy . Let me borrow a phrase from one of your editorials : " These matters ought to be threshed out thoroughly and for good and all . " I believe that the report of the committee should be made public , including the identity of the institutions which practice discrimination , so that those , who endowed such institutions may know how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the general public knows that the taxes they pay support such tax-free institutions . Nothing but the light of public knowledge can curb this evil . ALEXANDER S. WINNETT . Washington , Jan. 29 , 1946 . Menace to Water Fowl Seen Proposal to Abolish a Massachusetts Refuge Is Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A. crisis arises in Massachusetts which affects the waterfowl throughout the United States . Bills have been introduced in Congress to abolish the Parker River Wildlife Refuge in Essex County . The facts concerning the refuge may be briefly stated : The refuge was not " slipped through " or " put over " on local residents . The refuge was first proposed by residents of the locality in 1929 and is still upheld by responsible people in the cinity . The Massachusetts Legislature gave formal consent in 1935 and the State Conservation Commission approved the plan in 1940 . Field studies were made in the years 1936-38 . It was not until 1043 that local sportsmen 's clubs , blind to their own interests , instigated opposition which has brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " naked , undisguised petty politics . " There is no interference with water rights , fishing or clamming ; and recreation will continue to be available . Little crop or pasture land is involved . The wildest statements have been made and heedlessly repeated . One newspaper has stated that no less than 400 summer ' cottages will have to be abandoned , . The . actual number of summer cottages on the property is thirteen . Bernard Donahue , City Clerk of Haverhill , has written that " thousands of residents and home owners " would have " their homes and means of existence swept away without warning . " There are , in fact , only four permanent residents in the area , each of whom is a bachelor and only one a farmer . These are examples of " virtually endless charges . " The plight of . the waterfowl fie well Penalties Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Dr. Harry D. Gideonse , president of Brooklyn College , does a disservice to the fight against discrimination in the colleges and professional schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions because it might lead to violation of " one of the most fundamental of freedoms * * the right to be different . " Though Dr. Gideonse condemns discriminatory practices against minorities , it is just this kind of thinking that plays into the hands of bigots . Schools that discriminate are not " different , " they are so much alike in their encrusted patterns , social outlook , group fears and false science that they do not earn exemption at the expense of any other section of the community . Surely Dr. Gideonse can not mean that these offending schools contribute so much to the dignity of the human spirit or to the untrammeled search for knowledge and truth that their bigotry is inconsequential and must be tolerated . There is only one solution to discrimination in the colleges and professional schools , and educators , politicians and citizens generally must be bold to seize it . Since the offending schools cut off the intellectual life-blood and deny professional opportunities to such large segments of our people , let us hit back where it hurts most . Deprive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forbid them , as in the case of the medical schools , access to our public hospital facilities , and then see whether we can not restore some semblance of decency to education in America and for America and the world . The Founding Fathers fought against taxation without representation . Let us fight this evil in its most vicious form  --  offense against the human spirit . RICHARD ROHMAN . New York , Jan. 28 , 1946 . City Colleges Cleared To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ( Within the past few days there has been much discussion in the columns of THE TIMES regarding discrimination in the colleges of the State , and particularly those of the city , against Jewish , Catholic and Negro students . These reports create the impression that this reprehensible discrimination is practiced by all the colleges in the city . The executive committee of the City College , Chapter of the American Association of University Professors wishes to call to your attention the four municipal colleges  --  Brooklyn College , City College , Hunter College and Queens College  --  where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or color . Certainly tho censure directed against discrimination should be balanced by credit to those institutions which are free from it . Furthermore , the committee wishes it noted that for the past four years the chapter has advocated State aid for higher education in the city and that it has recommended the establishment of schools of medicine and law as part of a State-supported university in the city . WILLIAM G. CRANE , SAMUEL MIDDLEBROOK , JOHN S. PECK .                     