@@712452

txt E.R.P. COUNCIL ASKS 507 , CUT IN CURBS ON MUTUAL TRADE Europeans Establish Dec. 15 as Target Date to Lift Quantitative Controls PAYMENTS PLAN WIDENED Regional Blocs in . Commerce Approved  --  Hoffman Warns of ' New Kind of Dark Age ' By HAROLD CALLENDER Special to THE New YORK TIMES . PARIS , Nov. ** to the plea Monday by Paul G. Hoffman , Economic Cooperation Administrator , for the " integration " of Europe 's economies , the European Marshall Plan Council decided today that member nations should " adopt the objective " of freeing one-half of their mutual trade from quantitative controls by Dec. 15 . This decision was qualified by a proviso that nations that found they could not follow it should report their reasons to the Council . The Council also decided to " widen the area of transferability of currencies " when revising the payments accord next year , to approve regional freer trade blocs and to study double prices and surplus manpower . It formally recognized for the first time ? using Mr. Hoffman 's , words  --  the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Hoffman and Harriman Present Mr. Hoffman and W. Averell Harriman , Marshall Plan Ambassador , sat with the Finance and Foreign Ministers and made suggestions yesterday afternoon and late last night as they struggled to draft their resolution . - This led one European official to say that the two United States officials had been " associated " with the resolution . But Mr. Hoffman did not specifically associate himself with the resolution beyond noting it reflected sonit of his opinions . Nor did he praise it or endorse it . He appeared to take a noncommittal , wait-and-see attitude when , addressing the Council at the end of its session , he said there was no magic in words or resolutions but only in actions . Mr. Hoffman then warned that " if there is a failure to act or actions of wrong kind are taken , I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that we may have a new kind of dark age in the world . " " The actions you are contemplating and which we hope you will take in the next few months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , " he added . European observers , including some members of the Council , said today 's resolution , the result of five days and nights of discussion , was a feeble and tentative response to Mr. Hoffman 's challenge for bold action toward sweeping away all trade barriers in Europe . Little Enthusiasm Noted Nowhere at the Chateau de la Muette , where the Ministers met , was there any sign of enthusiasm . over the Council 's cautiously phrased and carefully qualified declaration , which was regarded as standing in sharp contrast to the " dramatic " demonstration of a will to unity that the Economic Coopertaion Administration officials had urged . Europeans asked Americans whether they thought the resolutions would revive Congressional faith in vigorous common action in Europe and thus insure a third annual Marshall Plan appropriation . None was surprised when the Americans expressed doubts that Congress would be impressed by the document . At a press conference after the Council 's meeting , Paul van Zeeland , Belgian Foreign Minister and chairman of the Council , tried hard to breathe some life into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. van Zeeland argued that the resolution provided for steps toward a single market and spelled the doom of the doctrine of protection by quotes . The provision that if a member country " feels unable " to reduce quotas to the extent stipulated in the resolution it should give its reason to the Council , was widely interpreted as an escape clause . But M. van Zeeland argued that it merely contributed " necessary flexibility . " M. van Zeeland said the resolution committed all Marshall Plan governments except those of Denmark and Sweden , which were yet to be consulted . He emphasized // E.R.P. COUNCIL ASKS TRADE CURB CUTS // what he called the almost superhuman task of abolishing trade barriers and said it took great political courage for some governments to agree to a 50 per cent reduction in quotas . ? One member of the Council is reported to have expressed in a secret meeting his regret that the goal of an economically coordinated Europe had been dropped in favor of regional action in the form of monetary blocs with freer trade within them . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of Britain 's partly negative attitude toward common European action of this kind . Those most conversant with Marshall Plan-diplomacy remarked upon the apparently small effect on the Council of repeated warnings from Washington that dollar aid might end next June if the Europeans did not show greater signs of common action . Mr. Hoffman 's view was understood to be that judgment should depend not upon today 's declaration but upon what the European governments did within the next couple of months . French officials . aid that compared with the goal the resolution amounted to very little , but that if seriously applied it might provide a start toward a solution of the European trade problem . They added that the resolution showed the impossibility of rapid movement toward unity . They expressed the hope that the regional groupings would not mean the end of the European Marshall Plan Council and its wider aims . The resolution provided for removing quotas on half of the private imports by Marshall Plan countries from other Marshall Plan countries , and that this proportion should apply in each of three categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopolies under government control were to be in accordance-with Chapter 4 of the Havana Charter , which provides that states should follow the practices of private traders . The resolution provided that member countries were to reply by Dec. 15 what they could do to relax controls on invisible trade , including tourist and emigrant remittances . The Council said it would decide by the end of January what further steps could be made in reducing trade barriers . The Council asked member countries contemplating regional trade accords to report to it by Dec. 15 . The preamble to the resolution declared that such accords were desirable but that they must be compatible with " the wider possibilities that may be offered by the collective action of all member countries . " National Policy Study Urged The resolution " recognizes the need " to compare national financial , economic , social , tariff and investments policies to harmonize them in the interest of closer economic and monetary association . All these provisions touch points mentioned in Mr. Hoffman 's ? speech Monday . The Council decided that the division of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the proportions fixed this year . The European nations ' economic programs for the next Marshall Plan year will assume that the aid next year will be 75 per cent of this year 's total. , Credit rights under the next payments accord will be consequently only 60 per cent of those of this year . Both dollar aid and intra-European credits will be fixed for the final Marshall Plan year 1951-52 at two-thirds of those for the year 950-51 . The Council decided creditor countries must not count on payments in dollars or gold henceforth . Because of the civil war , Greece was excepted from this provision and from a proportionate reduction of aid next year .                     