@@705716

txt DEMOCRATS OF CITY SPURN LA GUARDIA , DEFYING NEW DEAL Regular Organizations Will Not Yield to Pressure for Endorsement , Flynn Says TO PICK OWN TICKET SOON O'Dwyer Still Seen as First Choice  --  Queens Republicans Name Harvey Again A definite statement that the Democratic organizations in New York City would not yield to pressure from the New Deal elements in the party and endorse F. H. La Guardia for Mayor was made yesterday in Washington by Edward J. Flynn , Democratic National Chairman . Mr. Flynn made his declaration after a luncheon conference with President Roosevelt , but he insisted that the subject had not come up in his talk with the President . His declaration was the first of the kind to be made for the record , although it was known earlier this week that the Democrats would make a fight for the Mayoralty with a candidate whom they thought to have a chance of defeating Mr. La Guardia , even though the latter might have support in White House circles . Mr. Flynn , who is still leader of the Bronx , conferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mad Christopher D. Sullivan , Tammany leader . They are understood to have agreed on a ticket with the Mayoralty candidate from Brooklyn and candidates for Controller and President of the City . Council from Manhattan and the Bronx , with no definite selections made as yet . Democrats to Act Next Week The make-up of the Democratic ticket is to be settled at conferences of all of the Democratic leaders in the city next week . District Attorney William O'Dwyer of Brooklyn appears to hold the lead I for the Mayoralty nomination , with I Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr . and Supreme Court Justice John B. Johnson also in the running . Tammany has yet to pick its candidates for Borough President and District Attorney . It is understood to be desirous of waiting to see what the Republicans will do about the district attorneyship . The opinion is growing that District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey will not run for re-election . Mr. Dewey is still the choice of the Republican State organization for Governor in 1942 . If he were to // DEMOCRATS OF CITY ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would have to enter the Gubernatorial campaign with the handicap of having to quit a job to which he had just been re-elected . If he ran for re-election and was defeated , his Gubernatorial boom would be finished , in the opinion of local politicians . There are reports that Mr. Dewey would like to see Murray Gurfein , one of his chief assistants , nominated for District Attorney . The principal Democratic possibility for the nomination is understood to be Bernard Botein , who has made a fine record as special investigator in the State insurance fund scandal and as counsel in the State printing investigation . He is an independent Democrat . Queens Republican Ticket The Queens Republican organization , headed by Warren B. Ashmead , designated what it regards as a strong borough ticket yesterday afternoon , but without , taking a stand on Mayor La Guardia . The executive committee designated George U. Harvey for Borough President for the fifth time . He ran to fill a vacancy in 1928 and was re-elected in 1929 , 1933 and . 1937 . For Sheriff the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for City Court Judge , Joseph M. Conroy , former president of the Queens County Bar Association . Municipal Court candidates in four of the . five districts were also selected . They are II William Morris , Nicholas M. Pette , Henry P. Keith and George B. Rice . Both Mr. Morris and Mr. Keith are Democrats , while Mr. Pette , an incumbent Republican , is expected to receive the Democratic endorsement . The Queens organization , though cold to the candidacy of Mayor La Guardia , has taken no steps thus far to oppose him and may remain " neutral " if the other Republican borough . organizations endorse him . , A group of Brooklyn and Man , hattan business men visited Mr. Kelly , Brooklyn Democratic leader , yesterday morning to urge the-designation of former Judge Alfred J. Talley of Manhattan as the Democratic mayoralty choice . After . the conference the group said the county leader had listened attentively to their plea . " Mr. Kelly told us that he felt certain that Judge Talley 's name would be presented in the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the group , said . " Mr. Kelly himself is for the nomination of a candidate who will give this city a sound administration and who will appeal to the people . " ' The Brooklyn leader , however , received many other visitors interested in a host of candidates .                     