@@710436

txt Resumption of Soviet-American negotiations for establishment of a Korean provisional government is welcomed in Moscow , There is , however , no disposition to view the present prospects of Korean unification with easy optimism . Recent international as well as Far Eastern events have tended to strengthen rather than dissipate the Russian suspicion that United States military authorities regard southern Korea as an anti-Soviet bridgehead ? and have been seeking to intrench local rightist elements there accordingly . , Such a course seemed to jibe fully with the American policy in China and Japan ? and , in a world sense , with the Truman doctrine which aims to " contain " Communism . Regimes Take Root uoservers ' nere further point out that during the year that ha 's elapsed since the joint Soviet-American commission in Korea adjourned sine die , both the Soviet-sponsored regime in Northern Korea and the American-sponsored one in Southern Korea have tended to take root in their respective zones and develop in different directions . At the same time , it is acknowledged that in both zones the Korean people have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the artificial demarcation line and unification of the country . This has tended everywhere to become the paramount issue . superseding all others . It probably has supplied major impetus to reconvening the Korean commission now . The Soviet public has learned much about Korea in recent months from the press , radio and screen , chiefly about Soviet-occupied Northern Korea , which is reported to be making steady strides along the road to social and economic progress , highlighted by such measures as nationalization of industry and sweeping reform . Industrial plants and factories , for example , virtually all of which were owned by Japanese or their Korean collaborators and , therefore , were subject to confiscation. are reported to be operating under Korean management with the help and advice of Russian experts and technicians . Social Insurance Social insurance and safety measures have been introduced , as well as the eight-hour daycorripared with the 16-hour day under the Japanese , which is said still to prevail in Southern Korea . It is reported that Japanese-built war plants have been converted to peacetime usages  --  that , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are making fertilizer , an item of paramount importance to Korean peasants . As for land reform , it is reported that 1,000,000 hectares of arable land formerly , held by landlords have been distributed among 730,000 peasant house-.holds . Striking gains likewise are described in education . A . eople 's university has been established in Pyongyang , ancient Korean capital which now is ad , ministrative center for the Northern Zone . An ambitious program of school construction has been launched and more than 1,225,000 adults are having their illiteracy liquidated by attending special courses . In addition , groups of Korean students have been admitted to the best schools and institutes of the Soviet Union . ? Political Freedom ' A wide measure of political freedom is reported to exist in Northern Korea , and 14 newspapers reflecting different shades of opinion are published in Pyongyang , Largest and most influential party is the leftist Labor Party , whose leader , Kim II-sung , is described as a favorite of the Korean people and whose portrait , together with that of Prime Minister Joseph Stalin , is displayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , other elements also play an important part in the People 's Committee . Thus , the key post of head of the Industrial Department is held by Li Mun Hwa , described as a former big landowner and industrialist  --  one of the few in that category who did not collaborate with the Japanese , Conditions Contrasted By all accounts , social progress and enlightenment in Northern . Korea repeatedly are contrasted with conditions south of the 38th parallel : There , Korean people are described as being scarcely better off than they were under the Nipponese conqueror . The victory of the Rightists in the elections held in Southern Korea last November is ascribed to active intervention in their behalf by American military authorities ? in fact , American press quotations are cited as evidence . Democratic and left-wing leaders reportedly are subject to continuous persecution , while traitors , turncoats , and collaborators have things all their own way . It further is charged in Moscow that American military authorities have resorted to ruthless police brutality in dealing with labor troubles which the Russians are told their pro-reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes .                     