@@706488

txt The Russians believe that the continuation of the RAF 's " four figure bombings of Germany 's war industries will oblige the Germans to force the pace on the Eastern Front instead of playing for time in which to recruit new allies or prepare fresh weapons to compensate for the waning effectiveness of tanks . Obviously , say the Russians , Hitler could not contemplate three more years of war against Russia if half of the industrial population of Germany was converted into refugees through the combined efforts of the British and American air forces . The only hope for the Germans would be to finish Russia in the next few months and then turn against their tormentors in the Wes 1 . Accordingly the adventurous " neck or nothing " tactics might again prevail over the caution by which the present German operations differ strikingly from last summer . Luftwaffe Hard Pressed Furthermore , the German Air Force is incapable of retaliating effectively against Britain when so many planes are needed for massive local concentrations along the Eastern Front . Thus on certain vital sectors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each kilometer and come days the Russians received from 1.000 to 1,200 loads of bombs . The Luftwaffe already is taxed fo the uttermost on the Eastern Front and has to juggle with hunlreds of alternate airports in order to obtain air superiority as at Kerch and other objectives . Hence the Germans might even throw all their bomber strength against the eastern front to speed up operations . Of course , it is much harder to predict the German behavior now than last year when Hitler himself could look Months ahead and plan accordingly . In one single bound he is now standing at the threshold of the fantastic and unpredictable , and such great strength , now turning desperate , is hardly less dangerous than the vast smooth-running machine which crossed the Russian borders more than 11 months ago . Where Next ? What most interests the Russians , who have survived all of Germany 's attacks , is how long Britain will keep up this air offensive and what places it is going to attack next . This is just a tribute to the boldness of British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . What Britain is going to do is becoming as important as the question of what Germany is going to do . This is a fair implication that the initiative so long wielded by Germany is at last changing hands . Many Russians hope there is a connection between Britain 's unparalleled air offensive and the statement of Gen. George C. Marshall , American Chief of Staff . containing a substantial hint that a second front would be opened while all agree that it dispels every possible doubt that Britain means to do real business on the continent .                     