@@711803

txt The Truman Administration 's Congressional leaders disclosed today a determination to move fast in the House to raise the minimum wage from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour , as the first action toward enacting the President 's social program . A decisive struggle opened at the same hour in the Senate over the place to be assigned on the calendar there for the Taft-Hartley Labor Act repealer . In a closed and inconclusive session of the Senate Labor Committee , left-wing Democratic members , headed by Senator Claude Pepper of Florida , served notice that at its next meeting they would demand a yes or no vote as to whether a simple Taft-Hartley repeal bill was to be reported out at once to the Senate floor . The effect of this would be to raise dual and sharp issues : ( 1 . ) To put forward precisely the program being demanded by the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations . They are for action now only to knock out the Taft-Hartley Act and to restore the old Wagner Act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SLATED FOR ACTION // whatever amendments might be put on to carry out President Truman 's own recommendations to somewhat stiffen that statute as it affected the unions . ( 2 ) To challenge directly the concept of the committee chairman , Senator Elbert D. Thomas , Democrat of Utah , that the TaftHartley fight could well be held off until action had teen taken in other fields of social legislation , including a rise in the minimum wage and Federal aid to education . Senator Thomas , for his part , again indicated during the day that he was still clinging to this approach , to which the labor leaders are strongly opposed . He had adopted it in the first place in the declared view that such matters as aid to education were relatively almost non-controversial , and thus should be disposed of before the issue of the Taft - Hartley Act reached the floor . Senator Pepper and his associates argued that the events of the day 's committee meeting had " demonstrated " that there was likely to be prolonged controversy , rather than little or none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They asserted that labor legislation must be brought to the forefront lest it fall in danger of being lost late hi this session . They pointed to the fact that while Senator Thomas and Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , the ranking committee Republican and his party 's Senate leader in charge of its policies , had intended to go ahead with precisely the same education bill that passed the Senate last year , backers of important changes already were busy . In the committee 's session , a proposed substitute , backed by Senator Brien , Democrat , of Connecticut , and others was brought in and it provoked disagreement . The feature of the bill most basically differing from the old Thomas-Taft version was one to increase the proposed aggregate of Federal aid to the States from $300,000,000 a year to $325,000,000 and in the process to make parochial and private as well as public schools eligible for a share in the 10 per cent of this total sum that would be available for health and bus services to children . No action was taken in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donnell , Republican , of Missouri , counter-attacked the proposal with one his own specifically to prohibit an , state from using any Federa .. money for a private or church school . The committee decided to meet the Donnell issue at once and as Senator Thomas announced later , the Missourian 's proposal was defeated on a voice vote . The Bill , which was not yet in printed form , was put on the schedule to be considered next Friday , unless the Pepper ' motion should alter all present schedules . Senator Pepper himself said that he " might " be able to force out an immediate Taft-Hartley repealer . The Democratic Senate whip , Senator , Francis J. Myers of Pennsylvania , who is responsible for getting party members to vote , announced for example , that he had invited eight of the most influential labor leaders of the coup-1 try  --  including William Green of the American Federation of La- ' bor , Philip Murray of the CIO , and John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers to a Jan. 26 dinner to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , the decision to put a minimum wage rise at the top of the agenda there was disclosed by Representative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts , the Democratic floor leader . Mr. McCormack told his colleagues that he " hoped " the House Education and Labor Committee would be constituted early next week to bring out at once a bill for a 75 cent wage floor and that this would be passed by the House itself before the week was out . The Republicans , who apparent . ly had not expected the announcement , stirred in apparent dissent to such quick action . Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts , the Republican floor leader , observed that " a bill of this fnagnitude " should have careful consideration in committee . Representative McCormack flatly disagreed , arguing that the issue had been " heard and re-heard many times . "                     