@@706980

txt The city 's first air raid drill under the new Army signal regtilations will be held at 9 P. M. Thursday , Mayor La Guardia announced yesterday in his weekly radio broadcast from his desk at City Hall . The Army regulations , which become effective Wednesday , prescribe the siren signals for such an alarm but leave to the local authorities the decision as to the " all clear " signal . Declaring that Thursday 's drill would be followed soon by still other tests at times to be announced in advance , the Mayor urged citizens to cooperate fully with the protective services . Unannounced drills , he indicated after the broadcast , would be held as soon as the public and the protective forces had become thoroughly familiar with procedure under the Army regulations . Posters describing the signals to be used in air raid alarms , including the siren warnings and the " all clear " signals to be sounded on the whistles of air raid wardens and policemen and by announcement from radio stations , will be placed today in all subway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday will be primarily a test of the new signal system , but also will involve mobilization of the city 's protective forces . " The purpose of this drill , " the I Mayor said , " is to acquaint the people of this city with the new three-signal system : That is , the first audible signal alerting all people to the possibility of an attack and blacking out the interior of buildings , but keeping activities going except the putting out of certain exterior lights of buildings and certain lights in the streets . This followed by the alarm of actual attack , requiring complete blackout and everything stops ; pedestrian and vehicular traffic stops on the second actual attack signal , which is the warbling siren . The all clear signal will be given by announcements over the radio and by the whistles of air raid wardens and the police . I intend to repeat these signal drills until all the people of the city have become completely familiar with them and know exactly what to do . " The Mayor noted that during practice drills all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of a real attack they undoubtedly would be silenced . " In any event , " he said , " always keep your radio tuned in in order I to get the all clear signal . " The Mayor said the Army was arranging a plan for communication of messages to the public by radio during actual attacks . This would be done , he indicated , by designating a given wave-length for transmission of such messages at times when stations would be off the air for ordinary program purposes . Lieut . Gen. Hugh A. Drum , commander of the entire Eastern Defense Area , he said , is setting up a system whereby such messages can cover the entire area from " the tip of Florida to the most northerly point in Maine , " while Major Gen. Thomas A. Terry is establishing a like system through which necessary messages can be transmitted to officials and the public throughout the Second Defense Area , which includes New York , New Jersey and Delaware . The Mayor reminded building owners that the deadline for supplying fire-fighting equipment , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months ago by the City Council , is almost at hand . The city , he said , will insist on compliance without further delay . He also served notice that " chiselers " taking advantage of service " men in the city would feel the strong arm of the law . Licensed places guilty of such-action , he warned , would have their licenses revoked , The Mayor revealed that action already . had been taken against " roaming photographers , " who took pictures of men in uniform on the streets . accepted a 50-cent fee and then failed to deliver the pictures .                     