@@708864

txt Governor Dewey made public today a 5,000-word report by the State Department of Commerce , which forecasts a post-war era of expanded economic activity in New York State , despite the impending discharge of 500,000 war workers and unsolved national problems of reconversion . The report , written by M. P. Catherwood , Commerce Commissioner , states that unprecedented business and job opportunities are in prospect for the people of New York with the end of the war and that steps already have been taken to make those opportunities a reality . He said : " This State , long the business leader of the nation , is ready to show the way toward a new level of prosperity and a higher standard of living . " Commissioner Catherwood listed five factors which he believes will assure the State of post-war prosperity . They are : The huge pent-up demand for consumers ' and producers ' durable goods ; estimates by industrial managers that 33 1/3 per cent more persons will be employed in manufacturing plants of the State in the post-war period than in 1940 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backlog of private housing and industrial construction ; the launching of an estimated 100,000 new small businesses , expected to involve expenditures of $500,000,000 and employ 250,000 persons . Critical of 17 . S. Activities The report was critical of the activities of the Federal Government in the reconversion field . Mr. Catherwood said there was a lack of information on a practical national reconversion program during the last few months of the war and that most of the recent statements from Washington contain information which is " of such a generalized nature as to be of little practical immediate guidance to the business man attempting to make preparations for going ahead with speedy production and full employment . " The great national-problems of reconversion are still unsolved . Industry , long anchored to the war effort , has suddenly lost its biggest customer . It finds itself with the responsibility for meeting the needs of the people and creating jobs without any indication as to how or where to get the tools ark materials . " Commissioner Catherwood said industry , after years of unprece. dented wartime controls , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be continued and which will be relaxed . He said : " AU over the State we have the spectacle of employers eager tin produce but held up in taking action and giving employment . Authoritative information is needed , and needed at once , to let the public know specifically the answers to questions involving the supply of materials , the allocation of scarce materials , price control policies , changes in the tax structure and disposal of Government surpluses . " See Older Workers Retiring New York State , Mr. Catherwood added , has been preparing to meet the " great challenge of the post-war period " and has a program ready to promote new opportunities for business expansion and jobs . He added : " I am happy to report that the economic prospects for the men and women of this State are bright for the years ahead . " In addition to the 500,000 war workers expected to be discharged within the next sixty days , Commissioner Catherwood said most of the 200,000 extra civilian employes hired by the Federal Government for work in arsenals and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force will be swelled by 50,000 discharged veterans each month . Offsetting , this , the report added , will be the retirement of a large number of older workers and the return to family life of many women who took war jobs . He continued : " It is not unreasonable to expect that as many as 25 per cent of the discharged workers will voluntarily disappear from the labor market . " The report states that New York does not face as serious reconversion problems as some of the other industrial States because the proportion of war plants here is not as large as in several States and because New York has a wide diversity of manufacture and a predominance of consumer goods . He warned that measures used by the Government to check wartime inflation may , if used in peacetime , aggravate inflation . He added : " There is grave danger that price control policies adopted for war purposes will prevent rapid reconversion . Cancellation of war contracts is a sign that private enterprise must face a new direction to achieve full production and full employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and indicated changes in that policy are delayed , the planning of private business to meet normal consumer demand is prevented . " The report forecasts greater post-war job opportunities in the retail and service trades than in factory employment . Mr. Catherwood pointed out that the war impact on the State varied . For example , while the factory index for the State as a whole stood at 133.7 last June , the index for New York City was only 118.6 , compared with more than 160 in Syracuse . Factory employment in the New York City area , including part of New Jersey , rose by 630,000 in the war period , of which 102,000 was accounted for by shipbuilding , 132,000 by transportation equipment and 114,000 by electrical machinery . Trouble Areas Are Listed " These particular industries in these particular areas , " the report stated , " are the ' trouble spots ' in the reconversion picture in this State . Employment pick-up in these areas depends in large part on the reconversion policies of the National Government and the speed and efficiency with which these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce the goods needed to meet the backlog of consumer demand and thus prevent inflation and subsequent depression . " Steps taken by the Commerce Department to insure a period of prosperity were listed as follows : Preparation of publications dealing with business opportunities ; distribution to small businessmen of information on the fruits of wartime technological research ; listing of all manufacturing firms in the States and their products ; arrangements for export clinics to acquaint New York business men with the possibilities in foreign markets ; inauguration of an industrial advertising campaign ; establishment of a Bureau of Aviation , and development of a program to help women meet the problems of tli , e reconversion period .                     