@@706537

txt WASHINGTON , June ** coastal waters around the island of Britain , a happy hunting ground for Axis submarines when the war in Europe began , are deadly traps for these craft now . What was a soft spot for the undersea commanders exists no longer , and that is one reason why they have been obliged to take the long and hazardous cruise to American waters to intercept at their source , instead of at their destination , the war-supply shipping to Europe from the United States . This shift , with the attendant success of the submarines in the Western Hemisphere , has led to the natural question , " Why ca n't the American Navy do what the British Navy did ? " and to great interest in the British ' methods used to accomplish it . First , a brief account of the methods is in order . When this war began , as a consequence of experience in submarine fighting during the last war , the British had a large fleet of little craft ? trawlers , pleasure boats and vessels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to make the best anti-submarine use of such shipping . But as the requirements of destroyers for oversea service grew with the spread of the war , the British had to depend more and more on the small civilian craft . These are sturdier than the American brand , because their coastal waters are rougher . Their radii and stretches of patrol are , of course , very small in comparison . Also , the British Navy is nothing like so exacting as our Navy has been in regulations for the boats and their crews . In one instance , two forty-foot , gasoline-engined pleasure craft were outfitted with depth charge mechanism and machine guns in twenty-four hours and , as " H. M. S. " This and That , were put on patrol duty off a Scottish port in which Axis submarines had unexpectedly begun to show an interest . The British Took a Year The trade for American air and naval bases in the Western Hemisphere , as a result of which the United States turned over to the British fifty or more destroyers , brought the patrol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to harry the American coasts as soon as we entered the war . This puts in order an attempt to answer the question , " Why ca n't the American Navy do what the British Navy did ? " At the outset , it should be noted that the British did not begin to master the submarines until almost a year had passed . It is now much less than that since the Axis sent its undersea fleet to the Western Hemisphere ; our new patrols , escorts and destroyers are coming into commission at a rapid rate ; therefore , it may well be that the American Navy will achieve the same result and in less time . The time would be shorter , and the goal more sure , if the American government had applied the British experience in fighting submarines before we entered the war ; started the patrol and escort building program sooner ; and made more use of the tools in hand  --  the small craft and their crews ? while awaiting the new construction . One reason for this neglect is the old one : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us into the war before we were ready and set loose the Axis submarine fleet in the Atlantic . Among those first things put first , when this country was preparing for war and hoping it would not come , anti-submarine warfare was not included . The Basic Problem Nevertheless , it is entirely possible that the American Navy will get the job done in less time after this country was put into the war than the British were able to do it after Hitler entered Poland . But meanwhile the sinkings of the supply ships of the United Nations , plus the losses of cargoes and seamen , and added to damages that force many other ships to lay up for varying periods , form the basic threat that exists to the success of the anti-Axis peoples and steadily defer the date of a grand offensive . These sinkings and damages have destroyed or decommissioned a far greater amount:of tonnage and supply than the public knows about ; and the discovery that mine-laying submarines have been at work presents a new aspect of the problem before the Navy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overemphasized , and no survey of the war 's prospects rests on a sound base that does'not begin with the submarine warfare . It is possible to report , however , that the Navy , despite the open and the unpublished returns , has been constantly gaining in efficiency against the undersea fleets ; that this efficiency has been aided by the loan of a number of British trawlers ; and that some veterans of Great Britain 's submarine campaign are showing an optimism now with respect to the work of the American Navy they did not reveal a short time ago . Our departmental organization against the submarines is much the same the British used , so that is not the difficulty . The problem will be solved with the appearance of sufficient tools , and interim use of those at hand that the Navy has rejected on a counsel of perfection there is no time to Indulge .                     