@@708089

txt To follow the advancing battle front across the border of Germany and deep into the Siegfried Line is to come to grips with war at its grimmest. riot since Normandy has the conflict been as bitter . In fact . what is happening here is that the Allied armies have smashed up against Hitler 's third line of defense . The first was the Atlantic Wall : Beach defenses into which the Germans had built their strongest weapons of defense and on which they based their main hopes of preventing an Allied invasion of the Continent . The second was the German line around the Allied beachhead in Normandy . Both were breached by the British . Americans , and Canadians , but only after tremendous efforts and by concenltrating overwhelming infantry ' and armored forces against the Germans . Siegfried Lide Pierced The Siegfried Line has been pierced  --  and soon will be shattered  --  in the same way . But Allied strategy is exactly the opposite of what it was in both those two earlier battles . The landing on the Normandy beachhead was achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretch of beach : A bare score of miles nut of the whole continental coast line of more than 1,000 miles in length . Literally , a breakthrough out of Normandy into France came when Field Marshal Sir Bernard Montgomery and Lieut . Gen. Omar N. Bradley hurled the whole weight of the United States First Army against the Germans on a narrow front at St. The contrast between the strategy employed in both those cases and in the present Allied offensive against the Siegfried Line is al .. ; most complete . Instead of concen-tration , dispersal is the keynote.1 The Siegfried Line is being attacked simultaneously from the Netherlands all the way down to Switzerland , Far from packing everything into a single blow , the Allied Chiefs of Staff have chosen to 1 punctf here . there and everywhere. ! with infantry , armor , and airborne troops , seeking a weak spot for a final and decisive breakthrough . Right-Flank Air Attack That is the meaning of the paratroop and air-borne attack along the Rhine and in Holland . Just when Hitler had concluded American penetrations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituted the main Allied thrust , he is confronted away off on his right flank with a movement , by air , , which seriously threatens his whOle position if it is n't met . Despite armored opposition , the British advanced swiftly across Belgium in a sensational five-hour leap from the Belgian frontier nearly 30 miles to the banks of the lower Rhine , only seven miles from the Gentian frontier . This maneuver of combined armor and air-borne troops crystallizes a threat to the Germans on the Allied left , while the threat to the Wehrmacht on the Allied right flank in the region of Belfort is steadily developing . But meantime it is here on German territory in the central sector of the Siegfried Line that the battle is being most hotly contested . A fierce artillery duel was raging overhead today , with American heavy and medium guns replying to German big guns . Allied medium bombers came sailing overhead during the afternoon to attack rail and road junctions just behind the German lines . Soldiers Cheer Air Support Grimy , unshaven tired soldiers , dug in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hilltops and in fertile valleys , literally cheered when the planes roared across the sky . It was the first time in several days the weather here has permitted tactical air support . The soldiers cheered too when convoys of trucks with much-needed supplies came rumbling up narrow muddy roads late yesterday afternoon . Up here at the front one is only too aware that for the first time since the landing in France , we are fighting now on exterior lines , while the Germans have the present advantage of interior lines . They are able to move their reserves  --  such as they are  --  more easily and more nuickly from one part of the front to another . More important , their supply lines are much shorter . Supplies for the American First and Third Armies , as well as for the British Second Army now across Holland , have been trundled up 500 or 600 miles from Normandy beaches or Cherbourg docks . Delays Develop No matter how good the supply organization is  --  and it is magnificent  --  there are bound to be some awkward delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only through the Siegfried Line but beyond the Rhine , the use of Channel ports in northern France and Belgium  --  Le Havre , Boulogne , Dunkerque , especially Antwerp , ? will be essential , and that soon . Supply difficulties are not helped by the terrain here in the Reich east and southeast of Aachen , Heavily wooded hillsides and steep valleys lend themselves to defense works of the Siegfried Line type . Driving northeast from Roctgen just inside the German frontier , our jeep had not covered many kilometers before I saw a sight which reminded me of the Maginot Line : A broad band of " dragon 's teeth " ? antitank obstacles marching away across the country like serried ranks of an army . The road had been barred there with a triple road block , now cleared , of course , and apparently mined . Blockhouses Smashed There were half-buried blockhouses which had been smashed by fire from American artillery or tanks . Rolling along the road , pitted here and there with filled-in bomb craters , we saw on either side of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete pillboxes . These pillboxes , or concrete machine-gun and antitank-gun emplacements , went on intermittently for miles . Occasionally there was a larger blockhouse as well , but generally speaking the so-called Siegfried Line is not a line even to the extent that the Maginot forts were a line , but a deep zone of gun emplacements . Driving through it today , I recalled a story I heard in Germany when I was last here , in March , 1940 , of how the line came into being . Hitler told his generals to march his armies out to Germany 's frontier district , and deploy them . When every gun had been put into a natural defensive position , he gave orders to enclose each gun and cover it over with concrete . Civilians Unconcerned One of the strangest impressions of this American front on Gar man soil is the way civilian life goes on almost unconcerned just behind the lines . Farmers  --  all older men or young boys , for there are no men of military age to be seen here , in contrast to France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cows , and feeding pigs . The women feed chickens or darn stockings in doorways . They are not openly hostile , these country and village people . But they certainly are not in any sense friendly . The contrast is tremendous when one has just passed through beflagged towns and villages of France and Belgium , where people still hail every passing truck or jeep with enthusiastic smiles and even shouts of welcome . Except for very young children                     