@@707369

txt The seventy-five-word post-war policy resolution drafted yesterday by a Foreign Relations subcommittee was introduced in the Senate today by Senator Tom Connally with a warning to those who would seek more definite commitments at this stage of the war that the measure represents- " the best that they can hope to secure . " Mr. Connally , wh  --  o is chairman of both the subcommittee and the full Foreign Relations Committee , which will consider the resolution next week , addressed his remarks principally to the authors and advocates of the Ball-Burton-HatchHill proposals , which would require this Government to call for an immediate gathering of United Nations representatives to organize after the war something akin to a league of nations equipped with an international police force to enforce peace . " The resolution which I have introduced , " Mr. Connally said , " represents many months of careful and meticulous consideration by the subcommittee appointed especially to study all aspects of the foreign situation and to take appropriate action . " The resolution is well considered . It expressed what 1 believe to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be approved by a large majority of the Committee on Foreign Relations and later by a large majority of the Senate . " The former supporters of the Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill resolution should support the present resolution . It represents the best that they can hope to secure . If they should offer their resolution as an amendment and it should be rejected , there might be unfavorable reactions abroad . " Mr. Connally predicted that an attempt by sponsors of the BallBurton-Hatch-Hill resolution would meet with defeat . Sponsors of this measure , which was rejected by the subcommittee , along with nearly a dozen others of general and specific nature , had only one immediate plan . They said they would ask to be heard by the full committee next week . After this , they asserted , they would decide whether to press for action despite the subcommittee 's attitude , ? or withhold the measure and " take the igMie into the 1944 campaign , " or both . Before the day ended , the Senate became embroiled in a clash over Anglo-American relations which prompted Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate to " display the tolerance which is so essential in the enterprise in which we are all engaged . " Senator Gerald P. Nye , Republican of North Dakota , started the clash by saying that he resented " the British nosing into American politics at this time to the extent of urging what the American people should do in the next Presidential campaign , " and declaring that the British are throwing insults at the five Senators who toured the battle fronts . The " insults , " Mr. Nye told the Senate , included a cartoon in The London Daily Mail where instead of the lengendary three monkeys who saw " no evil , " five Senators proclaimed " I saw no good . I heard no good . I said no good . I want no good . I 'm up to no good . " Senator Carl A. Hatch read to Senator Nye a syndicated article from an American newspaper which asserted that anti-Administration isolationists were seeking issues upon which to base antiBritish campaigns . When Senator Nye contended that Winston churchill on his last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a catastrophe if President Roosevelt were not re-elected ; and that it would be even worse if he should be re-elected with a Republican Congress , Senator Claude Pepper , Democrat of Florida , told the Senate that Mr. Churchill never made suet ' a statement . Mr. Nye said he was quoting a radio broadcast made by Drew Pearson . Mr. Pepper denounced as a " perversion of the responsible facts , " Mr. Nye 's interlretation of the remark of the British Prime Minister to Parlienient that in some countries , while the soldiers are fighting , " the politicians are fighting at home with equal vigor and philosophy . " What Mr. Nye had said , the Florida Senator continued , was intended " as a jab in the side of our British ally , a blow at the Pres. dent of the United States and th present Administration in the con duct of the war , and a further revelation of the consistent anti British policy which the Senator has maintained since long before the present contest was inaugurated. "       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     