@@710502

txt Definite stens to reduce the causes of air , rail , and highway accidents are being taken by Federal agencies . These efforts are being spurred ** by President Truman , whose special board of inquiry on air transport safety is expected to report soon on the causes of a number of recent crashes of commercial air liners . Meanwhile , careful consideration is being given to the President 's remarks at a meeting of his second Highway Safety Conference here . Mr. Truman warned that unless states act to co-ordinate their system ' of licensing automobile drivers and work out a method for eliminating dangerously irresponsible and unfit drivers , the Federal Government would have to intervene as a matter of public interest . ' Another important development is the order which the Interstate Commerce Commission has just issued to railroads to provide " more and better protection for the traveling public " by installing automatic safety devices on 45,000 miles of tracks used by highspeed passenger trains . Time Limit Set The time limit for installing the mechanical safety device runs from Dec. 31 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mileage involved . Although acknowledging that the order is rather drastic , an ICC official said the railroads have the choice of either installing the safety devices or reducing the speeds of their trains . Beside installing " automatic or Manual block-signal systems " on all parts of the railroads ' lines where passenger trains travel over 60 miles an hour and freight trains 50 miles an hour , the railroads are required to install additional safeguards , including automatic train stop or cab signals for any trains traveling faster than 80 miles an hour . Considerable speculation has been aroused as to the railroads ' ability to absorb the heavy costs which the ICC order imposes . The same question has come up with regard to commercial air lines . " When you talk about greater safety for air traveler 's , " a Government aviation official declares " you can always point out that airfields should be bigger . " Unfeasible Plans He went on to say that in many cases it is not feasible to enlarge existing airports , ? because of the cost of acquiring and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited the reluctance of authorities to place much public stress on these factors , since it is not reassuring to air travelers to dwell on flying hazards which can not be remedied immediately . And apparently nobody cares to take the responsibility for saying in effect that aviation interests or communities served by airports can not afford to spend the amount of money needed to make their landing fields safer by enlarging them . A spokesman for the Civil Aeronautics Board points out that the causes of 90 to 95 per cent of all air-carrier accidents are determined by subsequent investigations . Much progress in air safety has resulted , he said , from the requirements imposed on air lines for installing new equipment to reduce the hazards from fire and ' other causes . After the loss of a Constellation-type plane some months ago . this official explained , the air lines were compelled to install new equipment which investigation of the accident revealed was needed . Plane Overloaded In the recent La Guardia ' Field crash in New York . this spokesman said , the inquiry already shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has stated that this was not the cause of the accident . it was cited to show how progress evolves from temporary setbacks in men 's determination to . master the skies . In this case , the CAB official said , it was found that the air line was basing its load formula                     