@@710339

txt Gen. Charles de Gaulle finally has flung down his challenge to parties now in power in France , by coming out as the leader of the new movement  --  the Rally of the French People  --  challenging the existing constitution , The General has started a new phase of his career . In his new declaration , issued yesterday , he still deals in broad generalities . He talks about " economic pros-perity , social justice , imperial unity , without which we lose citizens , liberty , and France 's independence . " Yet he gave no specific plan to how this desirable program to be brought about . Clings to Generalities " The nation must rally in a long and powerful effort of work and renovation , " he pronounced in general terms . Again , he says : " The nation must be guided by a coherent , ordered , concentrated stag , capable of choosing and applying impartially those measures required by our common salvation . ' The present system , therefore , would be replaced by another in which the executive power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in which " insoluble conflicts would be settled by the people themselves : . The delaration , however , does not say whether this should be brought about by Parliament dissolving itself or by a new crisis demanding sweeping action . Similar to Wartime Plea The General 's appeal to French people is reminiscent of his stirring call to the nation from England on June 18 , 1940 . He said : " I invite all Frenchmen and women , who wish to unite for the common salvation , as they did yesterday for France 's liberation and victory , to join me in the rally . " This language suggests that the country is in a situation as critical'as it was when the resistance appeal was made , which is scarcely the case . Press reactions are what might have been expected . Humaniie , Comunist organ , being strongly opposed to General de Gaulle , is on the alert , taking up its cry of " vigilance for defense of the Republic . " It says : " We take these indications of division among the French , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . .. " The Socialist Populaire says : " The regime desired by the President of the Rally of the French People is that of a single party , such as we have seen functioning on the other side of our frontier , " comparing the idea thus with Hitlerism. " 