@@704672

txt HOUSE VOTES 279-97 TO CURE AGENCIES BY COURT REVIEW Motion to Recommit Bill and Efforts to Exempt Various Boards Are Defeated ROUT FOR NEW DEALERS Amendment to Spare NLRB and Wages-Hours Body Draws Fire From Their Foes By HENRY N. DORRIS Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , April 18 ? The House swept aside New Deal opposition today to pass by 279 to 97 the Logan-Walter bill to subject rulings ' and orders of the 130 Federal bureaus and agencies to court review . The measure was assailed . by the New Dealers as " a vicious thing . " President . Roosevelt had previously denounced its general aims as destructive , although he did not mention it by name . Since the measure covered some of the ground that sponsors of amendments to the Wages and Hours Act and the National Labor Relations Act hope to change , the overwhelming vote was regarded as an indication of House sentiment regarding those acts . These amendments will be considered later by the House , probably next week . Representative Sumners , chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he summed up the purposes of the bill . Pointing out that nearly a million persons were in the Federal service , Mr. Sumners said : " Contrary to all our philosophy of government , we have placed in one appointed personnel all threq powers of government . They make the rules ; they construe the rules ; they enforce the rules . When one of these people goes to an ordinary private citizen he goes to him with all the powers that a king ever had . This man has no power to resist , practically speaking , the mandate of an agent of these bureaus . " ' Lawyers ' Relief ' Title Killed Representative Keller , a New Dealer , offered unsuccessfully an amendment to exempt the Federal Works Agency and to give the bill the title , " The lawyers ' emergency relief bill to end unemployment in the legal profession , and for nci other purpose . " Representative Rayburn , majority leader and acting Speaker , criticized the measure , saying that he had been trying " for several days to find out just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Securities and Exchange Act , defended the SEC from attacks made previously by Representative Cox . He called it one of the " strongest and ablest commissions in this government . " The measure , said Mr. Rayburn , might be so broad in its terms as to permit stockholders and even competitors of business firms to hold up urgent refinancing of financially jeopardized companies . He said it would be " a good thing " if the bill was sent back to the Judiciary Committee for " further study . " Prior to passage , the House rejected on a roll-call vote , 273 to 106 , a motion for recommittal by Representative Celler . On the vote for passage , only Representatives Burdick of North Dakota and Welch of California , Republicans , voted ' " no . " The only change of consequence made in the measure was on an amendment by Representative Crosser to exempt from the measure the Railroad Retirement Board , the National Mediation Board and the Railroad Adjustment Board . Rivers and Harbors Exempted Representative Walter , sponsor of the measure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language to provide exemption of such non-military activities of the War Department as the rivers and harbors work . As fast as they were offered the House rejected amendments to exempt other agencies . One of these was by Representative Ford of California , who said that he wanted to exempt the National Labor Relations Board from " this vicious thing . " His amendment was voted down , 73 to 24 . Representative Rankin was shouted down when he attempted to exempt the Rural Electrification Administration . The vote was 124 to 6 . He also failed in attempts to exempt the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Federal Power Commission . The House rejected , 86 to 52 , an amendment by Representative Vorys to limit the exemption of Internal Revenue matters to those subject to review by the Board of Tax Appeals . The amendment of Representative Cochran of Missouri to exempt the General Accounting Office was // voted down , 59 to 26 . Rejected also were amendments to exempt the Agriculture Department except for the Packers- and Stockyards Act , the Commodity Exchange Act and the Perishable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which last year passed almost an identical measure before the Administration leaders realized its full significance . They recalled it from the House and a motion to reconsider its passage is pending . Few believe that the Senate will consider the Logan-Walter measure this session and even if it finally is sent to the White House a certain veto faces it , in the opinion of many .                     