@@711491

txt West Coast longshoremen went on strike today upon dissolution of a Federal court injunction issued under the Taft-Hartley Law . They Lwere joined by members of sea1 going unions to paralyze port operations from Puget Sound to San Diego . The first picket lines were ordered for midnight . Harry R. Bridges , president of the International Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Unio .. , told several thousand of his stevedores at a mass meeting here that preparations would be made for a strike of four to six months , adding that when it was over the union or the employers would be " out of business . " In Washington , President Truman said everything possible was being done to end the longshore strike by negotiation . He has no emergency powers left to cope with the stoppage under the Taft-Hartley Law . The following statement on joint policy with respect to security crews and safety measures to be maintained despite the strike was issued tonight after a meeting of representatives of striking unions : " Where a ship is endangered , proper personnel will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " All ships arriving in port will be allowed twenty-four hours to get ready for shutdown . Passes // through the picket lines will be furnished to office personnel . State harbor commission employes will be asked only to show their iiadges . " Longshoremen will unload mail and passenger baggage from arriving ships . No perishables or other cargo will be handled . War dead ships will be worked . " The walkout , which became certain with the sudden collapse of negotiations shortly before last midnight , made idle an estimated 12,000 members of the longshore unlbn , an affiliate of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , and a1 substantial number of the 16,0001 members of seagoing unions work-1 ing West Coast ships . It tied up about 145 vessels in coast pbrts , , after some had slipped to sea , partly loaded , yesterday afternoon , and last night . The Federal Mediation and Con- , ciliation Service made a fruitless attempt to bring disputants together this afternoon for a quick renewal of negotiations . William N. Margolis , assistant director of the service , who flew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and waterfront employer officials wanted some time to analyze the situation in the light of changed circumstances . " My reaction is that there is not much chance to get them together for a couple of days , he said . The first decisive move , following a midnight work stoppage which had been decided upon several days ago so that longshoremen might attend meetings at 10 A. M. to hear reports of their negotiators , came in a Federal count room in Seattle .. There Federal Judge . George B. Harris of San Francisco , who had issued the eighty-day " cooling-off " injunction that blocked a threatened walkout of five West Coast unions until today , signed dissolution orders . He acted at the request of Attorney General Tom . C. Clark , who was represented by Jess Rosenberg , a special attorney of the Department of Justice . Mr. Rosenberg came from Washington to San Francisco to file the orders , which affected the ILWU , the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association and the National Union of Marine Cooks and Stewards , all CIO affiliates : the Independent Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ' Seagoing Radio Officers , whose affiliation is the subject of a threeway jurisdictional fight . About the time Judge Harris was dissolving the injunction , one of the steps prescribed by the new labor act , longshoremen were holding port meetings and giving unanimous backing to their negotiating committee . Bridges Gives Warning Longshore officials said about 6,200 attended the San Francisco session , at which Mr. Bridges was , quoted as saying that " this whole strike will be decided on the picket line . " Mr. Bridges related that he had tried unsuccessfully to get Joseph , Curran , president of the National Maritime Union , to join with the West Coast longshoremen in an East-West unity move . The longshore union prepared to open soup kitchens and ordered picket lines on all West Coast docks at 8 A. M. tomorrow . The Marine Firemen , joining the strike action , planncd to send out pickets at the same time . The Marine Cooks and Stewards expected to have theirs on the docks at midnight . These unions , with the Marine Engineers and the Radio Officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fore any will sign . AFL to Respect Pickets Harry Lundeberg , secretary of the Sailors ' Union of the Pacific , affiliated with the American Federation of Labor , said his members , " victims of circumstances , " would respect the picket lines . The sailors , he added , would be laid off anyhow . They would live on " rocking chair Money " ( unernploy- ' ment insurance ) and be fed in the union 's restaurants , he said . The peace move by the media- , tion service drew representatives of the Waterfront Employers Association to the service 's headquarters , where Mr. Margolis and Commissioners William Halloran and ' George Hillenbrand had hoped to sit down with them and the longshore committee . Mr. Margolis said the employers reported they saw no point in meeting , however , because " they were not in a position to do any talking until they conferred with their principals and analyzed the changed situation . " Gregory Harrison , attorney for the WEA , said that when negotiations were resumed the employers would insist on starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegram , in response to the invitation to the session , charging that " every concession made by the union only increased the adamance of the operators and made them more arrogant as to behavior and demands : " He stated that the ILWU committee would agree to no more negotiations until the employers " give earnest evidence that they actually intend to negotiate in good faith to end the strike . " Waterfront employers had given in on several major issues , including the hiring hall , in which case they had agreed to the same terms as those in a previous East Coast maritime settlement . The hiring hall would remain as it is in the old contract pending a SuiSreme Court decision as to its legality . Mr. Bridges at the final negotiating session said the union would not accept " a hiring hall with strings attached to it . " ? Not Agreed on Retroactivity The longshoremen and employers had compromised original demands on wages but were still a few cents apart on this issue and had not agreed on retroactivity . The Marine Engineers have come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but will not sign until the other unions have agreements . The Marine Firemen are dissatisfied with the wording of a compromise offer on the hiring hall and object also to proposals on manning scales and working conditions . The Marine Cooks are at odds with the shipowners on hiring halls , wages and working conditions . The radio operators have refused a bulletin board wage and conditions offer pending an NLRB election . Although the strike brought a , rail embargo on cargo consigned to West Coast ports for water shipment , it did not become effective before some freight had been shipped . A pile-up of loaded freight cars to some extent was I therefore expected . An average of 250 carloads daily of this type of cargo has been coming to coast ports recently . The strike affects dry-cargo ships , of which about 260 operate from West Coast ports under the American flag and almost 200 under . foreign flags . The American-flag ships include 137 in the foreign trade , sixty-seven in intercoastal and fifty-six in the Alaskan and Hawaiian trades . Tankers are unaffected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the strike will cause a wage loss of nearly $4,750 , - 000 a month to 12,000 longshoremen. clerks , carloaders and related dock workers , and nearly 55,300.000 a month to 16,000 seamen , members of engine room personnel . stewards , radio operators and officers .                     