@@711134

txt The conflict between Russia and the western powers in Berlin is political and not military , It is not a situation that holds present seeds of war , These two conclusions were drawn today by Gen. Lucius D. Clay , Military Governor in Germany and Commanding General of United States troops in Europe . He told a press conference that he " did not expect a conflagra.tion to break out tomorrow or the next day . " In a calm and measured assessment of the European situation , he said the fact that all peoples wished*to avoid war gave hepe that it would be avoided . Cites Moral Values " On the other hand , " he said , " we must face the fact that certain moral values which people believe in must be sustained at all costs . " Asked about the possibility of increasing United States troops in Germany because of present tension with the Russians , he reminded the conference that the Berlin disagreement was political , that the Soviet Union never had expressed the threat to use troops , and that military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments , he said , always should be efficient and ready to rub out a fire . General Clay added he was not expecting a fire tomorrow . Policies Iinehanged Cancellation of the transfer of military government control from the War Department to the State Department , according to General Clay , will not alter the American policy of granting further responsibility to the German people . General Clay declined to discuss the possibility of a western German state . " I do not want to be put in the position at the present time of casting a threat that a western German Government is in the making , " he said . By the Associated Press Rome A Foreign Ministry spokesman announced Italy is willing to negotiate directly with Yugoslavia on the question of Trieste and the free territory . By Walter Lucas Sori iot Correspondent of The Ci.rIstion Se ; ence Mr-utgo . Trieste today is as Trieste as if nothing had happened . The population seems to have taken the Big Three announcement that the City should be handed back to Italy as unconcernedly as if it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneath the surface  --  a waiting to see what the reaction of the Yugoslays and their Moscow taskmasters will be . There also is concern with many persons about the implic  --  tions of French Foreign Minister Georges Bidault 's statement that the United States , Britain , and France propose the return of Trieste to Italy . Is , people ask , the removal of Allied troops from the free territory implicit in a return of the City to Italy ? Catastrophe Seen Any such event . at least . within the foreseeable future , might lead to catastrophe . The calm that spreads over Trieste today is thus not a calm of confidence . There are reasons for this apprehension . In the first place , it now has become quite obvious to everyone that the institution of the Free Territory of Trieste has ceased to exist in fact , even though fiction is maintained . Some other solution must be found , unless the Allied Military Government and Allied troops are to remain in perpetuity . Once again Trieste is in the midst of the maelstrom of international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Big Four Commission was trying to solve the problem almost ' two years ago . This naturally breeds a sense of insecurity , which slows commercial and industrial ity and causes a sense of bility . What is going to happen tomorrow or next month or next year ? At the moment no one has a clue . Are the Russians going to demand that Gorizia be incorporated into Yugoslavia in return for recognizing Trieste as Italian ? A year ago the Italian Communist leader Togliatti came to an agreement with Marshal Tito suggesting this very thing. , This fact is now being given a great play in the Communist and Slav press here . No Ethnological Link There is an ethnological reason why Gorizia should go to the Slays . It is as Italian a city as Trieste . Economically , it is linked with the hinterland of the Isonzo Valley , which now is in Yugoslavia . Then , again , what is to happen to the zone of Free Territory which is now administered by the Yugoslays ? This zone , which lies to the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , already has , to all intents and purposes , been incorporated into the Yugoslav state . Land and industries have been communized . The zone is completely sealed off from the Anglo-American zone by frontier posts and no Allied personnel are allowed to penetrate into it . It is reported now that the Yugoslays are beginning to conscript the population of this zone of Free Territory , Italians and Yugoslays alike , into the Yugoslav Army . The one salient fact that stares ope in the face in Trieste is that the whole problem must once again come up for international decision . On many counts , it can not be allowed to drag on as at the present . That this is so is due mainly to the fact that the Yugo-slays have from the very beginning set out to make it impossible to implement the provisions of the Peace Treaty .                     