@@707742

txt President Manuel Avila Camacho escaped unhurt from an attempt made on his life this morning by an army officer in the National Palace . Shortly before 11 o'clock the President , who had ridden from his residence in the company of Octavio Mondragon , his personal physician , alighted in the courtyard of the wing where the Presidential offices are situated . Lieut . Antonio E. de la Lama Rojas approached him . Senor Avila Camacho , who knew the officer personally , thought he was being asked for an interview and advanced a few steps to meet him . Lieutenant de la Lama whipped out his .45 caliber army revolver and fired almost point blank . The bullet pierced the coat and vest of the President under the left arm , less than an inch from the body . Probably thinking that the shot , aimed at the heart , had reached its target , the assailant pointed his revolver at Dr. Mondragon . In that fraction of a second , Senor Avila Camacho , with remarkable presence of mind , grabbed the officer and pinned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential guard pounced on Lieutenant De la Lama , mauled and disarmed him . From circles close to the Government , it was learned tonight that the assassin was presumably an agent of what was termed a Nazi-Fascist organization . Documents found on his person and among his belongings proved that he was a Nazi sympathizer , it was said . Official circles refused to make , a clear-cut statement pending ant investigation . President Questions Assailant A reporter who witnessed the scene told the writer that the President asked his assailant : " Why did you fire at me ? " " I have been trying for a long time to see you , " stammered the officer . " Take him to my office , " the President ordered . Senor Avila Camacho , Dr. Mondragon , the assassin and the officers rode in an elevator from the courtyard to the Presidential of- , fices . In his study , the President , it was said , pressed the lieutenant for the reason for the attempt . " There is no justice in Mexico , " the assassin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked . " Because I am not permitted to go to church wearing my uniform , " the officer allegedly said . Lieutenant De la Lama alluded to a decree of Nov. 16 , 1943 , signed by President Avila Camacho and Under-Secretary of War Francisco L. Urquizo , which prohibited uniformed soldiers from attending churches and religious ceremonies because " the rites of religious creed do not conform with the dignity of the military uniform and insignia nor with the martial personality of military men . " The President , it was reported , placed his assailant in ' custody . He faces trial by a military tribunal . The offense is high treason and the penalty death . Lieut . De la Lama Rojas was " gravely wounded " when he attempted to escape from a military barracks Monday night , The United Press said , quoting the commander of the Sixth Regiment of Cavalry as follows : ' Rojas tried to get away and there was nothing for the guards to do but shoot . One shot entered Rojas ' back and came out through his stomach . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ la Lama was a long-time friend of the Chief Executive , The United Press reported . Senor Avila Camacho recommended him for appointment to the Mexican Military College . Immediately after the attempt , Presidential guard officers closed all gates and doors of the National Palace ; the report spread in minutes throughout the capital and thousands streamed to the palace . High military officers . Cabinet Ministers , Senators , Deputies , and political leaders were admitted to the Presidential study . They offered congratulations in the traditional Mexican manner ? by embrace . Reporters were also allowed in after having been searched for weapons . Silent on Officer 's Ties Many scores of people who were in the building at the time gathered outside the study . Finally , in answer to their requests , the President ordered that they be let in . In statements to his wellwishers issued to the press , the Chief Executive asked that no undue stir be made over the attempt . " I wish you to see this as an incident possibly caused by a sole individual or at the most a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you to remain calm and to see to it that there be no disturbances . Under no circumstances must we divide the Mexican nation . We must continue our effort for the conservation of its unity . " Asked whether . he thought the assassin had been the tool of any specific group , the President replied , " I can not give any personal opinions . The matter lies in the hands of the competent authority . " Vincent Lombardo Toledano , president of the Confederation of Latin American Workers , who was among those felicitating the President , termed the act a " typical Nazi attempt ' against the efforts of democracy in Mexico And the Continent . " " The Mexican labor class , " he said , " not only condemns this attempt but declares that it is ready to act wherever it is necessary . " He also announced he would call a workers meeting at the Palace of Fine Arts tomorrow morning to give " the political reasons that have prompted this attempt . " The consensus among observers here is that Mexico is experiencing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs have caused widespread dissatisfaction . The reasons allegedly given by Lieutenant De la Lama for his attempt were taken with a grain of salt in diplomatic circles , which said that the church was often made the scapegoat when there was public ferment . It was also emphasized that President Avila Camacho is one of the most tolerant executives Mexico has had in this century . Under his regime , the church , it was said , has enjoyed freedom far in excess of that obtaining under previous Governments .                     