@@709335

txt Barring unexpected and even more serious developments in Iran , the British are going to trust their case against the Soviet Union to the Security Council of the UNO , it was learned today . Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , in placing . British accusations against Moscow formally on record before Parliament this afternoon , made it clear that Britain had taken no steps to send troops back to Iran . He merely solemnly announced that the British Government could not understand Soviet Russia 's policy and would regret any settlement forced upon Iran . In other words , the British do n't intend to prejudice their case before the world and before history 1 // by doing something themselves that they condemn the Soviet Union for doing . They consider that they have played the game fairly and squarely by Iran in withdrawing their troops as promised , and they intend to play fair with the United Nations Organization . If the UNO lets them and the Iranians down , it will be another matter . The British know how to play the game of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caution is deep pessimism , discouragement , anxiety and even bewilderment . The whole structure of post-war security upon which the British have been basing their international policy has tottered in the last twelve days . The bases of world security from their viewpoint have been collaboration of the Big Three , effective operation of the UNO , through collaboration of the Big Five , and trust in treaties made with other United Nations . The war of nerves against Britain , Premier Stalin 's Pravda interview and the violation of the AngloSoviet-Iranian treaty have destroyed these bases . Mr. Bevin 's statement as a matter of fact showed this bewilderment and uncertainty , but it was very carefully worded so as not to rule out any possibility , not even that of sending British troops back into Iran . This is the way he put it : " I have received inquiries as to whether it is the intention of His Majesty 's Government to replace British troops in Persia . No decision to that effect has been taken by His Majesty 's Government , nor have they taken any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of British troops . " Tells of Soviet " Assurances " He went on to say that he had received " most categorical assurances from Generalissimo Stalin and the Soviet Government that the integrity of Persia would be respected . " Mr. Bevin also cited Foreign Commisar Vyacheslaff M. Molotov 's assurances of last October and November , including that now famous phrase regarding " the exceptional importance which the Soviet Government attaches to the strictest fulfilment of their obligations . " " It is very difficult for His Majesty 's Government to understand the present policy of Soviet Russia in this matter , " continued Mr. Bevin , " and more difficult even to believe that all these assurances are not going to be fulfilled . We are now awaiting the reply of the Soviet Government to inquiries we have addressed to them . " In conclusion the Foreign Secretary said that " His Majesty 's Government would regret any settlement which appeared to be extracted from the Persian Government under duress while the Soviet Government were still in occupation of part of Persia . " What incenses the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because they kept their word and withdrew from Iran , they have necessarily been forced to stand by helplessly while the Russians work their will . The oblique denial by Tass tonight of the United States State Department 's report of troop movements in northern Iran merely confirms what had earlier . today become the British belief on these Russian troop movements . As seen here , they are simply . part of a Russian campaign to create rumors and intimidate the Iranian public and Government . It is considered to be part of a war of nerves and in exactly the same technique that the Nazis used when bringing pressure to bear on ' the Austrians , Czechs and Poles . In the same way an article in the Moscow Izvestia today by Mr. Alexeyev , depicting the Iranians as potential aggressors against the Soviet Union , is considered more or less an exact parallel to Hitler 's technique in , for instance , accusing the Poles of aggressive designs , while he himself was plotting aggression against Poland . It is thought possible that Mr. Alexeyev 's resurrection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations " is paving the way for recourse to an exchange of notes connected with that treaty which gave the Soviet Union the right to send troops into Iran if rebel Russian elements were planning to attack Soviet territory from Iranian soil . The intensity of the Russian radio campaign against Britain is another element that is embittering British feelings . Premier Stalin 's interview with Pravda , which is considered here as one of the most important developments in post-war history has had extraordinary dissemination . It was not only broadcast again and again at dictation speed in Russian but it has been repeated constantly in Moscow 's foreign services in English , French , Italian , Spanish and Serbian . It was broadcast in German transmissions beamed to Germany and Austria , and several news bulletins in English were entirely suppressed to make room for it . Radios of the Russian-dominated states of eastern Europe and the Balkans also picked it up . World Disaster ' Talked Of The British alarm about all these developments was expressed in a Manchester Guardian editorial , which ended by saying that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly be averted . " The announcement from the Soviet Embassy in Washington that the Russians would attend the Security Council was received with mixed feelings and without surprise . It has been felt here that the Russians have nothing to gain by withdrawing from the UNO . That would forge an anti-Soviet world bloc , whereas the Soviet Union inside can exercise veto power and it has a platform from which to address small nations , colonial . peoples , sympathizers and disaffected elements . So there is a keen diplomatic struggle ahead when the Security Council meets March 25 . The Foreign Office has been in close contact with the State Department on the matter , and the British are hoping they will get better American support this time than they got during the London sessions.                     