@@708167

txt President Roosevelt used his speech before the Foreign Policy Association on Saturday evening to add to the blueprints of Dumbarton Oaks a recommendation of very great importance . This was his proposal that the American representative on the Council of the new league of The United Nations ' be empowered in adrance by the people themselves , by constitutional means through their representatives in Congress . with authority to act . " By this he clearly means authority for the American representative to determine on his own right , and without further specific reference of the question in each instance to Congress , whether such American forces as have been made available for this purpose  --  our quota of an international air force , for example  --  shall be used , along with the forces supplied by other members of The United Nations , to prevent or restrain aggression . The President backed this proposal with an argument which may seem to be oversimplified but which does , after all , go to the heart of the problem . A policeman , he said , would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a felon breaking into a house , he had to go to the town hall and call a town meeting to issue a warrant before the felon could be arrested . " If we do not catch the international felon when we have our hands on him , if we let him get away with his loot because the town council has not passed an ordinance authorizing his arrest , then we are not doing our share to prevent another world war . I think , and I have had some experience , that the people of this nation want their Government to work , they want their Government to act , and not merely talk , whenever and wherever there is a threat to peace . " It is important to keep in mind the precise words in which the President advanced his proposal . He wishes the American representative on the Council to be given his authority " by the people themselves , by constitutional means through their representatives in Congress . " It is clear that he intends to propose , concretely , a method of procedure which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the Constitution . This could be done in various ways : by Senatorial ratification of a treaty , or by making the American representative on the Council a delegate of Congress as well as of the President , through one of several devices . Fundamentally , we believe , there are no constitutional obstacles to the perfection of a plan which would sanction the use of American force in this manner . For while the Constitution does require Congressional aaion for a declaration of war , the use of force is not always the equivalent of war , and its use in this case would be for the purpose of preventing war . As Professor Handler of the Columbia Law School wrote yesterday on this page : " Our Government , like other Governments , has found it necessary in the past to resort to force in its dealing with other nations . If this could be done consonant with the provisions of our Constitution , certainly there should be no constitutional difficulty in our acting hereafter in concert with peaceloving nations . Under the settled construction put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may use force in the protection of our national interests without Congressional authorization , either general or specific . How much clearer is it that this may be done pursuant to international arrangements duly ratified by Congress ! " We believe that a plan to embody the President 's proposal can be developed which will rest on sound constitutional grounds , and we believe that from the point of view of public policy the case for the adoption of such a plan is very strong . Surely , the best hope of averting the two great wars in Europe and Asia , in whiclr American blood and treasure must now be poured out lav- ishly , would have been to confront Germany and Japan with the certainty that their first aggression would be met immediately by consultation which could bring coalition action . It is the factor of certainty , quite as much as the factor of promptness , that is important . For while the American representative on the Council might not vote in all cases to approve the use of force , ( he would certainly not do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , the fact remains that any potential aggressor would know henceforth that there were policemen in the world who had power to arrest felons . In the deterrent influence of this knowledge , and the maintenance by the peace-loving nations of adequate armed forces , lie real hope that out of the present war there may come a long period of peace . The President has made a courageous and constructive proposal which we hope will have the prompt support of Mr. Dewey . For there is an American interest here which transcends party lines and will outlast election campaigns . We shall need , on Nov. 8 , and from that point forward , all the bipartisan support that can be mustered for the plan that seems most certain to avert the tragedy and the waste and the heartbreak of another war .                     