@@710442

txt According to a dispatch to this newspaper from Geneva , Switzerland , where the International Trade Conference is proceeding , the American delegates have held eleven meetings with the British and five with the Canadians , but have met only once with the Australians . " The explosive issue of the wool tariff , " it notes , " is preventing any real progress between them . " This reference is to a bill which has already passed the Senate and which is now before the House of Representatives . During the war the Government adopted a policy of buying up the entire domestic wool clip , and this policy , which has continued ever since , has had two primary results . It increased domestic production because of the high level of prices which it guaranteed and it enabled foreign wool growers to sell their product in. the American market despite the prevailing tariff of 34 cents a pound . Since the Government is not permitted to dispose of its purchases at less than the parity price , , it finds itself today with stocks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one and a half times the country 's annual output . Early this year Secretary of Agriculture Anderson took cognizance of this situation . He announced that he was going to call a halt to the wool support program after April 15 unless specifically authorized by Congress to continue it . He wanted particularly to be freed of the existing restrictions on the sale of the Government 's wool stocks . The Secretary saw that a policy of orderly liquidation of these holdings would present a difficult problem if it had to be carried out in the face of heavy imports , of foreign wool , and he himself put forward the idea of the import fee . However , he also realized that if such a plan were to be worked out it should be done within the framework of our existing tariff policy . He therefore wrote into his original proposal a provision that " no proclamation under this section shall be enforced in contravention of any treaty or other international agreement to which the United States is , or hereafter becomes , a paTty . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's request , but to say that it has demanded an exorbitant price for this concession is to put the case very mildly indeed . In the first place , this legislation calls for a Government support price for the next two years of 42 cents a pound . This is a more favorable support price than that accorded any other commodity . In the second place , it would place wool under the tariff provision contained in Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act , by which the President is authorized , on the finding of the Tariff Commission that imports of a given commodity threaten materially to interfere with the Government 's program for that commodity , to establish an import q- ota or impose import fees up to 50 per cent . Unlike the plan put forward by Mr. Anderson , this measure takes no cognizance of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . It may be contended that the imposition of the " flees " for which it provides would be discretionary with the President , but the fact is that in enacting such a law Congress would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it out in good faith , and that such action in the case of wool would , in the language of Mr. Anderson , flatly " contravene " agreements which we have with other countries . We have agreements , in the case of raw wool , with , Argentina and Uruguay under which we are committed not to raise duties beyond certain specified schedules . In the case of woolen manufactures we have similar agreements with the United Kingdom , France and Belgium . All of these , moreover , are generalized to other nations through the most-favored-nation clause . Under-Secretary of State Clayton was not overstating the case when , in a letter quoted yesterday on the House floor , he declared that if this provision of the bill is adopted we ( the United States ) " will stand convicted of insincerity in our trade talks . "                     