@@712485

txt T. A. Krug announced today that he intended to resign as Secretary of the Interior , effective about Dec. 1 . Reports that he had contemplated this step have been current here for several days . The most informed guesses in the capital nave it that he will be succeeded by Oscar . L. Chapman , Under-Secretary of the Interior , who was one of the guiding spirits in President Truman 's campaign in 1948 . " I am leaving , " Mr. Krug said in response to inquiries about his plans today . " I have been wanting to leave for a long time . " It was reported that Mr. Krug told reporters of his decision to quit before his letter of resignation reached President Truman . White House aides indicated that this displeased Mr. Truman , although they said that Mr. Krug 's letter was written in " friendly terms . " Reports of the impending resignation evoked no information from President Truman earlier in the day . J. A. Krug The New York Times ( by George Tames ) At his news conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " strong letter " to Mr. Krug , presumably rebuking him on matters of land-reclamation policy . Mr. Truman replied firmly that he had no comment , and the line of questioning was dropped . So far as can be learned , however , there has been no more difference of opinion between the President and Mr. Krug than is normal between an enthusiastic Cabinet official interested in his part of the national work and a Chief Executive trying to knit the various parts into a harmonious whole . Mr. Krug , for example , has wistfully watched large sums being expended for foreign economic assistance , with his own budget tightened as a result . Probably any Secretary of the Interior would prefer to see any spare funds invested in developing the natural resources of the United States , in building roads , in land reclamation and conservation . He would be encouraged in such a viewpoint by the career experts in his department , many of whom have given many years to their specialties . Defense needs , under President Truman 's concept of " cold war " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extent that hampers expenditures in other fields . The Army has just received $135,000,000 for housing construction in Alaska , whereas the Interior Department got only $85 , - 000,000 for the administration of the entire territory . By-Passing Complaint Seen Mr. Krug and other officials of the Interior Departrr  - -  it have made their views known to Congress . Some reports have it that the letter to which reference was made at the news conference today was a protest over alleged " end-runs " past the White House and the Budget Bureau directly to Congressional committees on some pet Interior projects . Other reports have it that the letter was primarily concerned with an alleged practice of " passing the buck " to the White House on projects the Interior Department should have rejected itself as unfeasible . In any event , sources close both to the President and to Mr. Krug believe there was nothing in the letter that would cause the Secretary to resign . It was described as a more or less routine communicam of the variety frequently sent out in the conduct of Administration business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 23 , has spent most of his adult life in public service . Born in Madison , Wis. , he became interested in power utilities . He first came to Washington as a power expert for the Federal Communications Commission , and then went to the Tennessee Valley Authority as chief power engineer in 1938 . Headed Wartime W. P. B. He served in the Office of Production Management during the early part of World War II , and became chairman of the War Production Board in 1944 . He was appointed Secretary of the Interior in March , 1946 . Known to his intimates as " Cappy " Krug , the Secretary is a big , affable man . He was a close friend of the late James Forrestal when he was Secretary of Defense . During the 1948 Presidential campaign , he made a number of speeches advocating President Truman 's policies on conservation and development of natural resources . He is married and has two children . His friends believe he has found the salaries of public office increasingly inadequate for the needs , of his family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for himself . Mr. Chapman is a Virginian by birth , but spent much of his early life in Colorado . He is now 53 years old . He was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Interior by President Roosevelt in May , 1933 , and was made Under-Secretary in March ; 1946 , at the same time Mr. Krug was appointed Secretary .                     