@@710012

txt Removal of all Communists from the zdministration of the Mil.sach , isetts State C. I. 0 . and thy ! passage b f a strong anti-Comm ; mist resolution was sought by a majority bloc as the State C. I. 0 . opened its eighth annual convention here today . The constitution would be rewritten by the antileft-wing group so as to bar Communists from holding office in the State C. 1 . 0 . organization . This proposed change will be the firs important business before the convention . First convention test between the rival forces was won , conclusively by the antileftists . The clash came on composition of the constitution , resolution , and other major committees . The rightists , controlling the State C. 1 . 0 . Executive Board , kept the leftists off of these committees as much as they could , allowing only a few to go on . Leftist Move Fails As soon as opportunity came following the convention start , the leftist element tried to avert its exclusion by enlarging the committees . A motion to add furthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Fur and Leather Workers Union at Peabody . This was debated warmly . When a rising vote was taken , the leftists showed a very obvious minority . They had hoped to obtain a compromise in committee on the Communist question and avoid a floor - contest , Measures planned against communism go farther than actions taken at the recent national C. I. 0 . convention . Some leading Massachusetts delegates to the State meeting here were disappointed by the national C. I. 0 . handling of the Communist issue , considering it a " whitewash , " Small . Radical Unit The anti-Communist unions in the Massachusetts convention have the vote to put through their program . Some of their leaders figure that the left-wing element is no stronger than 15 per cent ' of the membership . The anti- ' Communist resolution was expected to carry . But whether the effort to keep every left-wing man off the State C. 1 . 0 . Executive Board would succeed could not be predicted by its backers . One or more of the large unions with a strong left-wing element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to place a man ' on the Board . No objection to that was voiced by the anti-Communists , but they did not want that man to be a left-winger . Pressure was expected to be put on any such candidate : lot to run . Would he stand up or would he withdraw ? That was the unknown factor in the attempted housecleaning of the Executive Board . Resistance Expected Sharp resistance of Communists and their sympathizers was expected to the project of putting them in the background . Of the dozen resolutions on communism , the largest on any topic , a minority were put.in by Communists in self-defense . The chief constitutional change asked by the antileft-wing majority would reduce the membership of the State Executive Bobrd from 35 to 15 . At present , every international union has a place on the Board . Several unions have more than one member because of their big membership . Slate Drawn Up Also , no seat is planned for the Fur and Leather Workers , many of whose Massachusetts workers are not Communists but whose union has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure as possible of antilef ( - wing elections to the Executive Board , the unions combining against the Communists have drawn up a slate of candidates and are working for it . They think their ticket will carry and that their principal problem is to get the right candidate from a big organization where the leadership is left-wing ,                     