@@704960

txt PHILADELPHIA , Aug. 18 ? If Great Britain is defeated , an attack by the German military machine on the United States will come in the most unexpected manner and all the strength of this country will be needed to parry it and save American independence , William C. Bullitt , United States Ambassador to France , declared here tonight . Urging Americans to pay no heed to agents of the dictators or to honest " wishful thinkers " who unwittingly " are playing the dictators ' game " by lulling us into a false sense of security , he called upon them to write and telegraph Con-gress demanding passage of the selective compulsory service bill and informing the legislators that they backed General John J. Pershing in the proposal to send over-age destroyers to England 's aid . " America is in danger , " he warned . " It is my conviction , drawn from my own experience and from the information in the hands of our own government in Washington , that the United States is in as great peril today as was France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bullitt , who returned recently from Nazi-conquered France after four years ' service at Paris observing the preparations for the German assault on the democracies and their execution , gave his first public appraisal of the European situation under the auspices of the American Philosophical Society . He followed a text which he had submitted in advance to the State Department and which had been released by the department . Although the entire western world had been lulled by stories of the inferiority of German equipment , Mr. Bullitt said , he had seen himself hundreds of thousands of German soldiers with all their motorized and mechanized equipment and he had " never seen one piece of that equipment broken down . " " The German military machine today is without question the most powerful that has ever been created , " the Ambassador continued . " It has been used with cousummate skill . And you may be sure that if the Nazis have an opportunity to turn it against us it will be as strong or stronger than it is today and will be used in the most unexpected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the attack will come , any more than the French . General Staff could have told you that the German attack would be made at Sedan on the thirteenth of May . " But I am certain that If Great Britain is defeated the attack will come , and that all the strength of this nation will be needed  --  mobilized , organized , equipped and ready ? if we are to parry it and save the independence of our country . " Republican France was the victim of Frenchmen , some honest patriots and some hireling traitors , who opposed adequate preparations , he said , and yet " the ruined homes of France , the women and children starving on the roads " cry out to everyone " that wars are won or lost by the preparations made or not made before they begin ; that untrained soldiers are not opponents but merely victims for trained men with tanks and planes . " High-placed and influential German agents in France persuaded the French that Germany would never so much , wish to invade France as to attack the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " Today we hear Americans of the same stripe arguing that the dictators will never so wish to invade the Americas as to cross the Atlantic which is regarded as such an obstacle , " he continued . " They ask us to ignore the fact that the Atlantic is an obstacle only so long as the European exits to the Atlantic are controlled by a nation which is generally friendly to us . " Without the British Navy the Atlantic would give as no more protection than the Maginot Line gave France after the German troops had marched through Belgium . " British Fleet Our Defense Only the British fleet and the courage of the British people stand today between the Americas and " the unleashed dictatorships , " he said , and if the appeals for aid to the British fleet go unanswered and it goes under , America will not be able to escape the war . " It is as clear as anything on this earth that the United States will not go to war , " he declared , " but it is equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the British Fleet goes under , Great Britain and Ireland , along with the whole continent of Europe , would he organized into one economic unit directed from Berlin , Mr. Bullitt said . This unit , with far stronger productive capacity than the United States and five times this country 's capacity to build warships , would trade under the control of one trading trust directed from Berlin on terms that for many South American countries would mean acceptance of a measure of Nazi control , he added . Pictures Economic Crisis The United States , cut off from its export markets for cotton , tobacco and other surplus products , would face the gravest economic crisis in its history , one which Nazi and Communist agents could exploit , he said . " In the Pacific would be the Japanese Navy , cooperating with the dictators , which would be able to cut us off from our supplies of rubber and tin and would compel us to leave a large part of our fleet in the Pacific to defend Hawaii and the West Coast , " he declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dictators which would be so close to our own fleet in strength that they would be able to cut us off from all commerce not only with Europe but also with Africa , and would endanger even our communications with the southern portion of this hemisphere . " Under such circumstances the powerful Nazi and Communist movements in various countries of South America may be able to seize power . and give air bases to the European dictators from which their air forces could move northward on this country while it was obliged to defend the Northern Greenland route , he said . Describing how Communist and Nazi agents paralyzed Allied army manoeuvres and transport by harrying 10,000,000 civilians from their homes with fantastic tales of mass murder by German troops to clog the roads as refugees , how they sabotaged railway communications and how they sent short-wave radio reports of vital military and political developments , he warned : " The agents of the dictators are already here preparing the way for the armies . They are preparing the way in the same manner in which they prepared the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why are we sleeping , Americans ? " he demanded . " When are we going to wake up ? When are we going to tell our government that we want to defend our homes and our children and our liberties , whatever the cost in money or blood ? " Unless we act now , decisively , it will be too late , he said , pointing out " the dictators are convinced that all democracies will always be too late . " The Americans who argue that the United States would be able to cooperate with the Hitler empire of Europe misunderstand the entire nature of the Nazi system , he said . " The German nation has been made a predatory army of assault , " he declared . " Its organization is military . Its military operations have enormous momentum . It can not stop in its tracks . It can only be stopped . " Mr. Bullitt spoke from a flagdraped platform in Independence Square only a few feet away from the Liberty Bell . On the platform were his daughter , Miss Anne Bullitt ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Exile , and Mrs. Biddle ; Ambassador John Cudahy , recently returned from Belgium ; Francis Biddle , United States Solicitor General , and Mrs. Biddle ; Admiral A. E. Watson , commandant of the Philadelphia Navy Yard , and Mrs. Watson , and Federal District Judge Guy K. Bard . He was introduced by Roland S. Morris , president of the society , the oldest learned society in the country , and former Ambassador to Japan . Mr. Morris recalled that the society welcomed home Benjamin Franklin , the first American envoy , to France , on his return in 1785 during another critical period in the nation 's history . More than 4,000 persons packed the square .                     