@@704837

txt Indecision Delays Defense Supply Aide in 1917-18 Sees Failure to Agree on Program and Design To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : During thagreat war from April , 1917 , to October , 1917 , I was chief law officer for General Crozier in the Ordnance Department in Washington , organized a legal department for the Ordnance Department and drew many hundreds of contracts for munitions . From October , 1917 , to February , 1918 , I was one of Benedict Crowell 's assistants in the office of the First Assistant Secretary of War ; from February , 1918 , to December , 1918 , I was with General Dawes , the Chief Procurement Officer for the A. E. F. with a roving commission , traveling all over France , Switzerland and England on . various supply missions , and I ended the war as chairman of the Board of Reciprocal Allied Supply . So I feel I have first-hand information on the problem of supply , and I came to some very definite conclusions as to why in 1917-18 it took over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to function at all . Remember that during the Great War we had been engaged in a great munition effort for the Allies for three years prior to the time we went in ; nevertheless , aside from a few inconsequential items , the American soldier only received his uniform , rifle and revolver from his own government and substantially all other weapons from France and England . Decisions Delayed I have been tremendously interested in the national defense activities at this time and am struck with the fact that there appears to be the same lack of analysis of the essentials of the supply problem . As I see it , the real problem is program and design  --  matters exclusively in the hands of the general staff and the Army chieftains . Nothing can be accomplished by American production executives until program and design are definitely fixed . A parallel is our annual production of motor cars . At some time during early 1940 the program and design department of a motor car company must come to its final determination as to the 1941 design  --  new gadgets  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactured . A deadline is fixed when the engineering data and blueprints must all be completed . In my experience during 1917-18 the delays occurred in the failure to come to agreement on the program and design . Of course , in a supply program the matter is complicated by innumerable items of materiel that all have to be produced at a given moment to properly equip an army unit . Early in 1917 I drew many contracts in which every item was agreed upon between the War Department and the American manufacturers , with the exception of the engineering blueprint . This was to be furnished later  --  much later it always was . Not only that , but after the design and blueprints were furnished and the manufacturer started to tool up , changes were made that threw the whole thing out of production again . Who decides he question of design ? Unfortunately , no one person . The Secretary of War usually knows nothing about it . The Army chieftains , with a changing art and new gadgets appearing constantly , hesitate to make their decisions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the meeting of many minds . They are just about set on ordnance of a certain caliber for tanks , anti-aircraft and the like , when word conies from Europe of a different and superior weapon ; and in their desire for perfection , what they have just about decided upon is put to one side . Two Years ' Delay I talked recently with the president of a large watch company who is figuring on time fuses for anti-aircraft shells . This is a most exacting job . He told me that , although he was prepared to go to work , no decision had been made as to what he was to manufacture . I asked him how long it would take if he got his designs and orders at once to tool up and turn out these time fuses in quantity . He said about two years . A recent well-known example has been the division of opinion on the Johnson and Garand rifles . I have talkeil recently with some of my old conferees in the War Department and they told me that , although that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of decision . It is already too late , in my opinion , to produce a satisfactory 1942 war machine model . No army is ever equipped perfectly , but the perfectionists , who keep postponing decisions with the idea that something better will constantly become available , were the people who delayed our preparation in 1917-18 , and I believe they are delaying it today . If within the next sixty days decisions could be made on essential materiel for a defensive army  --  personal weapons , artillery , tanks and ordnance , airplane motors and planes and ordnance therefor , anti-aircraft and the other essentials , and these designs , which are not to be changed , made available for American manufacturers  --  then American manufacturers would do their part . Then there is some hope that we will have adequate weapons for a mobile army of 500,000 men by 1942 . In all editorial comment and newspaper articles on the subject the emphasis is always laid on production ? give Knudsen and the Defense Council authority . But these civilians are a little awed by generals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's needs , and they can not force these decisions anyway . They do not know enough about the problem . PERRY OSBORN , New York , July 3 , 1940 . Prompt Aid for Refugees Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial on the plight of the political refugees in France should appeal to every one and make us conscious that we have to do whatever we can to extend help to those in imminent danger of death . The armistice conditions demand their surrender to Germany and Italy , and we know full well what that implies . There are a number of steps that should be immediately taken . Our consuls in France , Belgium and Holland should be immediately instructed to extend protection to those in most imme. diate danger , as is being done by the Chilean consuls . They should furthermore be instructed to facilitate their de . parture in the same way as , I under . ' stand , the consul in Lisbon has been instructed to do . Ambassador Bullitt should be instructed to demand their immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken from the appropriation of $50 , 000,000 for the Red Cross made by Con ? congress , and - the President should ear . mark an adequate part of the appropriation for this purpose . Since Mexico and Bolivia are ready to admit such refugees , there should be no legal difficulty in bringing them here on transit visas . It seems it is the least we can do to take these steps immediately . FRANZ BOAS , National Chairman , Committee for De . mocracy and Intellectual Freedom . New York , July 1 , 1940 . The Orient No Place for Us ? We Are in No Position , It Is Held , to Interfere in Japan 's Affairs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TOMS : The viewpoint of Rear Admiral Stirling concerning our attitude to Japan is one which commends itself to the consideration of any American intent on the interests of the United States . Admiral Stirling is of the opinion that we should soft-pedal in Asia ; that we do ourselves no good by adopting an intransigence which in the sequel is more like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ravishment of China ; but we have no right even to play at the idea of going to war with Japan for that reason . Nobody elected us to be the world 's policeman ; and if we want to act that role , we would have to be armed with something better than a feather duster ? on order . Our interests in China and Chinese commerce are substantial ; under Japanese domination they will probably suffer ; but much more is in danger than any commercial interest if we fail to conserve our resources against the menace from across the Atlantic . Will some one tell us how many European or Asiatic nations would rush to our rescue if we were attacked ; how many would give of their own resources to repair some calamity ' that had befallen us ? We can win respect neither for our arms nor ideals by continuing to be the world 's prime sucker ; least of all can we afford to talk loud and carry a toothpick . Japan today is a first-class naval and military power ; she is developing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We may not like it ; perhaps Japan does n't like our own Monroe Doctrine . She is carrying on a war of bloody conquest , and we do not like that either . But we have n't the right to ask a single doughboy from Kansas or California to get himself shot for that reason . Some day , perhaps , we shall have a world government ; and these things will be part of the evil past .. Our business is to face the facts . One fact is that a nation of perhaps one hundred and forty millions has n't an army or an armament as strong as that had by Poland or Belgium . Just what does any one expect to accomplish by snarling at Japan ? Do we want to drive Japan into a naval alliance with the Axis ? Would n't it be better , in a world of wolves , to play wolf against wolf , meanwhile accumulating our powder and keeping it dry ? NATHAN APRIL . New York , July 2 , 1940 . Further Traffic Links Sought TO THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with your editorial on the occasion of the opening of the new link between the George Washington Bridge and the Harlem River Speedway . You are correct when you say that the city 's traffic problems have yet to be solved . Two important projects for the elimination of tangles which have - met with the approval of all parties concerned are the Harlem River Drive and the midtown underpass connecting the Lincoln and Queens midtown tunnels . The expiration of PWA should not bar these necessary structures . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation and other government agencies have the funds and the authority to make grants and loans in order to complete these projects . In some ways these projects have importance as defense measures . That should simplify the obtaining of necessary funds . ABRAHAM GINSBERG , Executive Secretary , Federation of Architects , Engineers , Chemists and Technicians . New York , July 1 , 1940 . Biblical Parallel Seen TO THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMER : The Democrats are making a great ado about the Republicans choosing a former Democrat for their standardhearer in the coming election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or are not reading them . For the Bible tells of the Prodigal Son , who , having got tired of feeding hogs and eating hog feed , decided to return to the old homestead with its abundance of good bread and juicy steaks . When he did so they put a ring on his finger and gave him the best suit of clothes in the house and celebrated the event . " There is more joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth than in the ninety and nine who need no repentance . " ARTHUR P. ABBOTT . Highland Falls , N. ' Y. , July 2 , 1940.                     