@@704444

txt Senate banking and currency committee delays in beginning what was supposed to be a comprehensive study of government banking and monetary policies have created the impression here that this may possibly be a legislative area where angels fear to tread  --  especially in an election year . Last year , the Senate instructed the committee to conduct such an investigation and make recommendations . The sum of $25.000 was voted for that purpose . With sonic show of zest , the committee let it be known that hearings would begin along in November , 1939 . President Roosevelt 's call for a special session to consider neutrality law changes furnished a good excuse for postponing the survey . Now , with another regular session under way the committee appears far less enthusiastic about proceeding with a full-dress inquiry . In well-informed official quarters here , the reasons for such hesitation are fully understood . Something- of a Hornet , : Nest The fact is that unless the committee is extremely careful in opening up the subject of monetary and banking policies it will have a regular free-for-all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . constitute a kind of hornets ' neat that would make Pandora 's box seem quite harmless by comparison . To mention only a few of the major diffi-culties -- In the first place , an open Senate committee hearing would promptly stir up all the ultragovernmental jealousies arising out of overlapping functions in the field of bank regulation . Three important agencies are involved . They are the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , the Comptroller of the Currency in the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . All three have something to do with regulating commercial banks in this country . Sometimes they do not get along together very well with respect to matters in which their separate powers conflict . On occasion . the suspicion has prevailed here that each one of the three would gladly swallow up the other two . This suspicion might be confirmed if the apparently harmless idea of " coordinating ' or ? ? recognizing " federal bank regulation policies were opened up by a Senate committee . Dollar Devaluation Powers In the second place , any broad study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollar devaluation powers . This question will automatically come up when the present executive authority to change the gold content of the standard United States dollar expires in 1941 but in the meantime  --  well , there is that old adage about letting sleeping dogs lie . Silver , of course , is another money matter that could provoke a thunderstorm ? even if , today , neither the Administration nor Congress is especially proud of its silver programs . In the third place , a large scale banking investigation would be just the occasion for the Federal Reserve Board to present its plans for more effective bank credit controls . They are ready . Such controls would have to be based on larger authority in the board to change the reserve requirements of Federal Reserve member banks Such plans would bring up the question of whether this agency ought to be trusted to " put on the brakes " if the recovery movement ever gets up enough speed to threaten an inflationary credit trend . Of all times to talk about - putting on the brakes " the year 1940 is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are running for re-election . The Small Loan Proposal That 's not alt . In the fourth place . a broad congrei clonal inquiry w iulil t-rit.g up new money and banking schemes by the score . Most of them could be disregarded , of course , but others have strong sponsorships . For example . there are the plans to put government guarantees behind bank loans to small business on easy and long terms . Even some members of Congress who question the soundness of such suggestions would prefer not to have to take a position on them this year unlex , it becomes absolutely necessary . And these are only a few of the difficulties . The ramifications are apparently endless . So it 's no wonder , say observers on Capitol Hill . that haste is being made so slowly in the Senate banking and currency committee . In fact , a decision by that committee to take the plunge and all its consequences , or linger on the sidelines indefinitely or open up the study under cautious restrictions will be one of the most interesting developments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               