@@704889

txt Cordell Hull came to Havana today charged with the most momentous mission of American statesmanship since Woodrow Wilson crossed the Atlantic to Versailles -- nothing less than cementing the Western Hemisphere into a citadel of freedom so strong that the forces of totalitarian world revolution may vent their fury on it , but it will stand . Even more important than the future of 21 independent nations and their 250,000,000 people , the delegates in Havana realize that they are acting for a universal cause now under merciless assault . That cause iS the inalienable right of men and nations to govern themselves free from the menace of law-defying force . Debarking within sight of Morro Castle , symbol of the days when the New World was ruled from Europe , Mr. Hull , United States Secretary of State , plunged quickly into consultation with other American foreign ministers . The first formal session opens at 4 p. in. tomorrow in the Cuban Capitol with its lofty dome . The situation confronting each of the American nations is admittedly the most serious in their century to a century and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly dependent on the direction of policy during the coming months , the free Americas are resolute and unafraid . Impelling Questions Havana brings the American nations to to these questions , and to the search for solutions : , 1 . What is to be done with French and Netherlands colonies in the Western Hemisphere , now that their homelands in Europe have been overrun by Nazi Germany ? Potentially , the British colonies are also affected . 2 . How can the Americas defend their trade against intensified Nazi barter ? Already Berlin is organizing Europe into a formidable machine of economic warfare . So confident are the Nazis that they are offering steel for sale in South America at cut prices  --  for October delivery . However , the British Fleet still stands . 3 . Are the Americas to join for mutual defense by force of arms if necessary ? 4 . How can the independent American nations defeat subversive Nazi and Fascist forces now seeking to embitter Latin America toward the United States with the aim of destroying the Pan-American movement and its democratic respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most immediate and pressing concerns colonies of European powers . Two opposing systems stand in unyielding conflict . So far the weapons used are diplomatic and verbal , but Havana realizes that the Monroe Doctrine has come to the threshold of a supreme test . Flag to the Mast The United States already has nailed its flag to the mast . When the Senate voted , 76 to 0 , for full reaffirmation of the Monroe Doctrine , the doors were closed on recognition of any shift to German hands of French or Netherlands colonies in this hemisphere . Havana offers a laboratory for the testing of Latin-American attitudes toward the Monroe Doctrine in a changing world . Already certain predominating tendencies are visible . One is the hesitancy of most delegations to take any positive stand for action that might antagonize Germany or Italy . This in spite of the prevailing sympathy for Britain . As smaller nations dependent in nearly every case on exports of basic raw materials , the Latin Americas hesitate to tie their hands until they see more clearly the outline of things to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts as a brake in consideration of measures for economic or military defense of the hemisphere . Seen from the standpoint of Chile , or Argentina , or Peru , the United States has become in the last few months an unwilling competitor of the Axis powers for dominance in this hemisphere , and even foi authority throughout the world . Latin-American View As one Latin-American delegate summarized the situation during preconference conversation at the Hotel Nacional in its seaside park " We smaller nations can not afford to risk the displeasure of opt European customers , especially with the continent under a Nazi monopoly . Certainly we could not do so unless here in Havana we find some way to meet the pressing economic needs of Latin America . Can the United States buy what we have formerly sold to Europe  --  our copper , our wheat . our meat , our cotton , our corn ? " That , . in crisp summary , is the supreme challenge recognized here as governing Havana 's prospects for achievement . If the Americas could seal themselves hermetically from the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America might at this time be willing to make the venture . Short of that , interest centers on the proposed inter-American cartel for joint marketing abroad of American surpluses . The cartel proposal , originating in Washington , does not appear on the formal agenda . Little enthusiasm is displayed for it among Latin-American delegations , and some of them are outspokenly critical . As an emergency short-term measure the cartel finds more approval than as a longterm proposition . Extremely realistic in questions of trade , Latin Americans are asking how the United States proposes to deal with competing products . The air is filled with similar questions , and easy answers are not appearing . But on one dominating theme the delegates unite Every American nation cherishes its freedom . Within the inter-American community as at present organized , their independence is secure . Havana must decide whether all of the American nations are to draw closer together in pursuit of security , and how they then can solve their mutual trade and defense problems . Issues of Magnitude It is an agenda studded with issues of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attention at one moment . The stake of Axis powers in defeating these consultations can be measured in terms of propaganda that for months has sought to arouse Latin-American suspicions of the United States . Playing on the natural Latin-American desire to avoid being dominated by any power , Nazi and Fascist propagandists are here in force to wreck , if possible , the Good Neighbor Policy and all its works . The major emphasis lies in an effort to reawaken fears of the one-time " Colossus of the North . " Yet the vigorous measures proposed at Havana by the United States spring , not from revived imperialism , but from the necessity of countering Nazi aggression . Under the impact of these competing forces , Latin America visibly hesitates . The task of Secretary Hull at Havana is to safeguard and complete his seven years of constructive effort . Be7inning with persuasive friendliness at Montevideo in 1933. he contributed to achievement of a series of major peace treaties at Buenos Aires in 1936 , the foundation for consultation at Lima in 1938. the first consultation last October at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  