@@712404

txt In the presence of 150 applauding pro - Government priests of all denominations , the National Assembly unanimously approved today two laws superseding all other churchlegislation and making the churches administratively and financially entirely dependent on the state in Czechoslovakia . Meanwhile , as arrests among " the bourgeoisie " continued , the official news agency published a denunciation of Western " pirates of the pen , " which was understood to he the Government 's answer to the Western press reports of the arrests . Referring to the West in general , the agency wrote : " Like a shot goose , they cry , out when we destroy their agents whom the Rajk trial has helped us unmask . And they 're shameless enough to talk of terror when our security organs ? as is their duty  --  prevent agents of our enemies from realizing their criminal plans . " The church laws were the Government 's unilateral solution of the church-state issues on which negotiations broke down last February . They will approximately double the salaries of the clergy but at the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church offices if the candidates are not deemed politically reliable . " Reliable clergy " will be required to take an oath of loyalty to the present regime in a form that the Vatican has forbidden the clergy to follow . The Roman Catholic clergy of Czechoslovakia thus was confronted with the supreme test of its unity in rejecting the law that Archbishop Josef Beran has stigmatized as " treason to the church . " Justice Minister Alexei Cepicka , who had a leading part in drafting the law , indignantly denied before the Assembly that it interfered in internal church affairs or endangered the rights of the Bishops . He said although they received their salaries from the state clergymen would not now become state employes but would remain employes of their own churches . " No state , church " would be created , he said . The Minister explained , however  --  and this was the key point ? " it would be intolerable if our people 's money were used to betray the interests of our nation and state . " Since the state could not permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " natural , " he said , for the Government to examine the eliability of candidates for priestly functions . " Crime remains crime even if it is ordered by the Vatican or the Bishops , " he added . Steps against high dignitaries of the church had been and would be taken , the Minister declared , " only because they have committed punishable acts in their capacity as citizens . " " If the church hierarchy believes religious freedom means for them freedom to commit subversive and disruptive acts against the state and the Government , they are mistaken and . bear the full responsibility for such an attitude , " he added . Asserting that no one except the Bishops and the Vatican saw " anything dangerous or harmful in the new laws , " M. Cepicka suggested Archbishop Beran was motivated by a longing for a Cardinal 's hat . " Only he who is ready to sacrifice the interests of his people to the world dominating aims of the Vatican can become worthy of a Cardinal 's hat , " he said . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to play the role of a martyr prisoner or whatever the Vatican may need . " How , M. Cepicka demanded , could Archbishop Beran call himself a prisoner in his palace when he had stated in a letter to the Interior Ministry that he himself had determined not to leave the palace until the measures taken by the Government for the control of his consistory were revoked . This was the first official reply to Archbishop Beran 's declarations that he was held interned in his palace .                     