@@710860

txt A hoarse whistle still echoes through the bright California air . The Friendship Train is on its way to the Rockies and beyond . For two days " this wonderful American idea , " as Jean Dupard , Chief of the French Food Mission to the United States , calls it , has rolled through the fabulous farm land of the Central Valley ' between Los Angeles and Sacramento . Now it heads east for Nevada hauling 25 carloads of food for France and Italy . Behind the steaming black locomotive are tons of flour , wheat , dried fruit and vegetables , milk , and rice  --  proof of the right of its mission . Ahead , success seems assured . Those who boarded the red , white , and blue train in the blinding glare of Hollywood searchlights and amid the blare of brass on Nov. 7 wondered if this was n't " sound and fury . " Five hundred miles later , after a thousand fleet-looks into the faces of " little " Americans , little doubt remains . Doubts Vanish At 6:30 a. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the half-light at Bakersfield to wish the train godspeed . With tears in her eyes , a young French war bride tendered her adopted city 's offering of a carload of wheat , From that moment the event-hardened news and camera men aboard sensed that when the Friendship Train huffs into New York Nov. 18 it will report " mission completed , target destroyed . " The " target " ? Any doubt which may remain in Europe that American continuity of interest and support for the Marshall Plan is assured has been dissipated . Some of the little things seen along the way : Children timidly holding out boxes of crackers and tins of baby food . A white-haired little lady pressing a S10 bill into a speaker 's hand as he turned to leave the platform . A long queue of young and old filing past a sagging cardboard carton to drop in last-minute contributions of money . The Far West has given the Friendship Train momentum . At every stop there was at the very least another box car . Besides two carloads of flour and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the San Francisco Bay area offered $12,000 ? " you did n't give us enough cars to fill . " Gov . Ingram Stainback flew from Hawaii to Oakland , Calif. , to couple two carloads of island sugar to the train . " We asked for only one pound of sugar per person , we got two . " Boys " Club Aids An Oakland boys ' club gave $5 of its $7 treasury . Labor unions donated trucks and drivers . Warehousing and rail service were had for the asking . Some 750 University of California students at International House went withAssociated Press Spuds Rationed in Britain Surplus in America out dinner and gave the meal price to the train . Almost 5,000 persons stood in the night to greet the train in Oakland . They did n't come to hear the playing of the bands . With the arrival of the clanging , hissing train one knew why they came . Large blue letters on the side of a box car read : " From the heart of the American people to our friends . " Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted the train 's mission as an affirmation of the fact that Italians and Frenchmen are " just like those in this crowd  --  they want nothing more than to live in peace. - From the People Again , it was the sincere and widespread interest in the train which impressed those aboard as it whistled between the fresh green California hills . Grinning rail hands in blue overalls and white caps . Aproned housewives waving from the back porch . Boys perched in trees like so many blackbirds . At Martines , near Sacramento , a rancher and his wife stood next to their dust-covered auto clad in faded blue jeans to motion the train on its way . The track at Berkeley was lined by waving families who had driven to the station to watch the train roll by . The Far West has stood to be counted . When France and Italy see the moving pictures of this trip across the land , they will find the deep purpose of the Marshall Plan . In Sacramento , the reception was typical-72,000 cans of milk , seven tons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miscellaneous food . Here Governor Warren turned the train over to Gov . Vail Pittman of Nevada , he will yield to Gov . Herbert Maw at Ogden , Utah , Nov. 10 . Then its Green River , Utah : Laramie , Wyo. , Cheyenne , Wyo. ; North Platte , Neb. , and on to Omaha , Neb. - Every Table To Feel Blow By Melita Spraggs Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor London Britons have lost their last ' filler upper " with the announcement of potato rationing by Food Minister John Strachey over the week end . Potatoes have helped to fill the platters for heavy workers , growing children , and others with hearty appetites since bread and sugar rationing has deprived them of an extra slice of bread and jam to fill the odd corners . The three-pound ration of potatoes weekly works out at about one sizable potato or two average-sized ones a day for each person . With a normal plateful of meat and other vegetables , of course , this would be ample . But when it is remembered that the 20-cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven days , the value of an extra helping of ' Nita-toes is appreciated . Urged to Eat Spuds With the encouragement of " potato peel , " the British advertising slogan used during the war to encourage people to eat more home-grown potatoes , the weekly average of potatoes eaten has risen to five or six pounds . It is obvious that many workers eat far more than this amount . As more and more foods have been absorbed into the pages of the ration book , piles of mashed potatoes became the universal buffer . Now this cushion between the British people and the harsh impact of other food cuts has been removed . With its disappearance , the pressure on unrationed vegetables is likely to be heavier . Housewives will line up for carrots , parsnips , turnips and other vegetables to take the place of the missing spuds . Root vegetables were in short supply and very high-priced last winter . Pressed on all sides by British housewives , Food Minister Strachey has set up a Vegetable Board to deal with this problem . The new Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent prices from rocketing , but it would have an almost impossible task to minimize the repercussions of this new austerity . Like a stone thrown into a pond , they spread out in many directions . Backyard Farm Doomed " That 's good-by to my Christmas chicken , " one man said when he heard of potato rationing . Though not strictly allowed , many persons have been feeding their poultry and rabbits on potato peelings and throwing in one or two spuds. - Now , not only will there be fewer peelings , but rationing certainly cuts out any more potatoes for chinchilla or chicken . Many who managed to supplement the meager official poultry feed ration with household scraps , now will be compelled to shut ' down their backyard farms and rely on a chance egg a week from the grocer .                     