@@708045

txt James F. Byrnes , Director of War Mobilization , set up a special interagency committee today to formulate " a coordinated program for the utilization of Governmentowned war plants , " pointing out that disposition of the $15,000 , - 000,000 of such plants and their - several millions " of employes was the core of the post-war unemployment problem . With jurisdiction limited to Government-owned plants , the committee will comprise representatives of the War Production Board , War Manpower Commission , Defense Plant Corporation , and Surplus War Property Administration . TEXT OF BYRNES LETTER The letter of Mr. Byrnes to the agencies concerned was as follows : " I fear that our unemployment problem in the period of conversion may center in the Governmentowned war plants . It is estimated that these plants give employment to several millions of our workers . More than $15,000,000,000 have been invested in them . " Government ownership of these plants demands that Government assume responsibility for developing plans for conversion of as many of the plants as may be reasonably adaptable to civilian production under private operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and work out plans both for the termination of present war production in them and the conversion of such of them as may be adaptable with the view to relieving the unemployment that may follow . Some Will Be Kept on Defense " Some of these plants the armed services will want to retain even in the post-war period as part of our defense machinery . A list of such plants should be promptly furnished the War Manpower Commission by the armed services in order that a well-considered pro- , gram may be prepared for assist- ' ing the employes of these plants , when war work shall cease , to get ' jobs elsewhere . " If plants in this group are lo-1 cated in areas in which other employment will likely not be available , their contracts should bed terminated at such times and under such circumstances as will enable us to avoid creating ' ghost towns ' with permanent unemployment . " All of these plants that the armed services do not wish to retain in the post-war period should be surveyed without delay . The private operators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of such plants in civilian production . The operators should be interviewed now and encouraged to use these plants in peacetime operations . Private Enterprise Objective " If their plans are matured , it should be possible to reach some estimate of the labor requirements of the converted plant . If the con- ' version will mean a reduction ini the working force , the War Manpower Commission should immediately consider the problem of the workers who will be out of jobs . " " If the present operators of these plants have no plans for their conversion or if it appears that the operators ' plans have little likelihood of favorable action by the Government , appropri- ate steps should be taken by the responsible Government agencies to interest private enterprise in the use of such plants . " Industrial engineers should be called in to survey the property and to suggest production for whict it was convertible . After this had been done , the appropriate agencies could call to the attention of businesses engaged in such production the availability of these plants and render such technical aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plans for the purchase or use of thew. plants . . Duties of Committee Defined " To carry out this program I ask the WPB , the Defense Plant Corporation , the Surplus War Property Administration , and the War Manpower Commission each to designate a representative who should be charged with the following duties : " 1 . The representatives so designated shall constitute the " War Plants Utilization Committee . " The committee shall select its own chairman and may , as occasion arises , ask other agencies intertested in matters considered by it to designate special representatives to meet with and advise the committee on any particular problem under consideration by it . " 2 . The committee shall be given united- administrative cooperation and coordination in expediting the earliest possible reutilization of Government-owned war plants made available by contract terminations . " 3 . The committee shall meet at least twice a week , at which tune it shall review the status of Government-owned plants affected by contract terminations and for which a use has not been found , and shall canvass thoroughly every possible way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The members of the committee shall , on their own initiative , take action on behalf of the agencies or departments which they represent and the committee will enterprise in the use of such plants . Industrial engineers should be called in to survey the property and to suggest production for which it was convertible . After this had been done , the appropriate agencies could call to the attention of businesses engaged in such production the availability of these plants and render such tech , nical aid as may be ? feasible in working out with interested parties the plans for the purchase or use of these plants . "                     