@@708796

txt Amnesia Victim ' Revealed Here as Deported German That " William Walker " who greeted American Army officers after the capture of Berlin as a liberated American prisoner of war who had fought with the Russians against the Germans in the siege of the German capital is really , according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation , Karl Horst Wacker , who was deported to Germany in 1944 as a dangerous enemy alien and who reportedly was flunked out of a Nazi espionage school . Wacker , who had been nicknamed " Dumbo " . by intimates , had deceived others besides the Army before investigators arrested him last Monday at Camp Upton , L. I. , where he was under observation for amnesia , supposedly resulting from battle shock . He is now being held at Ellis Island while it is being determined what charge to lodge against him . Wacker , 20 years old , and formerly a resident of 312 West Seventy-fifth Street and 544 West Fiftieth Street , postured as a hero of unusual adventures under two flags , the American and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of William Walker ? he could remember nothing else about his identity ? he appeared at Templehof Airport in Berlin last May 9 and told American officers a broken story of loss of memory after his capture by the Germans while serving with an armored unit that landed on the Normandy beach soon after D-Day . He got the best of treatment from the Army . He was flown in a special plane to a hospital in // Paris and later taken to Cherbourg for treatment . Then he was put aboard the S. S. Wakefield and brought to the United States . Afar art interval at Camp Miles Standish in Boston he was transferred on June 19 to Camp Upton , where he remained until his arrest . He got quite a bit of publicity in Europe and in the United States . The Stars and Stripes , European Army newspaper , described his adventures , and in a nation-wide radio broadcast from Boston , he recounted his " experiences " in detail . Story Is Declared Fantastic E. E. Conroy , special agent of the New York office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told how he had landed in Normandy , of being wounded severely , of lying in a German hospital for three months , unable to remember his identity . He described his treatment as a war prisoner and the brutalities of the Nazi guards . Referring to the guards , he declared : " But those brave guards  --  who beat us ? ran away when the Russians advanced . I jumped o ? Per a fence and hollered ' American , ' and one Russian officer asked if I wanted to join his outfit . I said ' Yeh ' and he gave me a horse and a pistol and I became a GI Cossack . " Wacker also said he had served as an honorary lieutenant in the Soviet Army . Wacker got really dramatic when he came to the illusory part he had played in the Russian assault on Berlin . " In a cemetery I killed three Krauts . " First " American " in Berlin Then he told ( ? her details of the fighting and how he had been hailed by the Russians as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told his interviewer he hoped " this amnesia " was temporary . " You know , " he said , " since I 've been back with the Americans , I appreciate this Army of ours . If the doctors straighten me out , I 'm going to volunteer for the ChinaBurma-India theatre  --  amnesia and all . " So much for the fantasy ; now for the fact , as the FBI has it : Wacker , who had worked in this country as a waiter , stable groom and circus hand , was repatriated with his parents , August Max Wacker and Meta Wacker of the West Seventy-fifth Street address , on the Gripsholm in February , 1944 , after a time in an internment camp . After his arrival in Saarbrucken , Germany , Wacker was approached by Nazi intelligence officers and in April he was enrolled in an espionage school . He received 800 Marks a month as a student . Received Flying Instructions He was instructed in various espionage tricks and was required to commit to memory two codes . He also received instruction in flying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that Wacker was arrested twice by German police , but was released quickly when he showed his knowledge of a certain code and a telephone number . During this time he was questioned regarding his knowledge of shipping in New York Harbor , the number of convoys leaving it and the location of various airplane manufacturing plants . But apparently Wacker did not fill the bill . He was said to have admitted he had been dismissed from the espionage schoc for " inefficiency . " Then he went to Bremen and later to Berlin , remaining there until the city was occupied . Some months ago , according to Federal authorities , it was learned that a youth who eventually was linked with a man nicknamed " Dumbo " had enrolled in a Nazi espionage school . The agents had a physical description of the youth and information that his family had once lived in New York City . Phone Call to Brooklyn Wacker recently was reported to have made a telephone call to a friend in Brooklyn and used the name " Dumbo . " Acting with Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island and finally caught up with the impostor . It was said in Washington that any of four charges may be filed against Wacker : Impersonating an American soldier ; illegally wearing the uniform of the United States ; illegal entry , and conspiracy to commit espionage . The last allegation was said to be the least likely to be made . Wacker was born in Berlin on March 14 , . , 1925 . His parents brought him to the United States when he was 3 , but two years later he was , sent back* Germany for his primary education and he lived there until 1934 . He returned to the United States that year and remained here until his repatriation . Prior to the youth 's internment , he was said to have expressed the hope that the United States would be defeated by Germany . He allegedly declared he would do everything in his power to help Germany win the war . He insisted after his arrest that he did not enter the country to spy . 