@@711941

txt After 425,000 hard and soft coal miners began a two-week " mbmorial " stoppage today , the Senate Interior and Insular Affairs Committee approved President Truman 's nomination of Dr. James M. Boyd as Director of the Federal Bureau of Mines . By a vote of 10 to 1 , the committee replied to the action of John L.1 Lewis and his associates in ordering miners east of the Mississippi River to " down tools " as a protest against the Boyd nomination and the injury and loss of life of miners in 1948 . In taking prompt action on the nomination , which has been before them for nearly a year while Dr. Boyd has been serving for the most part without pay , the committeemen followed the lead of those who felt as did Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat , of Virginia . They said that they would not be intimidated and coerced to turn down Dr. Boyd by the stoppage , which will deprive the country of 20,000,000 tons of coal . The mine " protest stoppage " sent the number of idle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the figure reported by the Department of Commerce Friday . This includes upward of 70,000 railroad workers who were furloughed as a direct result of the shutdown . Mr. Lewis appeared unworried today as he conferred with union executives . He smilingly declined to comment on the stoppage decision or on the Senate committee 's action . Associates indicated , however , that he was relying on other moves , which he had not yet disclosed . The reaction to the stoppage at this crucial period in the consideration of the Administration 's labor relations bill in Congress was mixed . Employers said that it proved the negessity for continuation of the eighty-day injunction provision of the Taft-Hartley Act . Some union leaders privately expressed the view that Mr. Lewis had made retention of this section in the law inevitable . A grim Senate committee , with Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney , Democrat , of Wyoming , in the chair , took up the Boyd nomination this morning . Senator Eugene D. Millikin , Republican , of Colorado , moved to have the committee consider first a bill offered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would strip from the Bureau of Mines its safety inspection service and give this function to an independent agency but still retain it in the Department of the Interior . The motion was defeated by a vote of 6 to 5 . Senator Clinton P. Anderson , Democrat , of New Mexico , then moved that the nomination of Dr. Boyd be approved . It was seconded by Senator Ernest W. , Democrat , of Arizona .. Five Democrats and five Republicans ? voted in . favor of the motion . Senator Millikin , who has been fighting the Boyd nomination , was the single dissenter . Senator Sheridan Downey , Democrat , of California , voted " present , " and Senator James E. Murray , Democrat , of Montana , was absent . Those who voted to send Dr. Boyd 's name to the Senate for confirmation were as follows : Democrats : Senators O'Mahoney , Anderson , , Bert H. Miller of Idaho and Robert S. Kerr of Oklahoma . Republicans : Hugh Butler of Nebraska , Guy Cordon of Oregon , Zales N. Ecton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. Watkins of Utah . Senator O'Mahoney confirmed to reporters an earlier statement that the action of Mr. Lewis made it certain that his committee would ' recommend confirmation of Dr. Boyd . - In announcing the result of , the committee meeting , Mr. O'Mahoney said that hearings would be held on the Johnson bill and on another ' measure designed to strengthen the present Federal mines safety code . Past sessions of Congress , according to the Senator , had " made no effort to make the Federal mine safety inspection Act successful . " Recalling that the present law is an outgrowth of the Centralia ( Ill. ) disaster in 1947 , which , took 111 lives , Senator O'Mahoney termed it " a. watered-down stetute " that provided only for publicity rather than for orders enforcing mine safety . The Johnson bill , he added , contained-no provisions for strength .. ening Government mine safety enforcement . Text of Order Withheld Among coal operators there was considerable speculation on the possible extension of the " memorial " stoppage beyond the ? twoweek period , but a. union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end March 28 . The union did not give out a copy of the order by the union district leaders , ? as transmitted to their agents in the field. - For this reason the operators ? were unable to comment more specifically on the sedan except to describe it as a strike . If the men return as the union indicates , they . will stop again on April .1 , . four days after their return . This is " John L. Lewis Day " in the coal fields . The operators believe that the lack of full production on the first day of return , March 28 , and the complete shutdown again four days later probably will result . in a half-week 's normal tonnage production . This would mean a loss of 5,000 , - 000 tons in addition to the 20,000 , - 000 tons for the fortnight memorial period . Operators reported that the memorial period announcement came as coal shipments to the Great Lakes were about to begin . The shutdown , according to the National Coal Association , will affect the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While there was some coal on the docks waiting to be transported to the upper lakes , the association said the quantity was small . - The operators also pointed out today that stockpiles-would be diminished further during the normal contract vacation period , June 25 to July 4.                     