@@705208

txt Nothing in the speech attributed to Walther Darrd , Nazi Minister of Agriculture , as having been made to a group of his colleagues last May , is inherently improbable as coming from that particular source . The wilder spirits of Nazism who regard him as a leader inspired only in lesser degree than Der Fuehrer himself would thrill over every detail in the program he outlined as the real aims of the party . Tried and true Nazis have no educational nonsense about them ; but to have themselves pictured as on top of the world , with plenteous slave labor recruited from the conquered nations to supply their luxuries and do their bidding , must appeal to them strongly . It is a fact also that at the time this farrago of conceit and nonsense is said to have been delivered , not only the outer but the inner Nazi circles evidently believed that they were almost to dominate the world . Save for Britain , a tiny island which they were sure could never withstand the terrific impact of German armies mechanized to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way seemed open , and beyond the European triumph loomed the riches of the Western Hemisphere to be gathered with equal ease after a necessary period of preparation . The Goebbels propaganda , through whose sieve is filtered the only knowledge of world affairs that faithful Nazis ever receive , has consistently belittled the power of the United States . We are portrayed as hopelessly disunited because of the varied racial elements making up our population and therefore an easy prey to skillful German manipulation . Whatever our intentions , inherent differences in our democratic masses are pictured as preventing their fulfillment  --  until too late . Herr Darre is the originator of the Nazi blood-and-soil racial theory . A trained agriculturist , he envisions the creation of a National Socialist autocracy bred according to the tested principles of the cattle breeders ' associations . He is credited with the intention of using the Hitler Elite Guard as the foundation of this breed of new German supermen . The decree which forbids members of that organization to marry without permission , and that granted only after searching biological tests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if he did not originate , the idea behind the Ordensburgen , the Nazi educational centers built like medieval castles and dotted across Germany , in which physically perfect Nazis are trained for future leadership according to principles in which physical prowess and Nazi doctrines count for everything and education and knowledge for nothing at all . This is a pet Hitler project for continuation and maintenance of the party . One of the castles was triumphantly exhibited to the Duke of Windsor when he toured Germany under Nazi auspices . He was represented as being extremely puzzled by what he saw and heard there . It is a coincidence that Hermann Rauschning 's book , " The Voice of Destruction , " records a conversation between Hitler and Darr ? backed by a group of enthusiastic converts , which almost duplicates in substance and in spirit the sentiments expressed in the May address .                     