@@706795

txt ARE AGE TOO HIGH Stimson and Generals Tell Congress 18-19 Draft Law is Vital SAY YOUTH WINS BATTLES Many Soldiers of Upper Ages Will Be , Weeded Out  --  Forces ' Total 4,250,000 Today By FREDERICK R. BARKLEY Special to ' ras istavr Ions Truca . WASHINGTON , Oct. 14 ? Army and Navy commanders headed by Secretary Stimson appealed to Senate and House Military Affairs Committees today for prompt action on legislation to make youths of 18 and 19 subject to the draft in order to assure next year an Army of at least 7,500,000 men with maximum striking force . Revealing for the first time the size of the Army planned by the end of 1943 , Secretary Stimson and General George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff , said that younger men are needed to provide tough and well trained front line forces to meet the best troops the enemy can produce . It was disclosed that the Army now stands at about 4,250,000 men . Secretary Stimson told the House Committee that the Army will consist of an air force of about 2,200,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,000,000 either in training or in the supply services . The Air Force , lie said , will be the largest that production and transportation can sustain . The Army will not be a " mass " Army , as some have erroneously asserted , " but a highly mobile and highly trained striking force strong enough to play the decisive role in World War II by offensive action . " Why the Army Needs Youth History , the Secretary went on , has shown that youth is necessary to produce any successful military striking force . Youths train more quickly , he explained , adding that the War Department believes one year 's training will produce soldiers equal to Germans with two years ' training . They are also tougher and more responsive to leadership , he said , and better able to stand the terrific pace of modern wars . On the other hand , the Army as it now stands , he said , is becoming " too old " for this kind of fighting . " There is too large a percentage of men over 40 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of divisions being activated was 26 years and 2 months . In August it had increased to 28 years and 2 months . That means that the divisions contain a large percentage of men who should have been kept in industry . They are beyond the age for front-line fighting and might have to be relieved in battle by men with insufficient training . " The Secretary of War said he was making public the figures on the Army because of the circulation of estimates ranging from 10,000,000 to 13,000,000 which did not come from the War Department . His was a conservative estimate , he added , " and any changes will be upward . " General Marshall testified that the size of the Army in 1944 could not be determined before late 1943 . Marshall Tells of Hospital Cases General Marshall , illustrating the need for younger men , said he recently visited an Army hospital where he found incapacitated older soldiers , some of whom had been in the service only a few weeks . He said he found one 43-year-old man suffering from four complaints , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanic . " Such men should have been kept at their machines , where they can do the most good , " he added . " They are knot increasing the Army 's strength , they are reducing it because they have to be cared // ARMY OF 7,500,000 IS GOAL NEXT YEAR // for . If this continues , the Army will have to enlarge its hospital facilities before it even gets into action . " Major Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , selective service director , told the Senators that if the bill is adopted promptly he expected it to produce between 800,000 and 900,000 young men suitable for induction by December . This estimate excluded those who would be deferred for dependency , disabilities , need by industry or agriculture and those who would enlist in other armed services before the Army reached them . The addition of this manpower pool , General Hershey added , would " take the pressure " off married men without children for probably about four months . After that , he said , Army demands probably would restore that pressure to about where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this month , General Hershey said , he will have to continue taking married men in November at about the present rate , because it would be a month or more after the law is enacted before the selective service system could start calling the younger men . His " best guess , " in the light of the Army manpower plans made public , was that he would have to begin drawing upon men with children probably in the last quarter of next year . But such drafts , he said , would take into consideration the need for many of these in essential industrial and agricultural pursuits . In reply to a question , General Hershey gave it as his judgment that " some time we 'll have to begin to squeeze soldiers out of the 5,500,000 men in Federal , State and local government service . " We just ca n't afford that luxury forever , " he added . Plan to Release Older Men Lieut . Gen. Joseph T. , deputy chief of staff , told the Senate Committee that if the bill is enacted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around age 35 . , Replying to questions , he said this government 's best information is that the German Army totals about 8,000,000 men , and that Germany apparently is able to sustain this total from replacements . He declined to state any figure for the total armed strength of the United Nations , but said that " in numbers , " he believed it was less than that of the Axis . General refused to give a figure on the British Army 's strength , but said the British had apaprently drawn in all available manpower , including boys of 17 who receive their basic training as protective forces for the hundreds of British air fields . All British women are subject to call for national service , he commented . Senators Downey of California and Thomas of Utah questioned whether the present Army program was not too ambitious and moving too fast . Mr. Thomas suggested , that perhaps a 6,000,000-man Army , recruited more slowly , and trained more thoroughly , might be more desirable . Senator Downey voiced the view that the over-all war program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be much greater than needed . Admiral Ernest J. King , Chief of Naval Operations and Commander in Chief of the Fleet , endorsed the bill . He had no fear that it might limit expansion of the Navy as needed through voluntary enlistments , but might provide more recruits than immediately needed from young men who might prefer Navy service to the Army . In a short executive session , the Senate committee rejected an amendment by Senator Lee to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages in and around Army camps . The committee also decided to consider the bill without taking up the nation 's manpower problem in general . Representative May , chairman of the House committee , said he thought Congressional action on the bill could be completed within two weeks . He thought the House bill in its final form would probably include a provision permitting youths to finish high school before being drafted . The Senate bill has a similar provision .                     