@@705097

txt German bombing squadrons took it easy in the daylight hours yesterday , but they made up for it last night and early today . Returning in force by the light of an almost full moon , they roared up and down , hour after hour , showering explosive and fire bombs all over London and shattering buildings over a wide area to give the metropolitan zone its heaviest pounding of the war . At least sixty-three districts were bombed . As is usual when the moon is full , a constant stream of raiders remained over the capital . Early this month they were coming in at ten and fifteen minute intervals , but last night and today they droned incessantly over the city , despite the unusually heavy barrage from antiaircraft. guns . It was the  --  thirtyeighth night of aerial siege . London was not alone in feeling the force of the Nazi onslaught . The attack spread to Wales and right up the West Coast through Liverpool . Also bombed were the South Coast , Northwestern England , East Anglia and the Midlands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed and wounded in the German attacks ended Sunday night , when the toll took a sharp rise , and the figures for the raid last night and early today were expected to show a further increase . However , despite circumstantial reports during the night that indicated that the attack had been the severest of the war  --  a judgment concurred in by this morning 's newspapers  --  the Air Ministry and Minister of Home Security said today that the bombing had been on a smaller scale than the previous night . Soon after the people of the capital had gone underground , three large bombs fell in one residential district and wrecked several houses , burying a number of persons in the debris . Several time bombs were dropped in one street . For the second night in succession a convent was damaged and casualties resulted . Several bombs fell in a London square . High explosives were believed to have wrecked a house , formerly occupied by a peer , that had been converted into offices . The night 's activity was notable for the large number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombs . Three or four persons were believed buried beneath a church rectory damaged by fire . Flames severely damaged a theatre and the roof and top floor of a restaurant . There were similar reports from the rest of the country . Four houses in a residential quarter of a Southeast coast town were demolished . A number of persons were either killed or seriously injured . There was considerable damage there to houses and shops . While rescue squads were engaged amid the ruins another raider dropped flares and the work had to be suspended temporarily . Home for Aged Women Hit Three separate attacks were made on a Midland town . A home for aged women took a direct hit . Three of the thirteen inmates were killed and others were injured . Another high-explosive bomb struck a department store , the basement of which was being used as a public air-raid shelter . Houses were demolished and people were believed trapped under the debris . Elsewhere in the town office buildings and business premises were slightly damaged . This morning twenty-four hours had passed without any official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . Heavy gray clouds had blanketed Southeast England during most of the daylight hours . Though the poor visibility made it difficult for raiders to have any accurate idea of where they were or what they were hitting , they came over just the same . Singly and in pairs they dived through the clouds and dropped quite a few bombs . During the day the Germans raided small towns and even villages deep in the countryside . There are apparently two reasons for this . First , when the visibility is poor , raiders can take chances in coming down over small towns because they know these seldom are protected by the cables of the balloon barrage . The other apparent reason for raiding these wayside places on cloudy days is that the Germans can thus spread the war into areas that normally are untouched by the nightly and daily raids on large urban centers . While there is an obvious effort to hit military objectives in the big cities , it is rows of picturesque little houses that get smashed on a day like yesterday . Two raiders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit a residential area . Stores and houses in a Midland town were demolished . And so it went over a wide area most of the day . Thirty-six districts of London and twenty other districts throughout the country were damaged in the raids Sunday and early yesterday . It is inevitable that with hundreds of tons of bombs falling every night that once in a while a heavy bomb will fall where a large number of persons are concentrated . This happened in Sunday night 's raid on London , when two big ones hit a large apartment house . It is a rule of the censorship here that details of a catastrophe like this are not allowed to go out of the country , but it is essential to report that these disasters do occur . Among other places hit during Sunday night 's raid , which was one of the heaviest of the attacks on London , were communal shelters , houses , a hospital , which was hit by an oil bomb , and a church , which was destroyed . The clearing away of the rubble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though the government has been telling the people that it had planned to take care of far more damage and many more casualties than there have been here , the fact remains that these demolished houses have been lying for days and sometimes weeks in the streets where they fell . There has been much complaining about this , and the government finally did something about it yesterday , when 5,000 soldiers of the pioneer corps came into London and started clearing way battered houses . These men are theoretically staying only a few weeks , but it is doubtful if London will be able to keep up with the pace of the property damage if these soldiers do not stay on a more or less permanent basis . There are hundreds of houses to he cleared away , and after the raid last night and early today the problem is considerably worse . 40 Buried 20 Hours Saved LONDON , Tuesday , Oct. 15 ( s ) ? More than 100 workers who toiled twenty hours have rescued forty to fifty persons alive from the debrisburied basement bomb shelter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a big bomb smashed the flats during an air raid Sunday night and yesterday morning . Four cranes and twenty trucks were used to clear a path through the debris to those who were trapped .                     