@@709660

txt A high authoritative source disclosed tolay that the Soviet Union had rejected United States and British - epresentations on the seizure of kustrian property , valued at $22 , - ) 00,000 , for reparations which the Vienna Government claims will ' lead to the complete alienation " Df Austria 's economy . In a long note handed to the Austrian Government the Soviet occupation authorities in Austria said there was no change in their recent position in regard to the seizure of Austrian industrial plants and other property confiscated by the Germans following the Anschluss . The text of the note was not available in London , but its essential points were known to authoritative sources who said it disagreed with almost every point in the United States and British representations . United States Ready to Negotiate Edwin W. Pauley , President Truman 's reparations expert with rank of Ambassador , pausing here on his round-the-world fact-finding tour , declared that the United States remained ready to negotiate with other nations to renounce all claim to Austrian reparations , but was not prepared to renounce its equity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercy of , or to deal singly with , any one nation , " Mr. Pauley said , adding : " You will note that I did not name any special nation . " Mr. Pauley said the United States believed that Austria was entitled to any industrial plants that were not purely war potential . He said the principle of reparations from " liberated " German satellites had been agreed upon by the major powers at Potsdam , but it would be incorrect to say that the Russians had accepted anything specific in writing . Pauley . Upholds Potsdam Pact By Wireless to THE NEW Yam TIMES . LONDON , July ** before leaving by plane for the United States tonight , Mr. Pauley said he was still convinced that the Potsdam agreement represented the best solution of the Allies ' problems in Germany . " Potsdam is a good agreement , " Mr. Pauley said . " The United States will not be the first country to break it . " On his return to Washington from a world tour , during which he has seen United States Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Pauley will report to President Truman and Secretary of State ' James F. Byrnes that whatever agreements are reached on reparations the most important thing is still to avoid committing Germany to a reparations program that will necessitate the rebuilding of heavy industry not necessary for Germany 's peacetime economy . Referring to the United States proposals to proceed with negotiations with one or more of the other occupying powers for closer economic relations among zones , Mr. Pauley emphasized that this in no way implied abandonment of the Potsdam principles . Indeed it is clear that the United States considers that governments unwilling to move toward the loosening up of the various log jams in the German economic situation are " abandoning " the Potsdam Agreement , he declared . U. S. and British Views Differ This explanation of the United States offer to talk about the better integration of its zone with any one or any two powers , if all four can not agree , differs from the British interpretation . The British have been inclined to regard the new United States position as a sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Potsdam Agreement work . A possible explanation of this difference lies in the fact that the Potsdam Agreement is usually taken here to mean both the set of principles for governing Germany laid down by the Big Three and plans for the level of German industry worked out later in Berlin . It is the latter that the British particularly dislike and believe unworkable . The United States thinks of the Potsdam Agreement more in terms of broad principles of common trade , financial and industrial policies for the whole of Germany . If the principles were adopted and machinery to implement them set up , the Americans would be willing to reconsider the ceilings set for the various key German industries in the light of experience to date . Mr. Pauley indicated today that while he felt the United States should continue to press hard for the adoption of the Potsdam principles as ideal , it should recognize the necessity of making alternative plans if all efforts fail to get other governments to cooperate . Sir William Strang , political adviser to the commander in chief of the British forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the commander in chief , are due to arrive in London Monday to advise the Foreign Office on possible steps to implement Mr. Byrnes ' proposals for closer economic cooperation between the United States and British zones . British May Halt Reparations LONDON , July 18 ( L.P. ) ? A Foreign Office spokesman said today that Britain soon would reconsider the question of shipping reparations from its zone of Germany to the Soviet Union . A review of British shipments is considered necessary , he said , since the United States cut off shipments from its zone because of the Soviet failure to treat Germany as an economic whole , as provided by the Potsdam Declaration . ' He confirmed , however , that " small " shipments of reparations were being made from the British zone .                     