@@711197

txt Multipurpose safety islands - ieeded.as havens for harried pelestrians , boundaries for traffic anes , and protected stations for ights ? are being installed in ncreasing numbers in Boston . " Tlrey do a nice job and are nexpensive , " says Philip T. Desnond , Chief Traffic Engineer of he Boston Traffic Commission . He estimated today that safety slands have been constructed in about 60 locations in the Hub 's ) atch-quilt street system . Furthermore , the Boston Public Works.Department has a largerthan-usual schedule for installation of these islands this year , 7. ommissioner Robert P. Curley explained today . Initial recommendations on sites for safety islands are made by the Traffic Commission . The Public Works Department is responsible for the construction work and therefore ' makes the final decision . New Islands Planned The concrete islands , Mr. Curley noted , are built in conjunction with the street construction program . That is the case on Columbus Avenue now , he pointed out . On Columbus Avenue , Mr , Curley continued , the divisional islands are being extended the entire length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Gallivan Boulevard , Dorchester , are also on the 1948 list . From the pedestrian 's viewpoint , the safety islands break up lengthy curb-to-curb sprints across busy traffic centers . Once aboard the island , the pedestrian can catch his breath and wait for a new let-up in the traffic . When traffic lights change Suddenly , the islands are doubly welcome to the person on foot . However , Mr. Desmond observed , the islands also are an important factor in preventing car crashes . Traffic Hazards Cut Installation of an island in the proper location will halt motorists from cutting across the opposite lane too soon . This was said to it ) e true of the island at Morton and Selden Streets , Dorchester . In addition to these advantages , Mr. Desmond continued , the safety islands also provide a protected spot for traffic and street lights . Thus costly damage to the traffic lights is sometimes prevented , Street lights on the islands improve the visibility at hazardous intersections . The 1948 island building program began about two weeks ago . The raised platforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into outlines enclosed by granite curbstones . Placing Vital Factor Not every island is necessarily well placed at first , Mr. Desmond remarked . " If they are not properly placed , they can be a nuisance , " he added . As an example of how safety islands aid pedestrians , Mr. Desmond cited the recent work done at Charles and Boylstot Streets . In this instance  --  when traffic lights were not operating  --  pedestrians were handicapped by an unusually wide street and a constant flow of traffic . Now the pedestrians can reach safety islands easily . At the same time , traffic is effectively channeled  --  motorists being prevented from slipping over into oncoming lanes . Boon to Children Such safety devices , according to Mr. Desmond , have been found especially handy at intersections used by school children . Little tots and elderly persons have the most difficulty negotiating streets in time . Not a new instrument of traffic safety , the islands have been approved and used by the Traffic Commission for 18 years , Mr. Desmond recalled . Among the other locations where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford Street in South Boston . Since the construction of an island there , he pointed out , the number of accidents has been substantially reduced. , It also made an opportunity for the installation of a street light at this point , he said .                     