@@708994

txt Amid the first faint signs of social unrest and dissension the Japanese Cabinet today was preparing to meet to onsider the Allied directive setting forth conditions under which Japan will be able to import a limited amount of essential , paid-for goods as a bulwark against the hardships , of the coming winter . The Government was told yesterday that it must submit a statement establishing beyond doubt a necessity for importing vital materials as well as its ability to pay for them either in goods or money . Imports undoubtedly will be carried in the 260,000 tons of shipping recently set aside at Gen. Douglas 's orders for this purpose . The first break in the Japanese resignation to obedience and the hardships of defeat occurred coincident with the issuance of the directive . Eight hundred Leftists , Socialists and Communists , parad- , ed down one of Tokyo 's main thoroughfares , stopping between General 's headquarters and the Imperial Palace grounds to cheer Allied forces , sing the song " Red Flag " and yell , ' ' Down with the imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children , of whom about 30 per cent were Koreans , included a number of political prisoners whose release was the cause for the celebration . At the same time students of the Mito Higher School and Tien ? Girls High School in Tokyo continued on strike , and the Asahi , Tokyo 's largest newspaper , predicted " there is a large possibility that the school strike will spread all over the country . " The strike , according to Asahi , started because of failure of the faculties to discard military education completely and " highhanded measures . " While these demonstrations undoubtedly are formless and shortterm affairs they indicate that the // long-suffering Japanese population will not be impervious to starvation and suffering in the cold winter months . General informed the Japanece Government that it must provide an agency to receive and distribute whatever imports were authorized so as to insure fair distribution at reasonable cost to the public . He specified/ furthermore , that none would be appointed to a responsible position in this agency who had been an active exponent of militant nationalism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be represented on this agency . This is the first Allied reply to countless official and private suggestions that the United States employ a certain part of its shipping to bring in critical materials . The directive was issued one day after the new Premier , Baron Xijuro Shidehara , told the Allied press that the food situation was " very dangerous " and might lead to disorders before spring . Food , Cotton to Be Imported Headquarters announced that rice , or its equivalent in grain , and salt and raw cotton would be high on the priority list of imports . Pointing out . damage caused by recent severe storms and labor and fuel shortages , Allied headquarters set forth the following figures as the basis for Japan 's needs of these essential materials : Rice . Production will be under 55,000,000 koku 281,545,000 bushels , a " very small " figure . Raw cotton . It is estimated that all present stocks will be exhausted by December and 1,250 , - 000 bales in imports are needed to provide twenty-five yards of cot . ton goods per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 300,000 tons this year in comparison with 2 , - 000,000 tons annually used on the average in the past five years . The Japanese were told to submit a statement of the means they have to pay for imports and were informed that they were not to use any of those means that will be available by the end of next year . To this end , General recently forbade the use of silk and reserved the tonnage of rubber and leather that might be used to pay for imports . The Japanese Government was told , furthermore , to put every conceivale effort on the production of nonvital materials which could be used to pay for imports . No imports will be permitted unless vital to maintain a minimum standard of living for the population , no matter whether or not Japan is able to pay , General declared . While Allied authorities were extremely reluctant to make largescale promises for the relief of Japan , they also were concerned over the population 's welfare for practical reasons . They are anxious , first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that inevitably would follow in the wake of starvation and exposure , and they also desire to maintain economic and social stability in the coming winter in so far as possible in order , as they see it , not to upset the occupation machinery . At the same time yesterday 's orders made it clear that the Japanese could not count on Allied headquarters to adopt a " Santa Claus " attitude . The Japanese must take the primary responsibility for feeding and clothing the population . In most food and materials Jai pan can tount on holdover production in the last year to carry through the coming winter . This is true of such foodstuffs as potatoes and vegetables . What the Japanese leaders fear , however , is popular reaction to sudden freedom after years of repression , and they feel that the food situation may be the origin of disorders . They are particularly apprehensive over the Communist movement , which never progressed much beyond the embryonic stage in pre-war years . With the release of all political prisoners , a leadership may be found for discontented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was the first positive demonstration of welcomi , for the Allied forces and the first evidence of a feeling against the imperial house that the occupation forces have encountered . Soaked to the skin , the marchers linked hands and followed men carying the Red flag and other banners bearing inscriptions celebrating political freedom . On the thoroughfare separating General 's headquarters from the moated palace grounds the marchers stood for fifteen minates cheering and singing . They broke up only when military and Japanese police cleared a lane for passing street-car and automotive traffic . Foreign Exchange Now Listed TOKYO , Thursday , Oct. 11 UP General today ordered the Japanese Government to report all Japanese-owned foreign exchange assets , including government and private holdings , within ninety days . The announcement from headquarters said the order included foreign holdings of the imperial household . It also said that many Zaibatsu ( big families ) had extensive holdings of foreign exchange and in " at least several cases 35 per cent of their assets were located abroad . " Education Ministry authorities announced the expulsion of two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of militaristic tendencies .                     