@@708672

txt The Eighth Air Force , pioneer in American bombing of Germany , is going to the Pacific under command of Lieut . Gen. James H. Doolittle . The Army Air Forces , in announcing today the redeployment against Japan , said that " the present tempo of bombing of the Japanese homeland will be stepped up to the point that Japanese war industries can expect an even greater volume of attack than was accomplished against Hitler 's Fortress Europe . " General Doolittle , " it continued , " is now prepared to help finish the job he started on Japan in April , // 1942 , when he hit Tokyo with carrier-based ** but now he 'll be using land-based four-engined bombers with plenty of fighter cover . " General Doolittle , who has been seen in Washington during recent days , had been described as the " former commander " of the Eighth Air Force . A recent announcement reported that Maj. Gen. William E. Kepner was the new commander . The AAF explained that General Doolittle would be the commander of the Eighth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of the air force remaining in Europe until redeployment is completed . Kepner was deputy to Doolittle in Europe . The announcement said that while the movement of the Eighth to the Pacific does not necessarily mean that all personnel and units will be a part of the new set-up , enough combat trained personnel will be included to maintain its high experience level . Certain ground units of the organization were ready to move to the Pacific immediately after V-E Day and some are already on the way , the AAF said . Replacements Are Expected Other units are returning to this country under the redeployment and demobilization plan . It is expected that additional personnel will be drawn from pools set up in this country to replace men demobilized or receiving domestic assignments . Reports have indicated the Eighth Air Force while in Europe had about 200,000 personnel , both air and ground crews . It was not immediately clear what part of this total force would go to the Pacific . So far as is known , the Eighth Air Force uses as its heavy bombers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate that the Eighth Air Force will use the " very heavy bombardment " types , the B-29 and B-32 , against Japan . The Eighth was the first American air force to go into action against Germany , being formed Jan. 28 , 1942 , under the leadership of Gen. Carl Spaatz . Lieut . Gen. Ira Eaker took over command Dec. 1 , 1942 , and on Jan. 1 , 1944 , General Doolittle succeeded to command . The Eighth set up business with a force of twelve Flying Fortresses , making its first raid on the German-controlled railroad yards at Rouen , France , Aug. 17 , 1942 . This humble beginning contrasted sharply with operations of the Eighth during the last months of the European war , when fleets of 1,000 four-engined bombers , escorted by nearly as many fighters , were flying deep into Germany to bomb strategic targets . Eighth Extolled by British LONDON , May 26 ( P ) ? The Daily Express , bidding an editorial farewell to American fliers now departing for assignments against Japan , said today : " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberators of the United States Eighth Air Force . " The editorial said that the 1942-1943 controversy over the efficacy of daylight bombing was not settled until the Casablanca conference , when air chiefs threshed out the issue in the presence of Prime Minister Churchill and the late President Roosevelt . Then the Eighth Air Force was " allowed to go ahead with the mighty and brilliant conception of air war mapped out for them , " the editorial said , wishing the fliers " godspeed in their new tasks . " Soldier Regains ' Lost Christmas ' ALBANY , May 26 LP ) ? Christmas came last night for Pfc . Clarence T. Simpson , liberated captive of the Germans . He had a tree , presents and turkey dinner to make up for spending last Yuletide in a prison box car .                     