@@706330

txt The nation 's airlines are getting ready to do a job of mass transportation for the Army . They also are preparing to train pilots and mechanics for the military services on a big scale . Contractual arrangements now are being worked out . By their terms , the domestic air transport companies would place their equipment on immediate call for Army freight and personnel movements both within the territorial limits of the United States and to overseas bases , and would undertake large-scale advanced training of mechanics and pilots Answer to Threat of U. S. Control This in the companies ' answer to the threat of complete Government control and operation of their facilities . It will mean : 1 Fewer schedules ( probably ) for civilian air travel and express and mail shipments 2 . More , not less , business for the airlines . 3 . Full utilization of their equipment and maintenance and repair and training facilities . 4 . Continued private ownership and operation . The contract arrangement scheme is being developed as a " logical " alternative to Government control and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice of requisitioning planes for its own use by its own personnel . The plan contemplates full utilization of the airlines ' labor force , their training and repair facilities and equipment These would be devoted to military use to the extent that needs require . Country Divided into 5 Sections In preparation for mass flights , carrying Army personnel or equipment from any U. S. point to another or to overseas destinations , the ci , untry has been divided into flue sectors . Arrangements are completed for the concentration of planes at any point for immediate use . irrespective of ownership . Directions for use of the airlines ' equipment would stem from the Office of Military Director of Civilian Aviation . These would clear through the airlines ' national organization , Air Transport . Inc. , which would issue orders for the concentration of equipment at the point or points designated by the military director . Although arrangements are still in the consideration stage , the general plan is understood definitely to have been decided upon . Prelimi nary to development of this general plan , some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation " at call " to overseas bases . Hope for Adequate Civilian Service The extent to which the scheme will interfere with domestic civilian transportation can not be forecast . However . both airline and Government officials hope to maintain adequate service for essential civilian traffic . The plan for pilot and mechanic training is about ready to be put into operation . It contemplates advanced training of pilots at the rate of about 230 a month and the training of about 2.100 mechanics a month . These would be schooled in all phases of airplane and equipment repair and maintenance . Some airlines already are training mechanics and pilots for the Army and Navy . These programs will be stepped up to the limit of facilities and personnel . The airlines , in most instances , would arrange for the room and board of the trainees in cooperation with military authorities at particular bases Super-Freight Carrier% In connection with Army freight transportation , officials are studying designs of a " Skytruk. " which would be specially constructed fp : carrying heavy loads of equipment , including such things as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It could not be learned whether present plans contemplate the construction of such planes in large numbers although expertmental units probably have been built . Large transport planes now used by the airlines are capable of carrying considerable heaxy freight and could be made ready for such work b ? . the simple expedient of removing the seats Numbers of these probably will be converted for such duty If and when the contractual arrangements now being considered are concluded , the airlines probably will lose no more equipment io the Army On the contrary they will be plaen'c in a position to get more equipment than their present civilian priority rating permits them to obtain .                     