@@710690

txt President Truman closed the InterAmerican Defense Conference here today with a speech reducing the basic foreign policy of the United States to a desire for permanent peace , but emphasizing that to carry it out , the nation was determined to remain strong . Reiterating the United States ' fidelity to the United Nations , the President noted that the world organization since infancy had been embroiled in conflicts growing out of its unintended role of trying to make peace , rather than maintain it . " We must be careful not to prejudge it by this unfair test , " he said . " We must cherish the seedling in the hope of a mighty oak . We shall not forget our obligations under the Charter , and we shall not permit others to forget theirs . " This brought the first and strons , : st applause for the address from the delegates of nineteen republics who this evening at Itam.araty Palace in Rio deaJaneiro formally signed the hemisphere defense treaty which Mr. Truman hailed as an example to the world . Marshal/ Signs for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Secretary of State Marshall acted on behalf of the United States . The treaty provides that an armed ' attack against any of the nineteen nations will be held an attack against them all , that there will be collective military defense moves in the event of armed attack within the hemispheric zone , joint consultations on attacks outside the zone , and a. " cease-fire " order if two American states clash . Although the President went beyond the Americas in the general scope of his address , he had serious words for the representatives of the Latin nations , who already had been warned by Secretary Marshall that the needs of Europe came first . Expanding on this , Mr. Truman noted that the countries of " free Europe " soon would make their needs known . " I hope that the nations of free America , " he continued , " will be prepared , each according to its ability and in its own manner , to contribute to lasting peace for the benefit of mankind . " Notes Needs of West He also gave " solemn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for further economic collaboration within the Western . world . Such problems , unlike those in Europe , require long-term planning and the type of program in which a greater role might be assigned to private citizens and groups , he said . Mr. Truman insisted that such problems would be tackled by the United States with the utmost good faith and " increased vigor , " and he added : " I hope that as your acquaintance with us broadens , you will appreciate our fundamental goodwill and will understand that we are trying to bear with dignity and decency the responsibility of , an economic power unique in human history . " While President Eurico Gaspar Dutra. of Brasil sat nearby on the dela in Quitandinha Hotel here , Mr. Truman was introduced by Brazil 's Foreign Minister , Dr. Raul Fernandes . Mr. Truman said at the outset that the new Rio treaty had made clear to " any possible aggressor " that the American republics , in determining to support one another against attacks , had provided an example of good neighborliness and friendship to the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations . He solemnly underscored his disappointment and concern over the post-war era in which he said " a number of nations are still subjected to the type of foreign domination which we fought to overcome . " Other European and Asiatic peoples , he added , live " under the shadow of armed aggression . " This forced the United States to contemplate prolonged military occupation of enemy territories , which he acknowledged with emphasis was " profoundly distasteful " to the people of the United States . The President conceded that the United States had not adequately anticipated the post-war chaos , which led to the difficult problem of adjustment of its foreign policy . But despite the mistakes , he said , he believed that the fundamentals of the policy evolved were " sound and justifiable . " Resources Not Limitless The United States intended to best help econominally those " prepared to help themselves and each other , " he went on , but its resources were not unlimited and must be brought to bear where they would most help the restoration of production , freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual basis in the caw of Greece and Turkey , where we were confronted with specific problems of limited scope and of peculiar urgency , " he asserted . But it was evident at the time , he said , that this precedent could not be applied generally elsewhere in Europe . The Western Hemisphere alone could not assure peace , but without it peace was not possible , the President " said . Following his pledge that a strong United States would insist that other nations also lived up to their obligations under the United Nations , he left no room for doubt as to his policy . " In carrying out our policy we are determined to remain strong , " he declared . " This is in no way a threat . The record of the past speaks for us . No great nation has been more reluctant than ours to use armed force . " The President added that " We do not believe that the present international differences will have to be resolved by armed conflict . The world may depend upon it that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid anytning that would increase the tensions of international life . " " But we are determined that there shall be no misunderstanding in these matters , " he said . " Our aversion to violence must not be misread as a lack of determination on our part to live up to the obligations of the United Nations Charter or as invitations to others to take liberties with the foundations of international peace . ' The nations of America , he concluded , could in their unity constitute the greatest single force for the good of humanity and for the " peace of free men " that was the United States ' fundamental goal .                     