@@708112

txt When the time comes to redraw the map of Europe , Britain probably will advocate not only the allocation of German territory east of the Oder River to Poland but the conversion of the Rhineland into a demilitarized zone under international control . For that reason , among others , this Government is more eager than ever to see full recognition extended to Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's regime as the Provisional Government of France in order that it may share in the discussions leading up to the final settlement with Germany and assume its share of responsibility for enforcing it . This viewpoint , it may now be disclosed , was presented to President Roosevelt in Quebec with all the eloquence that Prime Minister Churchill could muster , reinforced , it may be taken for granted , by Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's background of experience and knowledge of European diplomacy . Indeed , it would probably not be stretching known facts much to say that at least one reason for Mr. Eden 's unexpected appearance in Quebec was to support the Prime Minister 's contention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime as the Provisional Government of France was hampering the Allies ' efforts to plan the future of Germany . Roosevelt Not Convinced But Mr. Roosevelt remained unconvinced . Therefore , while Britain and the United States agreed to exchange Ambassadors with the Italian Government , Washington and London will be represented in Paris by special representatives to the French Committee of National // Liberation with the technical rank of Ambassadors . To the British people , as well as their Government , this is a rather anomalous situation . Were it not for the necessity for avoiding any action that might offend the United States Government , the British Government would lose no time in recognizing the French Government on its own , purely as a provisional government pending an election . It is hardly a secret that diplomats here have been searching their brains for a way out that would not be taken as an affront in Washington . It is known , however , that the French people and their Government , in their present hypersensitive mood , find it very hard to understand why a former enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is felt , moreover , that irreparable harm is being done by continuing to hold up recognition of General de Gaulle 's Government . Whatever argument there was for doing so before France was liberated and General de Gaulle returned to Paris to broaden his Government has been rendered academic since his inclusion of resistance leaders from inside France , it is felt here . Furthermore , it is recognized here that , even if the war were to be concluded tomorrow , the prospects of holding an election in France until one or one and a half years from now are very small . The French people are opposed to any general election until their prisoners and deported laborers have been returned home . By the time that can be done and new election lists can be prepared , at least eighteen months will have passed , according to the most optimistic estimates . Meanwhile , much valuable help and advice from France , which knows the Germans and is one of the countries most likely to be harmed by a revival of German military strength , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support or sympathy here . The British are out to destroy nazism and German militarism and , in doing that , they are willing to whittle away large slices of Germany . However , they have no desire to destroy German industry , chiefly because they do not believe that a large industrial population can be turned into shepherds by a treaty . They are determined , however , to control German industry so that it can never again be used surreptitiously to manufacture poison gas , rockets , flying bombs or other surprise weapons of war . The demilitarization of the Rhineland is considered one of the best safeguards against German aggression in the west . France , it is held , should have a large share in its administration .                     