@@706912

txt Wireless to THE NEW YORE TIMES . AT A NEW GUINEA BASE , Jan. 9 ( Delayed ) ? General Douglas 's Order of the Day issued today to mark the virtual conclusion of the campaign against the Japanese in Papua constitutes an official commentary on the character of the successful offensive as well as a tribute to ' the men who achieved the Papuan victory . The men who fought in the campaign and particularly the ground troops will endorse the Commander in Chief 's statements that the operations were carried out " under difficulties rarely if ever surpassed " and that the Japanese were " a bold , aggressive enemy possessing marked superiority of resources and potentialities in the areas of the campaign and combat . " In the Papuan campaign from Milne Bay to the fighting on the Kokoda trail and through to Buna , Australian and American troops waged jungle warfare , probably the most difficult of all kinds of warfare . The ordinary difficulties of the jungle were accentuated by the rainy-season downpours that deepened the swamps and wiped out roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several feet of water , eating cold and often inadequate food , and plagued by mosquitos and ants and a hundred other predatory insects . Under conditions like these shoes and clothing go to pieces , cigarettes turn to tasteless mold , matches wo n't strike , guns acquire rust in a few hours and mechanisms become clogged with dirt . Fevers and diarrhea were widely prevalent among the Allied troops , and some caught malaria under conditions that often hindered men from taking the quinine prophylaxis . After a month of fighting in Papua men had usually lost from ten to twenty pounds , knees and elbows were poking through wornoI  --  t uniforms and shoes were disintegrating . The captain of one American // TERRIBLE HARDSHIP OVERCOME IN PAPUA // company told the writer after Buna Mission was captured that in the last few days of battle he needed several men to climb trees to observe mortar fire and spot Japanese snipers but he " could n't find any one strong enough to get up a tree . " His company was one of a battalion that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six weeks on the Buna front . This march constituted one of the remarkable achievements of the campaign for the Americans . The battalion set Jut Oct. 15 and reached the vicinity of Buna about a month later . Men carried guns as well as packs weighing forty pounds . Rations were dropped by planes to them at prearranged spots every three days . A portable hospital accompanied the battalion and practically the entire outfit reached the battlefield intact . Troops Flown Over Mountains Remarkable also was the fact that most other elements of the Thirty-second American Division that played a big part in the Buna victory were carried over the Owen Stanleys by plane and landed at a field many score of miles from the battlelines and then marched up through the jungle to attack the Japanese . Indeed , the airplane has rarely played a bigger part in any military operation than it did in Papua . Planes not only transported most of the troops long distances to Eastern Papua but also largely kept them supplied with food and ammunition . Daily , a fleet of air transports landed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the battle . Even the field artillery pieces were taken to the front by plane . On return trips the planes evacuated wounded . At the same time fighting planes of the New Guinea American and Australian air forces were serving both the Navy and air force , keeping Japanese reinforcements and supplies from reaching Buna . General 's estimate of the air role was stated in his order with the words : " To the American Fifth Air Force and Royal Australian Air Force no commendation could be too great . Their outstanding efforts in combat , supply and transportation over both land and sea constituted the keystone upon which the whole arch of the campaign was erected . They have set up new horizons for air conduct of war . " The Japanese made of their side of the Papuan battle an amphibious operation . The Allied air arm in New Guinea succeeded in keeping the Japanese Navy at bay as well as the Japanese Air Force . In short , General succeded in largely transporting and supplying by air an army that defeated an enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority in the waters off New Guinea . In this respect the Papuan campaign was one of the most extraordinary in modern warfare . Australian veterans of many a battle in the Middle East say that the Papuan fighting has been the toughest they have encountered . The Japanese is not rated a better fighter all around than the German , ? but in the situation in Papua the Japanese are considered to have had the advantage of the jungle , of experience at jungle fighting and of prepared defenses concealed by the jungle .                     