@@712378

txt Chemical wizardry is bringing increased competition to the business of making movies in color . The rainbow came to Hollywood back in 1932 , drenching The Three Little Pigs and other Disney cartoons . Long since , of course , it has worked its way up to Lana Turner 's ruby lips and Robert Taylor 's wavy black hair , to the great profit of Technicolor . Inc. , which has furnished the color cameras for the various picture producers , printed their film in its big labs . arid ? generally pioneered the fine art of filming drama in vivid hues . It has had some competition . Cinecolor and Trucolor are among the processes which have also offered color to movie-makers . But they have used a two-color method while Technicolor 's system is based on three primary hues , capable of making the heroine 's eyes as blue as the cornflower , her cheeks as pink as the hibiscus . This fascinating field is now to be invaded by three big manufacturers of raw film . They are Ansco Co .. which is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kodak Co. and Du Pont . All three have produced in their laboratories new color processes they believe will prove competitive to all or part of the Technicolor system . Happy Hollywood On the sidelines , cheering the new entrants , are big Hollywood picture makers . They hope rivalry will bring the costs of tinted flickers down . They 're also eager to see a speed-up in processing of color film : now as much as rive months elapse between completion of photography and delivery of finished Technicolor prints . Executives would like to boost box office income by making more movies in color : they remember that of the 20 feature pictures which have made Hollywood history by topping $5 million in rental earnings a dozen were In Technicolor . A new chemist-y is bringing the new competition . Though the Du Pont , Eastman and Ansco film processes differ from each other they claim one very practical similarity . All three are designed for mass production in any of the big processing plants where blackand-white " release prints " are now made by the hundreds for shipment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called for , the experts declare . This would mean that the moor-shooting companies could grind out release reels in their own labs or in those of various independent contractors . It would be a sharp break with the tradition of Technicolor , which has all patron producers standing In line to get their films printed in Technicolor 's own big California factory . Pathe Industries . Inc , which makes movies through a subsidiary , Eagle-Lion , and also turns out many black-white prints for other picture makers , is now preparing two sizable laboratories to handle color prints  --  one in New York City and the other or . the west coast . Initially it will use Ansco film . but as the Du Pont and Eastman color films become available in bulk it will be set to u ' . e them , officials say . Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer already has an Ansco color lab on its Hollywood lot , and is expected to start using it for limited production . The independent Houston Corp . labs in Hollywood are equipped to handle Ansco film . Anseo'ss Expan%lon Ansco , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launched on an expansion program which by July of next year is expected to permit output of 100 million feet of its new color movie film annually , enough to make over a sea/ e of pictuies . That would leave it well below Technicolor 's freshly increased capacity of 320 million feet yearly  --  but would be a strong start . Before its expansion . as recently as 1947 , Technicolor 's rated capacity was 160 million feet . Though Ansco has been learning how best to handle its product , it is actually not brand new . The scientific principles were originated by its parent corporation 's German affiliates before the war . General Aniline was seized by the U. S. because of its preponderant German ownership and is still held by the government ; Ansco officials indicate one result was a lack of sufficient capital to press immediate post-war mass marketing of their color movie film . However , one feature length picture , Sixteen Fathoms Deep , was released two years ago . Another , The Man on the Eiffel Tower , now has been shot in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a somewhat embarrassing hybrid ? . Ansco people trust it will he the last of its kind . Although Ansco 's film w as used in the cameras , printing stock was not available early this year at the right price ? so the Job of printing release reels was given to Technicolor . Ansco 's price as well as speed of delivery has already been brought to a level approaching Technicolor 's . The current quotation for finished prints is 6 66 cents a foot for Ansco ; 6.22 cents for Technicolor . Du Pont and Eastman Du Pont , though it is the world 's biggest chemical corporation , has until now barely got its foot into the great Hollywood market for raw film . The company is confident its new color film will do the trick  --  though unlike Ansco and Eastman film , it can not be used in cameras . The Du Pont film will be used for printing mass distribution releases of movies shot with one of the other brands . This print stock is being used by a Republic Pictures subsidiary in printing Beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and other short subjects . An undignified beginning . perhaps , but reminiscent of Technicolor 's start with Silly Symphonies . Eastman is already a giant raw material source for Hollywood but is dissatisfied with the limitations of its role . It has supplied perhaps 85r$ or more of the movies ' yearly diet of two billion feet of raw film . It has sold black-white celluloid directly to producers and specially prepared film to Technicolor . Now it is expected to announce shortly its own variety of color film which can be used and processed by any producer . This film . similar to that offered by Ansco and Du Pont , will soon be in production . For the more distant future Eastman , in cooperation with 20th Century-Fox. it is working on a still more radical method of showing color pictures . Technicolor 's high-quality performance Is not to be counted out . Its rivals concede the company has a vast stockpile of know-how . the best color laboratories in the business , and possibly sonic technological magic in its own hag of tricks . Should Technicolor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process for any one of the others , working as an independent lab . The Trend During the 1938-1348 decade , the total number of feature pictures made in America yearly declined from more than 700 to about 350 . But the number manufactured in handsome hues grew from a dozen in 1939 to 72 in 1944 to 63 last year . Thus far thus year la tinters have been completed , against 10 in the first nine months of last year . These figures include not only Technicolor but a rather small number of films by other processes  --  mostly two-color jobs for western epics . Cmecolor , for instance , was used in 14 outdoor stories during 1918 . Some industry executives think that with others piling into the field color movies may equal black-white drama within five years . Technicolor Was born as a two-color process in 3917. in a railway car converted to a laboratory , then was re-born in three basic colors in 1932 . Its methods have been closely guarded  --  new personnel are screened for native reticence  --  but by now a general outline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. special camera , rented from Technicolor at $90 weekly . Is fitted with a " beam-splutterthat separates the red , blue and green components of light . These " primary " movie colors are registered simultaneously , each on a separate strip of film . When negatives are developed . they are used to create unusual positives. with raised gelatin surfaces . These are then used to print final flints for theatre use , much as metal color plates on a printing press are used to print magazine pages . Each of the three positivei ? one for each primary color  --  is coated with dye and is pressed upon the emulsion-coated release film which will be sent out to a theatre . This theatre strip soaks up each of the ' three colors in turn and combines them to make all the varied shades of nature . A high degree of precision is required ; each color image must be perfectly superimposed to avoid distortion . Temperature , turning and other elements of production are carefully regulated . After a certain number of release prints have been made , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new set of positives must be made . Film producers have certain criticisms of the process . They claim it requires too much light for sets  --  often 10 to 15 times the illumination needed fer black-and-white . A color consultant is on hand too ; he and his aides are well financed . The hag ' : cost continues in the printing process . Printing a foot of black-white film costs only about two cents . while it takes over six cents for the same job in color . Since there are about 9.000 feet in an average finished film , and per haps 400 prints for theatre distribution are made of each film , the cost of printing a typical Technicolor drama would run roughly $216,000 . A comparable blackwhite printing would cost somewhere around $72,000 . The drama merchants are at times less than enthusiastic about certain terms of the 15-page contract they must sign with Technicolor to get its services . They say they 'd like more control over master negatives and prints . No Guarantee The various new processes offer some possibilities of improvement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll be better on every count . Because they are simpler , and can be handled by the producers ' own staffs on their own lots , costs may be cut , the experts say . In the Ansco and Eastman pr ocesses. only one strip of film instead of three need be inserted , and it . can go in a regular camera In each of the new processes . the single film carriers three different layers of emulsion ? one for each of the primary colors . Ansco embeds certain dye components in the gelatin of each emulsion ; the color appears brightly when it gets a chemical bath in the developing room . Similar release prints are made for the movie houses after subsequent processing . Eastman 's chemists , with an eye to Ansco patents , do not have their dye components dissolved directly in the gelatin of the photographic emulsion . Instead , they wrap these components in another substance and insert them in the gelatin . Du Pont , again with attention to prior patents , switched from gelatin and embedded its dye components in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but is slower in recording light images  --  and for that reason is used only in printing . not in camera-work . There are other more technical differences among the new color systems . Eastman , for instance , treats its dye components so any impurities in the film will be corrected without the special development step known as masking . The layman is quickly lost in technical comparisons , but the net result is that the Ansco system requires 13 different steps to get a release print , the Du Pont scheme takes 10 steps . and the Eastman method will take eight Each firm . of course . is working on refinements for its own process , so the competitive scramble may grow keener.                     