@@704717

txt Informed early this morning that Germany had invaded Belgium , the Netherlands , and Luxemburg , President Roosevelt immediately summoned a meeting of his cabinet officials and army and navy chiefs to plot America 's course in light of the hew German " blitzkrieg ? ' He called in his state , justice , naval and army experts to fix the neutrality limits for American ships and also directed Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau to take steps before the stock markets open to " freeze " the credits of the three low countries so that the funds of these nations can not be alienated . At the conference of high officials the question of Dutch and Lelgium flagships now in the ports of the American republics a1so will be considered . Aids Called to Conference . Those called to , the White lionse meeting were Secretary of State Hull , his undersecretary . Sumner Welles , who recently completed a fact-finding tour of Europe for the President : Attorney General Robert I ackson , Gen. George C. Marshal , army chief of staff , and Admiral Harold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received the flash on the German invasion of the low countries directly from John Cudahy , who is the American ambassador to Belgium and minister to Luxemburg . Shortly before 1 a. m. , Chicago daylight time , Cudahy informed the President by transAtlantic telephone that Luxemburg had been invaded by land and air from Germany . Then came the reports of the invasion of Holland and Belgium . Envoy Tips Off Washington . Earlier Cudahy had telephoned Hull that land forces were concentnaed on the borders of the three nations ; the Belgium cabinet was in session and'high officials of . that country felt " this was the night . " Later Cudahy reported the entire Luxemburg government , except the foreign minister , " had left " and that German planes were flying over Holland and Belgium . Secretary Hull came to the state department as soon as Cudahay first phoned the President in midevening Thursday . He called in his principal aids and they were in conference long after midnight . Informed diplomatic sources saw far-reaching problems for the United States In the orient and the western hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new spread of Etarope 's war . These sources said the United States probably would consult the other American republics to determine whether any steps should be taken to guarantee the status of the Netherlands ' possessions in this hemisphere . Officials Watch Far East . Holland possesses the Dutch West Indies , including the wealthy island of Curacao , and Dutch Guiana on the north coast of South America . Officials were watching the far east with greatest care , believing the status quo of the Netherlands East Indies , important source for Amer. lean strategic raw materials such as tin and rubber , should be maintained . They recalled Secretary Hull 's statement of April 17 , when he said : " Intervention in the domestic at . fairs of the Netherlands Indies or any alteration of their status quo by other than peaceful processes would be Prejudicial to the cause of stability , peace , and security not only in the region of the Netherlands Indies but in the entire Pacific area . " The navy department announced only Wednesday that the United States fleet was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Netherlands might keep the fleet at Hawaii still longer . Dutch credits in the United States also were a major item of consideration , for they are estimated at $200 ; 000,000 . " Freezing " them will keep them from falling Into German hands , if the invaders take complete possession of the country . Officials felt the neutrality act would have to be invoked soon with regard to the Netherlands and Belgium . Americans In Low Countries . Since the invasion of Norway they have interpreted application of the neutrality act to be mandatory on the President when other nations join a conflict tot which the act ? already has been proclaimed . The law says the President ' " shall , from time to time , by proclamation , name other states as and when they may become involved In the war . " Both Holland and Belgium already are included in the combat area proclaimed last November . American ships were barred , from that region . Repeated warnings have been given Americans living in Holland and Bel. glum to leave . As of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cans living in Holland and 747 in Belgium . but it is thought some left before the German invasion . Both the Belgian embassy and the Netherlands legation said they had been without communications from ' their governments during the critical 110t11 ? 1 . The Netherlands legation said the minister , Dr. A. Loudon , probably ' would immediately take over the functions of general paymaster for Netherlands officials abroad . Loudon received instructions Saturday to do so " In case of emergency . " He will draw on credits in this country to pay Netherlands diplomats , consuls , and agricultural attachils here and in Other foreign countries . Big Buyers from America . Officials regarded the invasion of Holland as a major economic develop . ' ment so far as the United States was concerned . Total trade with Holland and her possessions in 1939 amounted to more than $300,000,000 . The Netherlands alone , without their possessions , were America 's , sixth best customer last year , buying $90,809,000 worth of goods in the United States . The Dutch West Indies bought $38,378,000 worth and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin come from the Netherlands East Indies , totaling $93,156,000 . Officials in Washington also kept close watch on developments in Italy . Some were of the opinion that It Germany easily overran the low , countries and used bases in them for aerial attacks in Britain and for submarine sorties , Italy might enter the war on Hitler 's side .                     