@@711844

txt Government economists do not view the current drop in prices and employment as indicating a depression trend . ' Despite the fact that there is a sagging in commodity prices and that there were 700,000 fewer persons employed in January than in December , officials are not expressing alarm at either of these developments . . Dr. Edwin G. Nourse , Chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , described the present period as " decisive " and said that " anyone who has responsibility is watching things closely . " It was his carefttl judgment that the trend had not reached a danger stage , and others cited the seasonal character of much of the prevailing unemployment . Robert C. Goodwin , Director of the ' Bureau of Employment Security , noted that the sharp rise in unemployment reached its probable peak on Jan. 8 and has been declining since then . In addition to this reassuring fact , Maurice Tobin , Secretary of Labor , pointed out that substantial numbers of laid-off workers have been returning to jobs . He said that about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those using the state unemployment system , left the unemployment rolls in late January  --  in most cases because they found work . ? Market Sags Following are market developments , summarized by the Associated Press : The New York Stock Mar- , ket took- its soundest beating in many months , yesterday , with 61 stocks selling at the lowest price in more than a year . The trend continued slightly down today . Also in New York , bond prices suffered one of tile sharpest declines of the last 12 months , with nearly 125 issues sagging , some as much as two points . The Chicago Grain Market was hit by a storm of selling , yesterday , with corn , oats , rye , and soybean falling so swiftly that one trader described the market as " demoralized . " They opened lower today . ' The Associated Press index . of ? 35 wholesale commodities dropped nearly a full point , reaching 168.46 , the lowest mark since  --  Feb. 6 , 1947 . Loose lard was ' offered on the Chicago Board of Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six years . The Pennsylyinii , Rallroad said it wee laying oft . 000 - of the 45,350 men in its maintenance of equipment department . They will be furloughed for an indefinite period . EmplOyment Down ' - The number of persons now employed stands at 57,000,000 , which is 2,000,000 below the figure of a month earlier , but employment is 265,000 higher than it was in January a year ago . Bureau of Employment Security weekly reports on state unemployment insurance claims and benefits cover only 35,000,000 nonagricultural workers who come under the law . But for the last three months  --  mid-October to mid-January ? continuing claims filed for unemployment insurance have doubled . Initial claims , which represent new unemployment , have followed a similar trend in the last three months . New claims reached their peak of 415,000 in the week ended Jan. 8 . But they dropped to 376 , - 000 the week ended Jan. 15 . Such increases in unemployment insurance claims are said to represent perfectly normal trends . There is always a drop in employment after the . Christmas rush . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struction work , . lumbering , and logging . The last three months have been a period of readjustment in industry . Production in some lines has caught up with demands and there have been some lay-offs for a more normal postwar level of business . Also , resistance to high prices is causing some industries to shift to production of lower-cost items , causing lay-offs . Corn Futures Of In the face of future prices for corn at their lowest since 1945 , and livestock prices off a bit with the exception of hogs , ? Mark Pickell , secretary of the Corn Belt Livestock Feeders Association , said at Chicago that livestock markets are now on the bottom and by midsummer hog and cattle prices will be $3 to $5 a hundred pounds higher . The Senate Banking Committee announced it was going to try to find out why retail prices of some commodities are not following the downward movement of farm and wholesale prices . The committee is interested , according to its chairman , Senator Burnet R. Maybank ( D ) of South Carolina , in why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has gone down more than 30 per cent ; why retail lard prices still are high , although lard is now selling at $12 per 100 pounds  --  the lowest in six yearst lard is now wholesaling at $12 per ' 100 pounds  --  the lowest in six years . Lard , which reached a high of $39 in 1946 , is now below former OPA levels . It is the lowest since October , 1942 . Three big soap companies announced reductions of about 6 per cent in wholesale prices of household soap products . Senator Maybank said the committee 's small business subcommittee will start an investigation next week and , in addition to breadilarci  --  argi other , itenaoreukrdelve into other priies. 