@@709310

txt Letters to The Times JAMES W. GERARD.HELEN ISELIN HENDERSON , FERDINAND A. HERMENSB.S . BOWDISH.JEROM ... Letters to The Times Wage Rises Not Conclusive Increases Seen as Certain to Result in Higher Living Costs TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Labor cost is undoubtedly a large percentage ( probably 80 per cent ) of most manufactured articles . Anyone who believes that wages can be raised without a corresponaiig rise in prices if the manufacturer is to have a reasonable profit is economically cuckoo . If all the wages are raised there is inevitably a . corresponding rise in the cost of living . The situation of the worker remains the same . He gets more money , but that money will buy less . But great damage has been done to all who hold bonds , government or other , who receive salaries , pensions , who have bank deposits or mortgages or social security or insurance . Their purchasing power is reduced , their capital is reduced , their income is reduced , and both manufacturer and workman are injured as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum on prices is perhaps necessary . It is a difficult problem , but the plan has been tried at least twice . The Emperor Diocletian , by imperial edict in A. D. 301 , fixed a maximum rate for wages and for provisions and other articles , such as cereals , wine , oil , meat , vegetables , fruits , furs , shoes , lumber , carpets and articles of apparel , and the wage scale covered the wages of the laborer and even the lawyer in the court . Fragments of stones bearing the decree and price and wage scales have been discovered . The edict was an attempt to cure the distress caused by several bad harvests and by speculation . The effect was disastrous and the edict fell into disuse . After the French Revolution the Convention , dominated by Robespierre , by decree of May 3 , 1793 , fixed a maximum price above which , under severe penalties , no one was to buy or sell . This was applied at first to grain but later extended to all other articles and to wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It ( the Convention ) was making itself the master of all the liberty of commercial transactions in speculation and labor , which exist only in a state of liberty . It was placing the hand of the state among all sellers , all purchasers , all laborers and all proprietors of the republic . Such a law could not but produce the concealment of capital , the cessation of work , the languor of all circulation and the ruin of all . " Two days after the execution of Robespierre the whole Commune of Paris , his followers , numbering sixty persons , were guillotined in the space of an hour and a half . As the heads fell one by one the crowd yelled : " Down with the maximum . " , These are interesting bits of history . Are they warnings ? It is difficult to foresee who will occupy the tumbrils when they roll up to the guillotine of public opinion . JAMES W. GERARD . New York , March 1 , 1946 . More Counselors Suggested : Enlarged Vocational Program Is Urged for City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor O'Dwyer 's expressed interest in a more adequate city school program will , we hope , result in an increased staff of vocational and educational counselors in the junior high schools , as requested in the Board of Education 's 1946-47 proposed budget . Most students in junior high schools are too young for working papers . However , they need realistic and practical advice on high schools and on high school courses adapted to their capacities and interests , to help them make suitable plans and avoid future educational or vocational maladjustment . One practical way of cutting down the number of young people who are inadequately trained , and insufficiently interested in the work they do find , is to increase the number of vocational counselors in junior high schools , at least by the thirteen requested by the Board of Education . Under the proposed expanded program , vocational counselors would cover forty-nine of the eighty-three junior high schools , nine of these in Harlem and East Harlem , where they are especially needed . The guidance program is a vital contribution to making school a real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and potentialities of our young people . We sincerely hope this request for additional counselors will not be lost in the final budget of the city . HELEN ISELIN HENDERSON , President , Vocational Advisory Service . New York , Feb. 20 , 1946 . French Plans Considered To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Few of us would want to wish anything but success to Leon Blum 's mission to the United States , but it seems imperative to consider some of the implications of the French plans as reported by Harold Callender in THE TIMES of Feb. 26 . French officials pointed out to your reporter that " the French problem is chiefly that of equipping industry through the expenditure of credit in the United States.1 American firms would gladly supply Die needed equipment , but from the fact that normal credits can not be relied upon to provide the financing , it would seem that the prospect of payment is somewhat dim . The kind of equipment desired would normally be produced in Germany ; to the extent that it was required to outfit plants for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a free division of labor among the countries of Continental Europe , it could have been provided on reparations account . American policy , as shaped under the influence of officials of the Treasury Department , then handed to General Eisenhower in the form of the famous directive JCS 1067  --  the " prohibit and prevent directive , " as the chronicler of economic history may well refer to it in future years  --  and ultimately embodied in the - Potsdam Declarations , is responsible for the destruction of this opportunity . What M. Blum is now presenting to us is part of the bill for the IVforgenthati plan . Similar considerations apply to the French needs of coal . Normally France would produce at least two-thirds of her coal needs ; so far as the rest is concerned , she used to enjoy a " buyers ' market " in pre-war Europe , England being as eager to export to her as Germany . If the restoration of economic sanity is seriously tackled in Europe , this enviable condition could be restored within a reasonable time . FERDINAND A. HERMEDIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Equity in Picketing Needed Honest Consideration of Interests of All Held Proper Basis of Laws To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It would be of interest if THE TIMES would clarify its statement that " Peaceful picketing is a proper instrument of organized labor in industrial controversies . " If the implication is that it is a legally sanctioned instrument , that , unfortunately , is obviously true . If the statement applies to moral or equity propriety , there is abundant ground for dissent . If a customer has been obtaining from a merchant a certain line of goods for a certain price and under certain conditions which eventually the merchant finds it necessary to change in his own defense , or if the customer decides he is entitled to a change , is he justified in boycotting the merchant and picketing the front of the latter 's property , with signs announcing that the merchant is unfair to customers ? Wherein is the basic difference and why does the individual not have any rights that accrue to him when he unites with his fellows in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case have life claims against the merchant because hg had dealt with him for a period of years ? Does the employe acquire a property interest for life in the business of his employer through having been employed in the business ? If our labor laws were based on an honest consideration of equity as to the interests of employer , employe and public , much of the continued labor trouble might be reasonably expected to disappear . B. S. BOWDISH . Demarest , N. J. , Feb. 28 , 1946 . Uniforms for Clothing Drive To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Here is a suggestion for providing clothes for millions of destitute males throughout the war-torn countries of Europe and Asia . If every soldier , sailor , marine and Coast Guardsman , both officers and enlisted men , upon discharge or release to inactive duty , donated one complete uniform to the current clothing drive , those uniforms to be stripped of all rank , insignia , patches , buttons and other identifying marks , approximately ten million suits would be available . Admittedly some would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sailors , but the people clad in rags are not too interested in style now . It would be a simple matter for relief agencies to sew plain buttons on the ex-uniforms before shipping them . Furthermore , every veteran probably has a pair of GI shoes that will undoubtedly mildew in his attic . That pair of shoes might prevent someone in Europe from getting frostbite . It is an established fact that most veterans have no desire to wear a uniform again . Most of them retain more than one uniform at the time of their discharge , and some have several , counting summer and winter , work and dress uniforms . Why not keep one for the memories and give the others to this worthy cause ? JEROME M. COWLE . Washington , Feb. 28 , 1946 . Be ? Kind Week After Week To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The item of Feb. 23 in " Topics of the Times " concerning a proposed " Be Kind Week , " while possibly intended partly as serious discussion and partly as humorous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the idea of creating greater friendliness among people generally . It might be appropriate during Brotherhood Week to launch the idea projected by you as a definite movement , and perhaps go on from there not only to a " Be Kind Week " but a " Be Kind Week After Week . " Many a thought suggested as casually as yours has given birth to great movements in the past . S. ALEXANDER STERENRIJCIL New York , Feb. 25 , 1946.                     