@@706972

txt High officers of the uniformed force and the detective division conferred at Police Headquarters yesterday after a stained hammer was found by a postman in a mail box two blocks from 260 Ocean Parkway , Brooklyn , where Mrs. Nehamah Baranow was beaten to death in a self-service elevator Tuesday afternoon . The hammer was the only tangible clue turned up . Last night , lafter thirty-six hours on the case , the police had not established a motive for the killing , much less fixed on a suspect . They had vague descriptions of a sharp-featured , thin-nosed stranger , hatless and wearing a lumber jacket , who left the Ocean Parkway building just as Mrs. Baranow was found in the elevator , but nothing more . Lack of action in this case , and another attack on a woman  --  this time in Manhattan  --  seemed the inspiration for the police conference despite Chief Inspector John J. O'Connell 's statement that the meeting was " just routine . " It was learned from unofficial sources that borough heads in both the uniformed and detective divisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " mugger " and sex criminal types . Attacked in Small Shanty The attack victim in Manhattan was Miss Mildred Metzger , a night supervisor in the Bellevue Hospital Psychopathic Division . About four hours after Mrs. Baranow died of head wounds in Kings County Hospital , Miss Metzger was set upon in a dark spot in a small shanty back of the hospital parking lot in the rear of 516 First Avenue . It was close to midnight as she was about to report for duty . The unidentified assailant hit the young supervisor on the face , injuring her lips , took $4 from her purse and threatened to kill her if she made an outcry . She barely made out his features in the dim light and could not find his picture among those shown to her by detectives in the Rogues ' Gallery . Miss Metzger 's injuries were superficial . Outside of taking her cash , her attacker did not molest her . In the Baranow case the nature of the instrument that was used to fracture Mrs. Baranow 's skull was guessed by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an autopsy in Kings County Hospital , several hours before the hammer was found in the mail box . Like a Machinist 's Hammer Dr. Ruger found three distinct , deeply depressed wounds in Mrs. Baranow 's head , any one of which might have caused her death . Each indentation - bore the shape of a ball-headed peen hammer such as machinists might use . There were nine other cuts in her head , but these were not so deep as the others . Dr. Ruger confirmed what detectives had guessed  --  that the victim 's fingers were broken by the hammer as she tried to shield her head with her right hand . Henry Ettinger of 208 Stanton Street , postman in the Kensington branch of the postoffice , felt the hammer when he shoved his hand into the mail box at Church Avenue and East Fifth Street in Brooklyn to remove the night 's deposits . When he saw the stains he took the hammer into a near-by drug store and turned it over to a policeman who passed by a moment later . On the hammer ' a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hardware Company at 315 Sutter Avenue in the Brownsville district of Brooklyn , some six or seven miles from the scene of the crime . The owner of that shop told detectives last night that there was no doubt the hammer had come from his store , but thought it must have been purchased at least four or five years ago . He was able to establish this by a number on the instrument . The Baranow murder caused particular uneasiness among the police because it bore somewhat the same pattern as came out in the Eugene Levine case of one year ago . Levine , a giant automobile wrecker , attacked a hundred women in self-service elevators in and near that part of Flatbush where Tuesday 's elevator attack was staged . Levine , of course , is in prison , serving a sentence of from eighty-eight to 165 years , but some one mentally deranged , police figure , may have adopted his technique . Levine seldom robbed his victims , seldom attacked them so that superficial medical examination would disclose the nature of his perversion . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wore jewelry and carried a purse , nor was there any rape . Levine carried no pistol . He cowed most of his victims into submission by his enormous bulk and with a long , keen-bladed dagger . Details of yesterday 's police conference were unobtainable , but it seemed a fair guess that among the cases discussed might easily have been recent , unsolved crimes . These would include the fatal knifing of Dorothy Huber , a young bakery worker , found dead at Wales Avenue and 145th Street , the Bronx , on Jan. 4 . One week later , to the day , the murder of Martha Punt , 12 years old , occurred in a rooming house at 513 West Fifty-ninth Street . At the time of the Punt killing Commissioner Valentine . disclosed that sex crimes had risen by 10 per . cent in New York City in 1942 as against 1941 . There is no secret in the city that the police force is short by at ' least 1,291 men nd that despite the Commissioner 's pleas for more patrolmen it has been kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . An additional 290 men are to be inducted into the force next Wednesday , but this exhausts the current list of eligibles not within the age for military service . The City Patrol , an auxiliary police unit , does some patrol work from 10 P. M. to midnight in some parts of the city , but not nearly ' enough to overcome the deficiency , especially with the city dimmed for war safety .                     