@@711316

txt Honorary degree recipients at Harvard University today : Doctor of Laws : Trygve Lie , Secretary-General of the United Nations . Paul Gray Hoffman , Director of the Economic Cooperation Administration and former President of the Studebaker Corporation . Oswaldo Aranha , Brazilian statesman . Robert Fiske Bradford , Governor of Massachusetts . Stanley Elroy Qua , Chief Justice , Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts . Charles Spurgeon Johnson , new President of Fisk University . Donald Kirk David . Dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration . Doctor of Science : Enrico Fermi , Charles H. Swift Distinguished Service Professor of Physics , University of Chicago . Herbert Spencer Gasser . Director of the Rockefeller Institute . Doctor of Divinity : Angus Dun , Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Washington . Doctor of Arts : Charles Ephraim Burchfield , painter . George Harold Edgell . Director of the Museum of Fine Arts , Boston . Doctor of Music : Archibald Thompson Davison , Professor of Music , Harvard University . By Theodore N. Cook Staff Writer of The Christian Science Monitor Formation of a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions was urged by Trygve Lie , UN Secretary " General , at Harvard 's 297th commencement today . Mr. Lie urged strengthening of the UN at the annual meeting of the Harvard Alumni Association in the Tercenten'ary Theater in the Harvard Yard where , a few hours before , some 2,738 degrees were conferred by Dr. James B. Conant , Harvard President . Hoffman Warning Sharing the platform with the UN Secretary General was Paul G. Hoffman , Director of the United States Economic Cooperation Administration , who warned that congressional cuts in Marshall Plan funds would seriously jeopardize recovery and peace in Europe . Mr. Lie . Mr. Hoffman and the Rt . Rev. Angus Dun , Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Washington . another Alumni Association speaker , were among the 13 honorary degree recipients . It was a year ago at Harvard that Secretary of State George C. Marshall , an honorary degree recipient , proclaimed the Marshall Plan to the world . Dark Sky Above Dark sky overhead added solemnity to the occasion as the formal academic procession marched to the yard 's outdoor Tercentenary Theater . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high spot ' in the program , were Governor Bradford , Lt. Gov . Arthur W. Coolidge , the Justices of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court , Mayor Curley of Boston . Mayor Michael J. Neville of Cambridge , officials of Harvard and other universities , and the distinguished candidates for honorary clegLees.                     