@@704394

txt Mexico 's Property Seizures Action on Railways Cited as Pointing to Need of a Showdown Now Thanks to THE NEW YORK TIMES the public is informed of another instance of Mexico 's expropriation of foreignowned property . That vast railway systems , valued at more than $250,000,000 and built and financed by foreigners , have also been seized by the Mexican Government without the payment of indemnities has been almost lost sight of because of the bolder and more , spectacular seizure of the oil properties . Attention is temporarily shifted to Mexico 's seizure of the railways by the announcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission that public hearings would be held on Jan. 19 upon the application of the New York Stock Exchange to delist bonds of the National Railways of Mexico . This raises the interesting question whether the United States Government , acting through the SEC , and the foreign financial interests acquiesce in and condone Mexico 's expropriation of the railways without compensation , or whether there should now be a showdown with Mexico as to its wholesale seizures of foreign-owned property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil properties on March 18 , 1938 , followed the successful culmination of its seizure of the railways by more subtle and protracted methods ; that is , that Mexico did not dare carry out its long-planned purpose to seize the oil properties until it was certain that foreign interests and governments would interpose no serious resistance to its seizure of the equally valuable railway properties . Chronology Offered How adroitly Mexico worked to acquire the railways is apparent from the following brief chronology of events : 1906 . National Railways of Mexico incorporated from amalgamation of several lines that had been built by foreigners . The Mexican Government retained 51.3 per cent of the stock in exchange for governmental guarantee of certain bonds . 1912 , March 18 . Entire body of American engineers and conductors forced to abandon their work and return to the United States because of a Mexican law requiring them to pass an examination in Spanish . 1914 , Dec. 4 . President . Carranza decreed the assumption of the " direction , management and administration " of the railways under the pretext of military necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement with the International Committee of Bankers on Mexico , the government promised prompt return of the railways to private management , the rehabilitation of the lines and the setting aside of funds for payment of obligations . 1925 , Dec. 31 . Again , by agreement , the railways were returned to corporate management , but not in fact . The government continued to retain full possession and control , while defaulting on its financial obligations . 1937 , June 25 . The railways were " nationalized " by decree of President Cardenas . No indemnities were paid , as required by Mexican law , and no public protest was made by foreign interests or governments . 1938 , March 18 . Oil properties were expropriated . No official protests by the United States Government . 1938 , May , 1 . The Mexican Government delivered the property of the National Railways of Mexico to a syndicate known as the Workers ' Administration . Workers Made Jobless By this tortuous process thousands of American workers were thrown out of their jobs , the minority stockholders were frozen out of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have suffered for twentyfive years as they watched their savings dwindle from par to a fraction of 1 per cent and now to he taken off the market . Peter was robbed to pay Paul . The physical properties which retain their potential values were taken by the Mexican Government from their foreign owners and workers , not for the common good of Mexicans , not by legal means of indemnification as required by Mexican law , but to turn them over to a favored group of Mexican syndicalists by sheer right of might and socalled sovereignty . Mexicans seek to justify their government 's seizure of private property by saying that we did the same thing in the freeing of the slaves during the Civil War and in the Prohibition Act of 1919 . But we did not take the slaves from John Jones and give them to Bill Smith , nor did we take a brewery from one company and give it to another . And when we condemn a piece of land for public or s " cial purposes we pay the owner ; we do not eject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some one else . In biblical days a country which treated its people and the stranger within its gates as the Mexicans do would have been called a heathen nation and would have been treated as such . And if Mexico 's northern neighbor were England , Germany , France , Italy , Japan or Russia , how long would its expropriation nonsense have been tolerated ? Are we more virtuous if we complacently condone the injustices accorded our citizens by Mexico , or will we wake up some morning and decide to correct the Mexican viewpoint before some combination of European or Asiatic powers challenges our suzerainty and undertakes our task ? HOWARD T , OLIVER . New York , Jan. 2 , 1940 . Real Estate 's Heavy Tax Load To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent editorial you approved the legislative recommendations submitted to the New York County Republican Committee by an advisory group and commented on the fact that progress in the fields of public health , social welfare and housing has to he paid for . One of the recommendations was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be restored . In this connection it might be in order to quote what the Superintendent of Schools in Toledo , Ohio , said when the schools there closed for six weeks re-cently : " The closing is part of a fundamental national problem of a breakdown of real estate taxes as a means of financing government . Demands for public serve ices have been constantly growing but the tax system has not been revised to meet them . Real estate comprises 25 per cent of property value but it carries 75 per cent of the tax load . " Is this warning to New Yorkers ? HOWARD W. TONER . Brooklyn , Jan. 1 , 1940.                     