@@705219

txt Herbert Hoover 's plan for feeding the civil population in German - occupied countries was rejected by the British Government tonight with an announcement here that it would refuse permission " for the passage of food through the blockade . " The statement made by the Marquess of Lothian , the British Ambassador , apparently ended the prospect of any extensive food relief from the United States for the people of nations , including France , conquered and ' occupied by Germany . Lord Lothian , however , expressed his government 's willingness to facilitate the passage through the blockade of " medical supplies destined for distribution in territories occupied by Germany and in unoccupied France by approved bodies . " Whether the United States Red Cross would be able to carry out a plan to send so-called medicated foods such as evaporated milk into unoccupied France for the relief of children was not made clear in the British statement , but it was considered likely that only limited supplies of that kind , if any , would be permitted . Apparently unaffected directly by the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being considered here , for sending about 10,000 tons of wheat to Spain for distribution by the Red Cross . This was expected to be determined separately by the United States and British Governments . Lord Lothian 's statement specifically ruled out former President Hoover 's proposal for sending food to civil populations in some of the countries occupied by Hitler . The Ambassador said he had reported fully on this and other proposals to his government during his recent visit to London . TEXT OF THE STATEMENT Lord Lothian 's statement was as follows : When he was recently in England the British Ambassador reported fully to His Majesty 's Government the proposals of Mr. Hoover and others for sending food to civil populations in certain of the German subjugated nations in Europe . These proposals received most sympathetic attention , all the more so because His Majesty 's Government have had in mind the noble services rendered by Mr. Hoover to the people of Belgium and other countries during and after the last war . After the most careful consideration , however , His Majesty 's Government have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such scheme must be of material assistance to Germany 's war effort and would thereby postpone the day of liberation of these peoples from German subjugation . They are therefore not able to give permission for the . passage of food through the blockade . The British Government and public feel the deepest sympathy with the Allied peoples and their own people in the Channel Islands , who are now likely to endure privation in addition to the sufferings Paused by German-Nazi domination , but the 7. witish Government feels that the primary objective must be to bring about the release of the subjugated peoples from this alien oppression at the earliest possible moment . Fror the information at its disposal the risk of starvation has been greatly exaggerated . It would be ) f no service to these people to send in food if it means the prolongation of their slavery . Moreover , any shortage of food from which they may suffer is solely due to German action . Until they were conquered by Germany they had ample food for their own needs . In conquering them and installing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nazi authorities , who state that their reserves are untouched by the blockade , persistently claim that they have plenty of food for Europe , so that if there is hardship in these countries it is because the German Government has been depriving them of their own supplies and refusing to give them that share of European production to which they are entitled . Now that Germany is in control of the food supplies of almost all the Continent west of Russia , the introduction of - food from outside would add to the total amount of food available to Germany for whatever purposes she decides to allot it . Nor can it be forgotten that the German Government convert foodstuffs on a large scale into valuable war material . Moreover , it must be remembered that the war against Great Britain is being actively and ruthlessly prosecuted from the countries under German occupation which border on the North Sea and the Atlantic . In these countries are air fields and ground organizations which enable German aircraft to take off day and night to bomb British women and children and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resources of these territories are being relentlessly harnessed to the German war machine and it is certain that the Germans will not allow starvation to disorganize the social and economic structures upon which an important portion of their war effort depends . Equally , it is clear that any food which was allowed to pass the blockade would merely permit the diversion of yet more of the indigenous stocks to Germany or for the use of the German troops of occupation . His Majesty 's government have been unable to discover any scheme of distribution by neutral authorities in these countries which , in the light of the Nazi record , could provide guarantees against the strengthening of the German war potential by the importation of foodstuffs . They feel , therefore , that they have no option but to stand by the decision announced by the Prime Minister in the House of Commons on Aug. 20 that they will not agree to any lifting of the blockade for any country under German domination or so long as that domination continues . Directly , however , Germany withdraws its troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will immediately arrange for ample supplies of food to reach their inhabitants . At the same time , as they have already announced , His Majesty 's government are at all times prepared to facilitate the passage through their blockade of medical supplies destined for distribution in territories occupied by Germany and in unoccupied France by approved bodies . Great Britain is risking starvation and undergoing every conceivable hardship in the fight for freedom not only for herself but for all freedom-loving peoples . We can not in these circumstances , endanger our existence and imperil our cause by weakening our blockade . The British people who are in the firing line have , through their representatives in Parliament , expressed their determination not to give assistance to Germany such as would result from the adoption of Mr. Hoover 's proposal . We trust that all those who share our love for freedom and hope for our victory will sympathize with and support our attitude . No Reply from Hoover Herbert Hoover 's secretary said last night here that the former President had no statement to make concerning Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Press . MADRID , Dec. ** negotiations to bring food supplies to Spain from across the Atlantic resulted today in a statement by the Minister of Agriculture , Joaquin Benjumea Burin , that ships were on the way from Argentina with wheat and corn . The wheat shortage had become so acute that the tightest restrictions were being imposed on bread consumption . The Minister said he could give his personal assurance that no food products were being sent . from Spain to any other country .                     