@@705840

txt PHILADELPHIA , Sept. 2 ? Representatives of more than 100,000 independent gasoline retail dealers in seventeen Eastern seaboard States came to Philadelphia tonight for a special conference which they prefaced with a 10-point statement of objectives , challenging the government 's contention that a shortage of gasoline existed and demanding a full measure of recognition in any steps to curtail the sale of petroleum products . The conference will open tomorrow morning , apparently without benefit of representation from the Federal Government . Sol A. Herzog of New York , counsel for the Empire State Gasoline Retailers Association and conference spokesman , said that the several government agencies had been invited to send representatives , but that none had accepted . They apparently knew , he added , that the meeting would be " loaded " and that their representatives would be asked " embarrassing questions . " Among the possibilities which the conference will explore , Mr. Herzog declared , was one to close all gasoline stations in the seventeen-State area for a twenty-fourhour period each week . He said that that period would not necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard for the gasoline needs of urban as opposed to rural communities . " We hope to complete our work in one day , " Mr. Herzog said . " We are here and we are sore as hell , and we have all come with two shirts packed in case we ca n't do everything we expect tomorrow . " Benjamin L. Jacoby , president of the Retail Gasoline Dealers Association of Philadelphia and Vicinity , who assisted in the drafting of the ten-point statement , said that it would be proved at the conference that " there is no shortage of gasoline on the eastern seaboard . " He added , however , that he was speaking only for himself , but asserted that he would submit the proof . He reported that he had been informed by Chris Koch , economic adviser to the Philadelphia association , that Leon Henderson , Federal Price Administrator , had agreed to substitute the sales of a month other than July for use as a // RETAILERS MEET ON GASOLINE JAM // basis in rationing gasoline among dealers . Mr. Koch conferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and told him that the dealers disapproved of July as the basis for such rationing , because July sales were usually lower than in several other months . What other month would be selected was not known , Mr. Jacoby said , indicating , however , that it might be September . The ten-point statement , the drafting of which was also in part the work of Nathan Gelfer of New York , president of the Gasoline Station Council of Metropolitan New York , was as follows : " 1 . We demand definite recognition of gasoline retailers as an integral part of the gasoline industry . " 2 . We demand active participation in the formulation and execution of all policies and plans affecting the retail distribution of gasoline . " 3 . We demand complete and accurate factual information concerning the claimed gasoline shortage on the Eastern seaboard . " 4 . We demand that the government explore and use every alternative which would be used to bring gasoline to the Eastern seaboard by means other than tankers . " 5 . We ask that consideration be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there shall be no unnecessary curtailment of the use of motor vehicles , even for non-commercial pur-poses : " 6 . We are going to give consideration to the advisability of closing all retail outlets for one twenty-four-hour peRod each week , in so far as sales to pleasure cars are concerned . " 7 . We demand that there shall be no additional restrictions imposed until compliance with existent regulations be secured . " 8 . We plan the creation of a permanent machinery whereby all retail gasoline associations on the Eastern seaboard can communicate readily with each other and interchange all views on all matters affecting retailers . " 9 . We plan the formulation of plans and policies whereby gasoline retailers shall continue to cooperate fully with the national government in all matters affecting the national defense and welfare . " 10 . We unequivocally demand that the two present vacancies on the marketing committee for this region shall be filled immediately by two gasoline retailers . " Concerning the tenth point , Mr. Herzog asserted that of the 204 men appointed to the various petroleum products marketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gasoline retailer , " and he was from Mr. Davies 's home State of California . " Ralph K. Davies is acting petroleum coordinator . Those appointed to the marketing committees from the gasoline field , Mr. Herzog said , were exclusively representatives of various gasoline companies . The Eastern States Gasoline Retailers Conference , he added , was made up entirely of men who operate independent stations . Regarding the use of means other than tankers for transporting crude oil from the oil fields to the Eastern seaboard , Mr. Herzog said that the conference would consider the " present tank car capacity which is not being used , barges and sea-going tugs , and even motor trucks from the easternmost heads of present pipe lines . " About 700 delegates are expected to attend the conference . The area includes all of the seaboard States from Maine to Florida , plus West Virginia and the District of Columbia . 