@@706663

txt THE INDIAN GOVERNMENT 'S firm acton , nipping in the bud the mass civil disobedience movement , justified itself by the comparatively small scale of the subsequent riots . The action was welcomed as timely by all except those false friends of democracy and of India , who would have the Government hesitate until the civil disobedience movement paralyzed India 's war effort , or , on the other hand , would have the Government bow to blackmail by handing over control to the Congress Party . This would have precipitated civil war in India . It is high time the British ceased to apologize either for having acquired an Empire or for being determined to administer it until alternative representative institutions can be evolved . Another thing is abundantly clear . The British have educated the Indians to a point where they passionately desire to set up a representative government of their oven choosing . However , considering the obstinate nature of religious and communal differences , the British parliamentary type of democracy is unsuited to India 's needs . India requirez something more in line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief executive divorced from direct parliamentary control . It is to be hoped that , while internal order must be maintained in India in the face of the common enemy , negotiations will be continued to try to find a solution which will widen representation in the Viceroy 's cabinet to include all parties . thereby paving the way for postwar constitution building . ? ? ? LOOKING BACKWARDS is an occupation better suited to historians than politicians or business men . Nevertheless , all are more or less prone to this kind of self justification . These remarks are called forth by the interesting review of international rubber regulation made by Sir John Hay this week wherein he answered the charges made by the Truman Committee in the United States Senette that the producers ' aim were monopolistic profits . In an explanation directed to the United States , Sir John showed the cast of some fi million tons of rubber exported in 5 years of control before the war averaged 15 cents a pound while production costs on a representative plantation were around 9 . S3 cents , leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained that when ' the Americio Government asked for more rubber the growers increased their quotas at a reasonable price . It might well be added that it was neither the growers nor the consumers who made the mistakes . but the government.s , which did not foresee in time the possibility of the fall of Singapore , the loss of Malaya and the Dutch East Indies . While Sir John makes a good case against charges of monopolistic greed nevertheless it is doubtful if , after recent experiences , producers of either tin or rubber will be able to dictate to consumers in the postwar world . ? ? ? THE MARKET in South African gold mining stocks experienced a flurry when it was rumored that the Rand gold output would be cut by 10% to 15 ( I owing to a labor shortage in South Africa . The shares rallied when the Transvaal Chamber of Mines stated that every effort was being made to maintain output despite labor difficulties . The Minister of Mines F. C. Stallard , supplementing the Chamber 's statement , explained frankly the reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although it plays no direct part in winning the war . " The gold mining industry " , he said , " is very largely the haiis of our economic life and finances , particularly war finances " . But it is obviously not by the grace of the government of the Union of South Africa alone that this situation obtains but by the grace of the United States which is willing to absorb the Rand gold outpiit , thereby making another contribution to the united war effort . ? ? ? RETAILERS ' PLIGHT continues unresolved . Now Erskine Hill , chairman of the Conservative 1922 Committee , has added his voice to those opposing the scheme of a compulsory levy on retailers to compensate those closing because of war-time dislocations . The president of the Board of Trade Hugh Dalton , must be spending an uneasy vacation studying a problem which is none of his making but which he is expected to solve to the satisfaction of both retailers and the public without burdening the Government with the cost of compensation . Neither the 1922 Committee nor anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical champions of the small shopkeeper are legion . ? ? ? BRITAIN 'S BILL OF HEALTH afer practically three years of war reflects great credit upon the ministries of food and , health . The British chief medical officer , borne out by American experts , reports that malnutrition is non-existent and that even greater diet restriction than those existing could he sustained . These facts attest to the wisdom of the British authorities in concentrating upon the production and imports of essential foods , cutting out luxuries and subsidizing the prices of such commodities as bread , meat , milk and cheese in order that adequate quantities should be available in the poorest homes . ? ? ? OLIVER LYTTLETON , Minister of Production , again warned Britain that the next 60 days would be a crucial period of the war , asking for increased production to meet the emergency . While Britain has achieved and endured much in the last three years there is undoubtedly a need for a revival of the ail-out spirit which animated the nation after Dunkirk . Lately that spirit has become somewhat dulled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940-41 . It is Churchill who can do it again if he will delegate some of the too heavy burdens he carries today and devote his undaunted fighting spirit to the reanimation of British morale .                     