@@704770

txt Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , who many times has defended the American Youth Congress against attack , told its newly organized affiliate , the New York Youth Congress , at Mecca Temple last night , that it was making a tragic mistake in opposing present American defense measures . The advice of the youth group , if followed , might needlessly sacrifice many American lives , she declared . " You do n't want to go to war , " she told the 1,100 delegates and visitors in the closing session of the three-day congress . " I do n't want to go to war . But war may come to us . " And when and if it comes , she said , courage would not be enough , mere men would not be enough , as had been proved in Europe . Defense of this country would take the most modern machines of war and that is what the defense appropriations now sought are intended to provide , she said . In adopting resolutions on such subjects , she declared , youth was talking about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied the question every day for years as Army and Navy experts had studied it . The President 's wife said she was in favor of a defense program that would include , in addition to armaments , more and better housing , expansion of the health program and continuance of work relief until every one had a job . The delegates , who had been warned before her arrival that any discourtesies to any speaker would be summarily dealt with , gave Mrs. Roosevelt a warm welcome and made no outward display of disagreement with what she had to say . No action was taken , however , to reconsider a resolution on peace adopted some hours before that unequivocally condemned the armament program of the National Government . Efforts to amend the resolution from the floor failed , a substitute that declared for adequate defense receiving only twelve votes . The temper of the delegates was further revealed when Vito Marcantonio , Representative from the Harlem district of Manhattan , who cast the only vote in Congress against the first defense appropriation , received an ovation exceeding considerably in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates jumped to their feet , cheered , whistled and stamped when he declared that the appropriations asked were for the purpose of waging an aggressive war " in defense of the American dollar and the British pound . " Any one who said otherwise either was naive or dishonest , he said . Mrs. Roosevelt told the Congress that " at no time in these last few days , and not today , would Congress even consider sending an army abroad . " After saying that " the war may come to us , " she added : " I do n't like to hear you say , ' The Yanks are n't coming . ' I knew some very fine young people who once said , ' The Yanks are coming , ' and they went overseas thinking that they were doing for the world what you think you are doing for it . To me it seems to be slurring what was a very fine thing in that day . " The United States must face the possibility , she said , that either the war will produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all nations involved , France and England worst of all . Whatever the outcome , the United States will be affected seriously , the continued , adding : " You have to face the situation . We tried to prevent this situation from arising , but now that it is here , we must admit it and do what is best . " Mrs. Roosevelt Departed Early Mrs. Roosevelt excused herself after her speech , saying she-wanted to listen to the President 's radio address at 10:30 and therefore did not hear Mr. Marcantonio 's address . In addition to approving the peace resolution the congress adopted another pledging active political cooperation with labor 's Non-Partisan League , went on record as opposing the proposed fingerprinting and registration of aliens , denounced a " drive against the Communist party " and called for retention of all civil liberties . It demanded passage of the National Youth Act and of the Marcantonio bill to provide 3,000,000 jobs with government funds . The congress was to have adjourned at 7:30 o'clock but did not finish its deliberations until after 11 because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7:30 , she did not arrive until 8:40 , her plane from Washington having been unable to land at La Guardia Field , putting her down instead at Newark . Mr. Marcantonio 's speech was not scheduled until after Mrs. Roosevelt 's so he also waited until the later hour . The congress recessed thirty minutes for dinner while waiting for Mrs. Roosevelt . Tom Jones , representing the Brooklyn Negro Youth Union , was elected the first chairman of the congress . The organizing sessions were held under the sponsorship of the New York City Council of the American Youth Congress .                     