@@705106

txt A third term , above all a third consecutive term for a President , is not a danger to our democratic institutions merely because there has been an unbroken tradition against it since the founding of our Republic . It is not a danger merely because Jefferson , Jackson , Cleveland and scores of other great leaders in our history have explicitly opposed it . The causation , in fact , is the other way round : great political leaders throughout our history as a nation have opposed a third term , the tradition against it came into being and has been preserved inviolate for more than a century and a half , because our leaders have recognized the great danger to our democratic institutions if the two-term limit is nut preserved . There is more than one serious reason against breaking down that limit , but probably the most important of all is this  --  that a President in office running for re-election has always possessed a great and now possesses an all but overwhelming advantage over his opponent . He is not certain to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his favor . A President begins with the huge prestige of his office behind him . This is a great psychological advantage which is seldom estimated at its real strength . In addition , a President can " act " while his opponent can only " talk . " He can conduct an effective political campaign while appearing to be concerned solely with the responsibilities of his office . More important than these psychological factors , a President has immense powers to keep himself in office . There is first of all his power to insure his own renomination . Unless , in the first place , an incumbent President withdraws unequivocally , the nominating convention of his , arty can not name some one else without offering him a direct affront . But there is a much more powerful force at work in a nominating convention than mere embarrassment . The convention of the party in power is an army of Federal officeholders . It consists of men who either owe their Jwn appointment to the President , or will owe their reappointment to the President , or owe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others for appointment . In short , the President in office is the candidate with whom it is most profitable to curry favor and whom it is most dangerous to oppose . The same powers that make it possible for a President to renominate himself also go a long v , ay toward helping him win the election . Chief among them , it has been recognized throughout our history , has been the power of patronage . As Senator Norris remarked during the Coolidge Adminis-tration : When this influence patronage is combined and used for the perpetuation in office of the head of our Government , it is a danger to free institutions and strikes at the very root of democracy . Such a danger leads directly toward a monarchy and takes away from the people themselves the right to select their These arguments have become much stronger than they were in the past . If , as Senator Norris declared , the danger increases with the number of officeholders , then it is at least twice as great today as it was even in the Coolidge Administration , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with half that number in 1928 . In addition to these direct officeholders , however , we have such institutions now as the WPA , containing more than 1,760,000 employes , which did not exist at all in Mr. Coolidge 's day ; and we have that whole list of different classes of recipients of Government loans , subsidies and bonuses which the treasurer of the Democratic committee has been enumerating as , sources of campaign fund solicitation happily not cut off by his interpretation of the Hatch act . According to one estimate , there are today more than 8,000,000 persons who , while not officeholders , receive aid from Federal sources . It is true that all these people are nominally free to vote for either candidate . Many of them in the present election will , in fact , vote for the Republican candidate . But they are inevitably under pressure to vote for the President in power , simply because It seems to them ungrateful or personally dangerous to vote against the Administration that has given them their job or their subsidy . Let us add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with any possible opposition , an Administration now commands . Let us add the innumerable press agents and " public relations " men , by whatever title , that are connected with the innumerable governmental agencies . All of these men send out at public expense an endless stream of publicity designed to show what their agencies  --  and the Administration at the top  --  are doing for the public weal . They stand constantly ready to answer any " misrepresentation " ? which may turn out in practice to mean any criticism whatever  --  of their agencies . Add the Cabinet members , the heads of agencies , all appointed by the President , whose salaries are paid for by the taxpayer but who are always ready to make partisan speeches supporting the Administration . Add the State machines , the powerful city machines , tied to the Administration in power as never before by the hold that the distribution of unprecedentedly huge Federal relief and public works funds gives to the Federal Government over local governments . Add all this , and one begins to form an idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetuate itself . It is true that all this can not protect it from defeat if the President in power becomes sufficiently unpopular with the independent part of the population . But in any election that would otherwise be at all close , the Administration machine can weight the scales decisively . It may be objected that this weig , ing of the scales in favor of the Administration in office would apply to a second as well as to a third consecutive term . This is to a large extent true , though it is true also that a President in power can for various reasons become more de-ply entrenched the longer he remains in power . But Thomas Jefferson gave the real reason for distinguishing between a second and a third consecutive term : My opinion originally was that the President of the United States should have been elected for seven years and be forever ineligible afterward . I have since become senp , - ble that seven years is too long to be irremovable , and that there should be a peaceable way of withdrawing a man in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , with a power to remove at the end of the first four , comes nearly to my principle as corrected by experience . And that is one reason for Jefferson 's final expression of hope that , " should r President consent to be a candidate for a third esction , I trust he would be rejected on this demonstration of ambitic --  views . " own Chief Magistrate * * It exists now to a greater extent than it did , because Federal officers have been multiplied many fold and partisan political machines * * * are now enthroned in power greater than ever in our history .                     