@@706534

txt With 160,000 Frenchmen already working in German war industries in the Reich , a new intensive ' campaign to make work in Germany " attractive " to prospective French workers is being pushed in the occupied area . Recently 25 employment offices were opened in Paris alone by occupying authorities . " Present yourself with confidence " ? reads a sign over one office .. It , is - obviously designed to appeal to those Frenchmen who might have apprehensions over the type and conditions of work which they might find in Germany today . if this does not dispel doubts , the German authorities appeal to the monetary instincts of Frenchmen , pointing out that in Germany they will receive more money ? in French francs  --  than they received before in France . ( German ability to make such payments is explained by the fact that the French franc is pegged to the German mark at a ratio which makes the franc very cheap in terms of German money . These francs Nazis on Rocky Road The extent ' of German adtninistrative ditheulties is di @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the Nazi party 's district leaders authority to act " above " the regularly constituted local officials . Page 7. j A sweeping purge in Austria was threatened as the Germans broadcast plans to round . up persons whose thinking is at variance with that of the Nazi community . Page 7 . In an accompanying column the latest development in France ? by which Germany is attempting to lure workers to the Reich to relieve the Nazi shortages ? is described . have been flowing into Germany in a constant stream in the form of reparation and occupation cost payments . And paying French workers in their own money not only puts this money back into circulation , and at little cost to Germany itself , but it also serves a valuable propaganda purpose . Money For Home Each French worker , according to the Nazi announcements , is now able to send home 3,000 francs a month . This is a high figure fo ? French factory workers . And during a time when food is scarce , and work within France is getting even scarcer , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that departures of Frenchmen for Germany are steadily increasing . While it represents much to the French worker , 3,000 francs still does not go very far in present-day France , where a ham may cost as high as 2,000 francs ; a pair of shoes , 500 francs ; and a chicken , 250 francs . But for those Frenchmen who still have doubts about the wisdom of accepting employment within the Reich , a group of French newspapermen recently left for Germany on the invitation of the Reich Government to see how the French workmen are faring . Among other things , they were given a dinner by the French Minister of Information in Paris , and ceremonies were presided over by Chief of Government Pierre Laval . A German professor , imported for the occasion , gave figures of salaries which are paid to French workers in Germany , and they disclosed that higher wages were being paid than usually prevailed in France during normal times . Other advantages of accepting this type of work were enumerated . Food Is Added Attraction Another inducement to the prospective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food in Germany is more plentiful than it is in France . This is particularly attractive to Frenchmen , to whom the problem of securing even a subsistence level of nutriment has become the paramount problem of their existence . For M. Laval knows that no one can do anything with the country if it is hungry and where France is only badly nourished on the whole , there are large spots where the population is not far from suffering actual starvation . The present effort is to slash the red tape which has grown thick around the Food Administration and prevent it from becoming an instrument of slow , organized and systematic starvation .                     