@@711121

txt Building Pay ' Freeze ' Here For 185,000 Set for Today Formal acceptance of the thirty-month wage stabilization agreement between the Building Trades Employers Association and the Building and Construction Trades Council , AFL , will take ' place today . It will bring nearly 185,000 of the 200,000 construction workers in this city officially or unofficially within the pact . A ceremony to mark acceptance of the terms of the stabilization plan will be held at 10:30 A. M. at the headquarters of the Building Trades Employers Association at 2 Park Avenue . Extension of the agreement to include nearly all trades was hailed by representatives of contractors and the unions as a " long step forward " in eliminating uncertainties ' and hesitancy that have plagued the industry in recent years , but some observers pointed out that failure of several key trades to participate jeopardized the whole program . The agreement , which freezes wages , hours and working conditions from Jan. 1 , 1948 , to June 30 , 1950 , originally was accepted by twenty-eight trade groups on Dec. 30 , 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' committee and later by Theodore Kheel , director of the Division of Labor Relations for the city , have brought most other classifications into line . Thirty-two unions , including the carpenters , structural iron workers and cement masons , have accepted the plan . Excavating laborers and cement and concrete workers are reported to have agreed to sign sympathetic or parallel agreements with their . own trade associations . Painters , plasterers , plasterers ' helpers and composition roofers were said merely to have accepted the " principle " of wage stabilization . Thus about 90 per cent of the building workers and thirty-nine of the forty-three trades were listed as formally or . informally backing the plan . Negotiations // still are being carried on with the electricians , bricklayers and Manhattan and Bronx plumbers , involving 14,000 men , but so far without results . The effort to institute an eighthour day generally has not yet borne fruit . About half of the mechanics ' unions are on an eighthour basis , and about half hold to the seven-hour day . Apprenticeships to Be Kept Up In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agreement calls for maintenance by both employers and labor of apprenticeship systems designed to ( provide an adequate force of skilled men . It pledges both parties to " use their best efforts in the public 's interest to increase production and reduce costs by maintaining maximum man-hour output and to use all machinery , tools , appliances or methods which may be practical . " The unions agree to absorb an increase of as much as 15 per cent in the cost of living without asking for higher pay . Under the formula , wages are frozen for eighteen months , or until June 30 , 1949 . If the cost-of-living index in April , 1949 , as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , has advanced more than 15 , per cent over January , 1948 , the wage scale in each classification will be increased by one-half of the percentage rise above 15 per cent , effective July 1 , 1949 . In other words , if the cost of living rose 25 per cent , the unions would get a 5 per cent increase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate of $2.75 an nour under this program . For many of them , this means a rise of 25 cents over previous rates . A few trades , such as the stone setters , structural iron workers and hoisting engineers , get $3 an hour . ' Sees Pact as Major Step Commenting on the agreement , Fred J. Driscoll , president of the George F. Driscoll Company and chairman of the association 's negotiating committee , said : " This is a major step toward stabilizing over-all building costs in New York and should help stimulate a higher level of housing and commercial construction . It is unfortunate that some of the trades are not willing to meet the conditions at this time . After six months of negotiations , the trades that have accepted are to be commended for their contribution towaid stabilization of the building industry . " Howard , president of the Building and Construction Trades Council , and co-chairman of the negotiating committee , said the agreement was " unprecedented in many respects " and offered hope of " many benefits to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained that the bricklayers , plumbers and electricians subscribed to the principle of wage stabilization " but have not reached agreement with their employers on certain working conditions , " and he expressed the hope that all trades might be included in the agreement soon . William G. Wheeler , secretary of the employers ' group , called the agreement " significant " and suggested that it might become the pattern for similar stabilization pacts in other fields . " From a practical viewpoint , " Mr. Wheeler added , " it will tend to lower costs through increased man-hour productivity for the simple reason that workmen will be free to concentrate on producing rather than thinking about their pay envelope . " He suggested that with labor costs apparently stabilized , " the next vital step is for building material manufacturers to bring about stabilized prices . "                     