@@709397

txt Unchecked by police and sheriff 's deputies , gangs of about 500 young vandals armed with axes tonight wrecked the homes of four more miners who refused to join a CIO union walkout from the Anaconda Copper Mining company last Tuesday . Since the reign of terror commenced early last night In this city of nearly 45,000 , a total of about 16 miners ' homes have been assaulted by gangs of young men , women , and children who chopped at buildings , and smashed furniture , ashes , and windows . Two boys have/been wounded by stray bullets . " Too Busy to Make Arrests " Sheriff Al said he had been too busy attempting to " save lives and protect property to make any effort to arrest members of the gangs , " He said he and his force of 20 deputies tonight removed 20 women and children from their homes to " places of safety " in the homes of friends and relatives . As the , gangs were dispersed from one home they reappeared soon afterward at another and continued their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vandals on several occasions before the latest outbreak subsided about midnight . Sheriff announced that he intended to deputize union members tomorrow and believed that the aug ? mented force would enable him to re . store and maintain order without calling upon Gov . Ford for help . Youth Shot In Back In the state capital at Helena Gm Ford , a Republican , told reports he planned to take no action . James Guidoni , 16 , was shot in the back while he was walking on a Butte street . Last night Raymond Butala , 14 , was wounded while riding in an automobile with his parents . Sheriff ? said only one ar ? rest has been made since the violence flared . Lee Rutherford , " from Louisiana , " was seized on the picket line at the mine after a shotgun was found in his automobile narked near ? by . Linked With Strike D. K Kelly , vice president of the Anaconda Copper Mining company , connected the vandalism with a CIO strike which began at the company 's copper mines at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or 15 houses badly damaged were occupied by men who still are working . " We 've had an import of Communists in the last few days , " he told a reporter , " and they 've or ganized the kids and women into gangs . " Kelly added , " They have 14 more homes marked for destruction . " He declined to reveal the source of this information . The 3,500 strikers , members of the Butte Miners union No. 1 , an affiliate of the CIO International Mine , Mill and Smelter Workers , are demanding that a wage increase be made retroactive to last Oct. 1 , when the Anaconda company 's old contract expired , according to Kelly . He said the company has offered an increase of 18% cents an hour , which the union has not yet accepted . Started Friday Night The systematic wrecking began Friday night with rock throwing at houses , and grew into an orgy of destruction last night . Police and sheriff 's deputies were led astray by telephone calls from persons pretending to be intimidated householders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrecking homes in other sections of Silver Bow county , in which Butte is located . One residence w a s wrecked by mobsters while hundreds of persons watched . The rioters chopped down the front ? porch with axes , and others stormed inside , . smashing furniture , destroying a radio , knocking dishes out of cupboards and breaking windows . They swept thru every room in the house . The union 's strategy committee meanwhile issued a statement condemning the violence and asserting , " The Butte Miners union ' and its members are not responsible . "                     