@@706072

txt Federal legislation to curb strikes in defense industries which have become " a national menace " is urged in a resolution to be pre . sented today to the forty-sixth Annual Congress of American Industry of the National Association of Manufacturers , at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria . The resolution , drafted after many revisions late last night by the Association 's Committee on Resolutions , comprising 108 members and headed by Charles E. Wilson , president of General Electric Company , declares among other things that " mere reliance upon conciliation and mediation will not do the job , " and that there is no solution in Government seizure of struck plants . That expedient is rejected in the resolution as " State socialism and a form of totalitarian government  --  the very kind of government this nation is arming to oppose . " Special Business Today The resolution , which was drafted significantly on the eve of expected action by Congress to deal with strikes in defense industries , will ? be made the special order of business at one of today 's sessions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country to attend the Congress of Amerie In Industry . In a six-point program the resolution proposes adoption of a status quo policy like that adopted in the first World War ; and advocates that no stoppage of work be permitted until both employer and employe had attempted settlement by negotiation , and until all available machinery for adjustment had peen employed . The manufacturers propose also that there be no strike until after the workers vote in a governmentally supervised election and that there be a prohibition against strikes to enforce the closed shops and to force settlements in jurisdictional disputes . The text of the resolution follows : " The number and severity of strikes causing national defense delay have become a national menace . " In the public interest , legislation should be passed promptly , and that legislation should prevent the abuses of union power which are resulting in defense interruptions and delays . " Many of the most important // INDUSTRY SEEKS ANTI-STRIKE LAW // strikes are not really disputes with employers over problems of wages or hours of work . They involve efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to which is entitled to monopoly control over certain work . The employer is always a victim of such disputes , but not a party to them . " Today there are pending before Congress many proposals designed to deal with the problem of strikes in defense industries . Some of these proposals undertake to reach many basic causes of industrial disputes and to impose some measure of legal responsibility upon labor organizations . Seizure Not Solution " Some of them propose nothing more than additional reliance upon conciliation and mediation . Some bills propose to authorize the executive branch of the government to seize and operate plants where labor disputes exist and are not settled by the parties . " Mere reliance upon conciliation and mediation will not do the job . Government seizure of plants is not a solution for the present wave of strikes in defense industries . Such seizure penalizes the employer for conduct over which he , in most instances , has little or no control . " This is State socialism and a form of totalitarian government ? the very kind of government this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be both effective and fair any legislation passed should : " 1 . Declare it to be the national policy that employers should not use the present emergency to change their bargaining relationships with employes and that labor unions should not use the present emergency to change bargaining relationships . Such a status quo policy was voluntarily agreed to by employers and labor unions in the World War . " 2 . During the national emergency no stoppage of work because of a labor dispute should be permitted until a real effort has been made by both parties to settle the dispute by negotiations between them . This means that so-called ' wildcat ' strikes , including ' quickies , ' or unauthorized stoppages , would be forbidden . " 3 . There should be no strikes or stoppages of work until every available machinery for impartial conciliation and mediation has been utilized . We are fully in sympathy with legislation which will in some way postpone the exercise of the right of employers or employes to produce a stoppage of defense production in order to give full opportunity for mediation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both . A period for ' cooling off ' is fully justified during the present emergency . Strike Authorization Plan " 4 . No strike , even after a period of negotiation , conciliation and mediation , should be considered lawful unless . the strike has been authorized and approved by an actual majority of the workers affected  --  such approval to be recorded by a governmentally supervised secret ballot . Such a principle is entirely in accord with democratic procedures . " 5 . Strikes to compel adoption of closed-shop agreements should be prohibited for the duration of the defense emergency . " 6 ? Unions should be compelled by law to settle disputes among themselves without any stoppage of defense production . Jurisdictional and rival union disputes do not involve grievances against an employer and neither the employer nor the public should be penalized by the stoppage of defense production . " 7 ? Interference with the right to work by mass picketing , violenoe or intimidation should be treated as an effort to sabotage defense production . Without mass picketing , violence or intimidation many strikes interfering with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interruptions of production . " 8 ? Such legislation as has been referred to should provide adequate measures for its enforcement . " The vice chairmen of the committee on resolutions are Harry A. Bulbs , executive vice president of General Mills , Inc. ; Winthrop L. Carter , president , Nashua Gummed and Coated Paper Company ; Otho M. Graves , president General Crushed Stone Company , and Redfield Proctor , president Vermont Marble Company . Members of the committee include John A. Brown , president Socony-Vacuum Oil Company ; Millard D. Brown , president Continental Mills , Inc. ; S. Bayard Colgate , chairman of the board ColgatePalmolive-Peet Company ; H. D. Collier , president Standard Oil Company of California ; J. Cheever Cowdin , chairman of the board Universal Pictures Company , Inc. ; Livingston W. Houston , chairman of the board Ludlow Valve Manufacturing Company ; Theodore G. Montague , president Borden Company ; Cola G. Parker , vice president Kimberly-Clark Corponation ; W. W. Shoemaker , vice president Armour &; Co. ; E. J. Thomas , president Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company , and R. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reported The rapid progress of shipbuilding for the Navy and the Maritime Commission was described by spokesmen for the government and private industry at yesterday 's preliminary sessions . William S. Knudsen , director general of OPM ; Donald M. Nelson , executive director of SPAS ; Leon Henderson , Administrator of OPA ; Floyd B. Odium , director of the Contract Distribution Division , OPM ; Representative Albert Gore of Tennessee , and Walter D. Fuller , president of N. A. M. , are among those scheduled to address today 's sessions . Commercial vessels for the Maritime Commission are being launched at the rate of one a day and will Slide down the ways at the rate of two daily by July , it was disclosed by Lewis Compton , former Assistant Secretary of the Navy . Shipbuilding is keeping abreast of sinkings by the Axis , Mr. Compton declared . Mr. Compton , who is assistant to the president of the National Council of American Shipbuilders constructing naval and merchant vessels , announced that on construction of Maritime Commission vessels shipbuilders were " making very fine time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of schedule . " Many of the merchant ships are of 10,000 tons . Rear Admiral C. W. Fisher , director of the Division of Contract Distribution of the Navy , and Major J. B. Medaris of the Army Ordnance Department , replying to questions at a luncheon session , described " ' Defense Contracts for the Smaller Manufacturers . " Admiral Fisher disclosed that " contracts are going out just about as fast as Congress appropriates money for them . " He announced that there were " more people that can , and want to , undertake work than there is work for them to do . " Exclusive of shipbuilding , there are 3,500 prime contractors on the mailing list of the contract distribution division . Changed Attitude Seen A changed attitude toward subcontractors by prime contractors has occurred , according to Admiral Fisher , and the prime contractors who formerly showed unwillingness now are showing great willingness to farm out their work . The Navy has tried to distribute work widely y letting contracts for small lots , Admiral Fisher explained . On one contract which could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 250 companies . Major Medaris , representing Under-Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson , Army Ordnance Department , explained that smaller concerns were being helped to obtain contracts by limiting the size of contracts and increasing the field of distribution ; by increasing the number of f. o. b. orders so as to discount inequalities in freight rates ; by distributing contracts so as to avoid concentration in industrial areas already favored , and by awarding contracts to " one-industry " communities which otherwise might have to shut down their plants because of priorities difficulties . 