@@706805

txt Two bottlenecks in the city 's effort to speed household and industrial scrap metal to the mills were broken yesterday while Manhattan , last of the five boroughs to pile its household offerings on the sidewalks , made ready for its Victory salvage pick-up today . Following a conference at City Hall of city and Federal officials with scrap dealers , Mayor La Guardia announced that a plan had been worked out under which " all of the collected scrap metal will be taken by all of the scrap metal dealers in the city jointly . " At the same time the Mayor said that he and Paul C. Cabot , assistant to the director of the War Production Board 's conservation division , had gone over the industrial scrap muddle , which led to the resignation of Park Commissioner Robert Moses as director of the city 's industrial scrap metal drive , and reached an agreement to clear all procedure for removal of heavy industrial and structural scrap metal through City Hall . Huge " Thermometer " Set Up A twenty-foot " thermometer " was set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office of Borough President Edgar J. Nathan Jr . to record the amount of scrap metal gathered in Manhattan . Mayor La Guardia and Mr. Nathan will mark up early returns on the board at 9:30 A. M. today and the Borough President 's aides will increase the score throughout the day . Manhattan , with a larger percentage of apartment dwellers than any other borough , tapped unusual sources for metal in an effort to match the poundage yielded by cellars and attics in the roomier areas of the city . The Metropolitan Opera 's " thunder balls " - 600 pounds of steel which created the din in Wagnerian performances before acquisition of the present electrical thunder machine  --  and 1,000 pounds of copper musical instruments , including a basset horn , from the New York Philharmonic Society were turned in to help sound a dirge for the Axis through the medium of exploding bombs , whistling shells and droning airplane engines . After the Mayor had announced that the scrap metal industry would handle the city 's household scrap as a joint venture among all the dealers , Edwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Steel , Inc. , who attended the conference , said that the pooling arrangement removed " the last obstacle " hindering removal of the scrap . Final Details Are Awaited Neither the Mayor nor any of the other conferees indicated how long it would take to get the scrap to the mills or what the financial arrangements will be . " There is no reason why details can not be completed within a day or so , " the Mayor declared . He said there were enough privately owned trucks available to make unnecessary the use of city trucks in carting the scrap from city salvage depots to the junk yards . " There will be no difficulty in working out the night shifts , " the Mayor said , " and we will provide the necessary expert advice and supervision on that . " He explained that the city would advise the junk dealers on lighting their yards at night without violating the dimout regulations . He had said Saturday that he would seek a modification- of dimout regulations by the Army to make possible such night work outdoors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Production Board , " the Mayor said that the city 's scrap metal would now move as fast as physical facilities permit . Several of the larger scrap dealers met later with Commissioner of Purchase Albert Pleydell to discuss the form of contract and other details . The City Hall conference also clarified the industrial scrap situation under the general policy agreed on Tuesday at Washington by the War Production Board and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , of which War Materials , Inc. , is a subsidiary . The new development , locally , is that Mayor La Guardia or one of his aides will apparently take over the duties which Mr. Moses had shed . Applications Up to WPB The WPB , the Mayor said , will pass on each application involving use of Federal funds to salvage scrap-metal which is too heavy or not profitable for the scrap industry to handle in the regular way . The WPB is to clear the projects to War Materials , Inc . " Details and final arrangements will be worked out here in the Mayor 's office , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mayor . " Borough President Nathan declined last night to set an advance figure on Manhattan 's yield . In an appeal to the borough 's housewives , made over radio station WJZ , Mr. Nathan said they will have the final word as to how much will be salvaged . Assistant Sanitation Commissioner William J. Powell , in charge of all the borough scrap pick-ups , said : " I 'm taking no chances on Manhattan . So far as I can tell , the scrap piled along the curbs in the residential section looks about as it did in Brooklyn but in the manufacturing districts it looks heavier . Manhattan 's per capita collection may surprise us all . " Mr. Powell will use 1,019 trucks to collect Manhattan 's Victory scrap . This is about the number he used in Queens , and 200 less than in Brooklyn , where the most scrap was gathered . He will hold 200 trucks in reserve . There will be no garbage collection in the city today . The newspaper publishers ' scrap metal committee , which is sponsoring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were collected throughout the city yesterday by 240 sanitation trucks . Two tons of scrap metal were taken from the basement of the Metropolitan Opera House yesterday afternoon and piled into a stripped limousine donated by James Melton , tenor . In the collection , besides the " thunder balls , " were iron guard rails , grills , steel ventilator covers and other metal pieces . The Melton car , weighing 16,500 pounds after its upholstery land other non-metallic fittings had been removed , was loaded with the scrap and towed to a neighborhood scrap heap . Eight tons of iron window grills from the opera house had been turned in several weeks ago . Mr. LaGuardia accepted the Philharmonic society 's offering yesterday morning and expressed the hope that four large kettle drums could be spared for the city 's schools . Bruno Zirato , associate manager of the orchestra , presented the old instruments to the Mayor in a brief ceremony in front of Carnegie Hall . Arturo Toscanini , who remained inside conducting a rehearsal , said during a rest period that he was very happy over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toscanini , who explained that some of the instruments hall been used when Gustave Mahler conducted , said he has asked his players to turn in as much metal as they could without scrapping any instruments which were still useful . He made no comment when Mr. Ziratb reported to him that the Mayor hoped to use the kettle drums , which were made in Germany , in music classes . On the sidewalk , a crowd watched as the Mayor handed several instruments to Department of Sanitation workers who carted the load away . The Radio City Music Hall and Center Theatre disgorged more than fifteen tons of scrap for the Madison Square Boys Club . It included a three-ton proscenium arch from the Center Theatre and four horns more than fourteen feet long , weighing a ton apiece . Two all-metal marquees , weighing six tons , were offered to the city by R. B. Malsin , president of Lane Bryant , Inc . The marquees are in front of the concern 's stores for women at 16 West Fortieth Street and at. , 285 Livingston Street , Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scrap collection on Tuesday had reached 15,572 tons , a per capita yield of 21.9 pounds .                     