@@711309

txt Steel stole the industrial spotlight of New England here today . Promotion of the expansion of steel-consuming industries of the area for regional and export markets was recommended by the Econometric Institute of New York City in a study prepared especially for the New England Council . The institute study also suggested that New England 's nonintegrated steel production be expanded , that more complete and up-to-date data on New England 's steel uses and existing sources of . its steel supply be developed , and that the possibilities of locating a steel plant on the New England coast be subject to periodic consideration . Quarterly Meeting The report was presented by Jacob Baker , Vice-President of the Econometric Institute , at the 91st quarterly meeting of the New England Council in Poland Spring House . This two-day meeting , ending tonight , has been attended by business leaders from all six New England States . The eight-month study undertaken by the Institute was based on the hope that an integrated steel plant might be justified in the New England area . Reasons for this hope included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase the demand for United States-produced steel and make available both Spanish and Swedish ores for the production of steel in New England . In addition , there was a prospect of ore supply in Labrador and the probable availability of substantial ore bodies in other areas that could be brought to New England by water at relatively low transportation expense . After a careful study of these and other factors , Dr. Baker reported that the Institute had reached the following conclusions : " 1 . Assembly of materials for pig-iron production in New England is now more costly than at competitive locations , and is likely to continue so for several years . Highly Diversified " 2 . New England steel demand is highly diversified , with only rod and wire products offering a sufficient market to approach the output volume of a modern integrated mill . " 3 . Existing New England steel producers have relied for their competitive cost position largely on relatively heavy use of low-cost scrap . " 4 . New England has characteristically been a marginal market for the output of large-scale effiM , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In periods of slack steel demand , price competition from these and European suppliers has been intense . " 5 . The trend of New England industrial production has been toward small organizations in light manufacturing with emphasis on entrepreneurial talent and skilled workers . " 6 . The permanence of export markets for steel is not sufficiently assured to justify a heavy fixed investment at the present time which would depend heavily on export business for its success , and 7 . Expansion of existing ( or additional ) nonintegrated mills appears to be a more promising development of New England 's needs and resources than a single large integrated mill . " While these conclusions would indicate that an integrated steel plant could not properly be initiated in New England at the present time . Dr. Baker pointed out that some combination of the following developments might in the future justify such a plant in New England : " 1 Greatly increased regional steel demand as a result of expansion of existing New England metal fabricators or location in New England of additional plants producing metal products for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Development ' of a stable long-term export market through achievement of foreign political stability and failure of Europe to regain self-sufficiency in steel . Low-Cost . Ore " 3 Development of low-cost . high-grade . ore supplies located more favorably to New England than to any other producing areas . " 4 Technical developments leading to highly efficient integrated steel operations on a much smaller scale than is now required for maximum efficiency . " 5 Abolishment of the basing point pricing system for steel , and requiring review of the locations and marketing of all existing steel plants . " 6 Development of much higher rail freight rates , which would increase the economic remoteness of New England from existing steel production centers and lead to expanded use of waterborne transport . " Finally , " said Dr. Baker . ' it is better for New England to be able to buy steel cheaply than it would be for it to produce steel expensively . " This study indicates that the New England steel industry is on the right track , and that there are adequate reasons for its expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                