@@706231

txt Membe.rs of the senate naval affairs committee professed to be astonished and shocked today by revelations of profits made by a private shipbuilding corporation on government con. tracts . James E'Barnes , Washington representative of the Todd Shipyards corporation . frankly told the committee that the profits of his corn . party were outrageous and that it voluntarily refunded 4 million dollars to the navy department .. On the basis of Barnes ' testimony , Sen. Barry F. Byrd ED. , Va. . com . puted the Todd corporation 's profits at 50 per cent a year on an investment Of 40 million dollars , but Barnes later stated that " a fair accounting and accurate analysis will allow that it is not more than 17 or 16 per cent . " Knox 's Department Blamed . The navy department , headed by . Secretaiy Frank Knox , was blamed by Sen. Byrd and other members of the committee for tolerating such ' unconscionable " profits . Sen. Byrd also suggested that " it is time to put the general accounting office to work " and said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not minimize the navy department 's generosity , Barnes Insisted that the navy should not be blamed for paving profits which he acknowledged to be indefensible . Hitler . he said , Is the . man to blame . Row are you going to blame the navy when the commander In chief president Roosevelt ) says he wants 56 ships by June and it is already the first of May ? " Barnes asked . Well . " said Sen. Guy M. Gillette Ia . ) , I 'm going to blame someboo when they throw away the people 's dollars and do n't get a nickel 's worth in return . " Nws7 Fixes the Terms . Barnes himself inferentially put the blame on the navy department wheh he testified that the navy fixes the terms of the contracts . We do n't have any choice about these contracts , " he said . " We just take what they offer us or they 'd take the plant in 15 minutes . " Sen. James J. Davis ( R , Pa. re . called that the navy department made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late In 2940 of the profit limitations fixed by law in 1934 and 1938 . Navy Denies Excesses . ' Yes . and the only evidence we ' . have from the navy department to date is the navy coming here and testifying that there were no unrea sonable profits , " commented Sen. Ralph 0 . Brewster ER. , Me . ) . " Thatl is the most shocking thing . " ( This statement referred to testimony only last week by Rear Adm . H. G. Gil- I more , representing the navy 's com-1 ' sensation board . ) Members of the committee repentH edir commended Barnes for his extritordinary candor . The witness appeared at his . own request to correct I what he described as some " unfor. tunate implications " In trio report of the Truman Investigating committee . The Truman report quoted Barnes as saying the navy method " gave us a ' profit of USD a day on every man we had . and I think we had around 35,000 . If it had n't been for taxes , we could n't have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to the first World war , " Heroes told the naval affairs committee . " I did n't want to get ' that mixed up with our profits in this war because they arc bad enough in this one as it is . " Denies He Is a Lobbyist . ? Barnes smilingly agreed with Committee members that his testimony had not made matters any better . The witness , a 67 year old Spanish . American war veteran who said he had been In Washington 27 years , pro . duced much merriment es he genially described his duties as a " Washington representative . " He denied that be is a ionnyist , or has anything to do with legislation . I have to handle business with the bureaus. " he said . " We have over a billion dollars in contracts . " Tax Recovery Suggested . Barnes said congress should impose taxes to recover the money of the taxpayers that is poured out by the treasury In the form of excessive profits . Would n't it be better not to let it get out ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been getting out . " Barnes said . " Why , senator , some days I go down and collect 15 or 16 million dollars for my company and then do n't have enough to pay for my lunch ! " Barnes testified that his company either owns or is a partner in 16 shipbuilding and repair plants , located around the coast from Maine to California . Nine of the subsidiary companies have been organized since the European war began in 1939 and the government has invested some 24 million dollars In their plant facilities . Barnes estimated the Todd corporation 's own capital investment at 40 million dollars . 10 Per Cent Fee Allowed . In response to questions by Sen. David I. Walsh ID .. Mass. , chairman of the committee , and Sen. Byrd , Barnes revealed that the contracts , which are negotiated by the navy department without competitive bidding , are called " cost plus fixed fee " contracts but are in reality not unlike the ill famed " cost plus percentage of rest " contracts of the first World war . The fee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs , including interest on the capital investment and allowances for depreciation . Barnes testified that the government is charged for actual labor costs plus overhead amounting to about 40 per cent of the pay roll . Thus for each man drawing $4 a day the company would get 51.60 a day for , overhead , he said . " So if you paid out a million dollars to the workmen your overhead would be 5400,000 , " remarked Chairman Walsh . " Of course , you understand that 's overhead , not profit , " Barnes said . Excess Is Returned . Barnes testified that the company 's earlier contracts resulted in profits of as much as 20 per cent and in one instance 62 per cent of the cost charged to the government Subsequently , however , the company entered into an agreement with the navy department whereby everything in excess of 10 per cent of the cost of performing the contract is returned to the navy , Barnes said . The company voluntarily returned 4 million dollars after getting the treasury department 's consent to exempt it from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free to tell you we made big profits , " he said . " This year we 'll pay income taxes of 6 to 8 million dollars . We still get 10 per cent of the over-all cost , and we try to equalize the contracts so that the profit will not run over 10 per cent If It 's over 10 per cent , it goes back to the navy . " Bate Fixed in . Contract . Asked by Sen. Byrd what the company does for the fees paid by the government , Barnes replied : " We furnish . the labor , equipment , dry docks , brains  --  each machine tool has a rate that 's fixed in the contract . " He explained that the company receives a rental fee for its equipment , charges a handling fee on all materials paid for by the government , and includes In the cost computation both interest on the capital investment and allowances for depreciation . Byrd established that the 10 per cent profit rate is based on all these cost factors and has nothing to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company is drawing money from the treasury at the rate of about 200 million dollars a year . the senator declared : " You get 200 million dollars a year from the treasury . Ten per cent of that equals 20 million dollars . On a Capital investment of 40 million dollars you are making a profit of 50 per cent That 's an astonishing situation . " There must be something wrong with the navy department if it per:nits such a thing . The public has been misled by the figures on profit percentages . Instead of being told that you are getting 10 per cent on the cost of each contract , the public understands that you are making only 10 pa : cent on your capital investment " . Byrd insisted that the profits of munitions . nakers should be limited to 8 per cent of their invested capital . Chairman Walsh said the committee would consider limiting profits to 6 per cent .                     