@@707606

txt FIFTH ARMY HEADQUARTERS , in Italy , Feb. 14 ? The German High Command , recognizing the present Allied threat to the entire Italian position , has now brought in new reinforcements from Germany , comprising freshly constituted regiments of replacements , and has built up its strength on this front to a total of seventeen divisions . These seventeen divisions are all south of Rome . This move - has more or less denuded the reserve position in northern Italy . The only available reinforcements that could be brought in with any speed are troops now in Southern France . The German strength below Rome represents a sizable force , well emplaced , for the Allies to disrupt to achieve the junction of the units in the Anzio beachhead with the main body of the Fifth Army . Nevertheless , the Allied command is confident that the job will be done , aided by complete command of the seas and superiority in the air , as well as in the volume of artillery . The situation may be described accordingly . Nothing in war is either so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is a general feeling that these were overoptimistic at the start of the joint AnzioCassino operations and then became overpessimistic at the slow progress . The . Germans are operating with two distinct advantages and many shortcomings . The former are the facts that they are employing interior lines of communication , which can be only partly offset by the Allies ' sky control , and that they are defensively able best to employ the tough terrain features in the mountains around Cassino and in the high ground east and northeast of Anzio . They are less dependent on the weather than are the Allies , who need cloudless sky for the fullest functions of their aerial numerical advantage and hard ground for their armored striking forces . Enjoy Greater Flexibility The Germans are also undoubtedly more flexible in their ability to shift small troop units . Napoleon once said , " Give me allies to fight against . " The homogeneous German Army can be split up into small units and moved from one division to another as the situation dictates . This is far harder for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Frenchmen , Africans , Indians , New Zealanders and Italians and their varying equipment and different command problems . But the Germans are definitely suffering from inferiority in other things than aerial equipment and the complete absence of a navy . Most important of all are their artillery losses and their undesirable position in matters of fuel and ammunition . Allied planes , whenever the weather permitted , have been pounding various communication bottlenecks , especially north of Rome . As a result , much heavy equipment designed to fortify the initial big counter-attacks against Anzio has been held up and , generally , those divisions along the lower front have inadequate fuel or shells . The German soldier gets enough food because rations are a minute part of the general supplies . But he is insufficiently supported by artillery despite certain excellent guns , such as the 170-mm . Artillery shells are strictly rationed by the enemy and he can never attempt reprisals for the heavy casualties that he suffers from the numerical superiority of the Allies ' guns . Because the Germans started the war with an insufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve as flying artillery , they are hard put to it to replace lost guns . Various German units are employing French , Polish , Belgian , Russian and Czech artillery . This complicates supply and distribution problems . The fuel shortage may render it difficult to extricate motorized units from tough corners if the weather permits the full efficacy of Allied bombing , while other divisions depending on horse-drawn transport and railways most certainly will never be in a position for any speedy mass withdrawal if all goes well from the Allies ' view-point Lull Believed Almost Over At present  --  and it must be emphasized that this is a calm , considered , strategic view of the entire front rather than a detailed picture of any special sectors  --  it is obvious that the brief static condition of the front is about to ease . The Germans , at the moment , are on the defensive in the Anzio region but they are undoubtedly preparing new offensive blows while Allied reinforcements come in . It was originally thought that the Germans would muster all their available reserves in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the first week of the landing , similar to their reaction at Salerno , and that , after its repulse , the Allies could resume the initiative inland . Instead , the Germans merely held the beachhead in check without expending their reserves and meanwhile mustered strong forces from the north for heavier counter-operations while Adolf Hitler ordered the main front held at all costs , especially around Cassino . It must be admitted that the enemy judged the situation well and has held on to the bastion of the Gustav Line . However , the Allies have now established a definite base for new advances inside the Germans ' positions from the Gustav Line and the enemy has been trying to strengthen the Cassino region with ! reinforcements to replace his losses . It is obvious that the Germans can no longer count on the immunity of church properties when they employ them for military purposes , and the dominating abbey position above Cassino is obviously due for a pounding that will be of invaluable help in saving lives , much as historians , churchmen and art-lovers may regret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of which Rome is the ultimate objective , will clearly start soon . The first phase was the effort to outflank the enemy around Anzio , turning his right flank and , forcing his withdrawal from the Gustav Line . This was truly successful only in the former phase , but German plans were forcibly altered when the enemy was obliged to develop the Italian front into a bigger enterprise than he had ever expected , bringing in troops from southern France , Germany , Slovenia , Croatia and Dalmatia to accept battle south of Rome . His initial strong counter-attacks against the Anzio beachhead failed in their basic intention to destroy the beachhead despite small gains , and he has suffered big casualties without being now in a better position to accomplish this ultimate aim . The enemy has not removed the threat to his flank or deprived the Allies of the power to build up their strength for future initiative . The Germans have drawn on all their near-by reserves ; the Allies have not . German equipment losses during recent weeks have been so extensive that drastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is confirmed by the capture of an order dated Feb. 5 . Issued by the commander of the Twenty-ninth Armored Grenadier Regiment , it said : " I am not willing to allow the reputation of the regiment to be torn down by such losses in weapons . " The commander criticized the soldiers and officers for inadequate efforts to salvage weapons and parts and said that , in consequence , " the problem of replacing materiel is growing more and more difficult and even unsolvable in some cases . This leads to an insufferable weakening of our combat efficiency . "                     