@@711245

txt The Congress of Europe , dedicated to the creation of supranational organization to bring lasting peace to the Continent , completed the first phase of its task here today after four days of intensive debate . The unofficial congress voted in favor of asking the Governments Europe to nominate delegates to a " European Deliberative Assembly " to advise on the economic and political union of Europe . The impression prevailing at The Hague is one of optimism that Socialists , Conservatives and Liberals will take home propositions acceptable to their Parliaments , although the congress is unofficial . The congress heard m its closing stages an impassioned appeal from Winston Churchill , the driving force behind the assembly , to " unite or scatter , a wretched mass of discordant individuals . " His speech united the seemingly irreconcilable viewpoints of the Socialists and their Liberal and Conservative opponents concerning the economic resolution . Mr. Churchill congratulated the assembly upon the successful completion of " a very remarkable adventure  --  an experiment which , at least , we have all of us believed in . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed at the conference adding , " When you consider how much unites us together , think how far it outweighs the differences ! ' He sounded a warning against the " many forces at work which would destroy us , " explaining that with care and collective strength " we can confront them with the fact that the prevailing will- of all , well-meaning people will prevail . " Appealing for an end to disputes and jealousies he said that by their continuance , " whom do we help but our foes ? Whom can we harm save ourselves ? " The resolution of the political committee was adopted unanimously by the congress this morning with Anthony Eden , former British Foreign Secretary , presiding . It represented the result of long hours of negotiation between Tories and Socialists , between Federalists and Unionists , and between Britons , Frenchmen , delegates from the Benelux nations , Scandinavia , Italy and exiles from Spain and Central Europe . It was considered to be a successful compromise . Will Frame . Definition The congress will leave in existence a committee to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which nations can come into the voluntary federatiori of a united Europe . This committee will also draw , up a charter of rights and submit its report within three months . The congress organization will continue to study the proposed " integration " of Germany in a federated Europe . The- congress demands in a key clause of the resolution " the . convening as a matter of real urgency of a European assembly chosen by I the Parliaments of the participating nations from among their , members and others . " This assembly will be designed : " ( A ) To stimulate and give expression to European public opinion ; " ( B ) To advise upon immediate practical measures designed pro-1 progressively to bring about the necessary economic and political union of Europe ; " ( C ) To examine juridical and constitutional implications arising out of the creation of such a union or federation and their economic and social consequences ; " ( D ) To prepare the necessary plans . " Presented by van Zeeland The resolution of the Economic Committee was considered at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , former Premier of Belgium . It was a long document , beginning with a preamble in fairly general terms . The immediate measures it urged included reduction of customs duties between member states , steps that would pave the way for the free convertibility of currencies , the drawing of a common program of development for the basic industries of the whole area and the promotion of the mobility of labor . It also set forth a list of ultimate objectives and certain matters for future study , including the establishment of a commission to organize migration in Europe and the absorption of 1,500,000 displaced persons . The debate on this resolution set the greatest problem for the Congress . It did not emerge from the committee 's all-night session until 6 o'clock this morning , and in the plenary session it was again j the cause of a wrangle . Mr. Churchill had not intended Ito make his address until the final session , but he intervened at this stage to heal the breach . On his suggestion , a compromise was acIcepted.       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     