@@711912

txt The fate of the anti-filibuster fight in the Senate hung on the decision of Republicans as leaders moved to a showdown with a. formal cloture petition . The battle in the Senate over the filibuster has become largely indistinguishable from the fight to pass a civil rights program , , to which both major political parties are specifically committed . Southern Democrats are opposed to the civil rights measures , so that the administration Democrats themselves are unable to force through the issue . The question thus reverts to whether Republicans will support the anti-filibuster , pro-civil rights battle . It is agreed on all sides that unless the present anti-filibuster rule is ' stiffened , there is little use trying to get the civil rights legislation . through . In. this test , the Senate - Republicans have held two meetings , but have been unable to come to any agreement and are acting as individuals . Taft Signs Petition Senator Robert . A. Taft of Ohio , Republican Policy Commit-. tee leader , has signed the cloture petition . On the other harkd , Kenneth S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an argument against signing the cloture petition on alleged bad faith by the Democrats . He charges the administration is not really trying to break the filibuster . " The way to fight a filibuster is to keep the Senate in continuous session , " he argued , " around the clock . " Every senator from the six New England states , save two , has signed the cloture petition . One of the exceptions , Senator George D. Aiken ( R ) of Vermont , is out of town . The other is Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire . His office explained that he always has opposed limitations on Senate debate . Tied Up 11 Days The big fight has tied up Senate work for 11 days , and the decision will establish a precedent for years to come , Cloture petitions were circulated for the first time on March 9 , and by night 17 Democrats and 16 Republicans had signed . For the second day the Democratic leadership held the ? Senate into late sessions , ? recessing at 9 p.m . During most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was present . The New York Herald Tribune , eastern spokesman for the Republican Party , &dares; editorially : " The obligation is plainly on the RepublicanS in the Senate to stick by their principles and shun the Democratic dissenters . " When the showdown on cloture comes . Vice-President Alben W. Barkley as presiding officer of the Senate will be the key figure . He is expected to reverse a ruling that the existing cloture rule can be applied on the pending motion . The motion would bring up a change in Senate rules to plug loopholes in the present twothirds cloture - machinery Itself . Signatories of the petition want and expect Mr. Barkley to overturn the Vandenberg ruling . Once the cloture petition is filed , Mr. Barkley may rule at once or wait and hear arguments . If Mr. Barkley reverses Senator Vandenberg , as expected , here is what happens : Appeal Planned Senator Richard B. Russell ( D ) of Georgia , spokesman of the southern bloc , will appeal the ruling to the full Senate membership . This requires a majority vote . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they win . They can go on speaking indefinitely . On the other hand , if the , aciministration gets a majority with Republican assistance and ends present debate , three more steps follow .. The administration must muster a two-thirds vote to limit debate on the motion to take up the proposed rule change . Following that , another twothirds vote will be required to limit debate on the rule change itself . Then and only then comes at vote on thew rule change which all the shouting is about . Southern senators argue that with even the protection outlined in the complicated . procedure above , they are not protected satisfactorily . In effect , they oppose any limitation of debate at ' all . Here Is : the arithmetic of the fight . Democrats have 54 senators , Republicans 42 . Of the Democrats , about 20 are southerners , and southern leaders are " reasonably certain " of 26 Democratic votes . That would be a hairbreadth 28 to 26 for the Truman administration . It really will be the 42 Republicans who decide the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back Senators Wherry and Vandenberg rather than Taft . However , some lastminute pressure is being exerted on the Republicans by supporters of the civil rights program . Bipartisan Petition . Those signing the bipartisan cloture petition were : Republicans ? Knowland of Califoioia , Taft of Ohio , Lodge of Massachusetts , Ives of New York , Saltonstall of Massachusetts , Tobey of New Hampshire ; Brewster of Maine , Smith of Maine , Smith of New Jersey , Baldwin of Connecticut , Morse of Oregon , Thye of Minnesota , Flanders of Vermont , Ferguson of Michigan , Reed of Kansas , and Hendrickson of New Jersey . Democrats  --  Lucas of Illinois , Anderson of New Mexico , Chavez of New Mexico , Douglas of Illinois , Green of Rhode Island , Kilgore of West Virginia , Magnuson of Washington , of Rhode Island , of Connecticut , Miller of Idaho , Murray of Montana , Myers of Pennsylvania , Neely of West Virginia , O'Mahoney of Wyoming , Pepper of Florida , Taylor of Idaho , and Thomas of Utah . 