@@710806

txt The heroic battle waged against gale winds and high seas by the crew of the Coast Guard cutter Bibb in the North Atlantic rescue of personnel from the Bermuda Sky Queen was described in graphic detail last night in a radio broadcast from the weather ship by her commanding officer , Capt . Paul Cronk . Captain Cronk revealed that while the seasick passengers were being tossed about in their disabled flying boat , most of the day had been spent in studying methods of transferring them through the mountainous waves to the cutter . Oil was spread on the sea from various angles , and the effectiveness of rubber life rafts was studied . One rubber raft launched from the plane burst just before another brought the first three men from the plane to the ship . With forty-four men , women and children aboard the Bibb , Captain . Cronk reported that all the children seemed well and had put up a brave front , and that the babies seemed to be in better shape than anyone . Injuries to two men were reported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text of the broadcast from the Bibb , as recorded by the National Broadcasting Company monitors , follows : " This is Capt . Paul V. Cronk of the Coast Guard cutter Bibb , our weather ship stationed about midway in the North Atlantic between Newfoundland and Ireland . The incident began this morning about 8:04 ship 's time , when the plane made a splendid landing under adverse conditions in a rough sea with gale winds not too far from the ship . " We immediately established radio contact with the plane ana an attempt was made to put a line on the plane , but it was found that ' the plane blew around so much in the storm that it was decidedly dangerous , and we , by all means , wanted to keep the water-tight integrity of the plane intact . It 's a very big plane . It rides well . " The people were very seasick and miserable , but were safe enough . We spent the greater part of the day in studying the situation and in making practice approaches to the plane and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and studying the effects of rubber life rafts in the water and evolving plans with the plane itself . We calculated to remove the people if the weather moderated or , in case the plane started to break up , to get the people off immediately as best we could . " Toward nightfall the pilot of the plane felt that he would like to make scene attempt to transfer his passengers in view of on-corning darkness , and accordingly an experimental life-raft was launched from the plane . The first raft burst and was a failure , but on a subsequent raft three men were successfully launched into the sea and picked up by the ship . These men . incidentally , were merchant marine personnel . 44 Persons on the Bibb " At the present time we have on board the Bibb forty-four persons , consisting of fifteen women , sixteen men , eleven children and two babies . It might be said that the babies seem to be in better shape than anyone . The children were all on their feet and put up a brave front . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after coming on board and realizing they were safe , and most of them had to be carried below , but the medical officer informs me now that they are alright . " One passenger suffered a laceration of the head . He bled . a bit but he 's not badly hurt , and --  one of our crew members , while in the water rescuing r woman who had fallen out of a raft , was crushed between the boat and the ship and received some very painful bruises around the head and chest , but we do n't believe any bones are broken " The last trip was attended by some very hair-raising features . The motor - driven lifeboat had swamped and the raft was submerged and both were full of people and crew , but we drifted the ship down on them and fished them out of the water . Believe me , we were all very grateful and thankful when we got those people m board . The family men on board pretty much had lumps in their throats when those babies came on board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat the worse for wear . It has a damaged wing-tip and the nose is bashed in a bit . I believe one engine is damaged but the hull is intact . " Tonight after darkness we launched a pulling boat and Ensign did a fine job of going down there in the darkness and getting a big twenty-man raft to the plane . The plane now has the raft and it 's tailing to windward . " We have agreed with the plane to suspend operations until daylight . It 's very difficult in the darkness to do this sort of work and there is danger of colliding with the plane and sinking it instantly , or losing the boat . " The people in the plane were very glad to get out of there . For tome reason they do n't like that lane , but I believe those that are now on board probably feel better ! bout it . I feel more optimistic low than I have any time since he plane landed , and of our : hances of total success in rescung the persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perons when it landed , and there are ighteen still on board . The veather has moderated somewhat , nd we hope with daylight to Hake a mighty good attempt at aving the rest of these people . " According to the Columbia troadcasting System , Captain ! ronk , in speaking of abandoning perations for the night with some ersons still in the plane , said net " if the worst happens , " those a board " will just have to go verboard with their life jackets a and we will pick them up . " In a later NBC broadcast , CapLin Cronk said that the plane was n pretty good shape " and that : he weather has moderated a bit . " " What we 've been doing , " he Med , " is to make an oil slick ) wnwind of the plane and then upwind of the plane and form lee with the ship . The people in Le plane get in a rubber raft and Ley are taken off the raft to the ) at idle lifeboat ) . They come on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are standim by to help them . " - Referring to two rescued babe he remarked that " it 's quite some thing to take little babies in a boa and take them off in a boat anc bring them on board . " Captain Cronk also introducec two of the rescued passengers , Mist Tina Lewin and a Mr. Quinn . Mist Lewin said that " we do n't regret flying , not one bit , " and Mr. Quinr expressed his gratitude and that of " ' finny gang " to the Coast Guard . The cutter 's captain indicatec that Mr. Quinn and two other men , all merchant seamen , had risked their lives in an experimental role in being the first to leave the plane . " I think , " he said , addressing Mr. Quinn over the microphone , " t : . - at you veteran seamen on board that first raft from the plane contributed a lot to this . "                     