@@711634

txt The Israelis are violating the United Nations truce by transporting to Palestine from Czechoslovakia and els &where; large quantities of airplanes and war material , according to an amazing ' story which has come to light here . The story was placed in the hands of Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , acting UN mediator , by Mr. X , a young pilot  --  one of several deserters from the Israeli Air Force . It was first disclosed exclusively to this correspondent and Nat Barrows of the Chicago Daily News , after the pilot had contacted Volney Hurd , chief of the Paris news bureau of The Christian Science Monitor . . The account , which is known to be under careful investigation by Dr. Bunche , makes sensational allegations against the Israelis which may have wide repercussions , It contains names , dates , places , personnel lists , methods of operation , even code terms . ISoyiet Role Seen Outstanding among the charges Dr. Bunche is investigating are these : 1 . No serious attempt ever has been made by the Israelis to observe that part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import into Palestine of arms , and men of fighting age . 2 . The Israelis are operating with substantial Soviet aid , and a worldwide secret supply line of extraordinary efficiency , the focal point of which is the Cavetz airfield , a short distance from Prague . 3 . Through this . supply line , the Israelis receive a steady flow of airplanes of various types , armaments , and manpower . 4 . Israeli youths are getting regular formal military , flying , and parachute training " somewhere in Russia " and in. other countries behind the iron curtain . Nightly Flights 5 . Regular nightly flights ? ' sometimes one , sometimes two , sometimes three  --  are made from Cavetz airfield to Palestine-and return . Dismantled airplanes , munitions , arms , and fighting men are carried on these flights . 6 . Russian personnel plays an active and prominent role in the direction and operation of these illegal activities .. 7 . In addition to supplieS received through the PalestineCavetz shuttle service , the Israelis are getting airplanes and armaments from the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Probed Mr , X 's story , in signed and documented form , has been in Dr. Bunche 's hands for sOme time . In reporting it , this correspondent takes no responsibility for its veracity . It can be said , however , that some of its details are understood to be supported by information the United Nations has received from other sources . Information contained in the story is also known to United States intelligence agents and to the secret services of at least two other great powers . Exhaustive checks on the authenticity of the story have been made and are continuing to be made through many sources and contacts in Europe and elsewhere . Mr. X is now " somewhere in Paris " in protective custody of agents attached to the United States embassy . For obvious reasons his identity must be kept secret . Cloak and Dagger He is admittedly a professional adventurer with shady chapters in his background . However , he gives indications his desertion was motivated by serious concern over the state of the world and an earnest desire to rehabilitate himself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience in both heavy and light planes . He speaks fluent English , knows a half dozen other languages , and is familiar with the American aviation idiom . If a full account of how his state . ment was obtained and how it ultimately reached Dr. Bunche could be told , it would read like a chapter out of E. Phillips Oppenheim . Cloak and dagger operations in Europe definitely did not end with the war . Supply System Described According to Mr. X , who claims to have flown for the Israelis between Cavetz , Ramat David airfield in Palestine , and other key points in Europe , the Israeli supply system is well organized , with representatives in many parts of the world who obtain clearance for material and pilots , most of whom do not carry passports . In the months he flew with the Israelis , Mr. X declares , he personally piloted transports which carried to Israel crated Messerschmitts from the Skoda works in Czechoslovakia . He also asserts he carried Russian military personnel ' from Czechoslovakia to Palestine and Jewish fightihg men from Tel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia . He has firsthand knowledge , he says , of how four-motored planes reach Palestine by devious routes from Central America after being sold as surplus ' equipment . Mr. X 's story may well have a wide impact on the whole Palestine problem , and if its essential points are further documented , there is a strong likelihood of Security Council action .                     