@@711825

txt The Chinese Communist radio indicates the Communists may Ite ready to ' talk peace with the Nationalist government . The radio specified that certain ? conditions had to be met . It indicated also that the peace talks probably would be ' held in Peiping . The Communist radio peace talk came as Communist patrols reached the north bank of the Yangtze River and neared Nanking . Peiping , which surrendered to the Communists Jan. 22 , apparently will have to wait for its conquerors , tteports that Communist troops ' had entered the city Jan. 24 now appear to have been incorrect . So far as is known  --  and it is difficult to verify reports here ? I the only Communist inside the I city . except of course for the I powerful . well organized underground which always has been here , is a single delegate . The leisurely way in which Peiping is changing hands was emphasized when Chu Hsi-chun , governor of Hopei province , said the joint Communist-Nationalist committee that is to administer the city during the transition period will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee will consist of seven members , of whom four will be Communists . Governor Chu said General Fu Tso-yi , Nationalist commander on the northern front , will be one of the Nationalist representatives . In view of this it is considered likely that Gen. Yeh Chien-ying , chief of staff of the Communist : armed forces and currently chief I of the military control commit ' tee of the Peiping area , will sit on the city committee as chair ! man . So far as is known , there have been no suicides , no weeping , no such manifestations as are associated with the fall of a city , Secret police bigwigs and a few others have fled , but most of those who could have left have stayed and appear to view the future with equanimity . Leisurely Tempo The people of Peiping seem to see nothing unusual in this situation , In living memory , and before that in legend , it has always been this way , and the people of Peiping continue happily unaware that elsewhere the fall of a city can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's traditions , it seems likely that over , all peace for China may finally be settled here . The Nationalist Acting President . Li Tsung-jen sent two delegates to Peiping a few days ago and Governor Chu admitted today that they have come to discuss peace for all of China , It is not yet clear , how . ' . ever , whether they are empowered to speak for the government as a whole .                     