@@709454

txt A drastic embargo on railroad freight shipments , excepting foods , fuels and a few other essential items , and a 25 per cent reduction in passenger service , effective May 10 on coal-burning railroads , were ordered today by the Office of Defense Transportation because of the coal shortage . At the same time , President Truman told a press conference that while he viewed the thirtytwo-day mine strike with alarm , he did not consider it as yet a walkout against the Government . He added that he would consider it such a strike if it became necessary , but he did not say when that would be . The embargo , which was discussed at the White House this morning and decided on in a few hours , applies to carload and less than carload lots of freight , with the exception of live stock , live poultry , perishable freight , and other foods ; grain and grain products ; petroleum and its products ; coal and coke ; printing paper , ink , medicines and hospital supplies . Cut in Output Indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exempted commodities will not be accepted by the railroads . They will either have to be stored , or in the case of some products , where storage space is unavailable , their output will have to be halted . In any case manufacturers will be hit doubly , for they will be unable to obtain raw materials as a result of the embargo , even if they had coal to carry on operations . The embargo order was issued in two letters sent by J. Monroe Johnson , director of the ODT , to J. J. Pelley , president of the Association of American Railroads , and J. M. Hood , head of the Short Lines Association . In his letters , Mr. Johnson said that the " present supply of coal on railroads caused by the current coal strike " made necessary " drastic curtailment of both passenger and freight railroad service . " While he was aware that much had been done in this connection , the ODT chief said that before May 10 the carriers might wish to reduce branch line services , discontinue movement of special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of day when few persons are traveling . He also suggested a reduction in seasonal trains . Truman Doubts Railroad Seizure President Truman 's remarks on the coal situation came as the result of a question at the news conference on whether Federal departments would be permitted to bargain collectively with their workers belonging to unions which are permitted under their constitutions to strike . The President replied that striking against the Government was illegal and if that happened , the Government would cease to exist . From this the reporters touched on the railroad situation . Mr. Truman said he did not think it would be necessary to seize the carriers because of the disputes involving the , employes . Then , passing to the coal dispute as a result of another question , the President said that while he viewed the strike with alarm , he did not believe it was as yet a strike against the Government . If it becomes that , he promised to face it as such . Asked what would happen if the Government seized the coal mines and the men would not go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to do so by President Roosevelt , Mr. Truman said that he would meet that situation when it arose . Asked how long it would be before the Government would have to take over the coal properties , he replied that your guess is as good as mine . Meanwhile , J. A. Krug , Solid Fuels Administrator , asserted that stocks of railroad coal on hand had been cut in half since April 1 , and he appealed to Mr. Pelley for strict conservation measures . A railroad report to Mr. Krug showed that sixty-four bituminous coal consuming roads had 12,369 , - 239 tons on hand April 1 , and on April 29 they had 6,601,305 tons . The carriers are consuming coal at the rate of 241,878 tons a day and had on hand sufficient supplies to last 27.3 days on the average . The railroad freight and passenger travel orders came with something like a shock to Washington . No embargo was put into effect in the most critical transportation emergency of the war , but the present coal stoppage compelled this emergency action . Old-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last general embargo . At the office of Mr. Johnson it was said that even if the coal strike ended tomorrow , which appeared most unlikely , there would still be a reduction in passenger and freight service for some time , since some of the carriers would be unable to replenish their coal stocks promptly . In the meantime , reports reached Washington from all parts of the country telling of the critical situation developing from the depletion of coal stocks . Indiana followed Illinois in ordering drastic curtailment of electric power . Steel production continued to sag as additional layoffs of steel workers were reported . A city-wide dimout in Washington because of the need for curtailing electric power will be discussed Monday and may be made effective soon afterward . Mexico . " Exceptions to this embargo No Progress in Coal Talks shall be : The coal wage conference called by Secretary Schwellenbach Monday met for the fourth day and " no progress " was reported . The miners insisted on speaking mainly about overtime pay alleged to be , due their members for four holidays . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John L. Lewis failed to appear at the morning sessions which were held at the Department of Labor . No explanation was offered for his absence . As has been the case since Monday , Edward F. , special mediator and Paul Fuller , Conciliation Service mediator , were in charge . " We just argued the same things and used the same words that were used yesterday and the day before , " Charles O'Neill , spokesman for the operators , said later . Text of Johnson 's Letter Mr. Johnson 's letter was as follows : " Dear Mr. Pelley : " Because of the continued strike in the bituminous coal fields and the rapid depletion of railroad reserve supplies , it is the judgment of this office that immediate steps must be taken to conserve the remaining supply by limiting its use to the most important traffic of the country . " You are , therefore , directed to issue a general embargo to be effective at 12:01 A. M. , May 10 , against the acceptance and forwarding of all carload and lessthan-carload shipments consigned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations in the United States , Canada and " 1 . Livestock , live poultry , and perishable freight as listed in the perishable protective tariff . " 2 . Coal , coke and charcoal . Petroleum and its products . " 3 . Food for human consumption , including wheat , corn , oats , rye , barley , rice , cereal products , salt , canned goods , sugar , and lard substitutes . Feed for animals and poultry , not including hay and Istraw. " 4 . Printing paper and printing ink . " 5 . Medicines , drugs , surgical instruments , surgical dressings , hospital and sick room supplies . " 6 . Traffic originating at and destined to local points on one railroad or zone of such railroad which may supply freight service with other than coal burning locomotives . " 7 . Shipments moving on permits , issued by W. C. Kendall , chairman , car service division , Association of American Railroads . " This embargo should be distributed at once . This will permit any questions that may be raised with regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it actually becomes effective one week hence . " 75% of Railroads Involved WASHINGTON , May 2 ( 1p ) ? The ODT 's order left it up to the individual railroads to determine how the 25 per cent passenger mileage reduction would be effected . The order apparently will not affect the special trains to Louisville for the Kentucky Derby Saturday , and there was no suggestion that sports events should be canceled to cut travel , as was done during the war , but Mr. Johnson warned that " much more severe orders will be necessary if the strike is not settled . " ? An estimated 75 per cent of the country 's passenger mileage is in the coal-burning category . Electric trains , which supply the bulk of commuter service , are not to be affected . Meanwhile , the United Mine Workers Journal insisted that the union would not execute a new contract based solely on wages and hours , indicating that the coal strike would continue until agreement was reached on a health and welfare fund . It asserted : " Despite all the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare , safety , collective bargaining rights for supervisory employes , improved housing and sanitation  --  all fundamental prerequisites before an agreement on wages and hours can be negotiated ? it ought to be evident by now , to the public as well as to the obstinate operators and political powers that be , that American coal miners are determined in this year of 1946 to accomplish that which they have fought during the years to obtain . "                     