@@707510

txt Boston today paid tribute to the " Unconquerable Nations " of Europe and Asia as a Jordan Marsh Company and Saturday Evening Post jointly-sponsored parade in the nations ' honor marched through the downtown area . Page 2 . Councilor John E. Kerrigan of South Boston was elected President of the Boston City Council today , leading Councilor Mattew Hanley 12 votes to 9 . Thieves broke open the safe at the Child Welfare League on Summer Street , Lynn , during the night and stole $60 in cash and six War Bonds . The League 's bookkeeper had deposited $300 in the bank on Saturday . S ? eets may have been icy and cars may have been dangerously close . but many Bostonians dashed after free butter when a case fell off the back of a passing truck on Nashua Street near the State Public Works Building . Representative Allen T. Treadway ( R ) of Massachusetts , announced today that he would not seek re-election , because of poor health . Dean of the New England delegation in Congress and minority leader of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 16th term in the House . In Europe : Nazis Sentence Ciano to Execution Count Galeazzo Ciano , son-in-law of Mussolini and former Italian Foreign Minister , has been sentenced to execution at a Nazi-sponsored , " treason trial , " according to the German official news agency , DNB . The report said all 19 members of the Fascist Grand Council who voted for the deposing of Mussolini had been condemned to execution , with the exception of Tullio Cianette , former Minister of Corporations . German plans for the evacuation of Warsaw call for destruction of the former Polish capital 's industries and communications , and the deportation to Germany of all Poles capable of ? work , the Polish underground radio has announced , in an appeal to Poles to resist such deportation . Finland and other Nazi satellites were reported stiffening against separate peace pacts with Allies in spite of Russian advances Page 1 . Danish Communist leader , Victor Larsen , has been trapped and shot by German soldiers . Meanwhile , sabotage continues , with heavy explosions in the Burmeister main shipping yards of Copenhagen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seen in U. S. Case Federal regulation of insurance " destroying the sovereignty of the States in this field " would ensue from a decision of the Supreme Court that insurance companies are subject to the Sherman Antitrust Act , according to a brief filed by the attorneys general of 34 states in a case brought by the Justice Department against 198 companies . Congressional action to force a temporary suspension of all meat rationing was sought by Senator Thomas ( R ) of Idaho on the ground that a current surplus , particularly of pork , is clogging trade channels . Conviction of George Sylvester Viereck , who was sentenced last July to serve from one to five years for violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act . was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals . Prewar quality metal baby carriages will replace the wooden victory models on the market within six weeks , the war Production Board announced . All restrictions on the use of metals in baby carriages , pushcarts , strollers-and walkers were removed . Colored illustration. , of the new ration tokens , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in advertising and other material for public information , the OPA ruled . This is the only exception to the regulation that ration currency may be reproduced only in black and white . Purchasers of tooth paste and other goods in collapsible metal tubes will not be required to turn in a used tube before receiving a full one after March 1 . the WPB announced . Because of the higher tin salvage possible in tubes purchased more than a year ago , consumers are urged to continue turning in older tubes on a voluntary basis . Civilians have been allocated 69 per cent of this season 's supply of commercial jams , jellies , marmalade and fruit butter , announced the War Food Administration . The quantity is enough to fill consumer demands under current ration point values . The armed forces are to get 27 per cent , the remainder going to Allied nations and other foreign areas . Walter Nash , New Zealand 's Minister to the United States , returned to this country after a nine-month visit at home , his Legation in Washington announced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waste Paper No. 1 Critical Material Waste paper is now the No. 1 critical material , reported the headquarters of the Victory Waste Paper Campaign in New York . Mills are working at 60 to 75 per cent capacity , in great need of more contributions , it was pointed out . Two destroyer escorts honoring Navy pilots were launched at Newark , N. J .. by Federal Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company . Those honored were Lieut. ( j , g . ) Franklin Rinehart and Ensign David John Roche , who were killed in action in the Pacific . Members of the armed forces overseas may now be sent shoes ration free by friends or relatives in this country , announced the OPA office in Newark , N. J. Gov . Earl Warren of California . who has entered the race for the Republican nomination for the Presidency . explained that he was allowing his name to be used in the May primary so that he could head the California delegation to the 1944 convention . Far East : Hirohito Inspects Military Review Emperor Hirohito inspected the 1944 military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yoyoki parade grounds in Tokyo , the Tokyo Radio states . Japan 's army is stronger than ever . despite its losses . warn : Col. Warren J. Clear , War Department General Staff expert on Japan and former American attach ? in Tokyo . India : Enough Food Shipped to End Famine Enough food has been shipped to Bengal to end the Indian famine , Secretary of State for India Leopold Amery said in a week-end speech . Mr. Amery admitted . however , that there was still a stiff task ahead to maintain distribution and combat the famine 's after effects . The War :                     