@@712003

txt The Civil Aeronautics Board today canceled privileges for the " large irregular air carriers " as of May 20 . After that date each of about sixty such companies , operating some 200 aircraft , will be licensed to fly only on the basis of individual conditions , which are to be strictly examined . During ' this examination period the carriers may operate , pending CAB action on each individual case . This was the expected order which spokesmen for the large irregular carriers have stated would make- continued operations by them impossible . The CAB did not comment on this contention . The order stated , however , . that while " a substantial number " of such carriers have complied with the regulations involved in a two-year . exemption from stringent ' control issued in May , 1947 , " the regulation has served as a cloak for operations which are not within the intent and purpose of the regulation . " James Fischgrund , chairman of the National Independent Air Carriers , charged tonight that the CAB action " will put out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This arbitrary ruling is an unprecedented elimination of small business that will live long in infamy , " he said . " It is ironical that at the same time that the ' United States Senate is investigating why the airlines are losing money and require more and more subsidies , the CAB is putting out of business the only profitable segment of the air transportation industry , a segment which operates without government subsidy . " The large irregular carriers are defined as those passenger-carrying air companies which use planes of more than 10,000 pounds weight and which operate on unscheduled runs at intermittent periods with // out airmail pay to help support them or the responsibility of maintaining regular schedules . The regular airlines have fought the growth of the unscheduled carr'ers with the contention that the latter " skim the cream " of travel between heavily populated areas , that they actually give regular service by combinations of services operating through travel agencies and that they support cut-rate business by avoiding service to the unprofitable areas where the other carriers must give regular service . The CAB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future operations by large irregulars . It announced that each such comp.iny must file detailed reports on its operations . within thirty days after May 20 and that operations may continue pending action on each individual case . It announced . however , that these two tests would be applied to the new applications to use large aircraft in irregular service : " ( A ) It is demonstrated that a need for irregular air service exists and will be met by the use of such aircraft . and ( B ) the board can define the scope of tilt carrier 's authority with more particularity than is possible under a blanket exemption authority . " Any permits granted in future . it ' added , would " confine the carrier to the rendition of an irreg , rula " service . " The beard also announced that it would require precise reports by all irregular carriers of current a. , d proposed operations , actual fares charged for service , contracts with travel and ticket agents and , in addition , the keeping for a period of on . year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the companies . " Temptation " Is Cited Aside from these details . however . observers here thought that , ode of the most significant passages in the board ' : order was one , which read as follows : " The temptation nn the part of the la rge ir ' - egular carrier which has no other ninans of livelihood to violate the  --  tion defining ir , , - coilarity 1 is very great . because si.eh carrier tends for economic reasons to gravitate to the more lucrative routes and to operate with increasing regularity thereon in order to obtain full utilization of : large aircraft . Route operations also permit the development of return loads . thus eliminating the less profitable flights to offroute points on which little or no payload is developed . " To obtain sufficient utilization of large aircraft for an economical operation based on air transportation alone a substantial number of flights between drfinite points becomes necessary or desirable , even if only one or two large aircraft are being used . The need for route operations is further emphasized by operational factors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crew change for large aircraft . " The CAB also ruled that under its new order the large irregulars must have official approval to carry out consolidations , mergers or other combined relationships . Today 's order specifically continued the operating rights of about 2,000 small irregular carriers , those using planes weighing less than 10,000 pounds . Rules were laid down tightening control over this group , particularly to prevent combined operations and to forbid management found guilty of violations of regulations with : one small irregular from obtaining , control of one or more other small . companies .                     