@@710633

txt The CIO today hurled new defiance at the Taft-Hartley Labor Law by ' Cutting in the hands of members a " 1947 voting guide , " listing the actions of Congress members , along with advice on how to defeat in 1948 those who " voted against the people . " " Let the record speak , " counseled an open letter signed by Philip Murray , president of the CIO , who last month sought a test of the new legislation . At that time he endorsed a candidate in a Maryland special Congressional election and directed that his statement be published in The CIO News . But this and similar attitudes toward the law have not yet produced Federal action . One section of the act forbids " expenditures " ' in connection with a Federal election , and this was taken by its sponsors to mean when the law was passed that union - financed papers could not comment politically on a campaign or election . Justice Agency Studies Law The Justice Department is still studying the law . An official said last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment would be withheld on any one section . Three assistant attorneys generals have been assigned to analyze it . Last Wednesday the Connecticut Federation of Labor paid for news-1 paper advertisements seeking the defeat of , Connecticut Congress members who voted for the law . This action was specifically aimed at testing the measure . The AFL previously had sent all unions the voting records of those who favored the law . In addition , the Foreman 's Association of America recently filed a suit challenging constitutionality of the law . The CIO News distributed the " 1947 voting guide " and Mr. Murray 's open letter , which declared that Congress had " failed " the American people . Mr. Murray urged that people organize in unions , wards , precincts and on up " to get the people registered and to raise the funds to support this drive to make citizenship effective . " By knowing the issues , he skid . " the people can create a political action movement by which in 1948 they can sweep out of office the Congressmen and Senators who voted against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which the nation can be proud . " The session left unfinished " more measures for the people 's welfare than any - Congress in recent years , " the CIO chief said . Mr. Murray advised that Congress members be told , while they are at home , " just what we think of their past record and what we expect them to do next January , " when Congress reconvenes . His letter did not mention the Taft-Hartley Law , nor his conten tion that it is illegal . The voting guide listed ten Senate issues and twelve in the House on which members were checked as voting " right " or " wrong . " It said the record was " the best possible indicator of how your representatives stand in the constant struggle between the people and big economic interests . " The guide is not a " blacklist , " the paper said , observing that the voters in each district and State . would pass final judgment . But what happens in the Eightieth Congress will be a major factor , it added . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all declined comment . Meanwhile , the International Association of Machinists said The Machinists Monthly Journal also has listed " labor 's friends , " Congress members who voted to uphold veto of the law . It also is carrying a series on the TaftHartley voting record of members . However , it added , " the I. A. M. has made no issue of challenging the provision of the act which curbs political activity . " The association said in a statement that i , t " does not intend to devise ways and means to defy and violate the new law . " Instructions have ' gone out to its 600,000 members saying the big independent will " make every attempt to obey the law , " although it indicated it felt the law should be repealed , the statement added .                     