@@710859

txt The civil aeronautics administration has fixed 7,000 feet as the maximum runway length for international airports of entry , such as the Douglas airport near Park Ridge , Chicago aviation officials were notified yesterday . The stabilization of runway lengths will permit Chicago to take prompt steps to acquire land for the 10 tangential runways to be paved at the Douglas site in the northwest suburbs . Ralph H. Burke , consultant in charge of the Chicago airport program , said it is a guarantee that the Douglas field will not become outmoded in the future . Runway Lengths Six categories of maximum runway length . were fixed by T. P. Wright , CAA administrator . The permanent standards are : Feeder line stops , 3,500 feet ; local stops on domestic airlines , 4,200 feet ; express stops , 5,000 feet ; de luxe stops , 5,900 feet ; international ports of entry , 7,000 feet , and international express stops , 8,400 feet . Without increasing the 6,000 acre layout contemplated for Douglas airport , runway lengths can be extended beyond the 8,400 foot limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flights contemplated for the future , Burke said . He and Lane Wilcox , superintendent of the airports branch for the CAA 's Chicago region , issued this statement : Chicago Asked for Regulation " The new CAA regulation establishing standards of runway lengths for airports thruout the nation Is of great value and importance to Chicago and every other ' city contemplating the construction of airports . " The establishment of these regulations is gratifying since the city of Chicago was the leader in insisting that standards must be set in order to stabilize the aviation industry and to safeguard the investment of public funds . " The master plan for Douglas airport Is fully in accord with these new regulations . All the runways are over 7,000 feet in length , corresponding to the standards for international ports of entry . In addition , the tangential pattern allows the extension of each runway to an 8,400 foot length , thus qualifying the Douglas airport in the highest category established for airports  --  that of international express . Douglas Runways 7,170 Feet Long " With the new plans for Douglas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first to meet the new standards and be as ever the leader in the aviation world . " Actually , the Douglas runways are to be 7,170 feet long since the CAA standards are for sea level . The tangential runways under Burkes ' plans will be spokes radiating from a large terminal . Stabilization of runway lengths was first proposed to Wright last March in a letter by Mayor Kelly . Stabilization means that federal approval will not be given the construction of larger planes unless they are designed to take off from and land on the maximum length runways . Burke 's plans for Douglas airport are scheduled to be submitted to the council 's aviation committee this week . So far the council has not given ordinance approval to the purchase and condemnation of 4,920 acres of land needed to supplement the 1,080 acre Douglas field acquired from the war assets administration after the war . Because the proposed site is bounded on three sides by railroads , future expansion would be difficult and expensive , and was one of the factors leading to the request that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               