@@711171

txt ARMY UNITS ON THE MARCH DOWN FIFTH AVENUE A. contingent passing the reviewing stand at Sixty-seventh Street The New York Times Army Day Parade of 30,000 On 5th Ave . Seen by Million By AUSTIN STEVENS Thirty thousand marchers  --  the regular military , its future leaders , large elements of reservists and a host of patriotic and ! civic organizations  --  paraded down Fifth Avenue yesterday after- ) ' noon in one of the largest Army Day observances in the city 's history . An estimated 1,000,000 persons jammed the mile-and-a-half route to witness the annual display , which this year took on added significance through world happenings and the Army Day theme ? " A. Strong America Is a Peaceful ' America . " Reviewing the parade , along with high-ranking Army and Navy officers , was Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall . In an . address last night Secretary Royall deplored the state of the nation 's military strength and appealed for the armed might not only to defend our shores but enough additional " to take the war to the lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Applause Greets Cadets The parade , which started at Ninety-fifth Street and passed to Sixty-second , was smart and impressive . The ranks passed by the tightly packed onlookers in a generally solemn atmosphere . There was applause , as for the grayImiformed cadets of the United States Military Academy ? 2,300 strong and as perfect as ever in march ? but most in the crowd looked to the paraders as if for assurance . It was parade weather made to order ? brisk and brightly sunny . Fifth Avenue shone and the brightness gleamed on band instruments and polished uniform fittings . In the Sixty - seventh Street stand with Secretary Royall reviewing the parade were Gen. Courtney H. Hodges , commanding the First Army ; Admiral Henry K. Hewitt , Navy representative at the United Nations , and Col. Charles F. H. Johnson , past commander of the Military Order of the World Wars , which annually sponsors 4rmy Day . In the reviewing stand also were Rear Admiral Reginald R. Belknap , USN , retired , chairman of the parade staff ; Brig . Gen. Carroll 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Military Order of the World Wars ; Admiral Thomas C. ICinkaid , commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier ; Lieut . Gen. Hugh A. Drum , commanding the New York ? National Guard ; Lieut . Gen. George E. Stratemeyer , commanding the Air Defense Command ; Rear Admiral Monroe Kelly , commanding the Third Naval District , and Rear Admiral Ed H. Smith , commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier of the Coast Guard . Representing the city were Acting Mayor Vincent R. Irapellitteri and Hugo E. Rogers , Borough President of Manhattan . In file before the reviewing stand were members of the Old Guard of New York in their tall shakos , forming the guard of honor . General Bickelhaupt was marshal of the advance echelon , preceding down the avenue some fifty organizations of the junior echelon . This included schools , an abundance of high-stepping marchers and bands , military and naval school cadets and Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts . Hodges Is Grand Marshal General Hodges , as grand marshal of the parade , rode ahead of the senior echelon . Colonel Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken their places in the stands , where they were greeted by Mr. Royall , the march took on its full military flavor with military police bands , a solidmarching unit of the Women 's Army Corps from Mitchel Field , a Marine Corps drum and bugle corps and the United States Maritime Academy band . More than 2,000 members of the Organized Reserve Corps followed in the ranks , marching twelve abreast . The ORC elements were led by Maj. Gen Julius Ochs Adler , who commands the Seventy-seventh ( Liberty ) Division of the Organized Reserve Corps . Marching with the ORC units were the bands of the New York City Police Department , Fordham University and the Reserve Officers Training Corps of Fordham . Overhead through the afternoon were formations of aircraft flown by members of the National Guard Air Wing and the Air Force . The planes followed straight over the marchers ' heads , wheeled off and circled back for another demonstration . The Forty-second Infantry Division of the National Guard was led by Maj. Gen. Cornelius W. Wickerchain This outfit , along with the mechanized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , provided most of the equipment on display  --  scout cars and armored reconnaissance vehicles , highly polished jeeps with stiff-sitting drivers . Cadet Capt . A. W. Braswell marched at the head of the West Point cadets , who wore their gray uniforms without capes , their white crossed brassards fastened at the chest with gleaming brass . Applause greeted the precisemarching cadets all along the line of march . Chief Inspector Martin Brown , in charge of a detail of 2,400 mounted and uniformed police , announced that the crowd numbered 1,000,000 : Watching on from a point near the reviewing stand was Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander . When the last of the regular military and reserve elements had passed the reviewing stand the parade line was formed by scores of units representing the American Legion , the Veterans of Foreign Wars and scores of other veteran and patriotic organizations . The marching ranks took three hours to pass the stand , the last units reaching the finish line at 5 P. M. By this time the sun had lost its warmth and Secretary Royall reached for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a luncheon for key persons in the parade at the Metropolitan Club .                     