@@707121

txt Allied armies expect to end remaining Axis resistance in Tunisia in " two days " : the enemy expects a quick follow-up attack on the Continent of Europe . There is every reason to believe both expectations will be fulfilled . In Tunisia , Allied Headquarters have announced the unconditional surrender of more than 50,000 Axis troops and establishment of a sea and air blockade on Cap Bon . Only on this rocky promontory and in one or two isolated spots in Central Tunisia are the remnants of the once-proud Axis African armies still seeking to escape justice . The plight of the enemy forces on Cap Bon , estimated at 80,000 , is described as " worse than desperate " Berlin now admits that both General von Arnim and Marshal Rommel have fled to Europe . The command has been turned over , appropriately enough . to an Italian named General Nesse . Many small ships loaded with fleeing Axis soldiers have been sunk in the past 2 ? 1 hours , and there are some signs the Germans may be attempting a general evacuation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any chance of getting away . British armor is smashing relentlessly ahead on Cap Bon and a huge umbrella of Amen-can and British air power is raining destruction on every square mile of enemy-held ground . Delayed dispatches say the British already have advanced to the near center of the Cap . Meanwhile , in Europe , frantic Axis preparations are underway to fend off the expected Allied invasion . German troops are moving southward through the Balkans at a rate comparable to that which preceded the attack on Greece and Yugoslavia , Marshal Rommel is reported to be directing construction of fortifications in Greece . All Holland has been placed under martial law . The key French port of Le Havre has been ordered evacuated . New fortifications are being thrown up with desperate speed along the French Mediterranean coast and in Norway . And new ie. strictions arc being imposed to keep the subject peoples under control . German feais that a European invasion is imminent have been accentuated by a number of week-end developments . First , General Giraud said in a broadcast that " tomorrow the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would he hard , but not long . Second , Allied planes carried out great raids on Palermo , Messina and other Italian ports in what appeared to be part of a " softening-up " process . Third , London disclosed that powerful new American P-47 Thunderbolt fighter planes had gone into action in the Euro . pea n theater . And , fourth , the Russians succeeded in piercing the outer fortifications of Novorossisk , while Soviet aircraft delivered their most formidable series of attacks to date on Nazi communications . North Africa : German Resistance Stiffens at Cap Bon Dispatches from the Cap Bon front quoted soldiers of the at . tacking Allied forces as agreeing to " get this business finished in two days  --  not two weeks . "                     