@@712125

txt Alger Hiss squirmed in federal court today when portrayed to a jury as the betrayer of an American informant I behind the iron curtain in 1938 . The 1936-1946 state department official , on trial for perjury to conceal espionage , hitherto has been airily confident , even gay . But uneasiness descended upon him as Assistant United States Atty . Thomas F. Murphy laid bare to tire jury the wholesale theft of secret papers from the state department in the first three months of 1938 . He twisted in his seat and whispered frequently to hiS placid wife , ? Priscilla , who patted his knee . The voluminous documentary evidence consisted of 69 pages of typewritten , handwritten , and microfilmed copies of confidential papers produced by Whittaker Chambers , former senior editor of Time magazine and confessed soviet agent . from 193 1 to 1938 . Chambers has testified that Hiss stole the material for relay to a Russian police agent . Not Revealed Before One of these documents had not been publicized before . It was one of the four handwritten exhibits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fourth , he told FBI agents , according to a signed statement in evidence , " appears " to be in his hand . Murphy said expert witnesses would identify all four handwritten memoranda as having been written by Hiss . The few scrawled lines were a copy of a cablegram addressed to State Secretary Cordell Hull from Moscow on Jan , 28 , 1933 . It read : " Have received following telegram from Mary Martin , widow ' of Hugh Martin , former employe for special work by legation at Riga : ' Remember well Roberts while working for Hugh , be strict if needed , write library of congress , law division . ( signed ) Mary Martin . ' Henderson " The purported interest of Hiss in a famous espionage case 11 years ago was thus discloser and the naming of Mary Martin as an American informant in soviet territory for the American embassy in Moscow would have been of con-. siderable interest to the Kremlin , it was noted . No explanation of the message itself and its reference to the library of congress was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much interest in 1938 . It broke with the announcement in December : 1937 , by the soviet government that a Mr. and Mrs. Donald L Robinson , an American couple , had been arrested on charges of espionage . They had entered Russia under the name but their real names , it was later disclosed , were Adolph Arnold Rubens and Ruth Marie Rubens . Investigation by a federal grand jury indicated that Ruben : . had operated a fake passport mill in flew York for soviet.agents . In May , 1939 , three of his minor confederates received prison terms here . What happened to the Rubens in Russia was never made known . Both remained there . Russian officials refused to permit American officials to talk to them at the time . Hiss at the time was chief assistant to Francis B. Sayre , assistant secretary of state . The note in his handwriting , which was given to Chambers , was made at the time the investigation of the Rubens case was at its height . One Paper Withheld One of the documents was withheld from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bullitt to Hull Jan. 25 , 1938 , which discussed the moves at that time for a French reconciliation with . Germany : Portions of this cablegram still could injure relations with foreign nations , the state department had advised Murphy . MurntlY permitted release to the press of a part- of the cablegram to show its nature . Bullitt mentioned French hope for American aidin reconciling Germany , stating ; " The Germans had even today ! an enormous respect for the United . . States and a latent fear of the United States . And the American ambassador in Berlin should be able to exercise a powerful influence for peace . Hitler was intensely  --  nterested in the ' humanization of warfare . ' But Delbos and Chautemps felt that this interest of Hitler 's might be used as the door to reach Franco-German reconciliation . " Identifies Documents Walter H. Anderson , veteran chief of the records division of the state department , identified ' the stolen documents as authentic copies of state department papers . He listed those officials who had access to the papers , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time , Alger Hiss . Huge photostatic copies of each document , 20 square feet in area : were displayed on charts in front of the Jury box . The great propor- ? tion of these papers had been made public by the house ? committee on un-American activities last fall after Chambers testified he had hidden them for 10 years after receiving them from Hiss . The jury displayed interest in the papers as Murphy read them thruout the day . He was only half thru when court adjourned . gums Up Statements Federal Judge Samuel H. Kaufman informed the jury he had barrqd the admission of statements rnade by Chambers to FBI agents in 1942 and 1945 . But he summed up these statements in his own fashion and emphasized the point that Chambers had consistently denied knowledge of espionage involving Hiss until December , 1948 . " Chambers told the FBI that he had not suspected or believed that Hiss was engaged in other than regular promotion of a Communist group , " the judge said . In making these remarks , the judge once referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Impact . Apparent The impact of the documentary evidence upon the jury was so apparent that Defense Atty . Lloyd P. Stryker offered to accept all the material as authentic if the government would dispense with father reading of them in detail . ? " I would like to conduct the government 's case in my , own way , " Murphy told the judge . He went on reading the confidential papers which told of secret dip/emetic activities of the United States in both Europe and the far East . All this information , Chambers has testified , was funneled to him by Hiss after the messages lad been decoded upon receipt from'abroad . State department witnesses testified in Washington that access to these messages would have permitted the Russians to break the American code . The documents were replete with references to Hitler and Mussolini and the efforts of England and France to . - cope with them ? prior to the outbreak of the war .                     