@@709359

txt The Legislative Committee on Municipal Finance filed an adverse report on Mayor Curley 's bill for authority to borrow $10,000,000 to reduce the Boston tax rate . Two Gloucester fishing vessels arrived at the Boston Fish Pier with four others en route as labor difficulties at the North Shore port sent the large catches to Boston . The Boston Chamber of Commerce voiced renewed support of a school reform bill in the State Legislature , as a result of recent events in the school system . The bill would make the Superintendent the executive head of the School Department , and was an outgrowth of the Strayer Report . Page 2 . In Europe : Tito 's Forces Arrest Mihailovic Gen. Draja Mihailovic , former Yugoslav guerrilla leader against the Nazis , has been arrested by Premier Marshal Tito 's forces as a traitor and war criminal . Herbert Hoover , chairman of the American commission investigating the European food situation , flew to Switzerland from Rome today to confer with International Red Cross officials . Germany 's 56,000-ton Europa is being considered for use as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third largest liner in the world was rejected by the United States Navy because of low fire safety standards . Adrian Holman has arrived in Bucharest to assume his new post of British political representative to Romania . . Washington : Timken Faces Antitrust Action Attorney General Clark announced the filing of a civil action charging the Timken-Detroit Axle Company , one of the nation 's largest manufacturers of axles and axle forgings , with antitrust violations . Sentiment in favor of going ahead with the atomic bomb tests in the Pacific Ocean was reported growing in the Capital  --  even though the surface explosion test might be canceled . Page 9 . Gen. Omar N. Bradley , head of the Veterans Administration , urges delay beyond mid-year if the United States Employment Service is to be returned to state control . He told the Senate Labor Committee it would be " entirely too soon and might throw the whole system into confusion incident upon the change of management and basis of operation.P National : West Coast Fleet Post Office Closing The Twelfth Naval District announced the Fleet Post Office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be closed within 30 days and delivery of mail to naval personnel in Pacific areas returned to the U. S. Postal Service . The Fleet Post Office staff of 5,500 sailors and Waves handled more than a billion pieces of mail in 1945 , the peak year . Far East : Former Regent of Siam Made Premier Former Regent of Slam Pridi Panomyong has been chosen Premier by the Siamese Assembly , a Bangkok dispatch said . He replaces Premier Khuang Aphaiwong who resigned five days ago becausi of a price and wage control dispute ,                     