@@704831

txt Candidacies for the Republican Presidential nomination were put before the delegates to the national convention last night , led off by the speech for Thomas E. Dewey when Alabama yielded to New York . The convention was speeded up so that balloting could begin today . Page 1 , Column 8 . Lines within the candidates ' organizations were tightened during the day for the decisive test of balloting in a " delegates ' convention . " Page 1 , Column 7 . The convention late in the afternoon adopted a party platform asking full preparedness but opposing our involvement in a " foreign war . " Page 1 , Column 5 . A plank sponsored by the National Woman 's party , supporting an equal rights amendment applying to women in employment , was adopted in the platform . Page 1 , Column 6 . A Night of Speeches By JAMES A. HAGERTY Special to TER NEW ' roux TIMES . MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM , Philadelphia , June ** up after being forced to adjourn its first session of its third day because of failure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimously adopted tonight a platform with a strong non-intervention plank and a severe condemnation of the New Deal . The convention then proceeded with the nominating speeches for the Presidential candidates . The platform sets responsibility for the lack of preparedness for national defense on the Roosevelt Administration , declares against entrance into war , calls for adequate military and naval forces to defend the Western Hemisphere under the Monroe Doctrine , expresses sympathy with and calls for aid for the peoples fighting for liberty , deplores what it terms President Roosevelt 's " explosive utterances , " favors collective bargaining , fairness to agriculture , a resurvey of the Hull trade agreements , sound money , conservation of credit , and equal opportunity for all , regardless of race , creed or color , in American life . Dewey Nomination First District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey of New York was the first candidate to be placed in nomination , Alabama yielding to New York for that purpose . In presenting Mr. Dewey to the convention John Lord O'Brian told of the candidate 's success in checking rackets in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his prosecutions . He characterized Mr. Dewey as a man of proved ability and trustworthiness , and said his ability as a vote-getter was demonstrated in 1938 when , as a candidate for Governor , he received more votes in his home State than ever had been cast for a Republican nominee for President . The managers of Mr. Dewey 's campaign were caught flat-footed in arrangements for a demonstration for him . They had not expected him to be placed in nomination so early , and many of his supporters had not reached the hall . As a result , the demonstration , compared with later demonstrations for Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio and Wendell L. Willkie , was disappointing to his supporters . Wadsworth Nominates Gannett With Arizona yielding again to New York , Representative James W. Wadsworth put Frank E. Gannett , Rochester newspaper publisher , in nomination . Mr. Wadsworth presented Mr. Gannett as a successful business man , and repeated victor over the New Deal . The demonstration for Mr. Gannett was hampered by lack of any considerable number of delegates . Spectators who attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Grove Patterson , editor of The Toledo Blade , spoke for Senator Taft as Arkansas yielded to Ohio . Mr. Patterson said the Senator 's equipment for leadership ' of the nation at this time of crisis was made up of ability , education , training and experience . The audience saw references to other candidates in the speaker 's assertion that if Senator Taft was not the best backslapper , he had the best backbone and that he always had been a Republican . The demonstration for Mr. Taft was better organized than that for Mr. Dewey , but was not particularly impressing , lack of bands seeming to take some of the fire of enthusiasm out of the paraders . Feeling Stirred Over Willkie Intense feeling both for and against the candidate was shown when Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana placed Wendell L. Willkie in nomination . Mingled boos and cheers followed Mr. Halleck 's assertion that his candidate was a Republican who would stand with his party , " win , lose or draw . " Mindful that Mr. Willkie was a Democrat until very ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ galleries after this statement . It was noticeable that most of the cheering , as well as the booing , came from the galleries . Mr. Halleck did not attempt to dodge Mr. Willkie 's position as head of a public utility corporation . He declared that his candidate had shown his ability to manage a large business and rehabilitate it financially during the same period in which the United States went more and more into debt . When Mr. Halleck , in a sentence describing the rapid growth of the Willkie boom , said that it grew " without campaign funds , " a storm of boos came from the galleries . To answer complaints that Mr. Willkie until recently was a Democrat , he asked if the Republican party was a closed corporation and if a man had to be " born in it . " This brought a chorus of " noes . " Willkie Demonstrations set Off The conclusion of Mr. Halleck 's speech was the signal for the noisiest demonstration of the evening , with the standards of eleven States in the Willkie parade , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made for each candidate presented . After Governor Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut ended his speech seconding the nomination of Mr. Willkie , the convention took a recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning , when the remaining candidates will be preesnted . Balloting is expected to begin at tomorrow 's evening session . After the demonstration for Mr. Willkie , by far the best of the evening , Colonel R. B. Creager of Texas , the Taft floor leader , and two Pennsylvanians , former United States Senator David A. Reed and Howard W. Mason , National Committeeman , charged Samuel F. Pryor , National Committeeman from Connecticut , who is chairman of the Committee on Arrangements of the convention and a Willkie supporter , with having packed the galleries for Mr. Willkie by issuing several thousand special admission tickets , good Wednesday only , to Willkie adherents . Colonel Creager said that tomorrow he would demand an investigation and a change of doorkeepers . Three Candidates in the Lead While the members of the committee on resolutions were arguing over the draft of the platform and the delegates were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing their lines tighter in preparation for the balloting . For the moment there are three candidates in the lead , District Attorney Dewey , Senator Taft and Mr. Willkie , who was born in Indiana , built up a law practice in Ohio and now is a resident of New York . The rather unenthusiastic reception of Mr. Hoover 's speech seemed to have removed him from consideration as an early-ballot candidate , and his friends abandoned any movement to have him placed in nomination , feeling that the only chance of the former President lies in a prolonged deadlock . Influential friends , among whom were said to have been Jeremiah T. Millbank , Patrick J. Hurley , former Secretary of War , and James Douglas of Chicago , former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , called or sent messages to Mr. Hoover during the day urging him to support Mr. Willkie . They were said to have received no encouragement , and Mr. Hoover , although still regarded by his friends as a possible compromise candidate , is believed to be inclined toward Senator Taft , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration and executive assistant in Belgium , Polish and Russian relief during the World War and postWorld War period . In the early evening , Mr. Willkie called on Mr. Hoover at the latter 's suite in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel . Mr. Willkie said afterward that his reception was " pleasant and satisfactory . " Mr. Hoover , in an interview , said he was not seeking the nomination . When asked whether he would accept if it should be offered him , his reply was : " No comment . " J. Russel Sprague , campaign manager for Mr. Dewey , prepared for the drive by which he and his colleagues on the board of strategy expect to bring about Mr. Dewey 's nomination on or before the third ballot . Mr. Sprague again predicted that Mr. . Dewey would have 400 votes on the first ballot , with a substantial increase on the second . If his prediction should prove to be correct , Mr. Dewey almost certainly would win the nomination . There is every reason to believe that Mr. Dewey will approach 400 on the first ballot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and surveys by a manaers of rival candidates indicate that he will get from 360 to 370 . Second Ballot Critical One The critical point in the Dewey boom will be reached on the second ballot . A net increase of the District Attorney 's vote on this ballot to offset possible losses by defections may come from Western delegates , who seem to be opposed to the nomination of Mr. Willkie , and fear that he may be nominated if the convention should take a recess after a few non-decisive ballots . Mr. Dewey 's managers also expect ' to have on the second ballot the aid of Alf M. Landon , former Governor of Kansas and . he Presidential candidate four years ago . Mr. Landon , who is friendly to the candidacy of the New York District Attorney , although not committed , continues opposed to the nomination of Mr : Willkie . It is quite likely that in the early balloting the influence of the last two Republican Presidential nominees will be exerted for the two candidates leading on those ballots , Mr. Landon supporting Mr. Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of common knowledge among politicians and newspaper correspondents that Mr. Landon and Mr. Hoover have little in common , politically . From indications , Mr. Dewey will lead Senator Taft by at least 100 votes on the first ballot , or possibly by 125 . Should Mr. Dewey fail to develop the second ballot strength expected by his supporters , Mr. Taft 's forces will be in a position to make their drive . Under the management of David S. Ingalls , the Taft convention organization probably is the closest knit and most effective of that of any of the candidates . Mr. Taft 's first ballot strength is estimated at from 250 to 275 votes , but his supporters claim strong secondary strength . His candidacy would not suffer , necessarily , from a recess after non-effective ballots , as would Mr. Dewey 's , because it would give opportunity for the many experienced politicians supporting him to work among the delegates . Denial that there had been any negotiations for a Dewey-Taft deal was made again by Mr. Sprague . There has been " hotel lobby talk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight at present for several reasons . One is that Mr. Dewey and Senator Taft each believes-.he has an excellent chance for the Presidential nomination . Another is that neither candidate nor his campaign manager can " deliver " any considerable number of delegates . A- Dewey-Taft or a Taft-Dewey ticket is regarded as a possibility , but if such a ticket should be named it would not be by a " deal , " such as that which gave John N. Garner of Texas second place . to Franklin D. Roosevelt at the Democratio National Convention in 1932 , but would be an " arrangement " similar to that by which Colonel Frank Knox was induced to take second place to Mr. Landon at the 1936 Republican National Convention at Cleveland after Mr. Landon 's nomination had been assured . In the Dewey camp there is an indication that Mr. Dewey might like to have Senator Taft as his running mate if he should win the Presidential nomination . It is quite likely that the reverse arrangement would be satisfactory to Senator Taft . Stassen Declares for Winkle Any sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Taft will be the signal for an intensive drive for the nomination of : Ir . Willkie , whose candidacy received impetus by declarations for him by two important delegates to the convention , Governor Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota , temporary chairman and " keynote " orator , and former United States Senator Daniel 0 . Hastings of Delaware , member of the executive committee of the national committee . " After weighing all the factors and in view of the critical situation facing this country , " said the youthful Governor of Minnesota , who is regarded by many as one of the coming important figures in the Republican party , " I have decided to cast my vote on the first ballot for Willkie because I believe him best fitted for leadership in utilizing our mass-production system and preparing to make this country safe for any eventuality . " Former Senator Hastings said : " Willkie , practically unknown in American politics , has captured a vast horde of Republicans of all classes . I believe Willkie can and will capture the electoral vote in November . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their way once more . " Winkle Gains in West Virginia For the first time since the convention opened the Willkie forces , captained by Representative Halleck , have an effective organization . What started out as a politically amateurish group has been transformed into one led by experienced politicians with liason representatives in many State delegations . Mr. Willkie seems to have gained strength in West Virginia , where the majority of the delegates originally were for Senator Taft , according to Walter S. Hallanan , national committeeman , who is one of the Willkie board of strategy . " The vast majority of West Virginia delegates will be for Willkie on the second or third ballot , and I believe he will be the nominee of this convention , " Mr. Hallinan said . Of the candidates having small apparent delegate support , only Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan is given much of ' a chance for the nomination by political leaders , who believe that the nominattion of the Michigan Senator may come out of a deadlock . Senator Vandenberg declined to make any prediction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line for five or six ballots , anything may happen . "                     