@@706981

txt With the German eastern front crumbling along a wide sector and important key points being rapidly vacated , a report from neutral quarters tonight states that Reiehsfuehrer Hitler is preparing to relinquish his active Supreme Command and , place it in the hands of his Field Marshals , under the leadership of Field Marshal General Fritz Erich von Mannstein . Private advices state that Herr Hitler has called commanders of all army groups for " critical consultations . " Meanwhile , according to the information , the army chiefs have agreed to take over the direction of the eastern campaign on condition that Herr Hitler approves drastic shortening of the present front and assumes entire responsibility for the general retreat . The new front , it is reported , is to be greatly shortened and presumably will run from Riga in the north along the Dvina River and the upper reaches of the Dnieper in the Smolensk area to Kiev and thence to Odessa in the south . New Line Would Be Stronger While no authoritative confirmation of this information has been forthcoming , competent neutral military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such a curtailed battlefront more closely approximates the defensive potential of the present German forces in the east and would give better prospects of halting the Russian advance . Military spokesmen in Berlin today were inclined to confess that Russian strategy during the past forty-eight hours had upset the German calculations generally . The situation in the Don bend no longer comes within the purview of German operations . While no admission to that effect was forthcoining , German appraisal of the position apparently suggests that the drastic shortening of the line hitch in completely with a new German 1strategy . The ceaseless flow of Russian reserves , it is argued in these circles , permits the Germans no other choice , despite recent German forecasts of a new offensive by new larmies that are being assembled behind the line . The reported selection of Field Marshal von Mannstein. as new Chief of Operations - is believed due to Herr Hitler 's confidence in the man who captured Sevastopol . At any rate , it would appear that the Reichsfuehrer believes the situation so critical that the relinquishing of his authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East Line Seen The change in German strategy on the eastern front , implied in the reports of a new command and a radical shortening of the German front , marks the development of as yet unforseeable ramifications . Most important of these possibly will be the fact that it marks the boundary in the east of the " European Fortress " the Germans are determined to defend . Another implication is suggested in the previous unwillingness of Herr Hitler to abandon or at least share his " responsibility " for the further conduct of the war . This invites speculation as to whether he has been confronted with an ultimatum . He assumed supreme command Dec. 19 , 1941 , making much in his announcement before the Iteichstag at the time of his " intuition , " which had led him to take that step . This " intuition , " however , soon had as a sequel an outbreak of opposition in the ranks of his commanding officers . It culminated in the " retirement " of Col. Gen. Franz Haider , Chief of Staff and one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lavish waste of manpower and materiel in the attack on Moscow . He wanted to hold a Winter line in the neighborhood of Smolensk , toward which the Germans were gradually pushed back with the Russian Spring offensive in 1942 . Another Haider Demand General Helder also supports the idea that German strategy , if it is to be effective for long , must include a better disposition of forces to include sound support of Field Marshal Erwin Rommel in his North African theatre . Events in this direction finally vindicated the star strategist of the German Army . The new strategy coincides with the recent determined pronouncements of President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill after their conferences at Casablanca . Ramifications of a more intriguing nature may be expected to result from the new policy on the internal situation in Germany at a time when the civilian population is being mobilized en masse for the express purpose of halting the Russians . It would be far-fetched , however , to conclude that a reversal of strateby on the eastern front would affect morale on the home front . The Wehrmacht @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on land , on sea and in the air .                     