@@705231

txt President Roosevelt sent to the House of Representatives at noon today his expected message vetoing the Logan-Walter bill to subject rulings and regulations of administrative agencies to court review , and within three ' hours the House had upheld the veto , thus killing the legislation for this session of Congress . The vote was 153 to override against 127 to sustain the veto , two-thirds being necessary to override . As soon as the vote had been announced , Representative McCormack of Massachusetts , majority floor leader , told newspaper men that Administration forces probably would offer tomorrow a resolution to adjourn the Seventy-sixth Congress sine die . Under the law , its session could last until midnight Jan. 2 , but if it should adjourn now it would not meet again unless . surnmoned into special session by President Roosevelt . A previous motion to adjourn , offered by Administration leaders , was defeated Nov. 19 in the House , and the fact that the Senate had not then acted on the Logan-Walter bill was a factor in the vote . The , Senate then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 , and proponents of the measure were all the more determined to keep Congress in session so that President Roosevelt would not have an opportunity for a pocket veto . Mr. McCormack seemed to believe there would be little opposition to adjournment , with the holiday season beckoning the members to their homes . He said he had conferred with Speaker Rayburn and with Representative Martin of Massachusetts , the minority leader , though no agreement had been reached . Jackson Supports the Veto President Roosevelt 's disapproval of the Logan-Walter bill was contained in a ' message about 2,000 words long , ' backed up by an analysis of the proposed legislation written by Attorney General Jackson , which ran well over 4,000 words . Both agreed that existing administrative procedure might well be improved , but held that the bill was far too sweeping in the changes it proposed . In addition to his general objections to the bill , Mr. Roosevelt told the House that he would have to veto it , if for no other reason , because of the specific manner in which he believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today , in sustaining American ideals of justice , an ounce of action is worth more than a pound of argument , " . the President said in closing his message , after stating that he was convinced the bill would produce " the utmost chaos and paralysis in the administration of the government at this critical time , " and asserting : " I am convinced that it is an invitation to endless and innumerable controversies at a moment when we can least afford to spend either governmental or private effort in the luxury of litigation . " This was the President 's way of summarizing the objections advanced against the bill which he and Mr. Jackson listed in detail , asserting in effect that disgruntled , obstructive or even subversive individuals could , under the proposal , keep a number of government agencies engaged in defense efforts involved in endless litigation in the courts over every single rule and regulation issued . Aims for " Substantial Justice " " Substantial justice remains a higher aim for our civilization than technical legalism , " Mr. Roosevelt stated , after recounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interstate Commerce Commission in 1886 to formulate just the kind of technical regulations which the LoganWalter bill would subject to court review . The Chief Executive listed the Maritime Commission , the Commerce Department , and the Treasury Department with its Foreign Funds Control among the agencies which , he said , would be crippled by the proposed legislation . Mr. Jackson , in his more detailed analysis of the technical features of the bill , came to the conclusion that " it is as if we should average the sizes of all men 's feet and then buy shoes of only that one size for the Army . " The Attorney General pointed out that each administrative agency had had established for it a rough draft of its procedure in the act of Congress creating it , and that the Logan-Walter bill would thus amend " literally hundreds of statutes " which would be " left to the always debatable implication . " " You are thus presented with a bill which would make it illegal to issue regulations for quarantine in an epidemic in Federal territory or the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were public hearings in advance , " his analysis said . At another point the Attorney General said : ? " For example , such matters as the awarding of contracts , the acceptance or rejection of supplies , the granting or withholding compensation or hospitalization from a veteran , fraud orders of the Postoffice Department , the granting or withholding of a license for a vessel or of a master 's or mate 's ticket , the determination of claims for benefits under the Social Security Act , are a few examples taken at random , of governmental actions of an executive or administrative nature which may become subject to judicial review were this bill to become law , but which have never been regarded as so reviewable . " When the veto measure came befor the House , with an hour 's limitation on debate , its proponents asserted that all the arguments advanced by President Roosevelt and Mr. Jackson had been presented during the original debate in the House , which ended in the adoption of the measure on April 18 by 202 to 97 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter of Pennsylvania , surviving author of the measure , said the Attorney General had conjured up dangers which had never been considered to exist by Congress . He added that the Acheson committee , appointed by the Attorney General to study present administrative procedure and to recommend legislation , was hopelessly divided in its opinions and said this was why it had not presented a report . Representative Rankin suggested , " If we want to correct legislation , let 's correct it ourselves and not pass the buck to the courts . " Representative Patrick told the House , " If we want to pass a bill for the relief of hungry lawyers , this is it . " Mr. McCormack addressed his whole argument to sustain the veto toward the Democratic side of the House . He agreed with Representative Cochran , who had urged delay until the next session of Congress , and told the House he was assured the Acheson committee would report within two weeks . Small Attendance Stressed Representative Sumners , chairman of the Judiciary Committee , summed up for the proponents of overriding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendance-287 in a total membership of about 430 had just answered to a quorum call . " Some of the boys are coolin ' off , " he said . " There are n't many of ' em here . They 've had a good deal of heat put on ' em in the last few days . " Representative Sumners protested President Roosevelt 's reference to " the luxury of litigation , " and declared the right of every individual to demand a public hearing before a court to be a basic principle of the Anglo-Saxon system . Asserting that it was natural for administrative officials to object to supervision , he added : " These men want to do a good job , and they do n't want anybody to interfere with them . Hitler does n't want anybody to interfere with him . He probably thinks he 's doing a good job . " " Now , do n't you newspaper boys get me in wrong about this , " he interjected , with a glance toward the press table . Fighting for " Democracy " " These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of Congress , " Mr. Sumners continued in a serious vein . " We profess to be fighting the battle of democracy . We 've a great big job to do right here , men and women of Congress . " But his oratory was not sufficient to carry the day , however , and as the roll was called it was apparent that few individual votes were changing from the ballot which passed the bill in April . One who changed was Mr. McCormack . Ninety-nine fewer votes were cast today . than on passage of the bill . Had all the absentees been present and voting to override the veto , they would have fallen just short of doing so , and the balance of power might have been held by the eight members who merely voted " present " today .                     