@@707134

txt Breaking through the secrecy that had hitherto surrounded the United Nations conference on food and agriculture , which will begin next Tuesday , Richard K. Law , chairman of the United Kingdom delegation , today held the first press conference in which any delegation , American or foreign , has stated its attitude toward the issues to be discussed at Virginia Hot Springs . Mr. Law , who is the son of the late Andrew Sonar Law , Canadian-born Prime Minister of Great Britain , is Parliamentary UnderSecretary of State in the British Foreign Office and recently headed the British delegation to the refugee conference in Bermuda . Some years ago he worked as a newspaper man in New York and Philadelphia . With several members of his delegation sitting alongside , he told a large gathering of newspaper men at the offices of the British Information Services that his government regards the food conference as of " first importance " and is determined to do everything in its power to make it a success as " the first concerted attempt by the free peoples to lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed " high hopes " that the conference would make a " definite contribution " toward a United Nations system of cooperation to prevent poverty and hunger from breeding future depressions and wars . Finally , he stated his own " tentative Ideas of what that contribution may be . " " Freedom From Want " Goal Adopting President Roosevelt 's phrase , " Freedom from want , " Mr. Law said this must be the ultimate goal ? " to insure to all mankind a supply of food which is secure , adequate and suitable , and an adequate supply of those other lthiengs , clothing , shelter and so on , which are essential to a civilized if Conceding that the conference in itself could not bring about any such " over-night utopia , " he insisted it should nevertheless be possible for it to go on record as stating that " the resources of the world , if fully developed by the ingenuity of free men , would ultimately be adequate to insure to every one basic nutritional needs . " Nutritional improvement could be achieved , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also by the peacetime continuance and extension of the wartime priority system now in effect in Great Britain for milk and other items to provide an adequate diet for children and nursing mothers , and by " price adjustments " to encourage consumers to buy the proper foods , Asked to explain the existing priority system , he turned the question over to another member of his delegation , John P. R. Maud , deputy secretary of the Ministry of Food , who said nursing mothers and children get a pint of milk a day , whereas other persons are limited to two pints a week . Echoing to some extent Vice President Wallace 's global views on the same subject , he said it was hoped to continue some such plan in Britain after the war . Proposes World Food Office Mr. Law urged the establishment of a new international office on food , modeled after the International Labor Office , in order to ensure the permanent realization of the main objectives at Hot Springs as he envisioned them . This international food office , he said , would collect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements , study consumption and production problems " as a simple whole , " and offer advice and recommendations as to how these problems should be solved . " If such an organization were created at any early date , " he added , " the United Kingdom Government would enter the peace with much greater confidence that we shall not be found unequal to the tremendous task which faces us all . " He ? also said the Hot Springs conference should draw attention to the relationship between food and agriculture and the broader economic problems involved in distributing the food which is produced to the people who need it . Saying that this could not be solved by any " permanent system of international charity , " he called for the creation of an economic system in which " it will be possible for all men and all nations to earn a steady livelihood and so acquire the foodstuffs and other commodities which are essential to their well-being . " " Unless we are able to impress upon the minds of our respective peoples , " he added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Hull 's reciprocal trade policy , " the plain fact that freedom from want , that adequate standards of food and nutrition depend fundamentally upon a developing and expanding world trade and upon the fullest possible degree of steady employment , the food conference will have failed in its job . " Mr. Law criticized the policies which led many countries during the " surplus " days of the Nineteen Thirties to restrict production . 