@@706084

txt LONDON , Dec. ** completion of the extended draft program that Prime Minister Winston Churchill has asked  --  and the bill now pending before the House of Commons is certain to become law , though it may be slightly modified ? Britain will have registered 17 , - 175,000 men and women for war services . This is about 36 per cent of the population and is about as close to total mobilization as the nation can expect to reach . Extension of the age limits to 51 for men and 41 for women is expected to produce some 6,000,000 additional registrants , since the average yearly births for each sex have been found to be about 300 , - 000 , and registration of boys over 16 will add about 500,000 more . Even if the ages are pushed up ten years more for each sex it is doubtful if more than 4,000,000 additional registrants will be found , but there is at present no telling what future necessities may dictate . The full aim of the program was recently stated by Lord Moyne to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air-raid precaution services , including men and women , of a force that would equal within a year the strength available at the end of the World War , while in factories producing munitions the working force would be double that of the World War period . Total Is Secret There are no figures on the total of munitions workers in the World War , but the mobilization of the whole Empire was nearly 9,000,000 , of which , at the war 's end , nearly 3,500,000 had been killed or wounded . The actual number of those in the services now is withheld as a military secret . Since the war began 6,400,000 men have been registered under the National Services Act and 3,100,000 women under the Employment Order . In addition , there are 1,250,000 over-age and underage men registered under the Employment Order . Of this force of 10,750,000 , millions have been ribserved for one reason or another , THOMPSON NEW YORK Talus. but exact figures , again , are a military secret , since a simple arith ? metical operation would give the total of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of age limits that the program now being prepared is expected to produce more men for armed service and more women for factories , but also in the colossal task of re-examination of each case in which men of military age and women of compulsory work age , which is 20 to 30 , have been " reserved " ? that is , put in categories enabling deferment of their service . Reserved Industries At the beginning of conscription whole industries were reserved within certain ages without regard for individual qualifications or lack of them . As a result of this practice many skilled men have been buried in the armed forces when they might be more useful elsewhere , and by the same token there are many men working at reserved trades who might be more valuable to the war effort in arms. , There still remain a few specified occupations in which all per , sons get blanket reservation . It is such a curious list that it is worth reciting . Here it is : merchant seamen , full-time members of the Royal Observer Corps , reserved occupations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgeons and occupations covered by special schemes that make them part of the national effort , such as agriculture , civil service , building , civil engineering and coal mining . Continuance of such blanket res. ervations will very likely be sub ? jetted to modifications in the future . In agriculture a strong effort is being made to replace men with women ; though highly publicized , it has had indifferent success . Robinson in The London Star Prime Minister Churchill would extend the draft ages for both men and women in England .                     