@@711963

txt Mao Tzetung , chairman of the Chinese Communist party , tonight relaxed his earlier insistence on the punishment of Kuomintang " war criminals " as Nationalist and Communist negotiators in Peiping entered the first stage of the peace talks aimed at ending the civil war . The Communist leader stated that any Kuomintang civil or military official would be persona grata to a future Communist-sponsored coalition government if he " repented " his past actions and aided " the cause of the people 's liberation " under circumstances favoring " a peaceful solution of the domestic question . " It was the first time the Communists had publicly announced a willingness to modify their " war criminal " demand on a blanket scale . According to the Peiping radio , Mr. Mao made his statement in reply to a letter sent to him by Gen. Fu Tso-yi , former Nationalist commander in North China who was taken off the Communist " war criminal " list after the local agreement permitting the Chinese Red Army to occupy Peiping without a battle . The broadcast said General Fu had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also to political groups already cooperating with the Communists and to " patriotic friends within the Kuomintang throughout the country . " The general was said to have declared in his letter : " My greatest mistake has been the carrying out of the reactionary policy of suppression of the rebellion . Although we daily talked Of serving the people when we were Carrying out the so-called suppression of the rebellion , the actual facts were that we were on all points ravaging and oppressing the people . In the villages we were watchmen for the big landlords and in the cities we acted as guards for the privileged rich and corrupt dishonest officials . " General Fu , who was on close terms in Peiping with the United States representatives , also was quoted as having declared in his letter that part of " the evil outcome " of the Kuomintang 's past " mistakes " had been the diplomatic " subordination " of China to the United States . The Chinese version of the broadcast quoted Fu Tso-yi as having said that China had become " a protectorate " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist party had been successful because it represented " the interests of the masses of workers and peasants and people throughout the country , " General Fu was said to have concluded : " From now onward I wish to support the leadership of Chairman Mao Tze-tung and the Chinese Communist party and to carry out the new democracy and the peaceful construction of the new China . " Communist Leader Replies The Communist radio reported Mr. Mao 's reply textually as follows : " I have read your April 1st circular telegram . The Nanking Kuomintang reactionary government 's policy of launching a counter-revolutionary civil war is completely wrong . This government must bear the responsibility for the colossal calamities suffered by the Chinese people for several years because of this counter-revolutionary civil war . But with regard to the civil and military officials of the Kuomintang reactionary government carrying out this policy , they will be welcomed by us no ' matter who they are , provided they will differentiate clearly between right and wrong , earnestly repent and really show it with deeds , thus favoring the progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a peaceful solution of the domestic questions . " You have contributed to the peaceful settlement of Peiping . You furthermore express your desire to stand henceforth on the side of the people and participate in the cause of the new democratic construction . We regard this as very good and you should be welcomed . " In a talk with members of an unofficial Shanghai peace mission in February , Mr. Mao is said to have indicated Communist willingness to make a concession on the " war criminal " issue . The tone of his letter , however , was regarded here as running counter to the Nanking Government 's attempt to achieve what it calls " a fair and reasonable " peace . Meanwhile , one fatality was recorded in Nanking tonight as the result of clashes here yesterday between Nationalist soldiers and demonstrating students . Chen Luyi , a senior in the Physics Department of Central University , died of injuries sustained in free-foralls that caused injuries to more than 10D persons . At a press conference called by the " Nankin . ' College Students Seeking-Existence Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain increased Government scholarship allowances , to press for the release of arrested students and " to seek a genuine peace ? ' They said sixteen demonstrators were still " missing . " According to these spokesmen , the clashes broke out when Government special agents waylaid and beat up a group of students on their way back from a parade . Nanking garrison headquarters maintains the fighting started when students tried to propagandize soldiers at a reorientation center . The Communist radio tonight charged that " the butchering of students " on the first day of peace negotiations indicated the attitude of " the Kuomintang reactionary Government " against those who sought " real peace . "                     