@@708315

txt In the Dec. 17 issue of your paper it was reported that Alexander Kerensky , head of the Russian Provisional Government in 1917 , now " exiled enemy of Stalin , " was applauded at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel when , after declaring himself as being " still the implacable enemy of the totalitarian dictatorship in Moscow , " he told the luncheon guests of the Foreign Policy Association / that he supported the " war claims of the Reds , " which include the " Soviet claims to the Baltic states and the eastern part of Poland . " It is little or no surprise that Mr. Kerensky subscribes to Stalin 's policy of territorial aggrandizement , but it is rather surprising that he managed to escape due criticism of his extemporaneous arguments , and even deeper scrutiny of his contentions , by that intelligent audience , especially when he embraced Stalin as his national leader and at the same time rejected Stalin as a Communist . He virtually likened the Soviet dictator to Janus , a Roman god who simultaneously faced east and west , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national leader , and Stalin , the leader of international communism . " Closing Remarks Applauded With his usual forceful eloquence Mr. Kerensky thus closed his remarks : " Even strategic security for Russia is not essential if we can all concur on a great plan for international security . That plan must address itself not to the protection of national rights so much as to the essential matter of the protection of human freedom . Man must be made able to live freely under all governments . " It is believed that it was these closing remarks which drew the applause , and not the rather clumsy arguments which he used to justify the unjustifiable .. international crime committed against the freedom of the peaceful Baltic republics . By putting the " international security plan " and the " protection of human freedom " above the " strategic security of Russia " ( the pet cry of the Moscow policy makers ) Mr. Kerensky posed as a courageous liberal , but it seems hardly consistent to subscribe to all of the " war aims of my country , Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totalitarian dictatorship in Moscow " which is the real maker of those Russian war aims inspired by Ivan the Terrible , Lenin and Stalin . If Mr. Kerensky embraces Stalin as his national leader , why then does he stay away from his leader at so great a distance ? If Mr. Kerensky despises Moscow 's totalitarian dictatorship and he prefers to stay away from it , why then does he wish to put under the yoke of that dictatorship 6,000,000 Lithuanians , Latvians and Estonians ? There are no legal , historic , ethnographic , economic , religious or cultural reasons to justify the destruction of the freedom of these peaceful little nations . Soviet Russia in 1920 renounced all her claims to the Baltic territories and peoples " voluntarily and forever . " Due Credit Accorded Although Mr. Kerensky hardly fits the role of an impartial reporter in the gruesome case of the Soviet Russian attempt to annex all three Baltic states , nevertheless credit is due him for stating publicly his personal views on the subject , as well as credit is due the Foreign Policy Association for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Kerensky 's attempt to justify Moscow 's conquest of the Baltic republics by referring to British and American experiences in the past appears unworthy . While America is fighting to restore independence to the Philippines , the fighting aims Rf the U.S.S.R. include the destruction of the three sovereign Baltic republics in their entirety . Because of the fact that " Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania did not sign the Atlantic Charter , " Mr. Kerensky has implied that " they ( Baltic states ) did not then exist . " Mr. Kerensky is wrong on this point too . He has , it seems , overlooked the fact that besides the Baltic states several other countries , such as Portugal , Spain , Denmark , Sweden , Switzerland , Turkey , Albania and others , did not sign the Atlantic Charter , or rather the Declaration by the United Nations of Jan. 1 , 1942 . However , the signatures of all these countries are missing not because they did not then exist but , I should think , because they were not members of the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Baltic nations have not formally signed the Declaration of Jan. 1 , 1942 , they have , undoubtedly , embraced the true democratic ideals of the United Nations . Students of the University of Kaunas defied the Gestapo to demonstrate their country 's acceptance of the Atlantic Charter . Diplomatic legations and consulates of the Baltic states are functioning in the United States and other countries , European and American . Although Lithuania , Latvia and Estonia are now again temporarily occupied ? by the military might of the Soviet Union , the Baltic republics remain independent de jure and are awaiting their liberation de facto . Mr. Kerensky 's main contention evidently is this : Since " these territories were incorporated into Russia in 1939 , it was recognized that they ( the Baltic states ) were a part of Russia . " However , there were no " incorporations " in 1939 . On the contrary , mutual assistance pacts were signed , and that meant ( according to Soviet terminology ) that Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania had been invited to become " strong , free and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baltic states as being a part of Russia , proofs are lacking that such recognition had in fact ever been accorded with the significant exception of the Axis . Great Britain refused its endorsement when " Herr Hitler bartered what was not his property  --  the liberties of the Baltic peoples . " The United States Government on July 23 , 1940 , pointed to " the devious processes whereundar the political independence and integrity of the three small Baltic states  --  Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania  --  were to be deliiierately annihilated by one of their more powerful . neighbors . " Mr. Kerensky 's final argument that " their names ( Baltic republics ) are not signed to the lists of German criminals , though so many German crimes were committed on Baltic soil , " may be answered by pointing out that the legal representatives of the Baltic states have in due time lodged protests against German atrocities . When Lithuania will be freed from foreign occupation , her national Government , free from duress , will again function de facto , justice will be performed then in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Statement Another backer of Soviet claims , Corliss Lamont , an ardent friend of Communist Russia , according to his letter in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Dec. 28 , 1944 , has urged the American Government to " return to Secretary Colby 's reasonable statement of policy , " namely , " that the territorial integrity and true boundaries of Russia shall be respected . " But , the American recognition of Lithuania , Latvia and Estonia on July 28 , 1922 , was , it seems , in conformity with Secretary Colby 's conservative policy toward Russia . The true borders of Russia were respected . In announcing the recognition of the three Baltic states Secretary of State Hughes said : " The United States has consistently maintained that the disturbed condition of Russian affairs may not be made the occasion for alienation of Russian territory , and this principle is not deemed to be infringed by the recognition at this time of the Governments of Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania , which have been set up and maintained by the indigenous populations . " Moreover , one should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1920 , as already mentioned , " voluntarily and forever renounced Russia 's rights to Lithuanian people and territory in these terms : " Russia , without any reservation whatsoever , recognizes Lithuania as a self-governing and independent state with all juridical consequences that follow from such a recognition and in a spirt of free and good will forever renounces all sovereignty rights of Russia concerning the Lithuanian nation and Lithuanian territory which previously belonged to her . The fact that Lithuania for some time was under Russian sovereignty does not impose on the Lithuanian people and their territory any obligations toward Russia . " This Country 's Attitude It seems quite unreasonable on the part of Mr. Lamont to expect the American Government to be more proRussian than the Russians themselves . There is no need of returning to Secretary Colby 's statement of policy , for the American Government on July 23 , 1940 , indicated very clearly its attitude in the matter , and has even . pointed the way to a just and practical solution , namely : " They wish to see sovereign rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . " They desire to see no territorial changes that do not accord with the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned . " The Soviets , themselves , know perfectly well , and they can not convince the world that the so-called elections in the Baltic states in July , 1940 , were anything but free . Therefore , it seems fair to conclude that the United Nations are under obligation to see that sovereign right . and self-government are restored to Lithuania and her neighbors , and that these nations are accorded the right not to bolshevistic but to truly free and democratic elections . P. ZADELKIS . Minister of Lithuania . ' Washington , Dec. 30 , 1944 . German Blood Plasma Approved To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Emotional prejudice against the u ; -= of the blood of German war prisoners not only cuts off a valuable supply of plasma but implies an unscientific theory of racial superiority . Marjorie Dugdale Ashe is not the only one who abhors the " fiendishness and ruthlessness " of the enemy ; but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a defense of the suggestion that German prisoners donate blood , that blood corpuscles are in no way affected by nationality , indoctrination , or any other acquired characteristic .                     