@@709584

txt Egypt 's Foreign Minister made it plain today that the Nile kingdom , will grant asylym to Haj Amin at Husseini , Mufti of Jerusalem . The mystery concerning the whereabouts of the Arab firebrand and anti-Zionist leader since his disappearance from France some three weeks ago was solved last night when King Farouk 's palace announced chat the Mufti had arrived in Egypt , had called at the Royal Palace , and has asked for a refuge . The Mufti , whom the British accuse of radiocasting for Hitler during the war has been in exile from Palestine since 1937 when he was accused of fomenting a long series of Arab outbreaks . Lufti el Said Pasha , Foreign Minister , told reporters the " Egyptian Constitution prevents giving up ' political refugees to any other country . " When asked whether the Mufti was considered a political refugee or a private guest of the ? King , Lufti Pasha answered : " Political refugee . " A highly reliable informant said King Farouk had advised the British Government of his decision to grant sanctuary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Palestine crisis spread and initiate a general blowup in the Middle East ? Since the end of the war the Middle East has become one of the high tension zones of the world . Here , the interests of the big powers are at odds and the stage is being set for a test of force between at least two of the major nations , Great Britain and Russia . A new spark may have far-reaching consequences . What significance , If any , the new move of the Mufti of Jerusa- loll will have remains to be seen . Dispatches from Cairo indicate that the Mufti , Haj Amin el Husceini , has asked for sanctuary in the palace of King Farouk of Egypt . Iran has already felt the impact of ; . big power policies and the Turks are sadly aware that they , too ; will be probed in the near ftitiifi . Arab leaders appear still highly gratified at the exaggeratedly important role they are playing today in international politics . They are using their new federation " The Arab League " as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excitement are extending also to the ' Arab world . The Arabs have achieved major gains ' since the war . The French have been forced to relinquish their grip on the Levant states ; Jewish colonization in Palestine appears to have been stopped short ; Egypt is becoming a sovereign and independent state . Yet it is highly doubtful that the'Arabs really . will succeed in realizing their avowed ultimate aim " to prevent any foreign power from - holding strategic bases in the Arab world . " Arab policy has been to play one power against the other : Britain against France , Russia against Britain and even Britain against the United States . However , ? although local gains have been achieved , big power influence has not been balanced . On the contrary , it is more than ever encroaching on all parts of the Middle East . Peace apparently has been restored between Russia and Iran as well as between the Central Iran ian Government and the secessionist Azerbaijan Republic . Iran 's northern province returns to the jurisdiction of Teheran and the New Governor General of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sultaneh . The Iranian case has disappeared from the agenda of the United Nations . Communism Enters But there is more than one dark spot in this bright picture. , The new Governor of Azerbaijan , Dr. Salalollah Javid , is described as still more devoted to the cause of Communism and of Russia than his predecessor , Sayed Jafar Pisheveil . Dr. Javid , who had been the Minister of the Interior in the secessionist Azerbaijan Government , is reported to a member of the Communist Party and has a record of having agitated in 1919-1920 for the unification of Azerbaijan with Russia . Russia 's influence on the Teheran Government is considerably stronger than before the Azerbaijan crisis . London believes that Russia 's recent treaty with Afghanistan fits well in with the general trend of Russian policy of establishing itself firmly on the fringes of the Middle East . What is actually happening today is that Soviet Russia is undoing the series of treaties it had been concluding.during the period following World War I , especially in 192 . At that time , Russia , weakened by military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position won by Czarist Russia in the Middle East . Today , Russia takes over the Czarist inheritance . Turks Watch , Moscow The Turks are looking askance at Moscow and believe that they are next on the agenda of the Kremlin . Although unfriendly to the Arab League , which they consider as a tool in the hands of the British , the Russians are also establishing friendly relations with individual Arab countries . The Russian press is full of reports , exalting the achievements of Russian cultural , medical and other missions to the Arab world , particularly to Saudi Arabia and to Yemen . One of the most dangerous consequences of the present unrest in the Middle East is the rising turbulence among the Kurdish tribes . The Iranian Kurds already took active part in the Azerbaijan revolt . Kurdish guerrilla forces attacked government troops . Quite recently , however , the Iranian-Kurdish leaders , headed by Ghazi Mohammed , pledged renewed allegiance to the Iranian central government . The Kurds , Teheran reported , have agreed " to cast the lot of their followers with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong Russian influence among the Kurdish " nation . " The Kurdish " independence movement " is not of recent date but it took new shape in 1945 when , during the San Francisco United Nations meeting , the delegates are pre= sented with a proclamation of a self-styled " Kurdish League . " The Kurdish reprcaentatives , at that time , declared they wanted to constitute their own state " Kurdistan , " uniting all the Kurds now living in four different countries . The Kurdish Nationalists claim there are nearly 8,000,000 Kuhls in the Middle East , but the actual figure is believed to be 3,000,000 ; 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 in Turkey . 500,000 in Iraq . 700.000 in Iran , 200,000 in Syria , and 100,000 in the Soviet Union . Negotiations Proceed A Kurdish independence and nationalist movement has dangerous implications . To achieve their goals , they would have to cut out large sections from existing states and the Kurds are settled in some of the most valuable territories of the Middle East , which include the chrome mines of Turkey , and the British controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meantime , negotiations between Great Britain and the Egyptian Government have not been proceeding , according to plan . They had to be interrupted temporarily on May 22 . However , Egyptian Premier Ismail Sidkhy Pasha emphatically denied that the talks for a new British-Egyptian treaty had been broken off definitively . It is now announced that official meetings will resume early next week . The question of British regional defense organization in the Middle East proved to be an important stumbling block in current negotiations . The British have accepted the principle of complete evacuation of British troops from Egypt . Look for Solution This promise will be carried out , despite the vociferous protests of Winston Churchill . But although announcing British intention to give up Egypt as an imperial basis , British Prime Minister Clement Attlee has made important reservations , concerning the timing of the withdrawal of British troops and the possibilities of " mutual assistance " between Britain and Egypt in time of war . These reservations have been commented on by the leading Egyptian paper El Ahram that " Britain wants to reoccupy Egypt every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if war threatened . " The visit of Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery to Cairo , some days ago , is indication that a solution may be found . One of the main obstacles to successful British-Egyptian negotiations is the internal political situation in this Middle Eastern country . The Cabinet of Sidkhy Pasha is not a democratic government but rather a dictatorial setup existing by the grace of King Farouk of Egypt . The Wafd Party , representing the majority of the country , has refused to take part in the negotiations . The Wafd is opposed less to the British than to the King and to his government but , for reasons of internal politics , Wafd leaders are stirring up nationalist excitement among the populace . Even if an agreement should Se reached , the question remains whether it will be recognized by Egyptian majority leaders .                     