@@711848

txt The first test as to whether the latest Soviet " peace offensive " that was climaxed by Mr. Stalin 's bid for a meeting with President Truman behind the Iron Curtain is a genuine bid for peace or merely another " international political maneuver " will come this week , when the Big Four Powers meet in London in another attempt to reach agreement on a peace treaty for Austria . This meeting  --  the seventh of its kind  --  has been convoked at the request of the Austrian Government , which joins the Austrian people in what has become a national prayer for " liberation from the liberators . " But it is also in keeping with the stand of all the Western Powers that if Russia really desires to end the " cold war " and engage in genuine peace negotia tions it must do so , not through propaganda , but through the constituted bodies and official channels , and that it must prove its good faith , not by words which in Mr. Stalin 's lexicon are merely a diplomatic mask , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the deputies of the Foreign Ministers Council on Austria should prove especially revealing because , of all the outstanding post-war problems , that of Austria is most easily solved . According to the Three-Power Declare . ' bon of Moscow , proclaimed Nov. 1 , 1943 , Austria was to be treated , not as an enemy , but as a liberated country , and was to be re-established as a free and independent nation . Yet , while such former enemy countries as Italy , Hungary , Rumania and Bulgaria have long since been living under formal peace treaties , Austria , which the Moscow Declaration held to be " the first free country to fall victim to Hitlerite aggression , " is still being treated on a par with , and in some respects even worse than , Germany It has the advantage of having its own Government , but that Government is subject to the orders of the four occupying Powers . For the rest , like Germany , it is still divided into four occupation zones . The Western zones participate in the European Recovery Program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the most important part of Austria , is subject to Russian oppression and exploitation equal to that of soviet Germany . According to Austrian figures , Russia has kidnapped some 135,000 Austrian men and women who have disappeared , and has seized 20 per cent of Austrian agricultural land and the same percentage of Austrian industrial production . Yet , in contrast to our policy in Germany , there has been scarcely a Western protest against this Soviet spoliation . What the Western Powers have been trying to do is to speed an Austrian peace treaty which would get the Russians out of the country . The Austrian Government is willing to pay almost any price for this boon . But all previous efforts have been wrecked on the rock of Russian obstruction , attributed primarily to two reasons . One is that Russia quite obviously has been in no hurry to conclude a treaty because , while milking Austria , it was also - entitled to maintain Soviet troops in . Hungary and Rumania to guard its communication lines , which enabled it to rivet Communist regimes on these countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist regime on Austria , Russia has been holding out for a treaty which would perpetuate its economic domination and exploitation of that country . For this purpose Russia has been using two main pretexts which the Western Powers have rejected . The first was a demand for a cession of Austrian Carinthia to Yugoslavia  --  a demand already precluded . by the Moscow Declaration . The second , - based on a typically Russian interpretation of the Potsdam reparation agreement , was a demand for all " German assets " in Austria , in which Russia includes all Austrian property seized by the Nazis. , It is possible that in view of Marshal Tito 's defection from the Cominform Russia is now willing to drop the first demand . But the second , advanced in lieu of a demand for Austrian reparations which Mr. Stalin personally renounced , is crucial . For while Russia has declared itself willing to settle some of its claims for $150,000,000 , it also demands permanent economic concessions in Austria under a virtually extraterritorial status which would put all Austrian economy ' at its mercy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Communist eastern bloc . It goes without saying that the Western Powers can not agree ' to the latter conditions without participating in a super-Yalta which would sell out Austria and further imperil their own position . Any further ' Russian insistence on them would not only demonstrate a continuing policy of Soviet expansion but would also make a mockery of the Russian peace professions to which Mr. Stalin has now lent his voice .                     