@@710512

txt Gasoline rationing to dealers in the Midwest started yesterday . Standard Oil Co . ( Indiana ) announced that " in the interest of all its customers , " it was placing into effect an allocation system to distribute its available supply of gasoline through August . During this period , the company stated . dealers will receive approximately the same amount of gasoline delivered in the three summer months last year . Other Midwest companies said they had no immediate plans for rationing gasoline to dealers . Officials of the Ohio Oil Co .. which markets petroleum in Ohio . Michigan . Ind , ana , Illinois and Kentucky , said the company 's position was " extremely tight . " but that it had no plans to ration gasoline before August . The states affected by the announcement or - Indiana Standard are Michigan , Indiana . Illinois . Wisconsin , Minnesota . Iowa Missouri . Nebraska . North and South Dakota and Oklahoma . East coast petroleum marketers stated that while their companies had no immediate plans for allocation or rationing , dealers propably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . East Will Feel Spot Shortages " This means . " one industry spokesman said . " that spot snortages will develop on the East coast as well as in other parts of the country this summer . One station may temporarily run out of gasoline . " he added . " but the next station may have enough gasoline to supply customers " On the west coast , several oil companies said they saw no likelihood of gasoline ration trig there this summer . Whether or not petroleum companies ration gasoline to dealers . the general effect to motorists will be the same . Gas stations wo n't be able to " all ' er up " every time such an order is given . - It is expected that most station operators will limit sales to a few gallons . This has already been practiced in some Midwest states Wo n't Mean Price lilacs ' Industry circles agree , however , that the short supply of gasoline does not mean higher prices As one spokesman said : " This would be a very foolish time to raise prices . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gasoline are now about a million barrels higher than in June last year . But the Midwest depends on pipelines and railroad tank cars to bring in crude oil or refined petroleum products . These two systems already are being taxed to capacity to take care of the record demands for gasoline and other petroleum products . Petroleum products users on both coasts are in a better position . Besides pipeline and tank car deliveries , tank ships transport crude and oil products to these areas . Refined petroleum products shortages are caused by the overall " tight " crude oil supply situation . For the past seven weeks , crude oil has been coming out of the ground at the rate of 5 million barrels a day . Last week daily crude output reached a new high of 5,123,295 barrels . Refiners Setting New liFecords Petroleum refineries in the past two weeks have been setting new records in crude oil processing , turning out more than five million barrels of refined products a day . But the demand for all petroleum products continues to rise . Gasoline consumption is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; barrels above last summer . But demand from motorists is at high levels and farm consumption , especially in the Midwest , Is about double that of 1941 . In addition , there are about 25% more trucks in use today than before the war . Demand for heating and industrial oil is also higher than pre-war , causing refineries to process more fuel oil and lesser amounts of gasoline per barrel of crude . Before 1942. gasoline was the " money " product of petroleum companies . Now it is almost equally divided between fuel oils and motor fuel . This has come about because many industries are switching from coal to oil for their fuel . More home owners also are turning to oil for heat . Railroads , rapidly switching to diesel engines , are causing a further drain on the crude oil available for relined products .                     