@@710346

txt A bipartisan coalition bent on moderating the Senate labor bill made fresh major advances today , while House Republican members were giving overwhelming sanction to a far more restrictive House measure . For the second time a majority of the Senate Labor Committee overcame the leadership of Senator Robert A. Taft to vote a further softening of the bill which from the beginning had not been nearly so sharp in approach as the version which the House is expected to pass by Friday night . Debate will open tomorrow on the House bill with quick and heavy majority approval believed to be made doubly certain by the action of a House Republican conference attended today by about 175 members . Speaker Joseph W. Martin Tr. , 1 emerged from the meeting to assert that the measure would pass by " better than two to one , " or by a majority sufficient to override a Presidential veto , of which the minority was beginning obliquely to speak . Expects 80 Democratic Votes He said that no member among ' the 175 present spoke against the bill and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans when the roll call , came , possibly as early as Thursday afternoon . Representative Leo Allen of Illinois , one of the Republican , leaders , said that not more than twenty members of the party would oppose the bill , but Repre-I sentative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , Republican floor leader , believed that this estimate was ' too high . In the Senate , however , the Republican leadership , as embodied on domestic issues th general by Senator Taft , was fighting a losing // preliminary action in the effort to keep in the Senate bill some of the restrictions so strongly demanded in the House . Four times at major points , insurgent Republicans joined with four Democrats to defeat Mr. Taft and alter the committee 's bill . By vote of 7 to 6 , Mr. Taft . was forced to yield , for the time being at least , a section forbidding the payment to unions of production " royalties , " such as that collected in the coal industry by the United Mine Workers . Check-Off Curb Omitted Again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eliminate from the measure a proposed restriction on the system of check-off of union dues . Up to this point , Senators Irving M. Ives of New York , Wayne Morse of Oregon and George D. Aiken of Vermont , Republicans , had joined with four of the five committee Democrats in opposition . On other sharp contests , however , Senator H. Alexander Smith , Republican , of New Jersey , joined Messrs . Ives , Aiken and Morse . This made possible an 8-to-5 vote against two provisions formidably union labor . One of these would have permitted private employers to seek injunctions , despite the Norris-La Guardia Act , against such union actions as jurisdictional strikes . The other would have permitted suits against unions for triple damages in such cases . By the coalition 's action , the jurisdictional strike and secondary boycott were taken out of the classification of unlawful acts and put in the category of " unfair labor practices . " , The majority , which had no objection to injunctions in such cases so long as they were used by the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than privately by corporations , agreed to draft a provision directing the board to move promptly in such cases . Apart from bringing about a number of other alterations , this group , led alternately by Senators Ives and Morse , began a steady and thus far successful move to isolate certain sections of the omnibus bill so that they could be readily treated as separate measures . This had the effect of a slow march against the decision of Senator Taft and by a majority of the Republican policy committee and the Republican members in general to insist on the omnibus bill approach , adopted in the House . Whether this would be accepted by the Senate Labor Committee itself remains one of the chief unresolved issues . The others were whether Mr. Taft would be successful in the following demands : For legal " protection " against forced discharge from his job of a union shop man ousted from his , union ; for sharp restrictions on industry-wide bargaining , and for permitting a craft union to exclude itself from a broader bargaining unit . Senator Taft , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senator Aiken of " high-handed political bossism , " but he refused to comment on the assertion . The Ohioan took his defeats in committee blandly and declined to give his views on what the insurgent majority had done , saying that his " general " statement would be made later . This indicated that Mr. Taft would appeal the committee 's action to the floor and seek to restore there the lost provisions . He expects Senate debate to begin on the bill next Monday . Senator Taft had said earlier that he " hoped " to see President Truman on the subject of labor controls . Asked today about this , he replied : " I have no such plans just now . " . This was taken as an intimation that the Republican leaders , who are aware that a veto of an omnibus labor reform measure might be more difficult for the President than if he dealt with separate measures among which he could choose , had reached a final decision to confront the President with a general fait accompli . In the House , meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounced by a six-man Democratic minority of the Labor Committee as one " aimed at the heart of American industrial democracy . " Asserting that the measure would , in effect , repeal the Wagner Act and the Norris-La Guardia Act , the minority stated : " This bill does not merely wipe out labor 's gains under the beneficent administration of President Roosevelt ; it turns the clock of history back at least a century and a half and eliminates safeguards and protections which both Republican and Democratic Congresses have sponsored . for generations . " The measure carries a provision , which in substantially the same form also survived today in the Senate bill . It calls for Government injunctions to put down strikes where the public interest is deemed injured . Apart from this , however , it would limit all union privileges built up in the Roosevelt administration . It would repeal a substan- , tial part of the Wagner Act , permit private employers to use the injunction and triple-damage suits against labor in some cases , and , bring unions under the anti-trust ' laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed shop , limit the union shop to cases where the employer himself wanted it , end all important industry-wide collective bargaining and define a great number of " unfair practices " on the part of labor . The six Labor Committee Democrats who signed the minority re port were headed by Representative John Lesinski of Michigan , 1 who called it a " monstrosity " . which President Truman would not , sign . The junior member of the minority , Representative John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts , son of the former Ambassador to Britain , filed a supplemental statement warning against " repressive and vindictive labor legislation enacted at the behest of management . " The Republican majority rejected the minority 's argument that the bill was " repressive , " and as serted that it was " a bill of rights for both Arneria.:n workingmen and their employers . "                     