@@705851

txt Military aircraft are scheduled to be rolling off production lines at the rate of 50,000 a year within another 12 months . The latest production schedule worked out by the Office of Production Management calls for a monthly , output of close to 4,000 planes by July , 1942 . This means the Industry will have to slightly more than double its present production rate between now and next July . That would be an increase at the rate of approximately 200 units a month from now out . Production in August jumped sharply to reach the highest level on record . The OPM yesterday announced that the industry last month delivered 1,854 military aircraft , 394 more than in July . If it meets the latest OPM schedule , the industry will have accomplished in a little more than two years a task which was considered impossible of accomplishment in less than four or five years when President Roosevelt , some 16 months ago , declared that " this nation should plan a program which would provide us with 50,000 military and naval airplanes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that statement on May 16 , 1940 , the industry was turning out military aircraft at a rate of less than 10,000 a year . Until 1939 its peak annual output had been only slightly more than 1,000 units . The goal set by the President called for an expansion program unparalleled in American industrial history . Although the bare figures are impressive they fail to tell the complete story . This , because the expansion in production to date , as well as that scheduled for the future , has been accompanied by a trend toward heavier , faster and more heavily armed aircraft , with a steadily increasing range of operation . This trend toward bigger ships will continue . The OPM 's latest schedule calls for relatively  --  little increase in numbers from next July on , but it does provide , for example , for a sharp increase in the output of heavy bombers . Production of four-engined bombers is scheduled : o increase four-fold , between July , 1942 and June , 1943 , to better than 500 a month . Much of this increase will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twin-engined bombers . Auto Industry to Play Big Part The automobile industry , whose passenger car production is to be sharply curtailed , is expected to play an important part in expanding aircraft production in 1942 . Not only will the auto makers produce a large percentage of the engines required but they will also turn out a goodly portion of the parts and sub-assemblies for the four-engined heavy bombers and the twin-engined medium bombers . Ford , however , is the only auto maker scheduled to produce complete airplanes . Ford will turn out the Consolidated 4-engined B-24 in a plant now being constructed at Ypsilanti , Mich. , which is scheduled to start deliveries in the middle of next year . In addition , Ford will prodtim parts and sub-assemblies for the same ship . V.ssembly plants in Fort Worth and Tulsa , which will be operated by Consolidated Aircraft and Douglas Aircraft , respectively , will use the Ford-made parts . Both of these plants also are scheduled to start deliveries in the middle of 1942 . Consolidated already is manufacturing this ship in its plant at San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombers at the present time . The company is turning out its B-17 in Seattle . In mid-1942 , however , Douglas and Vega will start delivering the same ship from plants in Long Beach and Burbank so that by the middle of next year five companies will be turning out these huge ships from seven plants . As output expands , tactical ( fighting ) planes will account for a steadily growing share of the total . At the peak , however , non-combat planes ? trainers and transports  --  still will be accounting for close to 40% of the total production . At the present time they account for roughly 55% of total output , Production of trainers is ? scheduled to hit its peak early next year and to hold fairly level from then on .                     