@@711748

txt Pilgrims of many nationalities knelt before the manger in the Church or the Nativity tonight awaiting the peal of bells at midnight that signaled another Christmas in a troubled world . Only the holders of special military passes were permitted to use the Arab military highway from Jerusalem to Bethlehem . The ancient way by which Joseph and Mary came has been closed by war for nearly a year . They came In a colorful stream ? Christian Arabs in red , white . Yellow and black headdresses and long cloaks , men in red tarboushes , women in the tall conical hats of crusader days , and soldiers in the uniforms of France ; Belgium , the United States , Egypt , Trans-Jordan and Iraq . Tanks StandGuard In the square outside the church three tanks stood silent watch over the crowd . Less than three miles away Arabs and Jews faced each other across battle lines in an uneasy truce . The day was briskly cold , gray clouds scudding the Judean bills , The traditional procession wound its way into the town from near-by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Archbishop Gustavo Testa , papal delegate . The pilgrims were met by an honor guard of mounted Arab legion troops , Egyptians and . Iraqis who escorted them to Manger square . The military governor of old Jerusalem , Abdullah Bey Tell , and other Arab dignitaries extended a welcome to the city . Diplomats mingled with Bedouins and each waited his turn to bow MISERY IN HOLY LAND Arab " children of misery " huddle in tents and mangers beneath a star in Bethlehem . Story on pane 4. low thru the doorway of the qncient Byzantine cathedral . The grotto was decorated with Lich hangings of white and gold bearing the crest of the donor , Spain . The manger was piled high with flowers whose colors were reflected in the light of wavering candles . . Monks Read Prayer Books In the courtyard of the Church of St. Catherine , monks of the Franciscan order paced up and down reading their prayer books . Shops in .. the , vicinity bearing names like " Nativity Store " and " Holy Land Arts Museum " , did brisk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayer books , Dead sea stones , and embroideries . The few small hotels were filled to overflowing , Many slept in their automobiles in order to attend midnight mass in the Church of St. Catherine , part of the Nativity church .                     