@@708357

txt Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser , Commander in Chief of the British fleet in the Pacific , revealed on his arrival here today that he had had a narrow escape from death on the way to the American invasion of Luzon . The admiral said he had been on the bridge of an American warship just before a Japanese plane scored a bomb hit that caused casualties . He had just moved behind the flag cabin to speak to the American commander there when the bomb landed . The Associated Press said Admiral Fraser had been only a short distance from the bomb explosion that killed Lieut . Gen. William Lumsden , Prime Minister Churchill 's representative , and William Chickering , correspondent of Time . The admiral was quoted as having said he had been standing a few paces away when the bomb exploded . He said he had escaped with " only a bit of a bang in the ears . " Gen. Douglas 's landing on Lingayen Gulf from ships of Vice Admiral Thomas C. Kinkaid 's Seventh Fleet was " a very bold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The admiral , wheis a hearty , thick-set , pipe-smoking Briton , witnessed the green-clad veterans of the Sixth Army swarm ashore on the Philippine beaches . It was the first maneuver of the American Fleet in the Pacific that the British admiral had seen . Speaking to a group of correspondents just after he had debarked , Admiral Fraser praised the Lingayen ? landing . " Everything went according to plan , " he said . " Nothing the Japanese could do deterred us . They caused some damage but could not stop us . " The admiral , whose fleet recently arrived in the Pacific to cooperate with Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz ' forces and carry out Prime Minister Churchill 's pledge that Britain would take her share in the Pacific war at the earliest possible moment , explained that he accompanied the Luzon invasion troops " to get experience in the work in this part of the world . " He reiterated his statement that his powerful ships would be in action side by side with the Americans " in the near future . " During his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of moving huge bodies of men over long distances and landing on the roughest kind of territory , which is unfamiliar in the European theatre  --  the admiral observed some of the hazards that accompany this type of operation . Admiral Fraser said he was hopeful that the quick American offensive in the Philippines would have considerable effect in the Burma and Malayan theatres , strategically and psychologically . He stressed the rapidity with which Pacific events were moving , saying : " Every time the Americans set the date for an operation they seem able not only to carry it out but even to advance it . Japan depends on sea and air power , and we have overwhelming control of the sea and air , which is bound to shorten the war . " The admiral noted many differences between the Luzon and Normandy landings , particularly the three-day bombardment by heavy guns of the Seventh Fleet before the troops went ashore . That was something , he declared , " we have never done . " Such bombardments in Europe , he pointed out , serve no useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear of a threatened point while the Luzon bombardment , by blocking roads and destroying bridges , could prevent the movement of Japanese troops . " There is no doubt also that the Japanese can not stand up to artillery fire as Germans can , " he stressed .                     