@@711726

txt Undersecretary of State Robert A. Lovett has indicated that Mme Chiang Kai-shek has been unsuccessful here in her mission of obtaining stronger American support for the Chinese Nationalist government . He also told a news conference that American policy toward China is determined by Congress , has not been changed , and calls for dealing with the Nationalist government headed by General Chiang . That policy is being carried out within its limitations , Mr. Lovett said , to the best of the administratiop 's ability . The present China aid program provides $125,000,000 for military aid and $275 , - 000,000 for economic aid . Mme Chiang had been reported asking for several billion dollars spread over several years . By Frank Robertson Special to The Christian Science Monitor Peiping Nationalist Gen. Fu Tso-fi has completed withdrawal of his armies into the Peiping metropolitan area for the announced purpose of defending the city . At least 50,000 troops in and around the city are digging in for a battle of Peiping . But for the time being at least , the Chinese Communists do not seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they are . Certainly on Dec. 14 they were not as close to the city as is generally , if rather unreasonably , believed . This correspondent has just toured the " dangerous " areas again and failed to find a single Communist . ! Airport Retaken Peiping 's commercial airport , 10 miles west of the city , which was abandoned Dec. 13 , is back in Nationalist hands again . Troops occupying the deserted airfield said they had not done any fighting , either while evacuating the airfield or coming back . They said they were certain , however , that the summer palace , a few miles distant , was in Communist hands . At the summer palace , Nationalist soldiers preparing to march back to Peiping said there had been no fighting in their area . They had heard the airfield had been captured , however . I then drove to Tungchou , 12 miles east of the city , along a road jammed with retreating soli diers and civilians . The military evacuation was so complete that even wounded soldiers from Tungchou military hospital were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town itself , all was quiet . No Communists had arrived three hours after the last Nationalist troops departed . The only area I was prevented from visiting was Chingho , six miles north of Peiping , where heavy fighting was reported on Dec. 13 . Perhaps the Communists are there . Meanwhile there is every indication within this harried city that the military commanders expect the Communists to pounce any moment . Troops are manning the walls , sandbag defenses are being prepared , and military communication systems are being organized . It is becoming increasingly difficult to get through the city gates . They are being chised for indefinite periods to keep refugees out and at the same time to prevent officials and others anxious to leave from reaching the one airfield believed usable . Two Nationalist soldiers were shot fatally on Dec. 14 trying to get in , while Hu Shih , former ambassador to the United States , was prevented from reaching the airfield by a jam around the gates . He anxiously assured newsmen who spotted him he was not trying to escape . He-said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. and added he had every intention of returning . Peace Talks Seen By the Associated Press Nanking From isolated Peiping , a correspondent reports there is no doubt in that ancient capital that peace talks with the Chinese Communists already are in progress . He reported also that two Chinese Air Force transport planes managed to land at Peiping 's south airfield and left quickly . " They pulled out with high officials . supposed to include Dr. Hu Shih , former ambassador to Washington and now president of National Peiping University , " the newsman wired . " He is reported to have received an urgent summons from Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek in Nanking and might be talked into a cabinet post or even the premiership . " Meanwhile , the failure of Pre- mier Sun Fo to take over the government promptly upon his return from Shanghai indicated he is having great difficulty in forming a cabinet . Dr. Sun , appointed by General Chiang more than two weeks ago , has been " resting " in a hospital in Shanghai , a friend said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) leaders ' expressed impatience With Dr. Sun 's failure to complete his cabinet . The Executive Yuan held its weekly meeting without the participation of either Dr. Sun or the retiring premier , Wong Wenhao . Peiping Talks Peace By the Associated Press Peiping ' There no longer seems to be much doubt in Peiping that peace talks are in progress as the Chinese Communists slowly surround this ancient city . Virtually everyone is convinced that talks between the Communists and Gen. Fit Tso-yi , nationalist commander , actually are going on at this moment . The Communists have Peiping in an iron nutcracker . What chance General Fu might have had to escape a week or two ago he appears to have lost now . One strong force of Communists is moving toward the Peiping-Tientsin railroad from the east through Paoti , 40 miles north of Tientsin . Another force , also from the east , has by-pgssed Peiping and is striking southward . It apparently intends to swing eastward to form a junction , which probably will be . affected near Langfang , on the railroad 30 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been under way for some time , the main point at issue apparently remains Communist insistence that General Fu be sptisfled with a place in a coalition government while General Fu ? wants to retain his military strength .                     