@@707624

txt With a confidence that no longer needs to assert the certainty o ; victory , but also with a sober appraisal of the strength of the enemy and the difficulties of the great tasks ahead , Mr. Churchill has made another one of his enlightening surveys of the war . It strikes a much-needed balance between undue optimism and undue gloom . In tone and content it is perhaps the grimmest statement the Prime Minister has made since Britain emerged from the dark days following Dunkerque , though that grimness is no longer one of defiance of an overpowering enemy , but the grimness which prepares for the kill . However , the enemy is still strong , skillful and determined . He still has 300 divisions , depleted perhaps but of high fighting quality . The German people may have been pounded into dull apathy , and this , together with material damage done by the bombing , may have reduced German war production ; but Hitler is still in control and the Nazi party and the German ; enerals apparently have decided to hang together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy , in Russia , and for that matter throughout Europe . Under these circumstances , Mr. Churchill emphasizes that this is a time for deeds , not words ; for preparation , effort and resolve . He gives no guarantee of victory in 1944 , nor any guarantee of any sort . . nd this sober realism dominates both the military and the political picture which he paints . In fact , the difficulties and the prospective cost of victory are such that Mr. Churchill frankly subordinates all political issues , not ? o military expediency as some who are liberal with the lives of others term it , but to necessity . That , . Le indicates , applied to French North Africa . It still applies to Italy , where c King and Marshal Badoglio now command the loyalty of the Italian Army and Navy cooperating with the Allies , and will apparently continue to do so until Rome has been conquered and a new and broader regime can be formed . The same considerations likewise apply to Yugoslavia , now rent by civil war , where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country joined the United Nations , but support Marshal Tito , who is fighting the common enemy most effectively . These considerations also apply ' to Greece , where a similar situation prevails . And they apply to Poland and the border problems raised by the Russian advance . For though Mr. Churchill goes far in supporting the ' Russian claims for security and promises Poland compensation at the expense of Germany , he comes out strongly for a free and independent Poland and emphasizes Premier Stalin 's pledge to the same effect . It is perhaps disappointing that Mr. Churchill can report no more about the political situation than that no ground has been lost ' since the Conferences of Moscow and Teheran . And since he can not report any progress either , he is forced to resort to the proposal of temporary working agreements which can scarcely arouse the same enthusiasm among the nations whose fortunes are affected as satisfactory permanent settlements . But above all political differences stand the demands of war , and in that respect at least Mr. Churchill can affirm with convincing confidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side until their enemies have been crushed and total victory has been achieved . How that victory is to be achieved is clearly indicated by his emphasis on the tremendous air offensive as the foundation of all plans for the projected mass invasion of the Continent . Hitler had two weapons on which he depended for victory  --  the submarine and the airplane . The submarine has been well-nigh knocked out , and the long overseas communications of the Allies are now more or less secure . The German air force has been badly knocked about , and counting all their air fleets the Allies now have a 5-to-1 superiority over it . But it is still a formidable force and , while it exists , an amphibious operation on the scale required by an invasion army of millions involves too great a risk of failure  --  failure which would be disastrous to the whole Allied cause . Hitler , whose recklessness has been his undoing , did not dare take that risk in 1940 when the German air force outnumbered the British in approximately the same proportion ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Allied air superiority , are further proof of the risk involved . For those impatient with the speed of military operations , Mr. Churchill offers convincing explanations , which not only proudly emphasize the role played by Britain . but also show how greatly the Allied effort has aided the Russian armies . But in the strategy he outlines Mr. Churchill obviously agrees with General Montgomery that you must win your air war before you fight on the ground , and also with Generals Arnold and Spaatz , who have emphasized repeatedly that the main purpose of the Allied air war is to knock out the Luftwaffe . Then the invasion can start and , while Mr. Churchill repudiates the malicious assertions that Britain will hold back in it , he leaves no doubt that if the struggle is prolonged America , with its tremendous manpower reserves , will have to bear the brunt of it . This is in line with many warnings of our own spokesmen , and therein lies also the justification of our air war . For every curtailment of Germany 's fighting power caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the fighting ends .                     