@@709801

txt Suggestions for eluting without meat are given by Mary Meade on page 20 . With fresh meet scheduled to go back under price ceilings today under government edict , Chicago and most of the rest of . the country found yesterday that there was n't any fresh meat to be , had . In Washington , D. C. , meanwhile , reports circulated that officials were considering a return to rationing . These rumors were promptly discounted in official circles , however . Chicago butchers laughed at the reports . " What 's the use of rationing if you have n't anything to ration ? " asked n butcher . Receipts at Monday LtAv The seriousness of the situation was again reflected in the receipt of live stock at the Union stock yards , largest in the world . Cattle and hog receipts were the lowest on record for a normal Monday . In some western packing centers volume picked up slightly , but the stock was ndmittedly of inferior grade . Layoffs of stock yard workers continued and prompted two union ofiidais to raise immediate protests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Patrick E. Gorman , secretary of tile Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North Amerlea Ink Li , Wan a nauonai rnelnue , ship of 165,000 , said that up to 50 per cent of the 4,500 Chicago members are being thrown out of work . Blame Put on Ceilings " We 're stalemated , " Gorman and Jimerson said in a joint statement . " The packers say they ca n't operate under ceilings and compete with the black-market . " If the government had left the ceilings off meat for a few more weeks , the prices would have leveled off . ' and we would have been all right . " The two AFL union chiefs said that they are planning to make an organized protest to Washington authorities to remove price controls . The removal , they said , would lead to more meat production and maintain necessary employment of workers . CIO Tells of Layoffs Representatives of the United Packinghouse Workers CIO , which reputedly has more membership in the packing industry , were hesitant to comment except to admit that more men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO was in an awkward position because it has fought for and demanded meat controls . Most of the packing companies had not yet surveyed layoffs . It was understood that Armour &; Co. alone has been forced to drop 1,000 of its 7,500 workers because of the lack of supplies . 900 Workers Laid Off Swift &; Co. said it has been forced to lay off 900 workers since Sept. 1 . " We regret that this condition has forced us to reduce employment rolls In live stock dressing and related departments , " the company stated . " We will continue to buy all live stock we can In compliance with CPA live stock price schedules and endeavor to keep operations at tine nignest possible level . " However , what cattle are coming to market arc selling , for the most part , at prices higher than we are permitted to pay under CPA regulations . " The Chicago office of the office of price administration in a statement yesterday said It was working to eliminate black marketing enti  --  ely . ' Review Slaughter Permits James F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of slaughtering permits now in effect is being completed . lie said that within the next few days licenses based on misrepresentation will be revoked by his ? Mee , and that action will be taken in federal court against licensed slaughterers who do not conform to new federal regulations . Further , the OPA will ask temporary federal court injunctions to halt operations on the part of any slaughterer against whom a quota suspension is ' still pending . " With the injunction , the cheat- ing slaughterer , who is the source for black market operations , can be halted in a few hours , " said Riley . Called Worst Shortage Some observers said present times will not be easy even for the blach market cheaters because it is unusu ally difficult to obtain meat . " This shortage is worse than ever . " said a spokesman for the National Association of Retail Meat Dealers . " Many meat retailers will be closing : some for good . Some of these small business men Just man ? aged to weather the June shortage . They ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , executive secretary of the Food Retailers of Greater Chicago , which has a membership of about 2,000 , said that combination groceries and meat markets may squeeze thru , but that businesses handling meat exclusively will have to close part of the time . Outlook Is Pessimistic A survey of Chicago and suburban markets revealed a pessimistic out look . Ray Marmorstone , an overseas war veteran who operates a market at 5046 Clark st. with George Caito , another ex-GI , answered his phone with the response , " Hell , meat mar ket ? no meat . " He said he 'd ' prob ably have to close shop a few days a week . " But we 're not whipped yet , " he added . North shore butchers reported a slightly better situation , largely be . cause many suburban dwellers have deep freeze lockers and stocked up veil ahead of time . Present retail stocks were 25 per cent of normal but were dwindling . In the west . ern suburbs and in many suburbs southwest and south , some butchers featured cold luncheon meats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the meat shortage thruout the country , but attempted to show a more opimistic attitude . One official of the department of agriculture said that the meat shortage should not last more than a month or two . Reports of a " meat famine have been overly pessimistic , " he said : Some talk was heard of new anti higher price ceilings along with the reports of rationing . The consensus in the agriculture department was said to show a preference for higher prices than for rationing . It would be impractical to set up rationing for a month or two , one agriculture office official commented . Other observers said that the gov ernment would do better to drop controls than to resume rationing .                     