@@709779

txt Whether the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic 's allegations that Greece , supported by Britain , is endeavoring to provoke war in the Balkans will be heard before the United Nations Security Council , is expected to be decided soon after the Council convenes at Lake Success at 3 P. M. today . The Ukrainian charges as well as the request that the Security Council investigate the situation in Greece still have not been placed by that body on its agenda . The Council , meanwhile , is still to take action on the surprise resolution proposed Andrei A. Gromyko , Russian delegate , last week that the Council call upon every Allied nation with troops in non-enemy States to report in two weeks on the number and location of such troops . This resolution also is expected to precipitate considerable debate . But just what the United Nations can do except receive information and debate is difficult to understand . It still has no military arm , as provided in the Charter , to implement any decisions it might find necessary to preserve the peace . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has met regularly for months and got nowhere . Delegates on the committee from each of the Big Five , most of them high ranking military and naval officers , have talked and talked , and some even have submitted outlines as to how the job should be gone about . The Russians , however , have not cooperated . They have adopted the view that the military force of the United Nations is to preserve the peace . There is no peace , they argue , and so it is premature to discuss a force to preserve it . In the matter of the Security Council 's hearing the UkrainianGreek case , hours of acrimonious debate at Council meetings last week did not appear to have altered the views of the several disputants . The British and Netherland delegates argue that the Ukraine should offer some substantiation of its allegations against Greece and the alleged pro-monarchist role of British military units stationed there before the issue is placed on the agenda . These two delegates have emphasized that virtually similar charges were leveled against Britain and her role in Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council was meeting in London . The Russian charges were not substantiated , and the Council did not agree at that time that the continued presence of British troops in Greece represented a threat to peace . The delegates of Britain and the Netherlands have also asserted that in their view renewing the charges without evidence as to why the situation now may be different from what it was last winter tends to establish a dangerous precedent . U. S. Policy Favors a Hearing The danger , in this view , would be that the Security Council would be used as a propagandistic forum for any nation so desiring if the Council took under advisement any charges , however made or phrased , without receiving along with the charges a reasonable indication that there was some substance to them . This view is not , however , held by all eleven delegations represented on the Council . Several delegations agree that the Council can be , and perhaps too frequently has been , used for propagandistic purposes . This , these delegations feel , must be lamented but is not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the United Nations thinks represents a threat to peace . The United States is of the latter view , and on this ground Herschel V. Johnson , acting American delegate , will support the Russian and Polish delegates in their efforts to have the Ukrainian charges put on the agenda . Manuilskv Waiting to Talk Both the British and Netherlands delegates have stated that they will back a discussion of the Ukrainian charges if those charges are amplified sufficiently to indicate that the Ukrainians really have a case . Dmitry Z. Manuilsky , Ukrainian Foreign Minister , who is in New York in anticipation of being permitted to participate in Council discussions on Greece , says he has " two suitcases " of evidence . But he did not send any of it along with his request that the Security Council investigate the entire matter . He has stated that he prefers to present his evidence orally to the Council itself . Now that the plebescite in Greece is completed , and the monarchy restored , it is thought that Mr. Manuilsky will get that opportunity to appear personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be taken as examples of what happens when the Security Council takes a matter under advisement , furthermore , Mr. Manuilsky will have opportunity to do a great deal of talking . Clark Received by Pope ROME , Sept. 2 ( 11:1 ) ? Attorney General Tom C. Clark was received by Pope Pius XII today at Castel Gandolfo , the Pope 's summer estate .                     