@@709265

txt Assembly of IMO Adjourns ; Organization Survives Test World Body Will Convene in New York Sept. 3-Attlee and Spaak , Pronounce the New Congress of Nations a Success deleted page 1 Paris on the subject next week with the British and French and , third , that they report to the Security Council on the results to their talks when the Council goes to New York for its first meeting around April 1 . The Syrians rejected this proposal , however , and after a long wrangle in the Security Council over whether the Levant problem was a " situation " or a " dispute , " the Council decided to renew dis cussion of the question at 11 o'clock this morning . Prime Minister Attlee made it clear to the Assembly tonight that he did not mind these fights in public . The British consider , he said , that public debate is the foundation of democracy and a sure guarantee of liberty . The speeches in the latter years of the League of Nations , he said , were nothing but confirmations of agreements reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it was in the open . Without Enthusiasm The delegates listened to these speeches as they have listened to everything else in Central Hall in the past five we , ks  --  politely and attentively but without any great enthusiasm . They will start home this week-end - gain without any great enthusiasm over the performance of 4. the UNO in its first test but without much despair or , cynicism either . Most delegates are sorry that the General Assembly did not play a predominant part in the opening session of the United Nations . It was their hope when they arrived here  --  and it is still their hope ? that the nations would work together in the General Assembly and its agencies on mutual problems , such as inrsroving trade conditions , eliminating disease , elevating labor standards , etc. , and that diligent work on this type of problem would produce an atmosphere of cooperation that would dominate the work of the entire organization . It did not work out this way in the first meeting . Instead of the General Assembly and world problems creating an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Security Council dominated the proceedings of the General Assembly and the cross-fire of dispute in the Council even spread from time to time into the work of the Assembly and its committees . This was a disappointment to most delegates , but it was scarcely a surprise . They know only too well from the problems of hunger and economic and political reconstruction that await them at home that the General Assembly and Security Council are merely mirroring conditions of a world in process of vast change . There would be something wrong with the UNO , they feel , if it did not mirror the true condition of world politics , and the UNO can not be blamed for not solving these conditions , the delegates conclude , any more than the United States Congress can be blamed for not finding a perfect solution to the problems of the transition period at home . M. Spaak pointed this out in his speech early this morning . " Those who thought , " he said , " that we would perform miracles are disappointed , but those who understand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied . " Machinery Created The ? main purpose of this meeting of the General Assembly was to create machinery of the UNO . On the whole , this was done very well . The Assembly itself worked smoothly under the capable direction of M. Spaak . The Security Council was established and went to work immediately on important political problems . The Economic and Social Council has started operating quietly but efficiently on the problem of removing the causes of war . Mr. Lie was elected Secretary General and is now putting his staff together , and the judges in the World Court were elected and will meet at The Hague for the first time in April . Part of this task of organization of course , remains . The Military Staff Committee of the Security Council has been established , but it has not yet defined the ' forces and facilities that are to be placed by the various states at the disposal of the Security Council . The Atomic Energy Commission has been approved but the states have not yet appointed their representatives to it , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington or New York . Similarly , the work of setting up the Trusteeship Council is far from completed . But the " Town Meeting of the World " at least has a temporary meeting hall at the Center Theatre in New York . Anglo-Soviet Relations Watched The question the delegates are asking is what effect has this meeting had on relations between the great powers in general and between Britain and Russia in particular ? At the end of the San Francisco Conference the delegates of the small powers were afraid of the ponder of the Big Five bloc . They , observed the representatives of these powers meeting in the penthouse of the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco and standing together on most questions , often in opposition to the majority of the other states . They were afraid of this Big Five unanimity then , but after the disputes that have gone on among members of the Big Five in the first session here in London the delegates are wondering as they leave for home what can be done to bring the Big Five closer together . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends took a strong stand on issues before the UNO and on only one occasion the election of Mr. Lie as Secretary General  --  was their policy adopted . First , they tried to elect Mr. Lie President of the General Assembly , and , despite hesitant United States support , he was defeated . Second , they tried to establish the principle that the work of the General Assembly should be stopped until decisions before it were agreed upon in private by the Big Five , and this was rejected by both James F. Byrnes , United States Secretary of State and Mr. Bevin . Third , they sought to establish a restrictive press policy , but instead this has been the most open conference of the war period , with everything , including the most acrimonious debates , out in the open and with extraordinary assistance by the delegates and the secretariat to members of the press and radio corps . Fourth , they tried to get the World Federation of Trade Unions brought into the Assembly with the right . to speak , and when they had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cooperative Alliance from joining the WFTU as consultants and advisers .                     