@@710449

txt A House concession to the Senate in the greatest remaining controversy in pending labor legislation  --  the extent of regulation to be put on the union shop  --  was substantially , arranged today . On the eve of the decisive meetings of the conferees from the two chambers to compose their divergent bills , it was learned that the House was now ready to defer to the more moderate Senate approach , with a single condition . This condition , about which no great difficulty was foreseen , was that the Senate for its part should accept the specification of the House that Federal legislation continuing the union shop was not to strike down or discourage state laws , present or prospective , outlawing that system . Tomorrow , the Senate and House delegations will assemble in critical sessions actually to begin to vote on the compromise measure now roughly shaped up . Today , Representative Fred A. Hartley Jr. , Republican , of New Jersey , head of the House conferees , talked with the House Republican leader , Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the features of the bill that may emerge from conference by Wednesday night . This measure in its principal as- // pects will be the substance of the Taft Senate bill . There will be Averal concessions to the Hartley House bill , however , which the Republican policy framers believe will not harden the end product sufficiently to raise the danger that a Presidential veto would be sustained in the Senate . On the union shop , the Senate plan wOuld permit a continuation of the system where a majority of all employes affected voted for it . The House provision , now on the point of being yielded up , would have prohibited the union shop unless the employer , himself was willing to have it . Moreover , the union shop , under which all workers must join up within a specified time after their employment , would have been excluded from the legitimate subjects of collective bargaining . Compromise Seen on NLRB Issue On another feature long insisted upon by the House  --  a total separation of the prosecuting and judicial functions of the National Labor Relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect : The board 's general counsel , whose appointment would be subject to Senatorial confirmation , would stand apart from its members to the extent that he would be exclusively responsible for all investigations and prosecutions . Again , it appeared on inquiry that the Senate might meet the House a part of the way in its demand for a section of the bill to act against mass picketing . This would be done , it was said in House quarters , by " broadening " the language of a general declaration against interference with an individual workman . A rather brisk but not fundamental argument still to come concerned the definition of the " agricultural " workers who would be excluded from the bargaining rights conferred in the proposed new act . The House version , as some of the Senate conferees see it , would exclude thousands of cannery workers . The solution to this impasse was not in sight , for the Senate wasl plainly disinclined to yield and the I House spokesmen for their part were under strong pressure to hold fast . Only at such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation being prodded by sections/of the House membership , apart from voices raised on the extreme right among members unwilling to accept any part of the milder Senate ' , approach . Hartley " Catching It " Representative Hartley asserted ' that some such protests were coming from " certain people " not really interested in getting legislation at this session but rather prefer-1 ring to reserve " an issue for 1948 . " He was " catching it from all sides , " he said , and specifically from organized labor on the one side and from industrialists on the other . To combat the accusation that the House was on the point of " giving up everything to the Senate , " Mr. Hartley and his associates were seeking to placate House critics with two proposals . First , they argued , the Senate bill was in any case more restrictive because of the example of the House measure than it would have been otherwise . Second , they contended that without the early and firm decision of the House leaders to accept nothing short of an omnibus bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been piece-meal and subject , to destruction in detail by Presidential veto . Mr. Hartley did not bring his conferees together during the day but Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio , head of the Senate panel , met briefly with his associates to prepare , the policy for tomorrow 's session . Mr. Taft repeated to reporters that the Senate could make no more substantial concessions .                     