@@709525

txt CHICAGO , June 2 ? Declarations1 that there is an urgent need for the extension of Selective Service , and that talk as to how and where and why the next war will be fought is vicious were made today by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower in a talk before the National Convention of the Reserve Officers Association . General Eisenhower said the United States must be in a position to " guard well its own security , " until the United Nations is able to guarantee international security . He continued : " We need a deeper realization by all our people that the continuing peace of the world depends in a large measure on the strength of the United States and its ability to carry out its international commitments . Stresses occupation Tasks " While our occupation duties in enemy countries are the most tangible and visible of these tasks and require the largest part of our manpower , a balanced military force with both police and offensive capacity must be maintained in a troubled world . " He added : " The United States can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy if it stands helpless and naked before the world . " Urging the need for continuation of Selective Service , General Eisenhower said , " a final peace , satisfactory to every nation , has not yet been written . Our strength has no other purpose than to assure that these treaties will be written in accord with those principles for which more than 300,000 Americans gave their lives . " He attacked what he described as the tendency on the part of critics to " ignore the Army 's achievements and to over-emphasize alleged faults and weaknesses within it . " He dded : " I assure you that I will go to // my grave proud of the fact that I could serve with you , as an officer of the Army , in the most desperate crisis of our national history . " We acknowledge need - for correction . Neither humans nor human organizations can be perfect . But need for correction does not warrant or excuse criticism inspired either by ignorance or , even worse , an intent to discredit an instrument of the people that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those people and disaster . " Influence at Home Urged He told the officers that in tweeds they did not look like " brass hats " and urged them to talk at home , acquainting their friends with the " aim to maintain an interim army , adequate to fulfill the purpose of the American people  --  the establishment of a lasting peace . " He continued : ' " You , at least , will not be subject to the accusation that you strive for aggradnizement of the Army . " . Praising the work of the Reserve Officers during the war , General Eisenhower said that they had helped to make up a great offensive team and that no one then questioned whether " a man was a Regular or a Reserve , or National Guardsman , or selectee or volunteer . " He stated that the new Reserve Corps must become a well-trained " citizen army " to supplement immediately , in an emergency , the small Regular Army and the National Guard . " We will be able , " he said , " as progress is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce the armed forces of our country and so avoid the staggering costs of their maintenance . Growing effectiveness in the United Nations will logically be accompanied by a step-by-step reduction in the resources we are now compelled to devote to our security . " In a press conference following " Anyone who now discusses the possibility of war is doing the whole world a disservice . " Human Failures Blamed Asked for his opinion of the General Doolittle report on Army criticism , he said that the greatest difficulties are not in the Army system but in human failures . " We do not preach that an officer is some young god with special right . " We merely think he is the best soldier in his unit . You will never see a good officer pitching his own pup tent . His men know he is busy taking- , care of their welfare . " Referring to the recent passes made at United States Army planes by Russian planes , in Europe , he said the Russians had been bred in isolationism and suspicion of everyone and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidents . " He declared relationships with Russia are improving . Asked for his opinion about Ralph Ingersoll 's recently published sensational book , " Top Secret , " which criticizes British Field Marshall Sir Bernard Montgomery and makes General Eisenhower out as a political general , selected and used by the British . General Eisenhower said , " I have n't read it . " Asked about the war diary of his former naval aide , Capt . Harry Butcher , he said , " I have n't had time to read that either . "                     