@@711581

txt Hopes that British dominion leaders at the commonwealth conference in London may help to bring about a European federation is the chief French interest in this meeting . Faced with the obvious reluctance of the present British Government to give all-out support to continental federation efforts , the French have hoped that the dominions would see the value of Britain joining a federation and would bring pressure to bear on the Attlee government to achieve this end . While it is suspected that British reluctance is due primarily ? to their usual caution , it has been always the question of commonwealth obligations which the British government has used to justify its resistance to closer participation in Ettropean affairs . Ever since the British started objecting even to a customs union idea , at the first meetings of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation last year . the French have said-the main issue was that the British could not make up their minds whether their country was primarily a part of the commonwealth or of Europe . Perhaps , the French argued , Britain does not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinging to a middle position . But assuming that the commonwealth comes first  --  and the present conference in London provides a good occasion to accept that as fact  --  then the case for federation could be of interest to both British and dominions in a very hard-headed and commonsense wpy. the French insist . French View Roughly , this is the way some of the most influential French circles look upon the Federation-Commonwealth issue : Being a member of the federation would not in any way preclude its continuing to be the center of its commonwealth , it is asserted . In fact , some French observers point at both Anthony Eden and Winston Churchill , who would be the last to give away any important part of British sovereignty and both of whom stated a basic concept at the recent Conservative Party conference in a manner pertinent to this point . They said , in effect , that Britain 's future rests within three great circles among free nations and democracies : ( A ) The British commonwealth and empire , ( B ) the English-speaking world , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united Europe . Actually Britain , as a member of a European federation and also the center of the British commonwealth , would be in a position to attain a new status of power , prosperity , and influence in the world , the French maintain . As a member of a federation , yet with special relations with the dominions , it would become the logical middleman through which business between the dominions and the European federation would clear . With the elimination of European economic frontiers , dominion products then could go to Britain and easily move inside the federation , or their raw materials could be processed in England and then move to federation markets without restriction . To the degree the dominions kept barriers down between themselves and Britain , to that same degree would they have a market representing not 50,000,000 in Britain , but . rather 260,000,000 persons of western Europe west of the Elbe . New Relationship By the same token , Britain could offer the best gateway for western European products to be sold to the dominions . And with Britain as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominions would , in fact , assume the role ' Of quasimembers of the federation , yet free of those entangling commitments which they as independent and non-European members of the commonwealth could not accept . With these gains , the British would tend to become middleman between not only the English-speaking dominions , but also between the United States and the federation . In all probability considerable business between the United States and the federation would pass through the British doorway . On this basis , there would seem little reason for either commonwealth opposition to British membership in a European federation , or , for that matter , continuing British opposition . The question is , of course , whether the French argument in favor of a British membership does not somewhat oversimplify the case . There are many hard facts , as well as imponderabilia , which the British could quote in defense of their " wait-and-see " attitude toward the federation plan .                     