@@711369

txt When General Eisenhower sent his now famous letter to the publisher of a New Hampshire newspaper some five months ago a strong movement was under way to " draft " him for the Republican nomination . This movement was on the point of reaching boom proportions . It was an entirely spontaneous grass-roots affair , for it had developed not only without any encouragement from the General himself but in the face of repeated declarations on his part that he had no wish to be a candidate , no desire to run for public office , " absolutely no political ambition or intentions . " It took his firm letter of Jan. 23 to put the clincher on these earlier denials , to silence the Republican draft movement and to disband the many " Eisenhower Clubs " which had sprung up overnight . Now it has taken a second formal statement to check a Democratic draft movement which had reached great strength on the very eve of the Philadelphia convention  --  and there are still some zealots who will not accept this final " no . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enthusiasts involved , this Democratic move to " draft Eisenhower " has doubtless been used as a cover to advance the nomination of Supreme Court Justice Douglas . It was also a reflection of the low appraisal set by more than a few Democratic leaders on their party 's present chances of carrying this year 's election , and a last-minute scramble to find a winning ticket . But the fundamental factor in this situation , as in the earlier proposal for a Republican draft , was the deep affection in which General Eisenhower is held by the American people and the high respect w4iich he enjoys because of public confidence in the integrity of his purposes . This confidence , already one of the most impressive facts in the contemporary American scene , will be still further strengthened by the firmness with which the new president of Columbia stands by his earlier position . It is not General Eisenhower 's fault ? for his position had been made crystal clear in his January statement , and should have needed no further definition  --  if the collapse of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Democratic prospects at this moment . The Democratic leaders who so recklessly challenged the good faith of the General 's January declaration have certainly not helped to achieve either a harmonious convention or success next November ( should the nomination now go to Mr. Truman ) by the enthusiasm which they have put into their pronouncements that Mr. Truman can not win and should not be given the chance to go down to a defeat which would be disastrous to the party . Nor does the nomination of Justice Douglas seem to offer a practicable alternative . For if one of the chief complaints against Mr. Truman , in the eyes of the Southern Democrats who now oppose his nomination , is that he stands far enough to the left to have recommended a program of civil rights and equality of opportunity , it is an easily ascertainable fact that Justice Douglas stands much farther to the left than does Mr. Truman , not only on this issue but on many others . Southern Democrats who balk at Mr. Truman could not easily rally around Mr. Douglas can Northern Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Wallace back info the fold and thus avert the threat of the third-party movement to the Democratic ticket in several of the large industrial states . Mr.- Wallace is embarked upon a very personal crusade from which there is no good reason to believe that he can be diverted . For these reasons the finger of destiny now seems to point to Mr. Tru man 's nomination , though possibly not without a fresh display of doubts and the development of a " draft Douglas " move at Philadelphia . Such a result , while not welcome to many of the party chieftains who will gather in next week 's convention , is neverthelss logical . For it is Mr. Truman who has made the record of the Democratic party in the last three years . And this record , while it has undeniable points of weakness and confusion , also has elements of strength . Where would the prestige of the Democratic party stand today if the party 's fortunes were not identified with Mr. Truman 's hard and successful fight for the Marshall Plan , for the Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for unification of the armed forces and for Selective Service ?                     