@@704467

txt ? Negotiations looking toward conclusion of a new- treaty authorizing joint American and Canadian development of President RooseveIrs pet power and navigation project  --  the Great Lakes-St . L a w ? rence waterway ? appeared to have collapsed tonight as a Canadian treaty delegation packed its bags and started for A. A. Berle . Ottawa . The *Alit departure of the Canadians , who had been expected to re ; main here until the treaty was drawn and submitted to the senate , indi , cated that a snag had been struck In the discussions . At the outset of the third day of deliberation it was reported at the state department that the Canadian and United States delegates were settling engineering problems and would be so engaged for several days . Berk ) Secs Roosevelt . Later In the day Assistant Seere ' fary of State Adolph A. Berle , chief American negotiator , paid a hurried visit to the White House . He would not reveal the nature of his confer . ence with the President , trail ? he said that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House visit the state department issued a brief announcement saying Dr. O. D. Skelton , Canadian under secretary of state for foreign affairs , and his associates had left Washington during the afternoon for the Canadian capital . The statement said progress had been made in the discussions and gave as the reason for the departure of the Canadians the fact that both delegations desired to report on various matters of policy to their goyernments . Delay Means Defeat . This version of the Canadians ' withdrawal was greeted with skepticism on Capitol hill , where congressional leaders are agreed that delay now is fatal to the President 's project . Unless a treaty is submitted to congress in the next few weeks there will be no possibility of its consideration at the session of congress in a presidential anti congressional camithign yeas . The departure of the Canadians was considered an Indication of definite break and signaling enough delay to balk treaty consideration at this session . Two reasons were advanced for the purported breakdown of the negotia-tions : First , it was believed , that the Canadian government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great enough to warrant interest in the project . The war had induced the Canadian government to withdraw objection to the treaty and enabled President nooseveil to revive a project he said yesterday'he has been interested in since early manhood . Second , it also was believed , recent clashes between - Premier Mitchell Hepburn of Ontario , long time foe of the waterway scheme , and Prime Minister Mackenzie King of Canada have induced the Canadians to withdraw . Forced to Return Home . After the delegation had departed it was learned at the state depart . ment that the row between Hepburn and King is so grave that whispers had reached here a week ago that the Canadians would be forced to drop the seaway plan on one pretext or another . The state department supported its claim of progress with a statement that engineer advisers of both delegations had agreed on the power development with a compromise of the Canadian two-dam plan of the 1932 SEAWAY PARLEY which was discussed in some detail in the 1926 report of the joint board of engineers . The engineers of the IN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cheaper in cost than the project on which the 1932 treaty was based , and affords full protection for all the interests in the various sections of the St. Lawrence Delegates Agree Only on rive ? . " hart Island , with a power house in each country and a control dam upstream , " the state department said . " This project is based upon a plan Power Scheme . // treaty , killed by the senate in 1934 , and the American plan for one dam . The American plan called for a dam and power plant to be built at Alas . sena Point , opposite Barnhart island , a few miles above Cornwall . Two power houses were to be built with a combined Power installation of 2,200 , - 000 horse power , and a minimum development at low water stages of 1,440,000 horse power . The Canadian plan changes nearly all the technical problems involved in power development . It contemplated the lower of two dams below the Massena Point site , running from the American shore to the foot of Barnhart Island and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power houses , as in the American single stage plan , one on either side of the river and having a combined power installation of 1,607,000 horse power . Second Dam Snuffler . Fifteen miles up the river , nt Chrysler Island , the Canadians proposed to build a second dam . This would also have two power houses ? one on either side of the river and with an installation of 592,960 horse power . Finally , at Galops Island , still farther up the river control works directing the flow of water were to be erected . The engineering advisers of the two governments have reached substantial agreement on the feasibility anti desirabitity of n project in the International rapids section of the St. Lawrence river which would involve a main dam in the vicinity of BarnOmit Chicago Problem . Nothing was said of the discussions on the two major features of the , 1932 treaty , which caused Its defeat , American sovereignty over Lake Michigan and the employment of . Canadian labor and materials with American money . The 1932 treaty insisted upon freezing diversion of Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,500 cubic feet per second  --  the present limitation under a Supreme court decision . The mithvest is asking diversion be stepped up to as much as 5,000 cubic feet in the interests of health and navigation of the Illinois waterway . This plan has the support of army engineers . - Yesterday Mr. Roosevelt indicated he was in favor of easing the rigid restriction if necessary to maintain a nine foot channel in the inland waterway , but was opposed to diversion of a drop of water for sewage disposal . Expense Left to United States . The other major fact for the defeat of the first treaty was that it would have had the United States advance almost all of the 500 million dollars for the project . American funds spent in Canada , would go for Canadian labor and materials . Other factors in the defeat of the plan were waterway competition with existing forms of transportation and the fact that the development of cheap power on the St. Lawrence would benefit industry in that area of New York state and . Canada to pfillaen tisn.jury of established . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new argument . They were preparing to attack it when a treaty was submitted to the senate on the ground that the administration was circumventing traditional American neutrality In aiding warring Canada .                     