@@709659

txt The House passed today three major amendments giving a strong military complexion to the five-man civilian commission for control of atomic energy that was originally contemplated in the bill . Following unswervingly the line laid down in a two-week study of the bill by its Military Affairs Committee , the House required the appointment of at least one and optionally two members of the commission from the Army or the Navy . The House also made mandatory the appointment of a military officer as directir of the commission 's division of military application . Earlier two moves to kill any atomic control legislation at this session of Congress were defeated . Final Action Expected Today With only two major issues remaining , it was believed possible that the House might reach a final vote on the bill as a whole by tomorrow evening . One of these issues was a committee amendment that would permit the Army and Navy , with Presidential permission , to manufacture atomic bombs . As unanimously passed by the Senate , the bill would allow only the commission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the patent and licensing section of the bill . Strong pressures were evident for loosening up this section , which at present requires that all atomic patents must be owned by the Government and that any participation in the development of nuclear power must be licensed by the commission . Joseph P. Kennedy , former Ambassador to Great Britain , was mentioned in authoritative capital circles tonight for the chairmanship of the commission . Gen. George C. Marshall , former chief of staff , also was on the slate of suggested candidates . Three Others Mentioned Three others also mentioned for membership were : Dr. J. R. Oppenheimer , former director of the Los Alamos Laboratory in New Mexico , where the atomic bomb was produced ; Dr. Charles Seymour , historian , and president of Yale University ; and Wayne Coy , formerly an adviser to the late President Roosevelt and presently an executive of The Washington Post and manager of its radio station WI X. Meanwhile , Administration forces , alarmed over the rough treatment of the bill , were making strenuous efforts tonight to rally to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recall at least fifty ' of them , including such stalwarts as John J. Sparkman of Alabama , party whip , a stanch supporter of the original bill , who is campaigning to get himself elected a Senator . This call was inspired particu- // larly by fear that the looming battle over the patent section , which the National Association of Manufacturers and other groups are seeking to liberalize , might result in the bill 's being recommitted to the Military Committee indefinitely . The first of the military amendments written by the Military Committee , requiring that at least one Army or Navy man be appointed to the commission , was adopted by a vote of 127 to 96 , on a teller count . A previous count of hands had mustered 115 for and 87 against the amendment . Legalize Post for Officer With this majority established , the two other changes dealing ' with military influence in the commission were passed on voice votes . The second of the amendments was intended to legalize the appointment of military officers to , the proposed Atomic Energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their military pay and the commission 's higher pay . This amendment , however , stated that " not to exceed two active or retired officers of the Army or the Navy may serve at the same time as members of the Commission , and any active or retired officer of the Army or Navy may serve as Director of the Division of Military Application . " The third amendment specifically made mandatory the appointment of an officer to - the Directtorship of the military division . The votes on the military amendments were believed to reflect a body of opinion , evident in certain military quarters . that does not agree with the ideas of the civilian chiefs of . the Army and Navy . In these , quarters it is felt that the bill , even as amended by the House Military Affairs Committee , does not meet the requirements of national defense . Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson appeared before the Military Committee . recently and ; aid he was entirely satisfied with the representation accorded to the armed services in the military Liaison committee embodied in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy James Forrestal and other service leaders have expressed similar approval of the original bill . In the debate today Representative Thomas E. Martin , Republican , of Iowa , sponsor of the first and third amendments , declared : " I 'm not willing to take the word of Mr. Patterson or anybody else that responsibility be passed on to a civilian agency .. I 'm for putting responsibility on the door step of the War Department . " Proponents of civilian control argued that putting military men in as actual members was like waving a red flag ? n the face of nations seeking peace . They also pleaded that a commission was necessary to promote the beneficial medical and industrial uses of the radioactive by-products of nuclear fission . Opponents said an effort to assure peace should first be made , expressed distrust of the Soviet , Union , feared the atomic bomb secret would be endangered , and wanted the Army to retain control . In the first voting test of the day , Representative John E. Rankin , Democrat , of Mississippi , triefj to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival by nine votes . He moved to strike out its enacting clause . The voice vote was 93 to 102 . Mr. Rankin called for a teller vote and this time his motion was defeated 102 to 131 . Then Representative Dewey Short , Republican , of Missouri , moved to recommit the bill for further hearings in the Military Committee . On a standing vote the bill survived by 50 to 107 . On a motion by Representative Charles H. Elston , Republican , of Ohio , the House killed by a voice vote a provision for a three-man board of appeals against decision of the commission . Representative Frank A. Mathews , Republican , of New Jersey , won passage of his amendment killing grants-in-aid , which the commission would - have been authorized to make to research institutions , universities and corporations for research and development of atomic energy . Representative Clare Boothe Luce , Republican , of Connecticut , argued against any more military representation on- the commission than was originally provided in the military liaison committee ; and suggested that Bernard M. Baruch , chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atomic Energy Commission , would be a good man ' to appoint as chairman of the domestic control commission . The five mentioned for the commission would be sufficient to fill the five-men commission contemplated in the bill . They do not , however , exhaust the list of those who are being considered for the unprecedented government agency . Mr. Kennedy was ' considered as having excellent qualifications for the position . It is believed , however , that no active steps have yet been taken to persuade Mr. Truman to select him for the important post .                     