@@707852

txt Starting a shuttle bombing program , which opens up the possibilities of reaching every target in German-held Europe , huge American Flying Fortresses landed today for the first time at this new American air base in Russia after dropping tons of bombs on enemy targets in eastern Europe . A communique issued by the Eastern Command of the United States Strategic Air Forces said the bombers had attacked Rumanian targets elected by the Russians . The communique added that the Red Air Force had bombed enemy airdromes along the route and had provided fighter cover . Earlier the Moscow radio said that to insure concentration on targets " of greatest importance " to the United Nations , " direct connection has been established between the respective staffs , The United Press reported . The opening of this new vital and perhaps decisive chapter in the air war against Hitlerite Germany and her satellites was announced by Maj. Gen. John R. Deane , head of the United States military mission to Russia , to Anglo-American correspondents brought from Moscow to witness the landing of the American planes here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History was made today when American Flying Fortresses dropped tons of bombs on targets in eastern Europe and then , escorted by American Mustangs and Soviet Yaks , roared over the eastern front and settled down in bases somewhere in Russia . " American and Russian soldiers who have been working day and night for the past few months in preparation of the bases to receive American aircraft were on hand for a brief but happy celebration before servicing the aircraft with fuel and ammunition for another call on the Axis en route to their home bases in England , Italy and Africa . " This is shuttle bombing ? bombing that makes vulnerable all industrial facilities in eastern Germany  --  bombing that can be carried out when weather prohibits returning to British or Mediterranean bases  --  and bombing that will require the redistribution of the German fighter defenses . " The operations carried out today mark the first large-scale physical collaboration of the air forces of Britain , Russia and America . Russian Aid Acclaimed " American officers at Russian bases emphasized the contribution made by Soviet authorities to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importation of American personnel and material into Russia constituted an additional burden on the Russian war machine . They were unanimous in the expression of their appreciation of the wholehearted collaboration received from the Russians , and pointed to the success of the operations as evidence of the effectiveness of Russians and Americans as a fighting team . " Giant Fortresses settled on a runway that had been constructed on territory not long ago occupied by the German Army and immediately ground crews , both American and Russian , began preparing them for another flight across Hitler 's shrinking and riddled European fortress , vital factories or strategic targets whose destruction can aid either the Red Army advancing from the east or the Anglo-Amer // ican forces moving up from the south or landing in the west . General Deane 's first announcement contained no details on the number of planes or men involved or of specific targets attacked and , of course , gave no indication when the Fortresses again would take off from here for another assault on the German war machine . It is the idea of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the German fighter defense command " slap happy " trying to figure out whether the planes from here will next head to Italy , Africa or Britain or whether they might sweep from here returning to Russia . It is a certain fact that this type of operations imposes grave additional burdens on the declining Luftwaffe . The Moscow radio announced one bomber and one fighter of the group failed to land at the new bases , adding that only a part of the force that bombed military objectives in Rumania had landed in Soviet territory . The remainder of the force apparently returned to their original bases , probably in Italy . First Discussed at Moscow The landing we witnessed today was considerably more than the successful accomplishment of one mission  --  it was evidence of the real fighting collaboration between the three principal partners of the anti-Hitlerite coalition . General Deane told us that the proposal for the establishment of this Russian base for American bomber operations was first broached at the Foreign Ministers ' conference in Moscow , was discussed further at the Teheran meeting of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all details finally were settled early in February when extensive preparations for these bases began . An Associated Press dispatch from Washington said the plan was first proposed by Gen. H. H. Arnold , commander of the United States Army Air Forces . General Deane- was high in his praise of Russian officials and workmen who actively cooperated with American personnel in making possible this operation which is unprecedented in the operation of 1. ? foreign units from the territory of the U. S. S. R. As evidence of American appreciation of their cooperation General Deane presented today on be'half of Mr. Roosevelt the Order of Commander of the Legion of Merit to Col. Gen. Alexei V. Nikitin of the Red Air Force and the order of Officer of the Legion of Merit to Maj. Gen. Alexander R. Perminoff , who was in command of all facilities used in preparing the bases . Final direction of these strategical bombing efforts was vested in Lieut . Gen. Carl A. Spaatz , whose deputies , Maj. Gen. Frederick L. Anderson and Brig . Gen , Theodore Curtis , recently visited Moscow and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Visit With them came Col. Elliott Roosevelt , the President 's son , who is the leader of a photo reconnaisance group operating from Britain . The honor of being the first to fly the shuttle route was a photo reconnaisance mission headed by Col. Paul T. Cullen , The Associated Press said . For the American boys and men who manned the Fortresses that landed here today , this was a new and rare experience . They set forth from one country at the other side of Europe and landed on bases they had never seen and in a country they probably had never dreamed of visiting and populated by people whose language they did not know . The commander of one of the American air bases here is Col. Albert A. Kessler Jr . of Passaic , N. J. , who first visited the Soviet Union last October as a military adviser to Donald M. Nelson , chairman of the War Production Board , and who returned in March . Colonel Kessler is a West Point graduate , class of 1922 , and has commanded a bomber wing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy territory . Airfield Is Complete The American and Russian workmen , interchangeable under United States and Soviet supervision , have built a complete air base . It : provides substantial , solid runways for heavy four-motored airplanes . Its maintenance crew is a mixture of American and Russian personnel , the Russian Government having . shipped the best mechanics from all parts of the Soviet Union for tackling the new and ' difficult job of servicing a type of plane they had never seen before . The air base has its own hospitals staffed by American doctors who soon will be joined by American nurses . It will soon have its own post exchange , but General Deane is not sure how soon there will be American beer for sale . Americans will eat , in large part , their , own rations shipped in via the northern convoy and Persian Gulf STARTS SHUTTLE ROUTE CoL Paul . T. Cullen , who headedl photo reconnaissance mission into Russia . Associated Press routes  --  a fact for which General Deane particularly expressed appreciation to Soviet officials , pointing out that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priorities to supplies and equipment requested by the Americans . Russian assistance on the completion of this American base is in a large part classified as reverse lend-lease  --  one of the first major opportunities the Soviet Union has yet had to repay in kind , at least in part , for the vast quantities of war material that have been shipped to Russia from United States factories .                     