@@704932

txt The split in American opinion over the policy to be followed toward a warring Europe has been thrown into bold outline today by two widely divergent speeches by prominent Americans , the one urging immediate and strong aid to Great Britain , the other calling for an American peace effort and preparations to live with a victorious Germany . Gen. John J. Pershing , in one of the few public statements now made by the World War commander of the American Expeditionary Force , urged the United States to send at least 50 of its over-age destroyers to Great Britain . Speaking from what appeared to be an entirely different viewpoint of the issues now involved in Europe , Col. Charles A. Lindbergh yesterday told a rally at Soldiers Field , Chicago , that the present war was not one for Democracy or Christianity and said that " If we desire to keep America out of war . we must take a lead in offering a plan of peace . " Bund Members Present The Chicago rally was sponsored by the " Citizens Keep America Out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd of 20,000 , which filled but a quarter of the huge stadium , were members of the German American National Alliance , which has taken over the membership and policies of the German-American Bund . In contradistinction to Colonel Lindbergh , who said that the United States should prepare to live with a German-dominated Europe and who condemned those who accused Germany of barbarism , General Pershing , in his address over the Nation-wide network of the Columbia Broadcast-1 ing System last night , pointed out that eight different European na-1 tions have tried to appease Germany . " The appeasers of eight nations are dead or in jail , or discredited and ruined , " General ) Pershing declared . " In seven of these eight nations the appeasers ' who would not take the danger seriously , who would not prepare I when there was still time , have I led their countries into disaster . Would Send Destroyers While advocating a strengthening of American defenses , particularly through the establishment of compulsory military service , General Pershing said Britain has immediate and great need of destroyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to perfect its growing defenses . Colonel Lindbergh 's address , which observers say may have a strong effect on certain segments of the public opinion , said that co-operation with Germany would be possible , but that a war between Germany and the United States would bring a collapse of western civilization . He also declared that the present war was one between the " haves " and the " have nots " and that Britain had grown too rich while Central Europe had become too poor.n                     