@@707514

txt Anti-Semitism Report by Herlands Calls for Tighter Control by Police Investigation Commissioner William B. Herlands ' report on antiSemitic disturbances in the city ? more than a year in preparation ? was made public yesterday . First submitted to Mayor La Guardia , the document of 110 pages sets forth in detail acts of violence and vandalism in thirtyone cases and recounts the case histories of the fifty-four offenders involved , mostly juveniles ; ascribes to the police " laxity and inaction " in eight of twenty-two cases ; suggests a policy for the police , and makes twelve recommendations for a coordinated city-wide program to deal with the subject Mr. Herlands and the ten members of his staff who took part in the inquiry found no conspiracy or organized plan on the part of any group to commit acts of vandalism or violence , but declared that the same anti-American and antiSemitic " propaganda and indoctrination " ran through all the Cases cited . In some cases the vandals were instigated directly by adults to commit the acts , A lieutenant of Joe , anti-Semitic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually a school for violent anti-Semitism . " Other vandals obtained their ideas about the Jews from Christian Front and Christian Mobilizers ' street corner " orators , " Mr. Herlands said . In the great majority of cases , however , the indoctrination was the result of casual comments and ordinary conversation " which could not be traced to any specific organization or individual , " the investigators found . Declaring that , while not organized , the depredations " are not . accidental or fortuitous , and they are more than juvenile delinquency in the ordinary sense , " Mr. Herlands asserted that " the same antiAmerican and anti-Semitic propaganda and indoctrination are reflected in the physically separate incidents . " " This propaganda and indoctrinationoriginated and are carried on in different ways , " Mr. Herlands said : " By street-corner orators , by family indoctrination , through remarks heard at school from classmates , by pamphlets and leaflets , by inspired rumors , etc . " Vandalism and violence are not the root of the problem ; they are only symptoms . They are a sign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been inspired by the same kind of anti-American and antiSemitic propaganda used by the Nazis as part of their technique of ' divide and conquer . ' Such propaganda originated in Germany and was adopted by such domestic organizatidns as the Christian Front and the Christian Mobilizers , among others . " One of the objectives of such propaganda was to plant the seeds of racial and religious hate . The commission of certain acts of vandalism and violence cited in this report is attributable to propaganda sponsored by the Christian Front and the Christian Mobilizers . Whether this constitutes " instigation ' or inspiration ' is at best a matter of definition . We believe that inspiration is but one fgrm of instigation . " Upon close analysis , some cases which appear to be anti-American and anti-Semitic in character turn out to be free of such special motivation . Therefore it is our conclusion that each act of vandalism and violence must be judged in the light of the facts applicable to the particular case . There is no rule of thumb classification for all cases of vandalism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city-wide , integrated program dealing with both immediate and longrange problems , " and said they could be adapted as well to the solution of many interracial and interreligious problems as distinguished from religious antagonisms , discrimination and overt violence and vandalism . His twelve recommendations fol-low : 1 . Providing more effective police action and special police measures . 2 . Appointment of a city-wide interracial and interfaith committee by the Mayor . 3 . Establishment of local community coordinating councils . 4 . Bringing home the fundamental responsibility of parents . 5 . Further cooperation of public and parochial educational authorities to improve intercultural , interracial and interfaith relations . 6 . Additional assistance should be sought from the churches and religious leaders . 7 . Designation of panels of religious leaders to cooperate with the justices and probation officers of the Children 's Court . 8 . Increased participation of war veterans ' groups in the field of intercultural , interracial and interfaith relations . 9 . Additional attention of the Office of War Information to the problem . 10 . Increased responsibility of various community organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police . 12 . Cooperation of private and semi-public fact-finding organizations with the police and the Mayor 's committee . Mr. Herlands said he recognized that the number of cases treated in the report in a city as large as New York was comparatively small , but that emphasis was placed " more on the quality than the quantity of the acts . " Since the investigation was ordered by the Mayor , in September , 1942 , and up to March 16 , 1943 , sixty-nine complaints of anti-Semitic incidents were submitted to his department by individual citizens and various public and private agencies , Mr. Herlands said . In addition , seventy alleged incidents have come to the attention of the department since that time . Thirty-nine of the original sixty-nine complaints were found to be devoid of any element of anti-Semitism or were incidents that did not involve vandalism , assault and battery or any other " provable " overt act , Mr. Herlands disclosed . The remaining thirty cases , he said , involved " anti-American and antiSemitic vandalism or violence . " One additional case involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation , " iMr . Herlands said , " this typical ( group of thirty-one cases has yielded much needed knowledge of the background and motivation of fifty-four individual vandals and offenders . " Emphasis Is on the Vandals His report , Mr. Herlands declared , for the first time focused the spotlight of public attention and official knowledge upon the vandals rather than upon the victims . The facts recited in the case studies were based upon sworn testimony , documentary evidence and other competent legal proof , Mr. Herlands said . The actual names and initials of the offenders and victims were not used . The tendency among the police " has been to regard these incidents as boyish pranks , ordinary mischievousness and neighborhood hoodlumism , " Mr. Herlands said , adding that as a consequence there had been some instances of a lack of vigorous and prompt action . Thirty of the thirty-one cases involved police action . In one case , school authorities resolved the matter while in the others sixteen were solved and the perpetrators identified , and fourteen were not solved and the perpetrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herlands declared , were properly handled , but the eight others " were not handled in accordance with accepted standards of police action . " Summarizing the specific types of " police laxity and inaction , " Mr. Herlands found : minimization of the incidents . generally ; use of inept methods such as failure to take fingerprints immediately , failure to respond promptly to calls for police aid and failure to pursue all clues and leads ; violation of rules by failure to record calls for aid ; submission of " inaccurate and misleading statements " in official written reports and failure on the part of detectives to learn the identity of malefactors . Regarding the police attitude , Mr. Herlands said : " The original viewpoint of the Police Department has been that cases of anti-American and antiSemitic vandalism and assaults and batteries were inherently no different from . other cases of , malicious mischief , assault and battery , disorderly conduct and juvenile delinquency . Such cases must necessarily be handled , for purposes of judicial proceedings , as cases of disorderly conduct , malicious mischief , etc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national welfare and public safety , they involve much more than may be indicated by the technical Penal Law definition of the defendants ' misconduct . These considerations should be recognized by and reflected in the administration of the Police Department " After the start of his inquiry , Mr. Herlands said he noted an improvement in the police handling of such cases . Incidents were reported by the police both to the Department of Investigation and the Juvenile Aid Bureau , and in the case of disturbances in March , 1943 ; in the lower Eastern Parkway section of Brooklyn , additional police and plainclothes men were assigned . Clear Police Policy Urged Mr. Herlands called for " a clear and unequivocal statement of official Police Department policy " on the part of the . Police Commissioner particularly regarding anti-Semitic vandalism and violence and in general with regard to " all activities designed to foment ? racial and religious hostilities and ' ' disorders . " A : Main Office Squad , such as the Sabotage Squad , should receive " over-all , centralized responsibility " in these cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house for all information on anti-racial and anti-religious crimes and related activities . This squad , among other duties , should maintain spot maps of " problem areas . " Local " community coordinating councils , " Mr. Herlands said , should be formed embracing leaders of all religious faiths and racial groups , school authorities , parentteacher associations , civic organizations , Boy and Girl Scouts , Air Raid Warden Service , City Patrol Corps , war veterans ' groups , local police precinct authorities , members of business organizations and members of private fact-finding groups . He urged cooperation of the councils with the proposed Mayor 's Interracial and Interfaith Committee . In his educational recommendations , Mr. Herlands said all educational authorities in public and parochial schools as well as parents and community agencies should be supplied with a booklet issued by the New York City Board of Education in May , 1943 , entitled " Practical Democracy in Education . " He also referred to the so-called Springfield Plan , which is being studied . Mr. Herlands called for increased emphasis on education regarding traditions of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minorities protection and equality , the contribution of various minority groups to American civilization , and the roots of prejudice and scapegoating . " Also , Mr. Herlands declared , textbooks should continue to be re-examined for possible racial or religious slander , and teachers found guilty of teaching racism should be removed after trial ; institutions of higher learning should encourage interfaith movements and conferences ; " practical democracy " should be established in the lower grades through emphasis on interracial and interreligious goodwill in the teaching of American history , and educational authorities should intensify their efforts to reduce truancy and adopt special procedures and scientific techniques with respect to maladjusted and mentally retarded pupils . The need for constructive guidance from churches and religious leaders was emphasized , Mr. Herlands declared , by the fact that forty-nine of the fifty-two vandals between the ages of 9 and 22 years did not attend church . Increased cooperation of veterans ' groups with the City Patrol Corps , he declared , would help prevent the possible formation of " vigilante committees . " Action by OVVI Is Asked Urging the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public of the " divide and conquer " technique used in Nazi propaganda , Mr. Herlands declared that " a persistent rumor which has poisoned the minds of many of the vandals investigated by us is that the Jews are shirking their part in the war effort ; and that this is a Jewish war . " " These rumors , " Mr. Herlands said , " are based upon Nazi antiSemitic propaganda and are intensified by the distribution of antiSemitic doggerels and ' poems . ' " To counteract this , Mr. Herlands said , the OWI should present to the public " authoritative information showing that all Americans , regardless of race , color or creed , are making equal . contributions to the war effort . " The case concerning the lieutenant of Joe cited by Mr. Herlands came to light through the fact that the daughter of the man was one of a group of four ' teen-age girls who roamed the streets of the South Bronx , attacking Jewish children and insulting older Jewish residents . Young boys , the report said , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join forces . The youngsters developed certain tactics and techniques patterned after the familiar " agent provocateur " design of their elders , the report disclosed , and even devised for the " game " the term " going Jew hunting . " Devices included stepping on the heels of Jewish youngsters , mimicking Jewish accents or calling each other by Jewish names in the presence of Jewish youngsters ; swearing at Jews and hurling epithets ; having the youngest of their number deliberately provoke a fight with an older Jewish child and then beating up the Jewish youngster with the cry : " What are you hitting a little girl for ? " The father of one of the girls , the report disclosed , turned out to have been actively and prominently identified with the Christian Mobilizers and Joe ' anti-Semitic activties . He is now dead . He was a frequent street corner speaker for the Christian Mobilizers and had induced his daughter and her two older sisters to distribute anti-Semitic and anti-British literature at his meetings . Using his home as a meeting place for Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tirades against the Jews , the report declared . His wife , who said she believed there was something " mentally wrong " with the man , is said to have re . fused to . live with him . Cases of police laxity cited by Mr. Herlands included the setting of fires in the home and synagogue of a rabbi on Staten Island , attacks on two Jewish boys in the West Bronx , vandalism at the In. wood Recreation Center ' and the Flatbush American Jewish Con. gress House , an attack on an olc man in Brooklyn by three youths the defacing of a South JamaicE synagogue and the removal of pie tire 's from the . walls of the Herac4 Greeley High School .                     