@@711020

txt Probably the best way to express the implication of the American decision to reopen the wartime air base at Mellaha , near the city of Tripoli in former Italian Libya , is merely to . state the phrase " line of communication . " The refurbished base will give American air-sea power operating in the eastern Mediterranean a " line of communication " facility . The decision taken by itself does not , it can be stated , represent a reaction to any particular event , past or anticipated . It belongs rather in the general context of America 's gradually developing military return to the Mediterranean basin . ! Two-Fold Condition This process has been under way for some time . It is prompted by a general condition . The general condition consists of area . These interests consist of Arabian oil , Palestine , and maintenance of the established postwar settlement as affecting Turkey , Greece , and Italy . Strategically the interests are interdependent . For example , a Communist-guer-% rilla victory in Greece would jeopardize the western stake in Arabian oil . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would weaken the western defenses of Greece . And so on . Part Two  --  Signs of pressure , both present and future , upon va - rious parts of this strategic a nd political American interest in the eastern Mediterranean . War of Nerves The long Russian " war of nerves " against Turkey is an item . Guerrilla activities in Greece constitute another . Add to the list Russia 's published interests in both the Dardanelles and in title to Tripoli itself , both dating way back . Add of more recent date growing friction between the Greek Government and the American mission in Athens , and signs of intensive Communist plans for action in Italy . All of this , taken together , has been answered by a return of American military strength to the Mediterranean basin . No one part of that return is directed at any one part of the general condition . Each move in the return has both its defensive and its counteroffensive character . Each move strengthens the visible means of defending the sum total of American interests . And each move adds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressures now apparent and posssibly to be expected in the future The announcement regarding the Tripolitanian refueling base fills in what has up to this time been a missing link , During the War American military strategists dreamed of many things . Having built great bases all across the northern coast of Africa . they indulged in wistful hopes of being able to keep them . Most of those hopes went up in smoke long ago . The French showed no taste for letting the United States keep bases at Dakar or Algiers or Tunis . The French African empire was closed off . ? Italian Bases Closed Until the Italian peace treaty became operative . Italian bases were available . But now those bases , too , are closed . And American military forces in the eastern Mediterranean are at the end of a too-thin " line of communication " unless they can have way stations at their disposals . The former Italian colonies provide an available answer to the problem . They are under British occupation . That occupation is dependent on future action by the Big Four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But for the present Britain is the caretaker . And by British consent , now obtained , the Mellaha base is to be reopened as fast as possible . When it is. there will be an air refueling facility backstopping the growing concentration of American air-sea power in the eastern Mediterranean . More such facilities , by courtesy of the British . are to be expected . Bengasi , in Cyrenaica , has been mentioned frequently .                     