@@708968

txt Opinions on the Mayoralty Choice RICHARD S. CHILDSJOHN HAYNES HOLMES.GEORGE HAHN.EUGENE MCINTOSH , J.V. JONES.M ... Opinions on the Mayoralty Choice " Common Touch " Lacking To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW , YORK TIMES : In your recent editorial on the Mayoralty candidates you diverge from the conclusions of the Citizens Union . You and we are so habitually together that the divergence seems worth exploring . We agree that as a member of the Board of Estimate Mr. Morris has had a useful experience ( including , however , no administrative experience ) , but he has made no visible original contributions as Mr. has . He is now doing a disservice to the cause of good government by allowing his disappointment at not winning the party nominations for the Mayoralty to lead him into competing for the good government vote ; also by taking over Mayor La Guardia 's petulant little quarrel with as a deal ( ? ) to get La Guardia 's support , and recklessly running somebody for Controller against , with whom he had no quarrel of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , is that he is in touch with only a trivial fraction of the constituency , for the office of Mayor is more than an executive job , it is inescapably a great representative office . In this polyglot town La Guardia , with his deep political sense , his fourteen languages , his " common touch , " was a great find for the anti-Tammany forces ; Mayor Mitchel lost ground in office for lack of such qualities , despite his keen executive gifts and fine achievements . We have learned we can not elect a simple business executive like Waterman . The successful Mayor must know the town , be " one of our own kind " to multitudes , and be aware of the massive urgent undercurrents of inarticulate opinion . Morris has no more than a laboriously acquired literacy in that direction , as is inevitable for a man of his social background . As a representative , he is synthetic . Goldstein Wins Praise Goldstein on the other hand has come up with the East Side , and knows his people on a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for fourteen years . Be it admitted that he has kept " regular " as a voting Democrat in the party wherein he and all his neighbors grew up . Although not one of us political reformers , he has been a social reformer and a very active , creative and devoted one . His book " The Family in Court " reflects his compassion and penetration as an experienced judge . Social workers know and value his quiet and . effective leadership for better handling of adolescent offenders and his diligence in welfare association work as a director of his boyhood haunt , the University Settlement , trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies , and as organizer and first volunteer secretary of the Jewish Big Brothers . The people who once dwelt in slums and worked in sweatshops have clambered out and are all over town in modern housing and well-run union shops ; they recognize Goldstein as a sharer in their epic rise and as one of their own . He comes legitimately by his great personal constituency and its political recognition in the good government ticket is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential factor of " representativeness " in the job-specification for Mayor and for candidate . Morris ' Chances Doubted We knew in our hearts when Morris was mentioned in the pre-nomination discussions that he could hardly be elected even with the support of the 600,000 Republicans and 300,000 Liberals ; the impossibility of electing him without those forces is plain arithmetic . You dismiss this far too airily When you remark " To those who say that he can not be elected our answer is that the independent voters now have an opportunity to show what they can do . " Thank you for nothing  --  we organized independent voters diverge from your quixotic arm-chair strategy . For the simple fact is that the independent voters here , although numerous enough to be a useful balance of power between two parties , are nowhere near numerous enough to go it alone , nor could any thirty-day improvised volunteer organization conduct so vast a canvass . Sound strategy is imperative ! Tammany is at the gate ! Goldstein is a sincere and valuable ally . He can be elected and the Citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for continued good government . RICHARD S. CHILDS , Chairman , Citizens Union . New York , Oct. 5 , 1945 . Favoring Mr. Morris To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I want to congratulate you on your wisdom and courage in giving support to the Mayoralty candidacy of Newbold Morris . You are right  --  the independent voters of this city , who can swing the election as they please , have now the opportunity to prove their power . Mr. Morris stands first among the candidates in this campaign in experience , ability and character . He has been Mr. La Guardia 's good right hand during the eleven and more years of the best administration that New York City has ever had . He is the one man worthy of succession , as most fully equipped to carry on the great tradition of good government . I hope that , with your support and that of other great influences in New York , Mr. Morris may be triumphantly elected on Nov. 6 . JOHN HAYNES HOLMES . New York , Oct. 4 , 1945 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES : Just when I had concluded that those of us who had determined to vote for Newbold Morris for Mayor had little to encourage them THE TIMES comes forward with an editorial , " For Mayor ? Newbold Morris . " I feel more than ever justified in the position I have taken when I read the reasons you advance for favoring Newbold Morris . I 'd rather satisfy my conscience by voting for a man who deserves to win , whatever his chances , than to cast my vote for an unworthy cause . With the backing of THE TIMES as well as Mayor La Guardia and his associates the Morris candidacy bids fair to assume respectable proportions in the coming election . GEORGE HAHN . New York , Oct. 4 , 1945 . Goldstein Held Best Qualified To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You lay great stress on experience and intellectual qualifications , allegedly possessed by Newbold Morris , as being the prime requisites of good government . All friends of good government or social advancement seem to fall into the error of looking on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it should not . be forgotten that important as these factors are they do not , in the absence of exemplified social equality on the part of the social order , constitute good government or social progress . Thus the existing government of the City of New York , composed of about thirty-four departments or cabinet posts , with a Negro population of about half a million deprived entirely of any executive representation or from heading any department of government or Cabinet posts , does not represent good government or social advancement , notwithstanding its efficiency or economy . As the history of civilization shows , exemplified equality on the part of the social order is the immutable law of good government or social progress . For just as the social order has promoted justice and equality between man and man has civilization advanced and just as it has failed in this haa civilization come to a halt and receded . The history and record of Judge Goldstein show that he has always , consciously or unconsciously , exemplified - this most important law . He has always stood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , creed , color or national origin . Therefore he is the one man and only man in this campaign that is most fitted for the high office of Mayor and should have your endorsement and the support of all right thinking citizens . EUGENE MCI N TOS Chairman , Harlem Democratic Committee for the Election of Goldstein , and Pette . New York , Oct. 4 , 1945 . Boost for Good Government To THE EDITOR of THE NEW YORK TIMES : All independent voters will agree with me , I am sure , that THE TIMES forthright approval of Newbold Morris for Mayor is the most sensationally heartening thing that has happened to us in a long time . For us the polls will once more symbolize something other than a melancholy , meaningless gesture . We can give our emotions and prejudices a much-needed rest and nonpartisan good government a boost  --  at least locally . Why ca n't this happen in State and national elections ? Has our two-party system become an anachronistic limitation ? Please accept my profound gratitude . J. V. JONES . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : New York children and adolescents are behaving worse every day . They go on strike in our schools , and Mayor La Guardia blames the parents rather than the children . Well , in one sense he is right . If more parents were in the habit of taking their offspring over their knee as often as needed and applying a generous dose of strap oil we 'd all he better Spanking is , of course , most efficient when our boys and girls are young . The harder early spankings sting , the less we have to spank later on . My three teen-age girls have felt the beneficial sting since way back . Now that they are growing up they have charming dispositions and spankings are becoming less necessary . Old-fashioned ? You 'd be surprised what a modern , progressive and harmonious family life we have due not in small measure to an early and sensible application of the hairbrush . Mrs. T. SeHonz . New York , Oct. 4 , 1945 . Churches and Service Men To THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read that service men can find no place to sleep and ask for pup tents in the parks . These men are entitled to every consideration by agencies that can help with accommodations . Many churches are rendering service in housing these men and providing breakfasts for them . Others , however , although able to accommodate in their parish houses 100 cots each , with shower baths , lavatories and kitchens , are doing nothing for the men except to refer them to the YMCA , or the Salvation Army . What are our veterans going to think about this lack of attention by churches , which should be the first to render such service to men who have made It possible for us to live ? J. W. REYNOLDS . New York , Oct. 3 , 1945.                     