@@712484

txt Judge William Bondy rebuked Valentin A. , Gubitchev yesterday for his criticism of the court proceedings after . the Federal jurist had ordered the Soviet engineer to be ready for trial Monday with , Judith Coplon , former Department of Justice employe , on spy charges . Mr. Gubitchev , who in previous court appearances had coupled his claim of diplomatic immunity with an attitude of personal detachment , made a surprise request for a Russian translation of everything said in court in the last two days which " might have a bearing " on him . He made his request in Russian , which was translated by a United Nations interpreter , Victor de Guinzbourg , whom the Government had brought into court because of Gubitchev 's refusal since Wednesday to speak English . " No , emphatically no ! " was Judge Bondy 's reply . The jurist had tried earlier , without success , to get Gubitchev to address the court in English or read aloud the transcript of a ten-minute conversation the defendant had carried on in English with Federal Judge Vincent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the discussion , Judge Bondy instructed the interpreter to tell Gubitchev that " he 's in an American court . " The defendant , who was suspended from his United Nations position after his arrest last March , continued to ignore Judge Bondy 's order to read from the transcript and argued further in Russian , " Well , I 've got enough of that , " said the 78-year-old judge . " Tell ' him the case will be called on Monday . Tell him he 'd better be prepared to make his proper defense ) Monday or take the penalty . " The altercation began after Judge Bondy announced that the espionage and conspiracy trial would be conducted by some other judge , who will also hear testimony on motions by Miss Coplon 's attorney to dismiss the indictment against her as constituting double jeopardy , and declare illegal her arrest , and return the contents of her handbag which was seized , without a warrant . Miss Coplon is under sentence of forty months to ten years in prison as a result of her conviction last June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her handbag , containing extracts from secret Department of Justice documents , were part of the prosecution 's case . The case will be called at 10:30 A. M. Monday in the Federal Court House at Foley Square . It will be for the trial judge , who has not yet been assigned , to decide whether to incorporate in the trial the issues raised by Archibald Palmer , Miss Coplon 's attorney , or to conduct pre-trial hearings before a jury is selected . Says Client Is " in Poverty " Mr. Palmer urged Judge Bondy to direct that those issues be settled in a pre-trial hearing . He said his client was " in poverty " and would be spared going through another trial if the contention of double jeopardy were upheld in a pre-trial hearing . Judge Bondy said it would not be proper for him to direct how the trial judge should handle that situation . An exception was taken by Mr. Palmer when Judge Bondy announced he would refer all matters to the trial judge without ordering the sequence in which they were to be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beside the counsel table , began speaking in Russian . Raymond P. Whearty , assistant chief of the criminal division of the ' Department of Justice , arose and offered the court a transcript of Gubitchev 's conversation in English with Judge Leibell . " Notwithstanding that this gentleman speaks English , " announced Mr. Whearty , " we have an interpreter here . " Mr. de Guinzbourg moved up to the table , and the Judge told him to ask the Russian defendant whether he had carried on the English conversation indicated in he transcript . One of the sentences in the transcript read " I am not very fluent in that . Your Honor . " The rest was in understandable though imperfect English . The interpreter spoke with 1 Gubitchev , then told the court : " He says he realizes he is in court and he realizes the legal language is not very understandable , even to an American . " Failed to Get Interpreter Judge Bondy pointed out that Gubitchev had rejected a courtappointed attorney and had said Ihe would bring an interpreter from the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , still speaking Russian , contended that he had not received an opportunity to argue his diplomatic immunity during the hearings before Judge Bondy . " Tell him he has no diplomatic immunity , " replied the Judge . " He asks , Your Honor , " said the interpreter , " who decided that ? " " I decided that , " said Judge Bondy . " He understands , " said the interpreter , after a quick remark by Gubitchev , " that in court both sides are supposed to be heard before a decision is reached . " Mr. Whearty at this point offered a photostat of the State Department memorandum which held that Gubitchev did not have diplomatic immunity as had- - been claimed by Soviet Ambassador Alexander S. Panyushkin . The United Nations Secretariat has also held that the Russian engineer , who had worked on plans for the new United Nations headquarters in this city , was not of diplomatic status . Mr. Palmer , who had told the court that pre-trial testimony on his motions might require three days , said yesterday that he planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest issue . Among them are Dean Shedler , public information officer of the Department of Justice ; William E. Foley , Miss Coplon 's former department superior ; Thomas Mendenhall , Federal Bureau of Investigation , who trailed her from Washington to New York where she was arrested with Gubitchev , and Robert Lamphere , an FBI special agent who prepared the " decoy " letters of which extracts were found in Miss Coplon 's handbag . Later in the day Mr. Palmer obtained from Federal Judge Sidney Sugarman an order requiring Mr. Whearty , the Department of Justice , and the FBI to show cause why they should not be required to return to Miss Coplon the papers seized at the time of her arrest March 4 . The order is returnable Monday at 10:30 A. M.                     