@@711362

txt Welfare Commissioner Raymond M. Hilliard issued yesterday to his staff of 6,000 field workers and - supervisors a comprehensive statement of basic policy governing the total operation of the Department of Welfare in connection with public assistance . In the first such statement directed to his staff , Commissioner Hilliard said he expected of each employe " complete loyalty " to the department and " unqualified adherence " to its policies . The Commissioner hopes to release before next Thursday a plan for the complete reorganization of the Welfare Department , he said later when reached by phone . In his message to the staff , he said that any member " unwilling or unable " to discharge his duties effectively would not be carrying out his responsibilities to the people he served , " the needy , the agency or the public , " and would be dealt with " through appropriate disciplinary action . " Warns Against Laxity He urged that all the staff clearly understand and execute the policies and procedures of the department and that supervisory personnel " promptly and without favor " report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The vital and enormous task which this department must perform , involving large outlays of public funds for the alleviation of human suffering , does not permit laxity , indifference , or anything less than whole-hearted cooperation by every member of the staff , " he asserted . He told the staff that although the primary function of the department in public assistance was to grant aid to needy eligible persons , assistance must not be given to ineligible persons and must be discontinued promptly when eligibility ceases . " The objective is to restore the recipient , wherever possible , to a condition of self-support or maintenance by relatives'whose duty to support is prior to that of the public , " he said . The Department of Welfare is not intended by law to give psychiatric treatment or to treat marital or other personal or emotional problems , he said , but asked his staff ' to recognize such problems where they existed and to mi.ke referrals to the proper sources . It is important for the staff to avoid " an exaggerated solicitude and over-willingness -- even anxiety ? to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the recipient is discouraged from making efforts in his own behalf , " he warned . Mr. Hilliard described as " equally bad " the punitive attitude that rejected reasonable evidence of need or resulted in deprivation of essential and permissible service and care . Both approaches can be avoided " by a conscious adherence to the principle that the determination , through careful objective In. vestigation , of all the factors establishing financial need is both an absolute prerequisite to the granting of public assistance and a guarantee that such assistance will be administered in a sound and humane fashion , " ho said . Says They Must Take Jobs Declaring that the employment facilities of the Department of Welfare and of the State Employment Service were supplementary to the recipieqt 's own efforts , ne said that any failure on the part of the recipient to seek and accept suitable employment rendered him ineligible for public assistance . To the extent that a recipient is physically or mentally unable to work because of advanced age or ill health , o1 can not work because of responsibility for young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the objective must be ad-quate maintenance and care under suitable conditions , he declared . Where the incapacity is temporary , every effort must be made to rehabilitate the person and restore him to a condition of self-support , he added . The burden of establishing financial need rests upon the applicant , he said . The determination of eligibility and of continued eligibility/depends upon careful , thorough and precise investigation and such investigation includes not only visitin. : and interviewing but thorough verification by every available means of all material statements made by applicants for and recipients of public assistance , he advised . A resolution praising the efforts of its affiliated council , Welfare Council No. 330 , in the New York City Welfare Department , and the New York City administration in exposing the activities of the " Communist - dominated " United Public Workers Union was adopted unanimously at the thirty-seventh. annual convention of the Civil Service Forum of New York State held yesterday in Syracuse .                     