@@706753

txt Once again the Congressional farm bloc is out to obstruct the nation 's efforts to avert inflation . It was this group that caused the long delays in obtaining the original price-control law . It was the farm bloc 's success in getting a ceiling of 110 per cent of " parity " on farm prices that had so much to do with weakening that law and bringing on the present crisis . Now the President and his advisers have warned Congress and the country that unless ceilings can be placed on uncontrolled farm products at less than the 110 per cent of parity level the whole effort to stabilize living costs will fail . One may question again whether the Administration 's own program of ceilings at parity goes far enough ; one may recognize that the problem of rising wages is even more serious than that of rising farm prices ; nevertheless , the efforts of the farm bloc to block the Administration and to pervert new price-control measures into price-boosting measures are utterly indefensible . In effect the Administration has proposed a trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 110 per cent of parity to parity and in return proposes a floor under fa rm prices . The farm bloc has accepted , but with a proviso . In return for crop loans at 90 per cent of parity ( or preferably 100 per cent ) it will agree to ceilings at parity ; but parity must be redefined . Parity means the level of prices calculated to give the farmer the same relative purchasing power he had in a base period , usually 1909 to 1914 . It is determined by measuring the costs of what the farmer sells against the costs of what he buys . When this concept was originally adopted back in 1933 the farmer 's labor costs were not included . If they had been , parity prices would have been lower than they otherwise were , for labor costs upon the farm were lower in that year than they had been in the base period . Again in 1937 and 1938. when parity was redefined to include the farmer 's costs for interest , taxes and freight , nothing was done about wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have lowered parity prices . Now conditions are difterent . Farm labor today costs more than It did in 1909 to 1914 . Now the farm bloc , which was silent on the subject of labor costs when that factor would have worked to justify lower parity prices , is insisting that labor costs must be included  --  not merely the costs of hired labor , but the labor costs of management  --  of the farmer himself and of his family . What is the result ? Parity prices recalculated in this way would be lifted 10 per cent or more . According to one formula , submitted by a Senate agricultural subcommittee , parity levels would be raised by 12.2 per cent . In other words , the farm bloc proposes to yield to the President 's demand for ceilings under 110 per cent of parity by giving him ceilings at 112 per cent of parity . Its response to the Administration 's urgent plea for legislation to control inflation is to propose new legislation to promote inflation . ' There is at issue here something that goes deeper than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is . There is at stake here the very fundamentals of our form of government . The question is whether Congress , already gravely discredited in the eyes of the people , will knuckle under to the farm bloc and to the professional lobbyists of the farm organizations . The right of Government to protect the people from the dangers of inflation and the right of Congress to make the laws under which the Government acts are both being placed in jeopardy by this latest effort of farm bloc obstruction.                     