@@712214

txt the text of President ruIman 's address to the Shrine 1 assemblage in Soldiers ' field yesterday appears on page 8 . President Truman spoke three times in Chicago yesterday ? highlighting the three with an extemporaneous taik bfore 3,000 persons gathered for the grand banquet of the Shrine convention in the Stevens hotel at night . In this talk the President called on the United States to assume responsibility for the welfare of the world , and said the nation faces the alternative of spending three or four or five billion dollars a year to prosecute the " cold war , " or 100 billion dollars a year for a shooting war . In his first talk of the day at Soldiers ' Field . this one from a prepared manuscript , the President expressed confidence that the world yet may be organized for peace and reported to the nation that tensions and conflicts appear to be increasing in the soviet sphere . Says Crusade Will Succeed He said the great crusade for peace will succeed , and promised to carry the crusade forward resolutely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosper in peace . In between his Soldiers ' field speech and this talk in the banquet hall he sandwiched a talk largely anecdotal , to Democrats in the Stevens hotel . In his banquet speech last night , the President asserted that since 1917 , the United States has had an ally that makes agreemehts only for the purpose of breaking them . He did not refer to Russia by name , but it was obvious that he referred to the soviet union . After noting that it took Great Britain 1,000 years to achieve the leadership in world affairs which the United States has achieved in 160 years , he said it is necessary far this nation to assume the responsibility which that leadership confers . Missed Boat , He Says " We missed the boat 30 years ago , but we are assuming the responsibility now , " he said . " It is necessary that we do assume that responsibility for the welfare of the world in generations to come . " Had we failed to assume that responsibility , the only thing left to us would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world and ourselves with it . " In 1945 , in April , we were in the midst of two of the most terrible wars in the history of the world , one in the Atlantic , the other in the Pacific . On May 8 , or more accurately on the 7th day of May , the German dictatorship folded up . There was wild rejoicing all over the country . " On Sept. 2 , on the battleship Missouri , a battleship which was christened by my daughter Margaret . the Japanese government signed an unconditional surrender . " Recalls U. N. Founding He then spoke of the San Francisco conference which resulted in the formation of the United Nations organization , " a document for world peace . " " In ages to come , " he said , I " It will be considered one of the greatest documents the human mind has ever conceived.I thought when we adopted it that we would arrive at that peace for which we all had prayed . It did not come , for we found we had an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1917 to make agreements only for the purpose of breaking them . " Now it is absolutely necessary I that we assume the leadership of the democracies of this world so there will be enough force in this I world to maintain the peace . That is all we are trying to do . Cancels War Contracts " In 1945 , on June 30 , the budget for 1946 was adopted at 103 billion dollars . Japan folded up in September . In October . ' I canceled 60 billion dollars worth of war contracts , and made a recision of expenditures of 63 billion dollars , ' Those are fantastic sums which you can not comprehend or appreciate unless you are at the core of the operation a the gov- , eminent - of the . - Unit : States . We thought we would eventually have expenditures down . Then . came the " cold war " and the European recovery program . All I have asked is that we take one-third  --  less than one-third -- of the  --  cost of the cancelation of those 60 billion dollars worth of contracts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am saying to you , which is better , to spend three , or four , or five billion dollars a year for peace , or spend 100 billion dollars a year for war ? You have got to make up your minds . R. is one or the other . And it is not going to be the one . We are going to do the other foz the welfare of the world . Urges Action On Program " I urge this great nation and the world to carry that program ' forward to a successful conclusion , and I know that is what we are going to do . " The President , who will fly back to - Washington early today , was introduced by Galloway Calhoun of Tyler , Tex. , retiring imperial potentate of the Shrine , who previously introduced more than a score of notables in attendance . ' The group at the speaker 's table included Mayor ' Kennelly , Gov .. Stevenson , and Senators Lucas and Douglas . Among the guests were Albert ( Happy ) Chandler , baseball commissioner ; Edgar A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James H. Doolittle , and Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright , hero of Corregidor ; Gen. Mark Clark , and Sigmund Romberg , who played two of his own songs on the piano for the President . Says Communism Will Fail In his Soldiers ' field speech , the President asserted that communism may have tempo  --  ary tri ' umphs , but that in the long run , the system will have to abandon coercion of other nations or face inevitable self-destruction . Mr. Truman said in the address , which was shortwaved around the world , that American foreign and domestic policies are inseparable . , He added that there are two immediate objectives which require action for a strong national economy and for promotion of peace . He gave these as : , 1 . Taking of proper steps to see that American economy moves thru the present transition period so that employment and production will expand again . All plans must be made so as to give more jobs . and output . If plans are made , on the assumption employment and Production will drop further , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Action mustbe taken to insure that the hard won economic recovery of other nations does - not revert to stagnation and despair . He said one of the worst things that could be done would be to , ' slash European recovery funds:1 This , he added , would be deliberately throwing away gains made . for freedom and peace . Mr. Truman , in defining nis two objectives reaffirmed . his deficit financing plan outlined last week to congress in a special message and to the nation in a radio chat . He again made it clear that he Intends to keep up federal spending at home and abroad in an effort to check the downward trend of the national economy . 