@@704687

txt Unalterable opposition to any establishment of diplomatic relations between the Vatican and the United States was voiced in the formal episcopal address read this morning by Bishop Francis J. McConnell of New York to the General Conference of the Methodist Church . This pronouncement comprising more than 50 closely printed pages contains the corporate judgment of the College of Bishops . Serving both the purpose of a keynote address before a political convention and the President 's message at the opening of a Congressional session this well-considered document touches upon religiously related problems of national and international morality as well as those more intimately concerned with the extension of the denomination . Totalitarianism , Cominunism , imperialism , racial bigotry , the liquor traffic , migrant workers , and the imperiled freedom of the pulpit were topics treated , although matters having to do with shifting theological standards , changes in pastoral methods . and trends in religious education came in for the most detailed consideration . Appreciate Peace Interest In voicing the danger felt in the President 's appointment of an unofficial representative at the Vatican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of the President of the United States on behalf of world peace  --  and especially his frequent emphasis upon the religious foundations of peace . " The report indicated readiness to " join with the Roman Catholic Church and with all other religious or secular organizations to promote world peace , " but stated that " we do deplord and must firmly resist any union of church and state . " The Associated Press further reported the following paragraph from the middle of a dissertation by the Methodist Bishops of the possibility of Christian churches banding together : " Of course there is no use of talking about union with a Roman Catholicism which today insists upon her infallibility as an authority even more strenuously than before the Reformation . This does not mean that the Roman Church has not immensely expanded and improved her idea of what Christian life is and involves since the Reformation . " Totalitarian Authority " " The Roman Church has , in spite of admitted abuses , always succeeded in developing in exceptional individuals high types of saintliness , but she does not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all aspects of human life . Recent events reveal anew her purpose to press to the utmost even the most doubtful diplomatic advantages , especially in her relation to the United States . " Every item of the Bill of Rights the Bishops see violated in the totalitarian systems . " All alike are openly putting force above spirit in defiance of essential Christianity . All are using methods of falsehood and terrorization which the world has in a shame-faced way hitherto apologetically tolerated as alleged military necessity , but which it can not fit into any genuinely human , not to say Christian . scheme of ethics , " Bishop McConnell said . Communism , which the Bishops called " the most ambitious of these professedly idealistic policies " has , in their opinion . gone so far in contradiction to its own dogmas as to make it worthless as a guide to a new order . New Outlook on War Little headway against war can be made , felt the Bishops , by talking either of the costs or the horrors of war , nor can it be contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They attributed the existence of today 's struggles to an unprecedented manifestation of nationalistic spirit . The question of Christian unity seemed more pertinent to the Bishops in their pronouncement because of " our increasing realization of a subtle spirit of oneness which brings together in sympathy at least , all the forces today opposed to Christianity . "                     