@@706048

txt BRITISH IN LIBYA TEST A NEW ARMY While Not Designed to Lift Pressure on Russia , Action May Bring Big Results POWERFUL IMPERIAL FORCE By ROBERT P. POST Wireleas to TREE Nsw ' roux TrusS . LONDON , Nov ** biggest single campaign in which the British are meeting the Germans has now opened in Libya . It would be quite impossible to exaggerate the importance of the British offensive , which was planned for six months and is designed to destroy , once and for all , Axis power in Libya . General Wavell 's offensive a year ago started as a daring raid . It found weak resistance and it was therefore pressed to the utmost , with weak forces encountering little resistance . The move that started this week is a full-dress , full-scale attack made by fully equipped and fully manned divisions that are the equal , if not the superior , of the Axis troops opposed to them . And those Axis troops are not now solely inferior Italians , but include Germans who are well led and well equipped . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands this time . German Strength The Germans probably have two fully equipped Panzer divisions somewhere in the forward areas between Tobruk and the Egyptian border . These divisions seem to have been trapped and must fight . What the British have done is to throw a very strong punch with their left arm  --  the southern push  --  and at the dame time punch their right shoulder forward along the Mediterranean . The British have many advantages . When the drive opened they held Tobruk , which had been a tremendously bothersome thorn in the German side ; they have what appears to be unquestioned aerial superiority ; and , perhaps most important of all , they have command of the sea . The advancing British columns can be assured that warships will keep pace with their advance and will be ready to support them with shelling and supplies . Obviously , one British effort is to push the Axis forces back on the sea coast . With present extent of British sea power in the Mediterranean , there will be nothing like Dunkerque to save the Axis armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air the British are definitely in the ascendant , and it remains to be seen whether three Axis armored divisions plus some motorized divisions and some ordinary infantry divisions in the rear can resist the British thrust . So far it appears that they can not , and at the moment the , British campaign is going extremely well . From a military point of view the British obviously want to do one thing . They want to take Libya in force , and with a force that can keep it . The British want Libya in order to remove one of the most imminent threats to Alexandria , Cairo and the Suez Canal . Obviously , Libya is the best base from which to launch such a threat , and the British are taking first things first when they attempt to clean up that base for good . If they can destroy the threat from the west then General Wave% commanding in India , and General Sir Claude Auchinleck , the Middle East commander , between *hem , wit21 the blessing of Mr .. Churchill and of Sir Alan Brooke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can garrison Libya and move the bulk of their striking force eastward . There it can stand ready to defend the Caucasus or Syria and to join hands with the Russians against further German attacks from the southern front in Europe . Effects in Tunisia Where the British will stop in Libya depends on so many factors that it would be rash to make any prediction . Undoubtedly they would like to go on until they had all Libya and established a flank cn French Tunisia . The British and French in that - " iy colony woul ' the.i be side by side , and if that happene , ' it might be a safe bet that the French in North Africa would not be quite so amenable to German demands . It might even mean more . Libya has been a drain on Axis resources , and British surface ships , submarines and aircraft have caused much of that drain . With Libya under British control Italy itself might be threatened . 