@@706763

txt The Board of Transportation voted yesterday to turn over to Brooklyn Borough President John Cashmore for the city 's salvage scrap pile 2,972 tons of the cityowned trolley tracks on abandoned lines that have been replaced with buses . The action of the board is subject to approval by the Board of Estimate meeting on Oct. 5 . Authorization to the Brooklyn Borough President to tear up the remaining abandoned trolley tracks was voted because Mr. Cashmore is the only borough head who has no jurisdiction on street railways . The WPA has ripped up or is taking up 1,688 tons of the abandoned tracks , while 1,284 tons are still buried in the pavements . New York City A. F. of L. and C. I. 0 . organizations have agreed to appoint a joint committee to formulate plans for labor union cooperation in the collection , handling and disposition of scrap on a coordinating basis with the Civilian Defense Volunteer Office . Unions of janitors , superintendents , teamsters and factory workers will take the lead in ; the drive in which the entire labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the office of James G. Blaine , chairman of the CDVO and acting head of the New York City Salvage Committee . James C. Quinn , secretary of the Central Trades and Labor Council of Greater New York , A. F. of L. , and Saul Mills , secretarytreasurer of the Greater New York Industrial Union Council , agreed at a conference with Ralph Wolfe , assistant to Mr. Blaine , on a plan for labor cooperation . The personnel of the labor committee will be announced shortly . Company collections of 10,000,000 pounds of scrap iron and steel ? sufficient to build 380 medium tanks  --  have been made in its nation-wide scrap campaign by the United Rubber Company . F. E. Worley , chief engineer of the com pany , in charge of the campaign , in complimenting employes who are searching out the scrap , commented : " A good job has been done , but a bigger job lies ahead . " Every available piece of equipment of the Sanitation Department has been mobilized , Commissioner William F. Carey reported yesterday to Mayor La Guardia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onC the five boroughs collection days set by the Mayor last Wednesday . Challenge to New Yorkers William J. Powell , assistant to the commissioner , in charge of the uniformed force , challenged New Yorkers to find a piece of scrap too big for the department to haul away . " You get your scrap to the sidewalk and we 'll take it away , " said Mr. Powell . " Lick us and enjoy a free concert by the best band in town . " Mr. Powell issued his challenge after a conference at City Hall with Deputy Commissioner John B. Morton , Commissioner of Purchase Albert Pleydell , having charge of the scrap collection depots ; Lester B. Stone , representing the Mayor , and members of the Newspaper Publishers Scrap Metal Committee . Queens will present the first test of the Sanitation Department 's collection program on Friday . Other borough salvage days are : Richmond , Oct. 6 ; Brooklyn , Oct. 8 ; Bronx , Oct. 13 , and Manhattan , Oct. 15 . The Sanitation Department will use more than $7,000,000 worth of equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 800 in Manhattan , 700 in Queens , 600 in the Bronx and 150 in Staten Island . " The real success of the drive will depend upon the cooperation of the tenants and superintendents , " Commissioner Powell suggested . " Our men will start out at 6:45 A. M. on each of the five collection days , and they will work until the job is completed . We will have fifty telephones assigned just to handle calls from scrap contributors . " 21 Special Salvage Depots The trucks will deliver scrap to twenty-one specially selected salvage depots . Bulldozers will push the scrap into piles . " Our job starts where Sanitation 's leaves off , " explained Mr. Pleydell . " We will begin publication of requests for bids for the metal as soon as it is collected . Under the law we can open bids in three days , and this is what we plan to do . All the details have n't been worked out , but it is our idea to sell the scrap as soon as possiblel and make sure that it starts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry 's " gratitude " to the newspapers of America for their effective campaign to bring out the scrap was voiced by Irving S. Olds , chairman of the board of directors of United States Steel Corppration . He said : " The newspapers of America are an indispensable ally of industry in fulfilling the unprecedented demand for steel to win the war . The vital steel industry needs scrap to make the materials to seal the doom of our Axis enemies . Without wholehearted cooperation of the newspaper publishers of America , the industry 's very urgent need for scrap could not have become known to the public . The Necessity Dramatized " The newspapers of America currently are launching a remarkable campaign to bring the scrap out of hiding . Already , since inception of the publishers ' campaign early this month , a series of interesting and informative articles , appearing in the public press , has dramatized the necessity for collecting every available pound of scrap . " As chairman of the board of United States Steel Corporation and speaking from my experience with its problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the papers in the country of our gratitude for your efforts . " The record of this war is being told to Americans through the papers . It is my hope that National Newspaper Week will serve to emphasize that the newspaper is an indispensable part of life in a democracy . " The Newspaper Publishers Scrap Metal Committee , to clear up any confusion concerning the city collection of scrap , urges apartment dwellers to notify their superintendents when their scrap piles are ready . The committee further explains that the scrap will be collected from sidewalks by Sanitation Department trucks . Individuals preferring to sell their scrap to junk dealers are advised that they may do so but that they should get a receipt showing the weight in pounds . Even when donating scrap to charities such as the Salvation Army and the Society of Saint Vincent De Paul , receipts showing weights are desirable so that borough totals may be tabulated . Any kind of scrap metal is needed whether it is a metal bed or a golf club head . Congratulates the Mayor Robert W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Montreal telegraphed Mayor La Guardia to congratulate him " on aggressive leadership you are taking in inters : - fied New York City scrap collection campaign . " The importance of home salvage ' of scrap throughout the nation is shown in a new United States Government one-reel film , " Salvage , " produced by the Office of War Information motion picture unit . Featured with the picture is a cornmentary delivered by Donald M. Nelson , WPB chairman , who de-clares : " Saving is as easy as squandering . ' You give us the scrap . We 'll turn it into tanks . We 'll turn it into planes . We 'll turn it into jeeps . We 'll turn it into guns . Then our fighting men will have enough and on time . " A committee representing some 9,000 firms of the cloak , suit and dress industry will launch a scrap I salvage campaign at a luncheoni on Tuesday at 12:30 P. M. at the ! Hotel Astor . Co-chairmen of the drive will he former Mayor James J. Walker , impartial chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uviller , chairman of the dress division . The WPA , industrial salvage section , has called a meeting at 12:30 P. M. on Wednesday at the Hotel New Yorker , it was announced by L. Goldberg , president of Parker-Kalon Corporation , to organize the screw machine products , hardware specialties , hand tools and cutlery industries in the salvage drive .                     