@@709090

txt Russia is continuing to insist upon a control council for Japan , with decision reached by unanimous agreement , a procedure that in effect would give her or any other member of the proposed council veto power , James F. Byrnes , Secretary of state revealed today . Mr. Byrnes announced at his press conference that a reply had been received from Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , Soviet Foreign Commissar , to our representations with reference to the control council and that there was still no agreement . He explained that Moscow was insisting upon the unanimity rule but that , having in mind the lack of success of the Allied Control Council for Germany because of the unanimity rule that governs its operations , we are opposed to that arrangement for Japan . We are adhering to our previous stand that , in case of disagreement the final word can be given by Gen. Douglas as Supreme Allied Commander in Tokyo . The continued disagreement has led to Russia 's absence from the current meetings here of the Far Eastern Advisory Commission of ten nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed control council for Japan , Mr. Byrnes replied that two or three suggestions were under consideration , the pature of which he was not in a position to disclose , and that the conversations would continue with Russia and the Advisory Commission would continue holding meetings here . The situation as outlined by Secretary Byrnes is that Russia , which first proposed a control council on the Berlin model and then changed to the Balkan model , under which General would have had a dominating position on the council in Japan , has now swung back to insisting again upon the Berlin model . Whereas we first advocated only the Advisory Commission , with headquarters here , we still want the Advisory Commission as a body that would formulate policy and transmit it to General for execution , but would be glad to have it sit in Tokyo . Furthermore , if General 's position were not to be undermined by procedural arrangements within the control council , we would be ready to have such a council established in Tokyo to aid General in the execution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separating us from the Russians could be closed was not indicated today . But Mr. Byrnes was clear in insisting that General should have the deciding voice in cases where disagreement within the proposed council made a decision within it impossible . In the meantime , British troops are prepared to enter Japan and share in the control any time that the word is given . It Is assumed the Russians are similarly prepared . But it was said that no date had been set for the movement of the Russians pending some outcome of the exchanges between Washington and Moscow . Secretary Byrnes pointed out that action has been stopped in Germany because of the unanimity rule in the council and , therefore , decisions of the Potsdam Conference have not yet been implemented . He took up the situation with reference to Japan , he explained , after his return from the meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in London , where Mr. Molotoff made the control council proposal to him on . the side . The question of control of Japan was not on the agenda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be there without agreement of the governments themselves . This was not done .                     