@@712009

txt Republican women all over the nation are making their mark in history , the Woman 's Division of the Republican National Committee reports . Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith , already famed as the first Republican woman ever elected to a full term in the Senate , has added to herself another fame  --  that of the first Republican woman ever to act as Senate minority floor leader , the division boasts . She assumed this duty recently during the temporary absence of Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska from the floor . IWomen Get Posts Across the nation in Portland , ' Ore. , the nation 's leading woman . mayor , Mrs. Dorothy McCullough Lee , has bolstered women 's place in public affairs by the appoint- , ment of five women to important municipal offices . Mayor Lee has appointed the first woman member of the Port- ' land Housing Authority , named two women to the Municipal Board of Motion Picture and Entertainment Advice and Appeal , and two women to the Interracial Relations Committee , Republicans report , . Mrs. Lee has just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an achievement award in ' politics , a citation which she will receive from the hands of President Truman ? at the Press Ciub annual dinner on May 14 . In Michigan . two Republican women recently have received important state appointments ? Mrs. Sarah Van Hoosen Jones to the State Board of Agriculture . and Mrs. Burridge BaitS to the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan . First on Council In Ottumwa , Iowa , Mrs. Edna C. Lawrence has gained local distinction as the city 's first elected woman council member , according to the women 's division bulletin . Mrs. Lawrence 's new responsibilities give her the job of heading up the police and fire departments . In Wyoming , women have just became eligible for jury service , making a total of 36 states , the District of Columbia , and two territories which now recognize the right of women to serve in that capacity . There are 12 states still , and 3 territories , the bulletin reports , which bar women from jury membership . Massachusetts is the only northern state without jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women that right is pending in the Legislature , Gallup Poll ' In Washington , Mrs. Cecil Harden , new congresswoman from Indiana , is developing her own " Gallup Poll . " She is polling constituents by questionnaire through local newspapers on controversial legislation . " I have always felt it is the duty of a member of Congress to register as best he can the opinion of the voters of the district he or she represents , " says Mrs. Harden . She feels the project has aroused a great deal of worthwhile interest in legislative matters among the citizens of her district . Mrs. Frances Bolton . Republican congresswoman from Ohio , also keeps in close touch with her constituents through a weekly letter published by local newspapers . Not Playing Hooky In a recent communication , Mrs. Bolton explained a situation which puzzles many visitors to the Capitol who look down sometimes on scores of empty seats in the House and Senate . These absentees are not playing hooky , but usually are tied up in committee hearings . " As an example , " Mrs. Bolton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which I am a member , has been meeting at 10 o'clock practically every morning . for some weeks , recessing for an hour or so at noon , reconvening at two and adjouring between four and five in the afternoon .... So , if you happen to be a visitor , a guest in the gallery , and you find few members on the floor , try to remember that committee consideration of every bill that reaches the floor , and many that do n't , is the first step upon which rests all the steps that come after . "                     