@@709114

txt I READ with interest the review of the play " Deep Are the Roots " arid the recent Sunday TIMES ' article " Manufacturing a Problem Play , " by Arnaud d'Usseau and James Gow , authors of the play . I agree with Mr. d'Usseau and Mr. Gow , as any even moderately intelligent person must do , that the race problem is of foremost importance and that it must be solved if we are to live happily and completely as a people . Yet it would seem to me , if Mr. d'Usseau and Mr. Gow were really sincere or intelligently informed , they would not have committed the gross blunder of setting their play in the South . The dramatic situation would be as applicable in the North as in the South , and that unfortunate sectional element would not rise up to defeat even the good that might be in the play . ' I am a Southerner . I was born in Atlanta , Ga. , and my home is in Nashville , Tenn . I have seen poverty and injustice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country is imperfect and often cruel . But to have the people of the North refer to us forever as Fascist is something I can not take . Fascism is not a place but a state of mind , and unhappily exists in many quarters , in the North and in the South . It is unjust and inaccurate for the agitators to imply that the South is a hotbed of sadism and ignorance . By their very emphasis they suggest that the South is a land of dark problems and that the North is free of all unfairness and hatred . This is not so , for I have seen among people of the North a hatred for the Negro that I have never seen in the South . We do have a race problem down here , necause there are so many Negroes , but - the discriminations do not end when one crosses the Mason and Dixon line . ' If the pro-Negro agitators sincerely wish to bring about reform ( and it is desperately needed ) , then why do n't then have the foresight and psychological intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter how deeply a Southerner might feel the plight of the Negro , a play such as " Deep Are the Roots " throws him back on his heels and makes him so re ? ? sentful that he is blinded . I know a number of intelligent young Southerners : who recognize the unfortunate condition of the Negro and who want to remedy it , but many of them are getting fed up with the grossly outrageous and often uninformed propaganda that comes from the North . I know that in presenting a problem such as the Negro problem the shock method sometimes must be used and that exaggerations are permissible , but after a while the shock becomes merely an insult and the exaggeration a point of inaccuracy . Why ca n't the agitators see this and realize that they are only stirring up strife and confusion and bitter resentment ? There is nothing dramatic or exciting in the poverty of the Southern Negro . Few Negroes have returned from the war heroes or officers , nor do many of them work for pompous , Negro-hating Senators , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up before them , as the Senator 's daughter does in " Deep Are the Roots , " and say , " Will you marry me ? " We in the South are often accused of never having stopped fighting the Civil War . It would seem , however , that it is the North that continues to fight . At least it is from the North that the fireworks come , and the angry noise of the breast-beating can be heard to the southern tip of Georgia . I suggest that some enterprising young playwright , who really wants to do his country a service , write a play designed to bring the North and the South together . The Negro problem must be settled , but plays such as " Deep Are the Roots " retard rather than advance its progress . VIRGINIA DOSS . Denton , Tex .                     