@@710055

txt ? The " last preliminary " cbstacle facing United Nations delegates prior to tomorrow 's big showdown fight on the Baruch atomic plan was cleared easily and amicably today . Without dissent a comprehensive draft report on international atomic controls was adopted by the Atomic Energy Commission 's Committee 2 . Showing again the unanimity that has accompanied most of the technological discussions on atomic energy during the past ten weeks or so , ten members of the Political and Control Committee , with Russia confining herself simply to " non-participation " and Poland to abstention , voted approval of the document . It is to serve as a scientific and technical basis for the Atomic Energy Commission 's formal report to the Security Council . There are some important provisions in the five-part , fifty-page report that the delegates approved during a closed meeting , including the first official outline of the step-by-step program required to guarantee that atomic energy is utilized in future only for peaceful purposes . However , the action taken here today was principally to formalize agreements that had already been arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tentatively . " For that reason probably the most important thing about the report is its great expanse of blank pages in which the international agreement on the crucial Baruch program is to be presented . Veto Question Up Today The big " if " still remains to be discussed at tomorrow 's critical session of the working committee , which is holding a closed meeting here at 11 A. M. The debate will center mainly on the insistence by the United States delegation that the veto of the Security Council be abolished so far as it relates to the punishment of nations found guilty of violating the atomic energy regulations . Against the firm stand taken by Bernard M. Baruch , however , is the declaration by the Canadian delegation that abolition of the veto in punishment is unnecessary on the theory that nations found violating atomic regulations would by that time be prepared to go to war . The United States delegation believes that its program will receive majority approval , but the Canadians are apparently not so easily convinced and have circulated among the delegates an extensive eight-page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to be exhaustive , but in any case a final recommendation is expected to be reached by Sunday or Monday , since the Atomic Energy Commission is to convene then , one day before its Dec. 31 deadline . The United States delegation is optimistic in regard to an accord with Canada . Report to Be Published The report adopted today was in five parts , beginning with a historical section listing the proceedings of the Atomic Energy Commission during the last six months and giving in sequence the specific problems that were discussed . The report , which will be released for publication next week , according to United Nations officials , continues with " findings " in three categories  --  technical , safeguard and general . But the " general findings , " as well as the subsequent listing of " recommendations , " are merely blank pages , since the Baruch plan must still be discussed and either approved or amended before any ultimate findings or recommendations can be submitted to the Security Council . A section including the scientific and technical aspects has been included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate report issued last September . The final part lists the " safeguards " worked out in six weeks of informal conversations in Committee 2 . Divided into eight sections , the safeguards are first described in a general introduction . Then they are itemized by the delegates to show how atomic energy must be carefully watched from first to final stages to prevent misuse . The report declares , first , that safeguards are needed to prevent diversion of uranium and thorium from mines and mills . Following that , safeguards are needed against diversion from refineries , chemical and metallurgical plants . . Additional safeguards are listed to prevent diversion of uranium from isotope - separation plants , diVersion of uranium , thorium and plutonium from " declared " ( that is , known ) nuclear reactors and associated chemical - extraction plants , to stop distribution to clandestine activities and to prevent seizure of atomic energy establishments or materials . The final item is a coordination of all safeguard measures . Julius Katz-Suchy , the Polish representative , declared that he was abstaining from voting for the reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission , who had earlier declared his abstention on the grounds that until it was possible to get unanimity on the total question he would not vote . Prof. Semyon P. Alexandrov of the Soviet Union similarly cited his superior 's reasons for not voting , recalling that Andrei Y. Gromyko had said he had not yet had time to weigh the different items . These were , however , interpreted as representing primarily a desire to enter tomorrow 's fray " unhampered " in any way , a sort of " clearing the decks for action . " It was recalled that today 's " nonparticipation " by Professor Alexandrov was his third and Russia 's fourth in the last four atomic meetings . The meeting today was the eightieth " atomic session " held since the first full meeting of the commission was opened in June .                     