@@704482

txt German Unrest Said to Be Growing But Former Member of Reichstag Tells Why Gain Must Be Slow and Points to Historical Parallels To THE EDITOR OF ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the first years of Hitler 's rule at least left wing writers used to make a clear distinction between Hitlerism and the Germans as a whole . Since the start of the war there are numerous indications that even some liberal Americans are inclined to make all Germans responsible for the disaster in Europe . The Germans as a nation , not only the Nazis , are pictured as a people who regard themselves as the chosen people of a god " created in their own image . " Power is the only lust and method and aim of Germans . The slogan of Voltaire against the Roman Catholic Church is the battle-cry of some writers against Germany . However , one should remember that 200 years after Voltaire the Roman Catholic Church is still a I most important force . Why should it not be possible that the German nation will survive the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hitlerism ? We are told that , one of the war aims of the Allies is to restore the independence of Poland , Czecho-Slovakia and Austria . Certainly the people of those countries have the right to decide their own fate and to be delivered from any kind of " protectorate . " But it seems neither just nor wise to announce at the same time that the Germans will have to be put under some sort of protectorate after they are defeated . Help for Hitler Such announcements are valuable help for Hitler 's propaganda . They may be used inside Germany to convince the Germans that they must expect once more humiliation and exploitation by the victors . One should not forget that there never has been any political group in Germany which did not claim the right to national unity for Germany . There is no underground group in Germany which does not claim for the Germans the same right of national sovereignty that they are ready to grant to all other nations . The restriction and final abandonment of national sovereignty in a future united Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The simple historical fact is that the struggle for a new political order and society produces hatred and persecution and cruelty in all countries . In times of war we are inclined to see only certain characteristics of a nation and to overemphasize them . Germany certainly is going through a period of turmoil comparable only to the latest decades of Russian history and from similar causes . As every individual is a composite of physical and mental traits , inherited and acquired , so is every nation a composite of characters , gifts , talents , virtues , shortcomings , passions , prejudices , positive and negative forces . As individuals we act quite differently under different conditions . Whether we have security or a hard struggle for existence , whether we are healthy or sick , whether we have hope or are in despair , whether we are old or young : these facts influence our actions decisively . Different circumstances compel us to bring out different sides of our composite personality . It is the same with nations  --  Germany , for instance . Struggle Goes On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are pictured as born serfs longing for regimentation and tyranny . We ask , wherever has been a nation without periods of oppression and intolerance by ruling economic , political or religious groups ? Not even this country is an exception . From the colonial period through the Revolutionary and the Civil War up to now the history of this country is a wonderful example of the struggle for equal rights . This struggle is far from being completed . One blames the Germans because their very first attempt to govern democratically broke down after fifteen years of experimenting . Have other European nations been democratic for centuries ? Until deep into this century the British workers were politically without influence at a time when the German workers , in spite of all impediments under the Emperor , succeeded in getting social security laws better than anywhere else in Europe . And is not Great Britain still under the political rulership of the gentlemen of Oxford and Cambridge ? The French only enjoyed full civil rights for three brief years in the beginning of their great Revolution in 1789 . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings and emperors . Until the Popular Front under the social democratic Premier Leon Blum had gained control four years ago , social security laws and economic democracy , were lagging far behind those achieved in the Weimar Republic . It is unnecessary to examine how little of the reforms of the Blum government is left in present-day France . Degraded but Alive However , one should . mention that before Blum 's reforms the French married women were legally serfs to their husbands . Up to this day the French women are politically inferior to the men ; they have no right to vote . On the other side the German Republic in 1918 introduced equal franchise for men and women . Even Hitler did not do away with it , although he has degraded the right to vote to a farce under government terror . But did not the Germans give up their democracy without resistance ? That is one of the many legends created by Communist propaganda , swallowed by parlor pinks , fellow-travelers and pseudo-scientists as long as their political na  --  vet ? still believed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ! for fifteen years German Labor supported only by smaller groups of middle-class people and very few intellectuals fought a heroic struggle against the combined front of Nationalists , Communists and Fascists . In 1918 Spartacus , the German branch of the CGrr , . nunist International , started the riots dictatorship against democracy and did everything to frighten middle-class people and . farmers into the ranks of fascism . The hatred of privileged classes , Junkers and Big Business , for democracy and the terroristic struggle of the Communists against " formal " democracy are more responsible for Hitlerism than the Treaty of Versailles . It is admirable how in Germany most social democratic and Christian workers stood for democracy very often under danger of life . They are still faithful to democracy . Thousands of them sacrificed their lives against Hitlerism . Hundreds of thousands sacrificed their freedom because they refused to capitulate to the dictatorship . True , in seven years the Germans have not overthrown the dictatorship . Neither have the Italians in seventeen years and the Russian in twenty-two years . Unfortunately , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overcome a modern dictatorship by revolution without war . Let us look at historical facts . The French dictator Napoleon I was not overthrown by the French people . A European coalition on the battlefields of Leipzig and Waterloo freed the French nation and gave it a corrupt absolute monarchy . Half a century later another French dictator , Napoleon III , was defeated and captured by the Germans in the battle of Sedan . German victories created the French Republic . Incidentally this republic started its existence by massacring French workers . The first Russian revolution in 1905 start &; after Japanese victories had shattered the authority of czarism . That revolution had little success . Not the Russians but the victorious German armies under Hindenburg and Ladendorff crushed the power of the Czar in 1917 and made the first Russian republic possible . Then Ludendorff sent Lenin and his friends in a sealed wagon from Switzerland to Russia . The Bolshevist revolution became possible only because of continuous German victories . On the other side the Germans were unable to oust the Emperor before the German armies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true for . the Austro-Hungarian empire . It seems history teaches us that no modern dictatorship can be overthrown before catastrophic events have weakened its overwhelming power . Why then expect only from the Germans what no other nation could achieve ? It is not the fault of the underground movements inside Germany that fantastic hopes have been nourished outside of Germany . Not underground activists but male and female chatterboxes without any political record in democratic Germany publish fairy tales in magazines about secret radio stations inside Germany and rapidly growing underground activities . Gestapo a Factor The simple truth is that Gestapo and half a million Nazi Black Guards controlling every family have forced all underground movements to become more and more cautious and to restrict their activities in methods and membership . There were never fewer underground activists in Germany than now . But every one of them will matter in the coming revolution . The opposition in Germany is alive in many million Germans . However , a clear distinction is necessary between the masses of " Traditions-kompanien " who stand to their old political convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activists training themselves and their closest friends for revolutionary leadership . Incidentally we should not simplify the great diversity of opinions in the underground movements . The trouble is that inside Germany no discussion between the various groups is possible , even locally . The discussions of refugees who are mostly backward-looking are useless with very few ... exceptions . On the whole and very roughly classified there are the ? following groups of opposition discernible inside Germany : 1 . Conservative-Christian groups with many nuances as to the problems of monarchy and republic and democracy ; 2 . Social Democrats and former Trade Unionists ; 3 . National Bolshevists and Communists . If Hitler 's hazardous agreement with Russia and threats by the Allies to annihilate Germany do not favor National Bolshevists and Communists , the task of rebuilding Germany will shift to the Conservative-Christian groups and to the Social Democrats and Unionists . When will the German revolution come ? Not before the regime and its army have lost the belief in victory on the battlefield , and the home front , including the Nazi militia and Nazi police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and domestic policy . Unrest Growing This development has math greater progress in the last three months than in three years before . However , it is absolutely impossible to start a mass movement against the dictatorship as long as all its instruments of power are fully intact . It is also an illusion to expect too much from German Labor alone . Middle-class people , peasants in despair and hopeless and jobless intellectuals or idealistic intellectuals are much more inclinc d to start revolutionary actions than manual workers accustomed to a life of restriction and regimentation . The workers as a rule develop excellent union executives and administrators and Political reformers , seldom revolutionary leaders . Successful revolution in Germany will be possible ( 1 ) after the disintegration of the dictatorship and ( 2 ) by a very wide cooperation of various social groups which per se exclude the strife for another totalitarian dictatorship . The problem is not a . class movement but a people 's movement . The coming German revolution is not prepared to accept a British-French protectorate . One of the aims of the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe based on social democracy . WILHELM SOLLMANN , Former editor in chief of the Rheinische Zeitung , Cologne , Member of the German Reichstag from 1919 to 1933 , former Secretary of the Interior . Wallingford , Pa. , Jan. 31 , 1940.                     