@@706176

txt Mayor La Guardia made public yesterday an order directing all , city agencies , to cooperate fully with the Federal program of tirerationing by restricting the use of city-owned passenger cars to a minimum , starting tomorrow . The Mayor also directed all department heads to make a survey of possible tire and tube economies in the case of non-passenger vehicles and to submit their recommendations to him not later than Jan. 31 . The Mayor 's order , which supplemented a brief general order issued orl Dec. 29 , but not made public , is intended to bring about a 30 per cent reduction in the use of cityowned passenger cars in order to save wear and tear on tires and tubes . Mayor La Guardia said that he would hold department heads personally responsible for carrying out the new program . His or-der gave detailed instructions for conservation of tires and tubes and declared that violations of these , orders would subject the offenders to disciplinary measures , including dismissal from the city service . " The city will cooperate to the fullest extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mayor 's order declared . " Federally approved automotive uses may be continued by departments , but with the greatest discretion and economy in use . All other automotive uses are to be curtailed absolutely except to the extent that curtailment will result in undue expense or delay in the conduct of necessary city business . - The purpose is twofold  --  full cooperation in the defense effort and the practical consideration that when the present cars , tires and tubes are gone we can get no replacements , and hence we must make present equipment last as long as possible . There will also be a saving in gas and oil . " Attached to the Mayor 's order was a set of Federal regulations that the department heads were told to study . Heads of all departments and agencies not directly under the Mayor 's control were requested to conform to these regulations as a contribution to winning the war and in the interests of their own functions . Under the Mayor 's order the con ' tinued use of passenger cars will be permitted in actual fire-fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and safety , operation and maintenance of garbage disposal and sewage systems , bus transportation , road building and maintenance , operation and maintenance of public utilities and transportation of supplies , material and equipment . In such cases , however , department heads will be held personally responsible for reducing mileage and in no case will such cars be allowed to be used for inspection services . The use of passenger cars for various purposes not specially listed in the order must be approved by department heads in writing , Mayor La Guardia announced . De ' partment heads are required to notify the Mayor by Wednesday of the number of cars they desire to continue in use , together with their reasons for such continuance . Department heads are also asked to state how many cars they can release from use and how many drivers are available for transfer to other duties . Most of these transfers will be to service in the Department of Sanitation . Under the order all drivers of city motor cars , including trucks , will be held responsible for keeping tires properly inflated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as conserve oil and gasoline and prevent wear and tear on the cars themselves . The order directed department heads to make an immediate survey of the condition of all tires and tubes and to notify the Department of Purchase of those requiring retreading , recapping or other reconditioning . All contracts for such reconditioning are to be let exclusively by that department , which Is instructed to study the advisability of setting up a city plant for the purpose . The Mayor noted that the problem of car and rubber conservation was even more pressing in the case of city trucks . Mayor La Guardia directed his department heads to salvage any passenger cars or trucks that have deteriorated so that they can not be repaired for satisfactory use . Departments having their own shops are directed to retain any car parts they can use and to surrender they rest of the car to the Department of Purchase . Departments having no repair shops must surrender such cars in their entirety to the Department of purchase . All departments were ordered to turn over to the Department of Purchase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and also all other tires and tubes except spares normally assigned to each motor vehicle now in operation . The Department of Purchase , according to the Mayor 's order , will issue new tires and tubes only to police radio and squad cars , police emergency trucks , fire apparatus and officers ' cars responding to alarms , police and fire telegraph repair trucks and cars and ambulances . All other issues of tires and tubes will be of recapped or retreaded equipment , except on certificates approved by the Mayor .                     