@@706893

txt A SUDDEN FAMINE All Pleasure Driving Is Cut Off Until New Plan Goes Into Effect TO SUPPLY WAR WORKERS Meanwhile Only Commercial or T Cards Are Honored in 17 East Seaboard States By CHARLES E. EGAN Special to THE NEW Yomt Timms WASHINGTON , Dec. 18 ? The Office of Price Administration suspended the sale of gasoline at noon today to holders of A , B and C ration books in seventeen Eastern States and the District of Columbia , but later in the afternoon gave assurances that the motor-fuel famine would probably abate sufficiently by midnight Sunday to allow resumption of sales . In the meantime the only persons entitled to buy gasoline will be holders of T , or commercial , ration cards and motorists who can demonstrate their purchases are necessary to permit driving which is essential to the war effort . In this group , the OPA said , are war workers who need gasoline to drive to and from war-production plants and doctors and nurses on their regular rounds . When the sales are resumed they will be on a more restricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the OPA were working tonight to perfect what they termed " a thoroughly integrated plan " to take the place of the suspension order issued by the price agency today . The order prohibited sales of gasoline to holders of any ration cards except the T variety issued to commercial vehicles . The only exception was to permit the sale of gasoline in emergency cases . Henderson Attacks Problem Leon Henderson , Price Adminis ' trator who submitted his resignation to President Roosevelt yesterday , was at work on the gasoline problem in OPA today . He said that the order he issued this morning suspending gasoline sales to all but T holders after noon today in seventeen Eastern States and the District of Columbia was well received by ( the public . " Reports from our regional offices , " Mr. Henderson said , " show that the public has , as always , taken the Commander in Chief at his word and recognized instantly that this is a military emergency . " His reference was to President Roosevelt 's statement at the White House press conference this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amounts of gasoline to be shipped there have to be increased in order to provide transportation for our troops . The President said that the order was urgent and could not have been foreseen . Since it takes longer to move oil to North Africa from Texas than it does from the Eastern seaboard , the gasoline had to be taken from the East Coast . The people in the East , he concluded , will have to give up pleasure driving for a day or two . Emergency Rations Provided Mr. Henderson said in his statement that filling station dealers should honor military acknowledgments of delivery for cars used by the armed services as well as ration coupons of mail carriers , who must carry on without interruption . Earlier OPA had ruled " necessary driving " entitling the driver to emergency rations as " any car bound on necessary travel which would be unable to reach its destination without additional gasoline . " The regular emergency gasoline delivery provisions of the rationing regulations remain in effect during the suspension , Mr. Hen , derson said . " Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that OPA will recommend immediate revocation of the Certificate of War Necessity // NEW ' GAS ' PLAN DUE TOMORROW NIGHT // issued by the Office of Defense Transportation as punishment for any truck driver who diverts his T coupons or gasoline obtained with them to illegal uses . In the case of the temporary transport rations , OPA will immediately revoke these on proof of illegal use . " Ickes Gives Oil Figures In an effort to advise the public of the gravity of the oil situation in the East , Harold L. Ickes , Petroleum Coordinator for War , released figures showing that in this area the amount of gasoline available for distribution to civilians during the remaining days of December will average 365,000 barrels daily . Through January the average supply will be 331,000 barrels . The totals compare with average daily consumption of 450,000 barrels in the last month and a peacetime average of about 600,000 barrels . A table which accompanied Mr. Ickes 's statement gave a picture of the oil supply situation for the East Coast in general , and estimates of supplies for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per day . Distillate fuel oils are those burned in household furnaces and residual oils the type used by industry . The table follows : December . January . ( Remaining days . ) Motor fuel 365,000 331,000 Kerosene 184,000 167,000 Distillate fuel oils 340,000 338,000 Residual fuel oils . 282,000 281,000 Total 1 171,000 1,117,000 These figures are exclusive of aviation gasoline and petroleum for export . The gasoline figure for the rest of December is about two-thirds the daily amount used in this area a year ago . Davies Warns of More Cuts Ralph K. Davies , deputy administrator , warned that the figures would have to be revised downward , " if we should be called upon between now and Jan. 31 for any large volume additional to the amounts which the military forces have notified us they will require . " i " The supply position as now determined , " he continued , " provides sufficient petroleum products to meet in full all military orders , to keep war industries supplied and to meet minimum requirements for home heating throughout the Atlantic seaboard area . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though it is not sufficient to meet the recent rate of gasoline consumption . " Lesser quantities of gasoline must suffice if we are to meet more critical military , industrial and home-heating demands . The rate of gasoline consumption over the past has been in excess of the genuinely essential requirement and the public is called upon to make the required adjustMent . " Lieut . Gen. Brehon B. Somervell added his voice to those of civilian officials and urged all Americans to " save gasoline and fuel oil , to provide the power necessary for the mechanized might which will crush the Axis . " General Somervell said that the total fuel necessary in North Africa was " enormous . " He explained that one heavy bomber , cruising 250 miles in an hour , used 200 gallons of fuel and that tanks of a mechanized division burned more than 10,000 gallons in traveling 100 miles . " Thousands of tons of gasoline and fuel oil were needed for the initial stages of that campaign , " he continued , in discussing the NorthAfrican front . " Thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reports were current that Sumner Pike of the Securities and Exchange Commission , who came here to help OPA on fuel rationing and was placed in charge of the fuel division , would soon be designated to direct petroleum rationing , giving orders to OPA and the Office of Petroleum Coordinator . There was no confirmation of the reports . While motorists , gasoline service station owners and others cooperated in enforcing Mr. Henderson 's order barring sales of fuel to other than T-card holders , there was widespread criticism , in Congress and elsewhere , over the alleged failure of government agencies responsible for oil supplies and distribution to provide for emergency demands of the military . Some Criticism Is Heard There was criticism likewise of President Roosevelt 's press conference statement that the suspension order was due to urgent demands for fuel for North Africa . Although the fact was known yesterday , newspapers , radio commentators and others were barred from making public reference to the fact that East Coast fuel supplies were being drained for the forces in North Africa . Those who sought sanction for making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had barred reference to military demands as the reason for the sudden shortage . In Congress Senators and Representatives were outspoken in criticism of what they called lack of foresight on the part of government agencies . Criticism ranged from charges that the barge and pipeline programs authorized by Congress had not been pushed un til it was too late to help in the current season to allegations that many ration boards were indiscriminately granting B and C cards . Members of Congress cited New England as an example of liberality in gasoline allowances . They said that in many small New England cities , where even war workers could walk to their work , " B " cards had been distributed with a free hand . Ickes Called Too Optimistic Mr. Ickes also came in for criti-1 cism on the ground that his promises that 75 per cent of the fuel oil needs of the East Coast would be met were far too optimistic . In the opinion of some members of Congress the supply will not exceed 50 per cent of normal needs . Movement of fuel oil to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of breakdowns of tank cars being moved in solid trains from the oil fields is enormous , it was said . One member asserted that in Philadelphia alone there were 22,000 tank cars in repair shops or awaiting repair yesterday . With reference to the barge program , Senators charged that , although an amendment to an appropriations bill signed by the President June 27 provided $20 , - 000,000 for the construction of barges for transportation of fuel and other materials through inland waterways , it was only yesterday that the War Production Board gave priorities for materials necessary to build twenty-one tugs , for the conversion of 250 steel barges from dry to liquid carriers and for the construction of 900 wooden barges . The barges can not possibly be made available in time to be of help in the current heating season , it was stated . They also charged that the pipeline construction would fall below expectations . The large pipe-line which was to be in operation to Illinois by Dec. 15 , they said , will not be ready until Feb. 1 , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrels a day . It will take at least six to eight weeks after the line starts operation before it will attain the 300,000 barrels daily average it is expected to deliver . Reason , they said , is that only three of the eleven pumping stations will be in operation by Feb. 1 . The special Senate committee named some time ago to investigate gasoline and fuel oil shortages stated today that it would not hold any hearings in the mediate future , as members wished to leave officials free to cope with the present emergency before being called upon to testify before the committee .                     