@@709989

txt Co-ordinated action by agencies affiliated with eleven northeastern states in the fields of industrial and recreational promotion , state and community planning , and industrial research and development was assured here today . It followed formal adoption of a " memorandum of understanding " by-the 65 delegates attending last night 's session of the three-day Northeastern States Planning and Development Conference . which continued separate panel discussions in the Bond Hotel today . In addition to the six New Erigland states , representativei of New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania . Ohio , and Michigan were included in the newly formalized Conference , which voted unanimously to meet quarterly . New York Selected Dr. Martin P. Catherwood , New York Commissioner of Commerce , introduced the memorandum , and New York City was designated as the principal meeting place . One or two meetings may be held annually in cities of other participating states , it was decided . Additional states also may be invited to take part in the conferences if they have a special " community of interest " with the states normally represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Association of State Planning and Development Agencies , " and it voted to work in close co-operation with this national organization . Delegates Welcomed Willard B. Rogers , Chairman of the Connecticut Development Commission , welcomed the delegates on behalf of Gov . Raymond E. Baldwin . Participating in the conference are  --  the Northeastern States Development Agencies , the American Institute of Planners , and the American Shore and Beach Preservation Association . Industry and Air Ray M. Hudson of Boston . Industrial Executive of the New England Council , led today 's industrial panel , and Albert I/ Prince , Chairman of the Hartford Airport Commission , led the discussion on airport development . J. Spencer Smith , Chairman of the New Jersey Navigation Council , presided at the panel on shore erosion , and Dr. Donald H. Davenport , Director of the Division of Economic Development of the New York State Department of Commerce headed the panel concerned with research . Recreation Discussed The recreation panel was led by Thomas 11 . Desmond , consultant for the Connecticut State Palk and Forest Commission . Alfred Schindler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Progress  --  a Community Talent " at tonight 's dinner meeting . Mr. Rogers will preside and panel chairmen will present a resume of the days deliberations.                     