@@712502

txt A formula for adapting wage rates to rising productivity , believed to contribute greatly to stability , was proposed today by John C : Davis and Thomas K. ' Hitch , Government economists . They made the proposal in a symposium arranged by The Review of Economics and Statistics , a publication of the Department of Economics at Harvard University , on " Productivity and Wages , " published today . The economists are members of the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers . In a note to their paper , they say that while the problems they discuss are continuously being studied by the council , the opinions are personal . Other participants in the symposium are Prof. Clark Kerr of the University of California , an experienced labor negotiator and labor economist , and Prof. Solomon Fabricant of the National Bureau of Economic Research , a pioneer investigator of the economics and statistics of productivity . Professor Kerr shows why it is difficult to adapt wage rates to rising productivity . Although over long periods there seems to have been a high correlation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been . close . Special cyclical developments , the relation betwen wages and the cost of living , and other factors make it difficult to adapt wages to productivity , he argues . Professor Fabricant , who has worked with productivity data for many years , analyzes the pitfalls in the relevant existing statistics , then says : " To do much more than we have in the way of studying the operations of the economy and guiding public and private policy , we need more and better productivity statistics than we now possess . " Prof. Seymour E. Harris , managing editor of The Review , says in a foreword to the symposium that it was stimulated by a series of articles in THE NEW YORK TIMES discussing the relation of productivity and wage rates . Messrs . Davis and Hitch state that there are a number of implications in the frequently advanced proposition that money wages should move in relation-to changes in labor productivity . One is that over the long run , as productivity increases , a rising level of money income with a stable price level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another is that certain benefits will flow from a relationship between productivity and general wage changes . Still another ' is that if the relationship is ? one of proportionality , not only wages but salaries , profits , entreprenurial income and the return to Other factors of production could also move in proportion to productivity changes . The economists raise some questions about the validity of these implications in order to define more clearly the concepts embodied in the principle . They set out a series of reasons for preferring to take the gains of rising productivity in increased income rather than in falling prices . Then they explore the principle briefly from the standpoint of the effect of applying it in specific situations . Their conclusions , they stress , are necessarily tentative . Rigid , ' Pattern ' Opposed To apply the principle would require much more adequate statistical data than are available at present , they report , since the problem is not merely one of measurement but the closely related one of forecasting . But further improvement of the data waits only on a governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle in wage policy . neither a standard wage increase for all employes nor a rigid national wage " pattern " could be recommended , they report . Instead , a general wage principle would be recommended to employers and unions . " Assume that to match the anticipated productivity gains of the economy in the coming year , the average of wage increases should be 3 per cent , " they say . " It could , be suggested that 3 per cent would be a desirable norm around which the various wage agreements , plus supplements , should cluster during the year . " It could be further recommended that Wherever value added per man-hour can be expected to increase by as much as 3 per cent , wages should be raised by . that amount , This , with unchanged prices , would also permit increased returns to the other factors . " In instances where wages are too high , no increase may be called for , and decreases may be advisable , which is also true for prices , they note . Moreover , adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and labor in terms of specific needs and equities , they state , for the wage policy has no application to inter nal wage administration within a given company or industry .                     