@@712524

txt I A united colonial front looms as answer by western European colonial powers to what they regard as " unwarranted interference " by the United Nations Genteral Assembly in administration I of their overseas territories . The British Government is preparing to consult with France , Belgium , and the Netherlands on the next . steps to assure that the United Nations ' recent , relatively harmless resolutions about how colonies should be run are not expanded into demands for full-scale supervision of the world 's colonial areas . Britain , for one , is frankly not prepared to allow either Latin-American dictatorships , semi-feudal Arab kingdoms , or Soviet Russia to have even an advisory part in running its colonial areas . Record Defended Maybe this is the wrong course . Maybe it is flouting United Nations idealism . A big portion of the world seems to believe that colonial empires are outmoded and should be trusted to some international authority . " pot calling the kettle black . " A better defense-offense available to Britain is a vigorous publicity campaign showing the world what Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Manchester Guardian , for instance , suggests that British Government publicity should finance visits of journalists to various colonial and trusteeship areas , where , the Guardian says , any fair-minded reporter could see the advances for himself . Beyond this there is the possibility of making imaginative use of President Truman 's Point Four program for technological assistance to backward areas . One of the greatest difficulties is keeping political " growing-up " in pace with technical progress . But most Britons are convinced that the present British colonial policy has worthy intentions . That being so , Britain is not prepared to allow itself to be stampeded into unconditional surrender of its colonial administration to a committee of the United Nations . But the British Labor Government holds that its record of administration in most of its colonies and trusteeships is enlightened and indeed the best in the world . ; The government argues that if Postwar Britain is sometimes short on funds for native schools or welfare , that is not colonial exploitation . Nor is it altogether Britain 's fault . When Hector , Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lake Success , the British Cabinet will --  consider whether any further action seems warranted now in resisting United Nations interference . If necessary , the colonial powers stand ready to boycott the United Nations special colonial committee , which looms as one of the instruments through which the assembly might try to bring all nonself-governing territories under a kind of general trusteeship . Brought to Focus The situation was brought to a focus by action of the United Nations Assembly December 2 , in approving , against vigorous objection of colony-administering powers . 10 resolutions requiring data on native political progress from trusteeship powers . The resolutions asked colonial nations to provide equal educational opportunities between Europeans and natives , nominated a special committee as arbiter of when a colony really has acquired self-government , and in other ways asserted for the UN a larger role in colonial affairs . Not many of the resolutions are or should be deeply objectionable to colonial powers . What the British are contending , however , is that if the General Assembly now is permitted to call on colony-administering nations to do something reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Chai'ter , later on it can equally demand that they do something unreasonable . Action Questioned Britain and other western European nations with colonial interests have based their major opposition so far on the charge that the assembly is exceeding its powers laid down in the charter . It is well recognized here , however , that legal arguthent alone is not likely to be continually persuasive . The charter can be amended . Therefore , other avenues of approach are being studied . One method is to counterattack . Britain can say , for instance , ' that the Soviet Union and its satellites are hardly in a position to Criticize British handling ? of African natives , when Russia unhesitatingly uproots many - thousands of Jews , Baits , or Ukrainians shoves them into the middle of Siberia , purely . for reasons . of .. ! frOntier defense . ' But this is -a - version tt.f- the                     