@@711737

txt From the point of view of this thesis , the weakness of the Chambers-Hiss case revelations is that the incidents occurred a decade ago . It is obviously the duty of the committee in supporting its thesis to update the information . The House committee has a genuine patriotic desire to extirpate foreign espionage and to tighten restrictions . At the same time , there is a personal motive that must be taken into account in the matter to some degree . ' Lame Duck ' Group The House committee is a " lame-duck " affair in that two of its five Republican members were defeated in the election and a third is himself under indictment . At the same time the four Democratic members are all from the South and contain no New Dealers , and three of them are Dixiecrats . It can not be fairly said that there is a single voice on the committee speaking for the full Truman administration viewpoint . The committee , in other words , is politically and philosophically hostile to the politically victorious administration , and its prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Karl E. Mundt ( R ) of South Dakota , therefore , has several motives for pushing the investigation of current conditions in government offices . If the committee is to be kept alive , it must be shown that the danger of espionage is as great as ever and that the executive branch of the government , including the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation , are inadequate  --  unless watched by Congress . Mr. Mundt 's recent statements are directed to this point . " The Communist espionage hazard is still very much present in our government offices today , " he said over the week end . Dismissals Cited As evidence of this , he cited statistics of recent State Department dismissals , declaring there had been 17 dismissals in the last five months " for security reasons . " He said 151 had been dismissed since the loyalty investigation program got under way on Jan. 1 , 1947 ; of the total he called 91 of " acute significance " and 60 as " secondary risks . " From these figures . Mr. Mundt argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation but that the situation is serious . He charged that American foreign policy has been affected by the machinations of these agents . " Many of the confusions and contradictions in our recent foreign policy fiascos and the resulting chaotic conditions now existing in Asia and Europe , " he conReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . tinued " are directly attributable to Soviet-supporting recommendations , proposals , and treachery of State Department personalities . " This is part of a Republican thesis advanced before and during the election , . the ultimate truth of which must be left to historians . The argument runs that Franklin D. Roosevelt was oversympathetic to Communists ; that so-called " reds " staffed many of the highest government agencies of the New Deal ; that Alger Hiss , now under indictment as a result of the Whittaker Chambers ' charges , represented a typical instance of this chapter in American history , and that the baneful influence of these Communist-sympathizers created the " foreign policy fiascos " to which Mr. Mundt now refers . It is this Republican thesis which Mr. Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " red herring " in the campaign . The House committee prepared to take evidence from one Franklin Victor Reno , former civil service mathematician at . the Aberdeen Proving Grounds beginning in 1937 , but for the past year and a half on leave without pay . Mr. Reno previously drew $5 , - 000 to $6,000 a year . Following the usual procedure the House committee first made the headlines with a general charge and is now moving in to try to support it with factual evidence . In this case the flat assertion was made that the secret of the highly guarded Norden bomb sight was furnished to the Russians in 1937 from a Russian spy at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds . Regarding Mr. Reno , Mr. Mundt would only say at the outset that he " might throw some light on the proving grounds matter . " Five Unpublished Meanwhile a United Press : - , irvey reported that the so-called " secret " documents of the diplomatic type involved in the Chambers-Hiss controversy were readily accessible both inside and outside of the government in the rieriod @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials of the department , was the " briefing " of classified documents by junior officials for transmittal to their superiors . These jottings were not unlike some of the material released by the House committee including hand notations allegedly in Hiss ' handwriting . The committee now has published all but five of the documents stolen from the State Department and made available by Mr , Chambers in connection with developments growing out of the $75,000 libel suit brought against him by Mr. Hiss . The " secret " of these documents has not been very well guarded by the House committee , however . The State Department did not wish them to be known , because it was feared they would injure friends of the United States abroad .                     