@@712201

txt A new tactical thrust against the North Atlantic Treaty was put in today while President Truman was confidently calling for its ratification by the Senate without reservations . Two Republican Senators , Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont and Robert A. Taft of Ohio , offered a resolution proposing as an alternative to the covenant that the President simply extend the Monroe Doctrine to Western Europe . By that doctrine the United States has historically warned that no foreign intrusion upon this hemisphere would be tolerated . The implication of its extension would be that this country would not stand idle against aggression in Europe . Mr. Taft , the Republican Senate leader on domestic affairs , who has announced " with the greatest discomfort " his opposition to the treaty , made no secret of the fact that he and Mr. Flanders had no real hope that their proposal could prevail . It was offered , he said , primarily " to show what we are for , " meaning as a manifestation that he and Senator Flanders were not taking simply a negative stand and were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution , which involved a frontal attack upon the treaty as distinguished from the flanking attacks of three pending proposed reservations from other quarters , must go to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , and almost certainly will never emerge from there to the floor . The committee 's chairman , Senator Tom Connally , Democrat , of Texas , the principal leader for the treaty , made it plain that no action could be expected on the TaftFlanders Plan . " Just an alibi , " he said of it . The resolution , in which Senator Flanders took the initiative , was as follows : " Whereas the vital interests of this country are deeply concerned with the safety of the Western European nations from external attack : therefore be it " Resolved , That the Senate urge the President to promulgate such an extension of the Monroe Doctrine to Western Europe on such terms and subject to such limitations and definitions as will best meet the present emergency and likewise serve as a continuing support for the objectives . of the United Nations . " Truman Opposes Changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covenant was made in his press conference . To an obviously welcomed question about the treaty ; he simply responded that the North Atlantic Pact should be ratified without reservations . He declined to discuss Senator Taft 's opposition , and specifically the Senator 's contention that a vast obligation to rearm Western Europe would be put upon the United States . He had no comment to make , the President said , on anything that Mr. Taft had to say on the question . This issue  --  the precise nature and degree of the obligation on the United States  --  again dominated the Senate 's debate in its eighth day . Senator Wayne Morse , Republican , of Oregon , who already had indicated some restiveness at suggestions that there was no concrete commitment to help the Europeans build up their defenses , sharply attacked the holders of that view . Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican , of South Dakota , had just stated that he , for one , intended to vote to ratify the treaty and publicly to " disavow " any sort of military-aid obligation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mundt , " is no stronger than its articles for implimentation by military aid , and if my country walks out on that ' now we are going to be held up to the scorn and contempt of a ( free world now ready to fight for its freedom . " Wants to Stop Stalin " " All this talk about no obligations is coming home to roost ? and not to the benefit of this country . " I am going to vote enthusiastically for this pact because it does carry with it the implementation to stop Joe Stalin in his tracks ? and we ought to stop him now . There is a perfectly clew obligation to back this treaty up militarily and to make it plain that if IStalin moves militarily he is facing a fight . " Mr. Morse walked from the chamber and said to reporters that he would make a major speech tomorrow on the question . " I 'm not going to let Vandenberg and Dulles and Mundt get away with this , " he declared . Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that a vote for the treaty would leave " wide open to the free decision of all Senators " whether and when there should be for Western Europe a military-assistance program of the sort now being prepared by the Administration . Senator John Foster Dulles , Republican , of New York , who long has been the chief foreign adviser to Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , has denied that there would be any obligation to give arms to " any country , " although indicating that the United States would be committed to aiding an " area defense . " Connally Hits at Wherry Before Mr. Morse had spoken , Senator Connally had ridiculed , as the product of " imagination , " the persistent claims of Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , the Republican floor leader , that the Senate ought to adopt a " declaration , " or reservation , specifically defining what military-aid commitment this country was accepting . " What arms aid do you wish to define more clearly ? " Mr. Connally shouted . ' " Shall we say that it shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it shall be arsenal upon arsenal ? Suppose we ratify the treaty and the Europeans come to us wanting arms . Who is to say how much ? They or we ? Who is to say when ? They or we ? If the situation required it we should probably grant them arms . But after all , all this is up to Congress . " Of course we have assumed obligations , " Mr. Connally said angrily . " No one would sign a treaty that had no obligations . But these obligations are written in black and white and not in men 's imaginations . There is no obligation ( for military aid ) that can override the Congress of the United States . It is the final judge . " Senator Connally , who had been largely silent for two or three ' days , sitting in obviously growing exasperation at the long dispute over the precise meaning of the military-assistance provision of the treaty , at one point suggested that Mr. Wherry would not re main much longer in the Senate.1 Texan Clashes With Watkins At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican , of Utah , an all-out treaty opponent , of " sneering , " and added : " Lots of people laugh every time they look at the Senator from Utah . " Mr. Connally went on to say : " I did not mean that unkindly . " " I 'm sure not , " snapped Mr. Watkins . Speaking against ratification , 1 Senator William Langer , Republican , of North Dakota , accused the State Department of " secrecy , equivocation and evasion " in pre-1 paring the covenant , which binds this and eleven other nations in , mutual self-defense . He accused the treaty leaders in the Senate of a lack of candor and asserted : " Never in my life have I seen men struggle so frantically with the English language to cover up the facts of life . The words military alliance , which is the only correct description , have been taboo . " Senator Langer asserted that " pressure " was being put on the Senate to approve the treaty . The " most flagrant example " of this , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW , Yonic TIMES from C. L. Sulzberger which told of the uneasiness of the Danes and Norwegians at legislative delays in the United States on the treaty and on a military assistance program . This dispatch , Mr. Langer said , was " obviously slanted to put the pressure on the Senate . "                     