@@712127

txt Twenty originals of confidential State Department documents that Whittaker Chambers says Alger Hiss gave him in 1938 were introduced in evidence by the prosecu- : tion yesterday as the Hiss perjury trial went into its eleventh day in ' Federal Court . Thomas F. Murphy , Assistant United States Attorney , told the jury of ten men and two women that the documents turned over by Mr. Chambers were verbatim copies or paraphrases of the originals in the State Department files in Washington . Walter H. Anderson , chief of the State Department 's records branch , identified the twenty documents yesterday and is expected to identify twenty-seven others today . He testified that Mr. Hiss was assistant to Assistant Secretary of State Francis B. Sayre in 1938 and that Mr. Sayre had received copies of nineteen of the twenty documents . Lloyd Paul Stryker and Edward C. of defense counsel offered no objections as the documents went into evidence . In his opening address two weeks ago Mr. Stryker said any espionage activity as long ago as 1938 was immune from prosecution under a three-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hiss was being tried . solely on two counts of perjury . Evidence on Indictment Counts By introducing the documents , Mr. Murphy offered evidence on both counts in the perjury " in ' list ment . Mr. Hiss has been indicted for having : told a Federal grand jitry that he never gave documents to Mr. Chambers and that he never saw the ex-Communist spy ring courier after Jan. 1 , 1937 . Since the papers introduced yesterday are aL dated in January and February , 1938 , they are intended to substantiate the Government 's contention that Mr. Hiss did pass the documents to Mr. Chambers , and that the men were in contact in early 1938 . Mr. Chambers has testified that the relationship ceased when he left the Communist party in April , 1938 . As each document was identified yesterday , the jury perused pnotostatic typwritlen copies four by five feet in size . The copies were mounted on easels under a special platform constructed to the right of . Federal Judge Samuel H. Kaufman . Armand Chankalian , administrative assistant to the United States Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervision so that the jury could read the copies from top to bottom . Mr. Murphy explained that each State Department original was paralleled by a copy or paraphrase identified by Mr. Chambers as one given to him by Mr. Hiss . The high - level documents , chiefly transmitted in code from Slate Department officials in Europe and Asia . gave a pancrama of pre-war diplomatic moves by this country in Europe and the Far East . Used in Policy Decisions ln many cases the information was used as a partial basis for toppolicy decisions in the field of foreign relations . One document was so secret that it was withheld from jury scrutiny by agreement of counsel and Judge Kaufman . Mr. Murphy has said the Government was prepared to prove that the forty-seven documents were copied on a Woodstock typewriter by Mr. Hiss ' wife , Priscilla , in their home . The prosecution has sixty-fou ? typewritten sheets it expects to identify as sheets typed on that particular machine , which is now in defense possession . The Federal prosecutor expects to prove that four hand-written memoranda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitute summaries of State Department confidential papers that passed over his desk . As the documents were read vcaterday they appeared to conflict with Mr. Hiss ' statement to ' the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Baltimore last year that I they did not seem to be highly confidential under the State Department 's security rules in 1938 . Mr. Chambers has told the jury that after he received the documents from Mr. Hiss he turned them over to Col. Boris Bykov , identified as a Soviet master spy in 1937 and 1938 . In one portion al a cable the full contents of which were with- ' held from the jury Ambassador William C. Bullitt cabled from Paris on Jan. 25 , 1938 , that Yvon Delbos , then French Minister of Foreign Affairs , and Premier Camille Chautemps were working toward a Frencu reconciliation with Germany . Mr. Bullitt reported that the French officials sought American aid in promoting the reconciliation . Another confidential diplomatic report it 1938 transmitted the French fear that the United States might become engaged in a Far Eastern war with the result that France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Germany and Italy . Detailed information on the progress of the Sino-Japanese War came from United States diplomatic representatives in Peiping , Shanghai , Tokyo and Yokohama . Another message reported Great ; Britain 's position relative to that of Japan in the building of naval vessels above the limits set by the London Naval Treaty . This message reported Britain 's decision to resume " full liberty of action " unless it received assurances that Japan was not building capital ships in excess of the treaty ; limits . Mr. Anderson testified that at the time these documents were handled Me , Sayre had four employes in his office . He identified them as " Alger Hiss , assistant to the Assistant Secretary ; Eunice A. Lincoln , private secretary ; Annabelle Newcomb , clerk , and Robert T. Greenfield , messenger . " Mr. Anderson said also the words " Gray " and " Green " on some papers designated the code in which they were transmitted . Other codes ran " A-B-C-D " and so on down the alphabet , he said , with the degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the documents identified by Mr. Anderson were either entirely or partly in code . By reading the distribution list on the face of each document Mr. Anderson told the jury which State Department officials had access to it . Noting that a Yokohama cable dated Jan. 6 , 1938 , and signed by Richard F. Boyce , Consul General , bore the initials " A. H. , " Mr. Murphy asked Mr. Anderson : " What does that mean ? " " It would be difficult to tell , " the witness replied . " Those could be the initials of officers of the staff who looked at it . " The confidential cables and reports came from . London , Paris , Shanghai , Peiping , Tokyo , Vienna , Berlin and Yokohama . The single report that Mr. Sayre did not see in the group of twenty was a War Department report on the ChineseJapanese military situation between Dec. 22 , 1937 , and Jan. 2 , 1938 . Mr. Anderson said no copies of this report were made in the State Department . He added that he thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Mr. Anderson said , however , that Mr. Sayre had seen the secret Bullitt cable that had been withheld from the Hiss jury . Judge Kaufman announced when court opened that his perusal of five statements made by Mr. Chambers to the FBI had shown conflicts between his trial testimony and two oral statements . Reporting that he found no conflict between the trial testimony and three signed statements by Mr. Chambers on Dec. 3 , 7 and 8 , 1948 , Judge Kaufman denied a defense motion to examine those statements . The trial resumes at 10:30 this morning ..                     