@@708111

txt The Chinese Government has presented to the United States and Great Britain at the Dumbarton Oaks security conference a detailed plan for the creation of international machinery to remove or mitigate the causes of war . Making provision for the use of force to repress future aggressors but emphasizing that security can not be attained by force alone , the Chinese plan suggests the creation of six international commissions designed to concentrate on eliminating problems which have contributed to the two great wars of this century . In addition to suggesting that an International Military Commission be formed to draft a disarmament convention and execute plans for military sanctions against future aggressors , the Chinese Government has proposed that international commissions be formed as soon as possible to deal with economic , social , territorial , law codification , labor and cultural problems . Memorandum Is Submitted The general functions of these proposed commissions are clearly set out in a memorandum handed to the United States and British Governments , and the remainder of this dispatch contains a summary of that part of the Chinese memorandum which- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . First , it is suggested that , in addition to retention of the present International Labor Office , an " economic commission " be established , the functions of which would be to draft international conventions relating to economic cooperation and supervise their execution ; to formulate and execute plans for economic sanctions ; and to study and compile statistics and reports on world economic conditions . The Chinese delegates proposed that this economic commission consist of representatives of the " permanent members " of the Council ( the United States , Britain , Soviet Russia , China and probably France ) and " a certain number of other member States of the international organization to be determined by the Council . " They suggested also that the Council should call international economic conferences from time to time to draft ' economic conventions to promote freer international cooperation . " Territorial Trusteeship " Second , to deal with the territorial question and to make way for peaceful change in the future , the Chinese suggested the formation of an " international territorial trusteeship commission . " The functions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 1 . To administer or supervise the administration of such territortes as will be placed under the trusteeship of the international ( security ) organization . " 2 . To administer territories that shall have been internationalized on account of strategic or other reasons ( the Keil Canal zone , for example ) , and placed under the international organization . " 3 . The commission shall , with , regard to the administration of the territories under trusteeship , introduce the necessary measures for the protection and welfare of the local populations , and the promotion of education with a view to enabling such territories to become self-governing and independent . " The memorandum also emphasized that the membership of the various commissions should contain not only personnel selected by the council from the various member States , but also personnel from the local population , and it was further stressed that the various commissions should make detailed annual reports on their trusteeship to the council . Social Welfare Office Asked The third commission proposed by the Chinese was an " International Social Welfare Office , " to formulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all peoples . For example , the memorandum stipulated that this commission should regulate the production , manufacture and sale of opium ; suppress traffic in women and children ; prevent and , suppress the spread of disease be-1 tween the various States , and introduce measures of social relief and social insurance . In some cases the Chinese contemplate that the International Social Welfare Office might put these plans into effect itself , but in other instances it is stipulated that it merely recommends its programs to the various member States of the new international organization . In accordance with their tradftional emphasis on cultural relations between countries , the Chinese proposed also the creation of an " International Cultural Relations Office " to deal with the basic problem of educating the peoples of the world in the ways of the various nations . As outlined in the Chinese memorandum , it would be the function of this office to prepare " publications and school texts calculated to promote international understanding and friendship " ; to encourage international peace movements , to remove " possible causes of international ill-feeling in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature " ; to establish international research organizations and to do everything possible to increase the exchange of information among the various nations . Stress International Law Since the purpose of the proposed international security organization is not only to deal with future aggressors but to establish a rule of law among the nations , the Chinese plan stresses the necessity for building up the machinery to deal with disputes that can be judged in accordance with a generally accepted body of law . To attain this purpose they suggest the creation of an " International Law Codification Commission " to study the problems of international law , propose law conventions , and codify existing international law . The regulations governing this commission , the Chinese suggest , should be determined by the Executive Council of the proposed international organization , and any conventions drafted by the commission should become effective after they have been ratified by two-thirds of the governments participating in the international organization . Similarly , the Chinese propose that the protocol governing the International Court of Justice should be put into effect after being adopted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the member States . If necessary , the Chinese emphasize , all decisions of the International Court of Justice should be tied up to the security There is reason for ttating that all the delegations at Dumbarton Oaks have accepted the principle that all these questions raised in the ChineseCrnemorandum are related to the problem of security . There is general acceptance of the principle that security can not be attained by force aidne and that provision should be made to deal with the causes of war and allowance made for future change . But there is not general agreement yet as to whether the commissions suggested by the Chinese shoul dbe tied up to the security organization . The Soviet Government has noted the necessity for dealing with all these problems , but has tended toward the idea that they should be kept separate from the security league . This is one of the problems that will probably have to be worked out at the close of the Chinese talks at Dumbarton Oaks . It is apparent now that the Chinese phase of the conference will end soon , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studying the documents prepared and agreed upon in the Russian phase of the Dumbarton Oaks talks , the Chinese delegation today expressed its " gratification " at the amount of progress that had been made . Dr. V. K. Wellington Koo , the Chinese chairman , sought clarification on various points and these explanations were made at once by both the American and British officials . Tomorrow , in another plenary session , Dr. Koo will present his delegation 's reactions to the AngloAmerican-Russian plan , but the general impression is that no radical changes in the plan will be suggested . Edward R. Stettinius Jr. , Under-Secretary of State , was ' elected chairman of the second half of the conference and the Earl lof Halifax , the British Ambassador , is to be co-chairman .                     