@@709325

txt Present tensions between Russia and the western powers raise a basic question . Is it the tragedy of the moment that Russia might have obtained what it appears to want for its " security " through friendly negotiation with the other great powers ? No categorical answer can be given because , for diplomatic reasons , the western powers never spread on the public record in advance of negotiation just how far they would have been willing to go in possible concessions . Concession Hints So it is impossible to prove from the public record that Washington and London would have been willing to concede to Russia all or most of what Russia now is presumed to be seeking through a calculated " war of nerves . " However , it can be reported that London and Washington held many discussions over this question during the period when negotiation was assumed to be the exclusive channel for the achievement of national purposes , and that these discussions mapped out a rather extensive field of possible future concessions to Russia . lls ' ? for Russia Not all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be made . Had Russia limited its efforts to diplomacy , it would have been able to obtain : 1 . Access to the North Sea through the Kiel Canal , protected by Russian bases along the southern side of the approaches . 2 . Access to the Mediterranean through the Darlanelles under treaty rights , but not implemented by the grant of actual military bases in Turkey . 3 . Freedom to obtain what it might want in Iran provided this were done without employment of intimidation as a weapon against Iran . No Rigid Line In rough outline , that is what lay behind Secretary of State James F. Byrnes ' declaration that American diplomacy is not devoted to maintenance of a rigid " status quo . " Both Washington and London approached the question front the point of view of recognizing that a victorious Soviet Russia was to be expected to expand its world position out of the war . The subject of the Kiel Canal was discussed between Premier Joseph Stalin and President Roosevelt at more than one Big Three conference , and Mr. Roosevelt is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he suggested he might be willing to go . The subject of the Dardanelles was raised in a State Department note which formally outlined the details of the American proposal for modification of the old Montreux Convention to Russia 's advantage . Proposals on Iran The status of Iran was opened all questions about that country to negotiation ; These expressions of western to negotiation at the Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers . Britain did not publish its proposals , but did propose to submit readiness to consider these three subjects have not been accepted as adequate by Moscow . The Kiel Canal matter never has been raised iii formal postwar conferences . Moscow never commented on the proposals about the Dardanelles . And Russia so far has refused to consider Iran as a subject for for-thee negotiation with the other powers . The reason perhaps may lie in the very nature of the western proposal Is . What was proposed would have given Russia the fullest peacetime actress to the North , the Mediterranean , and the Persian Guif . But they would not have conceded to Russia that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which mean effective control in time of war . The western diplomats can argue that they were proceeding on the assumption that there will not be another war and that therefore Russia does not need military control over its channels of passage to the outside world . The Russians can retort , however , that the United States clings to its military control of the Panama Canal and Britain to the same form of control over the Suez Canal . And the Russians also can retort that the United States has since sought to " cover " tie Kiel Canal by pressing for air bases on Iceland and Greenland . They can contend that Britain has tried to " cover " the Dardanelles by arranging for bases in Greece and the Aegean Islands . Vicious Circle A vicious circle seems to have developed out of these considerations . The harder Russia has pressed for effective contro ' over the Dardanelles and the Kiel Canal , the more the western Allies have appeared to resist that trend . And the more they ' resist , and arrange for strategic covers in case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outside world , the ' harder Russia presses for them . The result is plain enough for all to see . Russia takes the position now that it must , and will , have its " security " and that the western powers now are trying to deny achievement of that Russian " security . " The western powers , on the other hand , charge Russia with seeking " expansion " by threats of force and " war of nerves " tactics . " Security " Key Between the two positions lies that question whether Russia might , by negotiation , have attained all that it really needed for its security in a united world . The answer appears to come down to a definition of Russian " security . " The Russian definition is more extensive than the western definition . Out of that difference has come the present crisis over Iran . with a second one apparently looming over Turkey . Russia seems to feel that it must have for its security , concessions which the western powers consider unnecessary to that same security . It does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ready to go as far toward a revision of the " status ' quo " as Russia considered essential to its needs                     