@@709696

txt ATHENS , Tenn. , Aug. ** veterans who backed up their ballots with bullets and won in a raging six-hour battle that left leighteen wounded and the county jail in a shambles patrolled strife-torn County with rifles tonight to maintain order . Sheriff Pat Mansfield , leader of an opposing faction , was nwhere around . He left after the veterans routed him and his deputies from the jail with demolition blasts early today after besieging them with fire from pistols , shotguns , rifles And at least one machine gun . The bloody battle grew from a ballot count dispute in yesterday 's bitter election contest between a GI slate and candidates of a longdominant office-holding faction . Election Is Conceded As proof of their victory , the veterans tonight displayed this written statement from the secretary of the election commission : " Next Monday at 10 A. M. I will sign an election certificate certifying that the GI ticket was elected . " The veterans late in the day turned law and order in Athens itself back over to Police Chief Herbert Walker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the county and maintaining order . Into whose hands responsibility for the county finally would rest until Sheriff-elect Knox Henry is due to take over Sept. 1 had not been decided . There was no immediate indication that Mansfield and his staff of deputies would resign . An estimated 400 persons , as // sembled in the courtroom , elected a committee of three to " set up an organization " for the preservation of law . The committee consists of the Rev. Bernie Hampton , Methodist minister ; C. A. Anderson and Gobo Cartwright , members of the Business Men 's Evangelistic Committee . Harry Johnson , treasurer on the GI ticket , said in opening the meeting that it was necessary to have some group in charge since , " for some reason or other , the Sheriff 's force is not around . " G.I. spokesmen asserted there would be no further violence , but warned that if Mansfield returned he " might be roughed up a bit . " Jim Buttram , campaign manager for the G.I. ticket , said his men were " ready for anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his force from the jail the veterans herded thirty-four special deputies into the jail " bull pen . " All except one were released during the day and sent to their homes . Armed Men Patrol Streets Dawn found this city of 6,930 without any legal law-enforcement officers , but with veterans armed with rifles patrolling the streets to maintain order . The battle followed a bitter political campaign . An all-veteran slate of candidates had come forward in opposition to the one advanced by State Senator Paul Cantrell , head of the Democratic organization here for ten years . The conflict began last night when a group of men seized a ballot box and took it to the jail . Leaders of the ieterans said they feared ballot manipulations and the march on the jail began . The veterans pointed today to a box in a jail cell , hundreds of ballots on the floor and hundreds more in another box , many of which were not marked . The battle ended when the exsbldiers began using home-made demolition charges . After the third blast the deputies gave up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was mauled before he could be put in a cell . , With the deputies locked up , many . in the crowd began wrecking the automobiles in which their quarries had arrived . Many of the vehicles bore out-of-county license plates . Knox Henry , the Sheriff , whose election was conceded after the surrender , arrived on the scene today . He said he spent the night in jail at Sweetwater , Tenn. , for " safekeeping . " " They were going to kill me yesterday , and I had to leave town , " Mr. Henry said . Mr. Henry , who is 33 , served as a sergeant in an Air Force ground crew in Africa and is a veteran of forty-five months ' service . 