@@705164

txt The prospect of sine die adjournment of Congress tomorrow appeared to dim today , and a lively battle was foreseen , with the fight centering first in the House , where a resolution to that end will be put to a vote . Democratic leaders regarded the outcome with pessimism today because of complications over pending legislation which some members at each end of the Capitol are loath to see discarded . They sent telegrams during the day to absent House party members urging them to return for the vote . The Republican leadership seemed confident it could muster practically all the minority votes against adjournment . According to Representative Martin , the minority leader , the Republicans will follow the advice of Wendell L. Willkie , the Republican Presidential nominee , and vote to keep Congress in a " standby status " during the emergency period . Decision tp to the Democrats Senator Austin . acting Senate minority leader , also was confident that most of his colleagues would oppose the adjournment resolution . He conceded that the Democratic majority was large enough to carry the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which some of them said they would insist on considering . The key to adjournment was admitted to be in the hands of House Democrats . There were two questions bothering the leaders tonight : First , how many Democrats would return to vote : and , second , how many Democrats would desert their own ranks to ballot with the Republicans against quitting . Following a visit to the White House today , Congressional Democratic leaders , including Senator Barkley , Senator Byrnes of South Carolina , Speaker Rayburn and Representative McCormack of Massachusetts , the House majority leader , reiterated statements that there no longer was a reason for Congress to stay on the job . They said that all legislation for defense recommended to date had been passed . Mr. Barkley said he did not know " whether we will adjourn tomorrow , " but added that he had been informed that if a quorum should be present tomorrow such a resolution would be offered in the House . In a three-hour session today there appeared considerably more than the 218 members required for a quorum . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacant seats on the Democratic side to cause concern to the leaders . Civil Service Bill a Problem A factor complicating the House situation was a conference report , agreed upon today by the conferees. over the Ramspeck Civil Service Rill to extend the merit system to about 200,000 more Federal workers . Representative Ramspeck of Georgia , author of the bill , said he would bring up the report tomorrow after the Senate had acted upon it . He said he had unanimous consent , obtained several weeks ago , to bring up the report at any time after it was reached by the conferees . Only two amendments were in disagreement , and compromises were reached on these . But Mr. Ramspeck admitted that the compromise might not suit some House members who fought the provisions when the legislation was under consideration some time ago . Their opposition at that time caused the conference report to be recommitted . One amendment compromised was that , offered in the Senate , providing that photographs of civil service applicants were to be replaced by fingerprints as a means of identification . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by regulation , substitute the fingerprinting for photographs , or use both methods . The other compromise was over the " State quota " provision . This provides that government workers from States having more than their " quota " of jobs would remain in a sort of status quo until applicants from States having fewer jobs than their " quotas " call for were put on the payroll through the normal turnover of departments , or until examinations took from the rolls some of the workers from " over the quota " States . Should the Ramspeck report be recommitted again , some of its Democratic foes are expected to alter their views and vote for adjournment . If the fight over the report becomes heated , it was thought that it might adversely affect the adjournment resolution , and particularly so if it is recommitted . The Senate has its complications over the Logan-Walter bill to subject rules and regulations of government agencies to judicial review and the Smith amendments to the National Labor Relations Act . Both measures have been approved by the House and would die if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would insist upon the Senate being given the right to vote on the Logan-Walter bill . Senator Barkley twice has promised them that opportunity , the second time being just before the series of three-day recesses was started , when he announced that the bill would come up after the election . White House May Take a Hand Mr. Barkley announced that the Senate would await House action on the adjournment resolution . Presumably , if the House votes down the resolution , the Senate would take no action of its own which would put the two branches in disagreement over adjournment and thus put the matter up to the White House . The Constitution provides that the President can call Congress into extraordinary session , and , if there is a failure to agree upon a time to quit , " may adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper . " President Taft construed this provision to give the President power to prorogue Congress only when the members failed to agree on a time to end special sessions , and not to regular sessions , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been prorogued by a President , and few believe Mr. Roosevelt would resort to that course , even if he had an opinion from the Attorney General that the constitutional provision applied to regular sessions . The Senate met ? today for only eight minutes , but the House , in a session lasting more than three hours , passed several bills , among them one authorizing the President to appoint an Under-Secretary of War . It was passed without objection and sent back to the Senate with a minor amendment . The appointive power to such an office was limited to Jan. ? 20 , 1945 . The House passed and sent to the White House a Senate bill permitting separate consideration of fluecured and dark air-cured tobacco under the AAA . The Senate Commerce Committee unanimously approved the nominations of Wayne Chatfield Taylor as Under-Secretary of Commerce and John J. Dempsey as a member of the Maritime Commission .                     