@@710048

txt ? The consensus among authoritative observers here today is that the United Nations Security Council has taken its most positive and constructive step to date in voting unanimously to send an 11-nation investigating commission to the Balkans to learn who is responsible for the disorders on the Greek frontier . At the same time , however , it generally is accepted that the Council 's commission will run into considerable ' difficulty in carrying out the assignment with which it is charged . In yesterday 's rather dreary but . exceptipnally : harmonious eight-hour debate which preceded passage of the resolution setting up the commission , which was proposed by the United States and subsequently amended by Poland and Russia , two facts stood out : Russia ' Guards ' Issue 1 . Russia and Balkan satellites do not want United Nations investigators probing too deeply into the internal affairs of Greece 's neighbors , but they do desire a close study made of the character and policies of the Tsaldaris Government in Athens . 2 . Russia apparently is bent upon pursuing the same mildly conciliatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Foreign . Ministers Council and the General Assembly . In connection with the latter point , there was one development yesterday that may prove of far-reaching significance . Abstains , but No Veto Heretofore , Russian diplomatic spokesme.i have strenuously insisted they could not modify their adamant position on the Big Five veto , and during the assembly meetings Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs , argued again and again that if a permanent member of the Council abstained from voting on a substantive matter , it automatically constituted a veto . Yet on two occasions yesterday , Soviet delegate Andrei A. Gromyko without qualification abstained from casting his ballot , at the same time accepting a ma jority decision which was plainly against his wishes . To be sure , the voting was merely on the wording of certain paragraphs in the proposed resolution , but substantive matters were involved , nevertheless . The United States has sought repeatedly to get other Big Five members to accept the principle that an abstention did not constitute a veto , only to run into a stone wall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come around to the American point of view . Mr. Gromyko certainly accepted the United States thesis in practice , if not in words , yesterday . Vital Precedent Set In any event , it is felt that an important precedent has been set in the campaign to have the 13ig Five exercise greater restraint in the use of the veto , and on the surface , at least , it would seem that the Assembly 's admonition to the Big Five to voluntarily limit the exercise of the veto already has borne fruit . As finally passed by the Council yesterday , the United States uroposal calls for a commission of about 60 members to begin its alvestigation of Greek border incidents by Jan. 15 . The commission is empowered to go anywhere in Greece , Bulgaria , Yugoslavia , and Albania , It will include representatives of each of the 11 states comprising the 1947 Security Council  --  the United States , Britain , Russia , France , China , Poland , Australia , Belgium , Syria , Colombia , and Brazil  --  plus technicians and such other staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gromyko , backed by Poland and spokesmen for Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , and Albania , tried repeatedly but unsuccessfully to have the resolution worded in such a way that the inquiry would center on all of Greece but only on the borders of the other three states . The Soviet delegate accused the Tsaldaris Government in Greece of being fascist in character and contended that its nature and policies could not be divorced from the alleged frontier incidents . However , a majority of the Council 's members held that the character of the Greek , Govern- merit was not an issue and that the Tsaldaris regime must be considered a bona fide government representative of the Greek people . As originally proposed by United States delegate Herschel V. Johnson , the investigating con-mission would have been limited to representatives of the five permanent Council members and two other members , Poland and Brazil . The Mexican delegate suggested that the commission be expanded to include representatives of . the full Council membership , and it soon developed that this was the wish of a majority of the delegates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CoUncil members represented on the commission . On the other hand , it is widely felt that the same sharp differences of opinion which have characterized the debates on the Greek issue in the Council now will assert themselves in the fact-finding body 's search . Prejudice Stalks Probe Whether this will prevent the commission from making a satisfactory report remains to be seen . It is generally believed that regardless of what evidence is uncovered in the tour of the border areas , it will be virtually impossible for the commission to reach a unanimous verdict . There also is grave danger , it is felt , of suspicions developing that one side or the other is trying to prejudice the investigation . Be all this as it may , the Security Council certainly added to its prestige in adopting the United States resolution . Every point was contended vigorously by both sides in the involved dispute , yet in the end , the Council was able to reach agreement unanimously . It has not always been thus with the Security Council . The Council 's action is an outgrowth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are seeking to foment revolutionary uprisings in Greece by stirring up border incidents . Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , and Albania countercharged that the unrest is being stirred up by Greece and that the Tsaldaris Government is unrepresentative of the Greek people and bent upon a war of conquest .                     