@@710980

txt Japan 's big business trusts , in connivance with Government officials and militarists , had a master plan to side step military defeat . Long before Japan surrendered , they began setting up a program which would maintain intact the big trust economic structure and its stranglehold on national government . Through this structure , they believed it would be possible to avert the full impact of Allied occupation  --  and to continue their efforts to gain control over most of Asia . Until recently , the plan has worked in many of its details . Occupation authorities , having completed an intensive investigation , have launched through competent Japanese Government agencies , an action program aiming at destruction of the plan in its entirety . In the months to come , it is expected that the Japanese people and the world at large will be permitted to look upon one of the most astonishing attempts yet made by Japanese leaders to undermine the Potsdam Declaration and the basic aims of the Allied Powers . Core of the plan was the illegal disposition and hoarding of upwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan had accumulated over the past 10 years of war  --  materials which might have been used to stimulate production , aid in reconstruction , and pay off at least a part of the accumulating debt which Japan owes to the United States for food imports . How Plot Worked Details of how this gigantic plot was carried out , together with instances in which big industrialists and government officials deliberately misunderstood , or else refused to obey Allied directives , are being pieced together by Japanese officials , and occupation authorities of the Supreme Commander , Allied powers . That portion of the story which has so far come to light , however , is sufficient to prove the insincerity of Japan 's big business setup in its outward acceptance of reform . It shows that ** big business monopolies still are working hard to prevent the Allied powers from smashing monopoly and cartel combines . And it provides significant proof that Zaibatsu business interests ? far from being broken up  --  still are plotting to maintain the same type of economic control in Japan that they exercised during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to free private enterprise . To fully understand the plot , it is necessary to go back to late 1944. when Japanese leaders first . attempted to end the war through Russian government intermediation . Turning Point This marked the turning point , after which most thinking Japanese realized the war was lost . And this is the turning point after which Japan 's big business leaders began evolving their plan to escape defeat and tide over the expected postwar period of inflation and possible economic reform . This much is confirmed by Japanese officers working in the Imperial Army 's Central Ordinance Depot , who told this correspondent that , long prior to Japan 's surrender , the movement had begun to disperse the huge stockpiles of war materials . Through various deals with private big business firms , the aim was to provide postwar jobs for Army personnel . The second phase of the operation came at the time of Japan 's capitulation in the summer of 1945 . Just after the Japanese Government accepted the Potsdam Declaration . the Allied forces , through Gen. Douglas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperor , among other things , should instruct all military units to surrender their arms and equipment . Japasese response to this order , however , was merely an intensification of efforts to disperse and hide war goods from the Allied occupation forces which were soon to arrive in Japan . On the day before the Emperor delivered his surrender message to the Japanese people , the Suzuki Cabinet held a hurried meeting and evolved a program for hasty disposal of all war goods possessed by the Japanese Army , Navy and Air Force . It was decided at this time that the military could best remain in the good graces of the country if the mountains of war materials were handed out to Government organs , public organiza lions , private factories , and private individuals . This , therefore , constitutes the first clear-cut instance of direct misinterpretation of Allied directives in connection with war supplies . A secret Imperial Army order , numbered 363 , was circulated on Aug. 15 , 1945. by word of mouth , telephone , and telegraph . It read as follows : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should not be disposed of free of charge , but in the case of deliveries to local governments , etc. , these goods can be delivered free of charge . In other cases wherein goods are sold , it is not necessary that payment be made at once . " Documents Burned The secret Army order also instructed that on Aug. 17 and 18 all papers and documents of a military nature were to be burned or otherwise destroyed . When the Japanese surrender mission came to Manila to confer with General 's staff on Aug. 18 , it was given General Order No. 1 . This order formally instructed the Cabinet of Prince Higashikuni , which had succeeded that of Premier Suzuki , to preserve intact all war goods and materials then in Japanese possession . The original order of the Suzuki Cabinet was not rescinded by the Higashikuni Cabinet , however , until 10 days later . During this period , the Army , Navy , and Air'Force grab-bag was held wide open . And into it reached all of the privileged hands whose owners saw their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difficult occupation period . Substantial amounts of public property found their way into private industrial firms , a multitude of illegal transactions were consummated , and mountains of records were altered or destroyed . Arsenals and ordnance depots throughout Japan were the scene of frantic activities as trucks tore in and out of the gates with sheafs of false passes and often forged Government permits . War materials ranging ' rom diamonds , gold bars , silver lion , and platinum to raw silk , copper , timber , and gasoline vanished into thin air . Only the Beginning Ana when the lid finally was clamped down early in September . 1945 , a good portion of the more portable elements of Japan 's war pile had found its way into the hands of corrupt Government officials , big business operators , and soon-to-be retired Imperial generals and admirals . But this was only the beginning . This was largely the unorganized operation . Later on . war materials were subjected to a more refined looting operation in which individuals gave way to the big Zaibatsu combines who , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possession of the lion 's share . First of a series of articles . ?                     