@@710777

txt Charles Luckman , chairman of the Citizens Food Committee , Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P. Anderson and ' Secretary of Commerce W. Averell 1 Harriman continued their conferences today on the new voluntary campaign to save food to aid Europe . Meeting after luncheon in Mr. Anderson 's office they went into further details of the all-across ' the-board effort to send Europe 100,000,000 more bushels of wheat and rough grains than the 470,000 , - 000 bushels now in sight . A spokesman for Mr. Luckman said that the conferees were withholding further statements beyond those issued yesterday until the official start of the campaign over all radio networks at 10:30 o'clock , Eastern Standard Time , Sunday night . Mr. Luckman also said " no commitent " to a published report that his Citizens Food Committee , at s first meeting yesterday , had rejected his proposal for immediate announcement of " meatless " and " wheatless " days . He stood on his statement that such a move was still under consideration . " Superficial " Action Opposed However , a number of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and should be put in its proper perspective . One explanation was that such an immediate move , without , a detailed . spelling out of what was to be asked of growers , processor , wholesalers and retailers , would not be a true reflection of the scope and purpose . Another phrased it : " We did n't want to start in with the poor little old consumer in a superficial way . " The Department of Agriculture today started its educational campaign to get farmers to feed less grain to livestock . The drive was opened ' in the regular USDA News Letter going out on request to 225 farm editors . This news letter also serves as guide to the extension service editors of all the states . President Truman 's formal statement of the Citizens Food Commit-1 tee was included . The appeal to the cattle grower was declared to be in his own interest  --  the less choice ( AA ) grade beef produced , the more fetd saved . In a bulletin on the economic feeding of beef cattle , it was stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was produced was in the form of fat which was in excess of the amount which the average consumer would eat along with the lean meat . Before the Grade A point , about six pound of nutrients for direct human use as beef will be produced per 100 pounds of grain , it was said . After that point , only about two pounds of nutrients per 100 pounds of grain fed was realized . Estimate was made that about 60,000,000 bushels of corn equivalent and 85,000 tons of protein supplement were normally used in the cern belt annually to fatten cattle beyond the average of good slaughter grade ( A Grade ) . Attention was also called to Ohio tests over a fifteen-year period with fattening steers which showed that added amounts of soft corn put into the silo failed to show up as gain . Another item not without its connotations was a reminder that in 1932 farmers were burning corn for fuel . One state agricultural chemistry department advised in a farmers ' circular that a bushel of corn at 10.5 per cent moisture yielded 7,340 British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with anthracite coal at 12,680 B.T.U , and 55 per cent efficiency . The department right now is arguing against " boom-or-bust " grain prices in the face of a jittery market . The Millers National Federation issued today a statement saying that trade estimates of wheat to be fed to livestock this year Went as high as 500,000,000 bushels as against the Department of Agriculture 's estimate of 325,00,000 bushels . The suggestion of the millers was to turn a larger proportion of wheat into flour for foreign export , thus channeling it to human consumption , while- at the same time retaining at home " the important mill feed which is the by-product of flour milling . " The department 's reply to that was that any processing increased the number of dollars that foreign Governments must pay for food ; and that foreign Governments preferred to get the full human , food value out of grain with a very ) high extraction rate . Mrs. Harold A. Stone , vice president of the National League of Women Voters , today said that her organization did not consider it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls while at the same time working honestly for the voluntary program . She specifically urged reinstatement of the old controls on the use of grains in mixed feeds to divert grain from livestock feeding , and the return of controls on distilling and industrial uses of grain . She also called for extension of export-import controls beyond next February , when they expire . The American Association of University Women called for a special session of Congress at once " to enable the United States to fulfill its responsibility in facing the emergency of impending collapse in Europe . "                     