@@711979

txt In his budget speech yesterday Sir Stafford Cripps , Chancellor of the British Exchequer , told a packed House of Commons : " There is no doubt whatever that Britain needs continued American aid . " We think that many Americans , reading Sir Stafford 's review of 1948 and his courageous financial program for 1949 , will find themselves replying : " There is no doubt whatever that Britain has merited such aid . " The year just ended  --  which coincided With the first year of American aid under the Marshall Plan  --  was , in the words of Sir Stafford , " a year of great achievement for the British people . " In 1946 the country was still in the process of reconversion . In 1947 , though great advances were made , the fuel crisis at the end of the winter and the dollar crisis in the summer revealed all too clearly the precarious nature Of the United Kingdom 's post-war position . But in 1948 the nation 's essential imports were assured and , in the words of the Chancellor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves but other countries of Western Europe . " Britain 's economic record for the year was one of full employment and a rising level of production . The threat of inflation which this combination of conditions carried with it was met by a drastic program of taxation , a program which produced a record over-all revenue surplus of ? 831,000,000 ( about 83,324,000,000 ) . Retail prices were up only one point for the year , against three points in the case of wages . Marshall Plan aid was reflected directly in one aspect of the national finances , namely , in a reduction in the debt by ? 453,000,000 . Of this amount ? 107,000 , - 000 represented the proceeds from Britain 's Marshall Plan aid " special account . " Though the labor force increased by only 2 per cent during the year , British industrial production as a whole was up about 12 per cent compared with 1947 . This general improvement in per capita output was the basic factor in the 1948 recovery . It enabled exports to increase faster than imports without reducing total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it permitted an appreciable rise in consumption . Substantial improvement was made , also , in the vital area of the international balance of payments . The volume : of retained imports rose only 4 per cent from the 1947 figure , while exports were up 25 per cent . The exceptional earlier dependence upon imports from the Western Hemisphere was reduced to the point where the proportion was only one-third , instead of one-half as in 1947 . Exports and reexports in 1948 were sufficient to pay for 90 per cent of imports , compared with 70 per cent in 1947 . But the closing of the gold-dollar gap has thus far been only partly achieved . In 1947 the dollar deficit had amounted to ? 1,024 , - 000,000 . By the end of the first year of the European Recovery Program it had been reduced to ? 358,000,000 . But that , declared Sir Stafford yesterday , " is still a vast figure . " And he added : " It is this huge deficit which we must get rid of in the next three years . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Britain 's economic problems under control ? By relentlessly pressing his policy of " restraint " on the domestic front while continuing to restrict dollar expenditures abroad to " what can be covered by our dollar earnings , together with the aid at our disposal . " Yesterday he served drastic notice in his tax plan that there was to be no relaxation of the " austerity " policy in 1949 . In the face of a huge government ' surplus for the year just ended , he presented a budget which actually would increase taxes this year by some ? 35 , - 000,000 . The stiff " purchasing taxes , " which apply to nearly everything bought at retail , and which range from 33% to 100 per cent , will remain ; at the same time prices are to be raised on certain basic food items rationed by the Government . A pack of cigarettes , including the tax , will still cost the Britisher about 70 cents in 1949 . Taxes on telephones will be increased , as will those on football pools and boxes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Exchequer area cut of a penny a pint in the price of beer and a reduction of duties . on imported wines , Sir Stafford 's message to the British people yesterday was , in its own way , reminiscent of Winston Churchill 's inspiring " blood , sweat and tears " speech of wartime . It is a high testimonial both to the realism of its author and to the capacity of the British people to pull together in a common cause , however long and hard the haul .                     