@@704701

txt Reward for Hitler Capture Terms of Offer by Group of Americans Are Told by Samuel H. Church To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In order to prevent further bloodshed and outrage in this war of the German aggression , I am authorized by competent Americans to offer a reward of $1,000,000 to be paid in cash to the person or persons who will deliver Adolf Hitler , alive , unwounded and unhurt , into the custody of the League of Nations , for trial before a high court of justice for his crimes against the peace and dignity of the world . This proposal will stand good through the month cf May , 1940 . SAMUEL HARDEN CHURCH . President , The Carnegie Institute . Pittsburgh , April 29 , 1940 . Compensating the Jobless Setting Aside of Funds for Men Thrown Out of Work by Machines Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : By calling attention to the " dark picture of technological unemployment " in your editorial " Machines on the Farm " you miss the point of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ultimate gains to society of technological developments . The attempt was to center attention on that neglected phase -- the workers involved . The point is brought out better by Clinton Golden of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee , who recently reported that Republic Steel Corporation a few weeks ago gave notice to 500 workers at Massillon , Ohio , and to 450 workers at Niles , Ohio , of permanent termination of employment because of installation of continuous strip mills by the company . Man Hours " Cut 97 Per Cent " " The effect of these automatic rolling mills , " says Clinton Golden , " is incredible . One hundred and twenty-six workers in an automatic strip mill have been found to be able to produce as much tonnage as 4,512 workers in the hand mills . This tremendous reduction in man hours  --  a 97 per cent reduction ? has resulted in the wholesale displacement of 84,770 workers . " It seems cruel to tell the displaced workers at Massillon and Niles that in the long run society will benefit by these layoffs and that maybe there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one have a reasonable doubt that such industrial disturbances always benefit society , that the economic and social gains are commensurate with the costs , that lower prices of steel with commensurate increased consumption will result . But whatever the theoretical arguments for the ultimate benefits to society , such gains need not be made at the expense of workers and their families and the economic destruction of whole towns and their commercial life . In order to- shift the discussion from the theoretical to a more realistic basis , I would like to submit for consideration the proposals formulated by the officers of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee to deal , at least partially and experimentally , with the problem of technological unemployment . Protections for Workers These include the following : 1 . That displaced workers be reabsorbed in the regular turnover . 2 . That displaced workers be given at least six months ' notice and be given opportunity and expert vocational guidance to adjust themselves to other jobs . 3 . That either jobs or wages he provided in the interim of adjustment , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological improvement . 4 . That workers reabsorbed at lower wages be given an adjustment compensation to he charged to the technological improvement . 5 . Thai : dismissal wages of not less than $500 be paid to those workers who can not be reabsorbed . Just as corporations set aside funds for various insurances , so there should be set aside funds to cover compensation of workers displaced by machines . Such a program , if widely adopted by industry , will at least take care of new technological unemployment . It does not deal with those now unemployed . Neither private industry before 1933 nor the government after 1933 has been able to cure this dread industrial disease . Possibly that problem , at least partially , must be viewed as one of technological unemployment and needs to be approached from that angle . BERNHARD OSTROLENK . New York , April 29 , 1940 . Deportation Law Hardships To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Henry De C. Ward stated in THE NEW YORK TIMES for April 27 that " the records show that Miss Perkins ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to withhold deportation from 2,000 to 3,000 cases , many with criminal records . " The records show that every one of the above-mentioned 2,000 to 3,000 cases is worthy of consideration and that deportation in these cases would mean the destruction of American families . In each one of these cases the security of an American family is involved . In the majority of them deportation would remove the supporter of several American-born dependents , who would otherwise be forced to apply for relief . These people whose deportation cases are being shown spec ; a1 consideration by the Department cf Labor are not criminals , as Mr. Ward would have us believe . Each case has been thoroughly investigated by the Department of Labor and consideration has been shown only in worthy cases . We feel that the policy of granting discretion with the Secretary of Labor in deportation cases is sound , humane and American . To enforce mandatory deportation in all cases would work untold hardship upon all parties concerned . We feel that , instead of making all deportations mandatory , the Secretary of Labor should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves should be humanized and brought into greater conformity with our American way of life by Congress . ABNER GREEN , American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born . New York , April 27 , 1940 . Greenland 's Management Denmark 's Record of Administration Is Declared Impressive To THE EDITOR OF TILE NEW YORK TIMf:S : As a Danish citizen who has spent several years in Greenland , I find it disturbing , to say the least , to read in various American publications that this great island of Arctic wonders must be " taken over " because of the Nazi occupation of Denmark , the mother country . If the Danish Government had mismanaged Greenland , I could understand some of the present criticism and even ridicule of the Danish administration in sections of the American press . But this certainly is not the case . The history of the Danish administration in Greenland has no black spots to hide . It is as clean as a white sheet . Time after time its record has won praise and admiration from various colonial powers , and has been regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruled . It is probably the only colony in the world in which good-will and understanding played a 100 per cent role and which was governed solely for the benefit and profit of its own people . Denmark has spent more in her administration of Greenland than she has gained in profits from the island 's natural resources . Greenland is the only place where the population of Eskimos has increased ; the increase has been considerable since Danish sovereignty began . If a rise in Eskimo population is n't in itself a proof of excellent administration , one can find a contrast in the records of the Eskimos in Canada and Alaska . The Eskimos in Greenland look upon the Danes as fathers and have always remained loyal to them , obviously because the Danes have ruled honorably and intelligently . It would be a sad day for the natives of Greenland if any other country , with different motives , were to take over the administration . If Greenland should be " protected " for fear of the Nazis ' establishing military bases there , it will look inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country by its own free will and classified the Danes as Nazis forever . Have we not had enough examples of violations of international law ? Does the United States need to copy Europe 's mad dogs in order to " protect " the weak and helpless ? Lieut . OLAV SEIDENFADEN . Forest Hills , N. Y. , April 26 , 1040 . Tracing Causes of Accidents To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Relative to old cars on the road : a man driving his car for six or seven years knows its every weak point and will drive accordingly . The man who buys a used car has to depend entirely upon the integrity of the dealer . Last December , I went to a supposedly reliable dealer , one who has the agency for one of the largest-selling cars , and purchased a 1937 model car . I told him I had to make a thousandmile trip and to be sure the brakes and tires were right . He promised to replace the front tires which were worn and reline the brakes . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the trip I went back for brake adjustments three times . The tires he replaced in the front seemed like new . I had gone about a hundred miles on my trip when a shimmy developed . I found a large sand blister on one of the tires which I changed and continued on my journey . After another hundred miles , the right front tire blew out . Luckily I was not going fast and the traffic was light . 1 found that all the rubber was gone off the front tires as they were regrooved . I bought two new tires and continued . Slowing down to round a curve about fifty miles farther , the rear brakes did not hold . The car spun around and crashed into a telegraph pole . Luck was with me again ; no one was killed . I sold the car there as junk . Here were accidents that were truly manufactured . New York , April 27 , 1940 . A READER Standing Mortgages Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The ownership of a mortgage-free home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method by which it is being attained is contributing to the economic difficulties of these times . The average home owner pays from $15 to $25 monthly in amortizing his mortgage . This is done by several hundred thousand home owners in the metropolitandistriet and adds up to a considerable sum . Nearly all of this money would have been spent otherwise on consumers ' goods , benefiting business in general . Instead , it goes into the banks , whose vaults are overflowing with more money than they know what to do with , At the same time the banks ' incomes from these mortgages are considerably less than they would be if the mortgages were not being amortized monliily . Home property has by this time reached a fixed level of value . The banks , the home owners and the retailers would profit if standing mortgages again became the custom . LEWIS A. DAL I. Brooklyn , April 27 , 1940 . On Higher Subway Fares To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : All the arguments for a 5-cent fare might as well he applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets is free and there is no direct charge for public lighting ? why charge for subway rides when thee city is the operator ? Is not this the kind of reasoning that has run the city into a situation where only real estate assessments forestall bankruptcy ? There are many services a city must render " free " because it is not possible to allocate them to individuals or real estate and they become the burden of general taxation . But services rendered property , such as water supply , or individuals , such as subway rides , should be assessed directly and at compensatory rates . The benefited should pay . GEORGE J. Baovrx . New York , April 27 , 1940.                     