@@706394

txt New draft regulations defining more I clearly the term dependency , and setLing up a special deferment classification for men who not only have dependents but who also are engaged In necessary war work were made public last night by selective service offtcials . At the tame time it was announced that the army has new plans to enroll college students as reservists , train them as officer material and Induct them Into active service when their studies are finished . The navy is now using this system . The army , which has enrolled collegians only for the reserve air forces , will throw all branches of the service open to the college men . 3.33 to Bo Last Called to Army . Paul . q .. , , Mplatrong , .. Illinois draft director , said that the new draft classification , containing men with dependents and In necessary war work be designated 3 . B. The men In this class will be " the last sought for military service . " Armstrong explained that the new regulations had just been received from Mai . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the message pointed out that any persons who may have acquired dependency status on or after Dec. 8 , 1941 , will have no claim for deferment on that ground . Such dependency " acquired when induction was Imminent or for the primary purpose of providing a basis for dependency determent , pregnancy , birth . or acquiring a child shall not be cause for classification In class 3 ? A or 343 , " It was explained . No Deferment It Wife Quits . The Hershey order also bard dependency claims by those whose wives , previously self-supporting , quit the jobs that supported them to establish husbands ' claims for deferment . In discussing the new 3 ? B classification , Armstrong said that it was a preparatory measure . Illinois still has an ample supply of 1 ? A men , he said , but when they have all been called the 3 ? A ranks of the first draft lists must be looked to for quotas . " When the time comes to comb the 3 ? A class , " he said , " registrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a wife and children . and are in addition necessary in war production or supporting activity , will be put In 3 ? B and will be the last called for military service . " Among the supporting activities he listed agriculture , transportation , and food inspection . Men Over 35 First In 3 ? B. Armstrong said that the first men to be placed in the new 3 ? B classification would be men between 35 and 44 years old , who registered In Febru ? ary . General reclassification , he said , would follow . The changed regulations will have no bearing on present standards governing occupational deferments class 2 ? A. The army 's new student instruc : Hon plan was outlined at Champaign yesterday by Brig . Gen. J. H. Hilldring , assistant chief of staff , in an address to the National Association of Deans and Advisers of Men . He said that the whole program would be ' explained in a few weeks . Under its provisions the enrollees will be between 18 and 20 years old . After two years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest scholastically would be assigned to continue their studies and the others inducted at once into the fighting forces . In Chicago the navy announced that It had a plan under which high school graduates may be inducted as student aviators and , on the completion of their courses , obtain commissions In the navy or the marine corps . Naval officers will call at the schools to interview applicants and have requested that the students do not call at naval flying board headquarters .                     