@@705294

txt 3 BRITISH WARSHIPS HIT IN AXIS ATTACK IN MEDITERRANEAN Carrier , Cruiser and Destroyer Damaged in Convoy Battle , London Announces RAIDERS LOSE 12 PLANES Italian Destroyer Also Is Sunk ? R. A. F. Ruins Nine Nazi Bombers in Sicily By ROBERT P. POST Special Cable to THE New YORK Tans . LONDON , Jan. ** aircraft , teamed up with the Italians , succeeded in damaging three British warships in the week ended yesday , the British acknowledged today . The damaged ships , which were part of British units covering the passage of convoys , are the Illustrious , one of the new aircraft carriers , the cruiser Southampton and the destroyer Gallant . Apparently both the Illustrious and the Southampton were hit from the air and the Gallant suffered later from either a torpedo or a mine . There were casualties on both the Southampton and the Illustrious . This is the first time it has been officially revealed that the dreaded German dive-bombers have been thrown in against the British fleet in the Mediterranean . At least nine German divebombers were reported destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air base at Catania , Sicily , according to The Associated Press . The official Italian press said Britain was sending heavy reinforcements to Greece and declared air damage to British ships was even greater than Rome had claimed . Crucial Contest Expected So far the Italians have utterly failed to make the slightest dent in British control of the Mediterranean . Now the other end of the Axis seems to have had a little better success , though damage to three warships will not seriously interfere with the performance of the British fleet unless , of course , it frightehs the big British vessels away . The fight of the battleship against the airplane has not yet been decided . It remains to be seen whether it will be decided by divebombers in the Mediterranean  --  or Indeed ever decided . But there is one significant statement in the Admiralty 's carefully worded communique tonight : " The main object of the operations , which was that of passing the convoy from west to east , was carried out according to plan . " This convoy , it added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Navy , still dominating the Mediterranean , still is able to grip the Italians with sea power . Under this protection the British , from their tiny embattled Island , are able to send aid to their allies and their own troops fighting abroad . Twelve Planes Shot Down In these " great efforts " by German and Italian planes operating from Italian bases , twelve planes were shot down , but whether by anti-aircraft fire from the ships or by British fighter planes is not specified . Probably they were fighters , because few planes in modern warfare fall victim to ships ' guns . This does not mean that the guns are useless , for their barrage keeps the attackers from making a steady run over their target . In addition to the planes shot down the British encountered two Italian destroyers of the Spica class in the Sicilian Channel last Friday morning . One of them was sunk , but the other escaped . The Illustrious is one of six new British aircraft carriers . She was completed after the war began . It was from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raid on Taranto . The Southampton is one of the most successful cruisers the British have ever had . She was bombed in the Firth of Forth in one of the first serious raids the Germans made on these islands . The Gallant is one of the destroyers of the 1933 program . The fact that these important units of the British fleet are operating in the Mediterranean shows how important that sea is in a naval sense . It is not too much to say that in the old-fashioned naval sense of big ships moving in concert , the Mediterranean is the only place where the British have a fleet at all . In other parts of the world the British naval forces are merely squadrons , organized not to meet other squadrons but for convoy and anti-submarine work .                     