@@712399

txt Lazio Rajk , former No. 2 Communist in Hungary , was executed for treason , according to a Foreign Ministry announcement . in Budapest , the Associated Press reports . He was convicted Sept , 24 , and sentence was confirmed yesterday . All German prisoners of war in Russia will be released before the end of the year , according to a Soviet spokesman in Weimar , Russian zone . Between 300,000 and 500,000 German prisoners are believed held by the Soviet Union . Russia has a reaped a record grain harvest in 1949 , the Soviet Government announced . No amount was given , but nearly 130,000,000 tons were cut in the record years of 1940 and 1948 , Hjalmar Schacht , president of the Reichsbank under Hitler , was besieged with his wife in a DUsseldorf , Germany , hotel . A police escort aided their escape from the hotel . Acquitted by the International War Crimes Court at Nuremberg , he is awaiting another hearing . New England : Yale Fund Bid Shuns U.S. Grants Yale University needs more money , but wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , president , in a speech to " old grads " at New Haven . Herbert A. Philbriek , Melrose advertising man , who testified against the defendants at the New York Communists ' trial , terms their conviction a triumph of justice . Home building in Massachusetts , hitting a stride of nearly 3,000 family units a month , brings predictions that 1949 will be " biggest homebuilding year in the history of the Commonwealth . " Page 4 . National : New Housing Sets September Record " Remarkable , " said a government housing expert . Some 100,000 new houses went into construction in September . It 's a record for that month . Usually ground breaking declines after spring ; this year it goes on up through the fall , No answer yet to John L. Lewis ' dramatic bid for national labor unity behind the steel and coal strikes . Messrs . Green and Murray of the big federations offered cool silence to his idea of jointly giving $2,500,000 weekly to the steel strikers . A few low mutterings from offstage suggested other labor leaders thought Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bite . Claims for jobless pay rose by 63,000 to 309,000 nationally , for the week . Strikers are not eligible. , but those in plants affected by the strike are . New - farm compromise coming up , as Senate and House conferees continue their struggle . It 's in a tangle right now , but trend 18 toward preserving flexible controls , which Senate voted , if some crops are put on fairly high rigid controls , to satisfy House . In Far East : Collins Recalled to Washington Gen. Lawton Collins , U. S. Army Chief of Staff , announced in Tokyo he has received an emergency recall to Washington " because hearings before Congress are vitally affecting the unification of the armed services . "                     