@@706064

txt The House rejected today by a teller vote of 218 to 63 , with party lines obliterated , the Gore plan for " over-all " control of rents , prices and wages during the emergency . Although the Administration sought the defeat of this method of control , which was recommended by Bernard M. Baruch , World War Price Administrator , the real test will come Friday when the House meets again , on two proposals which Leon Henderson , the Price Administrator , has called the " meat of the cocoanut . " These proposals are for amendments to the Banking and Currency Committee bill giving the Price Administrator the power to " buy and sell " anywhere to protect prices in the United States , and authority to issue and revoke licenses to industry on which he has placed price ceilings . The first was subjected to the opening stages of debate in the late afternoon , a short time before the House quit for the " second Thanksgiving Day . " Amendments Key to Bill Final House action on the legislation will be determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by what is done with either or both of the amendments . Even before they were offered to the House they were subjected to such stern opposition from both sides of the aisle as to presage probable rejection . In this event , many members said , the legislation will be reduced to an innocuous bill or the House will reject the bill itself with instructions to the Banking and Currency Committee to report new legislation . If the measure is adopted without the amendments , the Administration is hoping that the " real " bill can be written in the Senate . A Republican caucus decided to oppose any bill which contained the " buy and sell " and licensing provisions . Representative Martin . the minority leader , indicated that no real warmth was felt for any bill which would give the Administration the powers asked . Meanwhile , Mr. Henderson conferred with Speaker Rayburn and afterward remarked that the licensing provision was essential if there was to be efficient enforcement of price control . " The issue gets down to this , " he said . " Do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Representative Martin insisted , however , that the licensing and " buy and sell " amendments would make a bad measure , and declared that the Republicans would not vote for it " even if it has a good tag with the public . " In his opinion , he added , the Senate would not act on the bill until Spring , regardless of what the House did . McCormack Fights Gore Plan After several hours of debate over the Gore bill to substitute the " over-all " control for " . : - . Nctive " control as provided in the BalwAvg and Currency Committee bill , Representative McCormack , the majority leader , took the floor to argue that it would be a fatal mistake to accept the Gore theory , or to send the bill back to the committee . " We have to have price control , " Mr. McCormack said . " If we do n't enact it now , we will have to consider it again within a few weeks or months , and then it will be in much tougher form . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic strait-jacket , " and contended that the committee bill was fair to agriculture , " as well as to all others concerned . " Prior to the vote on the Gore substitute , Representative Cox of Georgia declared that it would be defeated He said the same of the Administration 's " buy and sell " and licensing provisions . In effect he told the House that it was wasting its time considering such legislation , since the present attitude indicated an almost certain recommittal . Representative . Gore argued that his measure would afford all the legislation necessary to an effective control of prices , and denounced the Banking and Currency Committee bill as " weak-kneed , piecemeal and half-hearted . " Representative Patman of Texas said the Gore proposal went " too far , " and that if enacted , " it would bog down and destroy our democratic form of government , because you can not regiment all the nation . " Support for the Gore plan came from Representative Honroney of Louisiana , who said it was based on Mr. Baruch 's experience , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Representative Wolcott of Michigan , ranking minority member of - the Banking and Currency Committee , demanded the defeat of the ' Gore proposal . He contended that it would cripple several defense industries , in that the wage control provision would not be brought into effect in time to save the increases which he said would be inevitable for certain classes of der fense workers . The committee bill was denounced by Mr. Wolcott as " equally bad . " Either , he contended , would confer powers on one man to regiment American economy . Opposition to any price " control legislation was voiced by Rerpresentative Rankin of Mississippi , who argued that it would " bring totalitarian government to the United States . " " Such legislation , " he said , " has been the pattern followed - by every totalitarian government . " Representative Paul Shafer , Republican , of Michigan , said he would attempt to amend the bill so that the administration of its powers would be taken out of the hands of the Executive Branch of the government . He said his amendment would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would administer the plan . Representative Cooley of North Carolina declared he was against any plan of control , and asserted that the Administration method was the " most dangerous and far-. reaching that has ever been introduced in Congress . " Prior to quitting for the day , the House rejected by a voice vote an amendment by Representative Voorhis , Democrat , of California , to restrict price controls to necessaries of life . The House rejected in the same manner an amendment proposed by Representative Pfeifer , Democrat , of New York , to limit the life of the bill to the calendar year 1942.                     