@@711977

txt Truman Puts Act in Focus As a matter of fact , it was Mr. Truman who seemed to get the thing into the American idiom as well as anyone when he likened it to " a group of householders " who " decide to express their community of interest " by entering into a " formal association for their self-protection . " With Mr. Truman 's words , the great scene in the big auditorium , with its blinding lights and formal diplomats , suddenly snapped into focus . Many and many a time on the old Wild West border , anxious homesteaders gathered round a bare table under a smoking kerosene lamp to affirm their mutual alliance against the local bad men . Save for the hydrangeas and the blue carpets and the television sets and the Jnatine band , that was what these rather anxious and solemn diplomats were doing . They did n't wear pistols under their formal coats and instead of cowboy boots they had correct black shoes , but their determination Whs unmistakable . It was the law of the border being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene chosen for this ceremony was the immense departmental auditorium whose ceiling rises up five stories , with appropriate fluted columns , rear gallery , and stage in front . There was no nonsense about trying to please the audience of 1,300 in this affair , and every emphasis was put on the great mechanism of publicity . Two crude wooden scaffoldings were erected halfway down the center of the hall , one holding 10 motion - picture machines , the other batteries of still cameras . On the side , the two red bulbs of the television camera machines , like ferrets ' eyes , sucked in the scene . Invisible Empty Chair Every language was heard in the international press section and among broadcasters transmitting descriptions round the world . The preliminary speeches were undeniably ? dreary and dull . There was no tension , no mounting suspense , no excitement . Hollywood could do a scene like this a hundred times better than the real thing . The element of drama was provided by an invisible empty chair in the half . circle on the stage  --  an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some indirectly , some point-blank . In that invisible chair sat the representative of Russia . On the blue-carpeted stage in the blinding glare of the lights Tension Grips Signers Most affecting speech was from Bjarni Benediktsson , Foreign Minister of Iceland , youngest and huskiest of delegates , who said quite simply that his little country could n't defend itself and could n't even have an army in the nature of things . Iceland wants British-American assistance , he said . The protracted , repetitious proceedings suddenly snapped into life as speeches ended and signing began . Each foreign minister , followed by ambassador , came down , three steps from the main stage onto a temporary stage : sat at a long table , and affixed his signature . A clerk with a paper box full of black pens handed one to each signer . After the signing , he swabbed off the ink and returned it to the delegate . Tension suddenly gripped the hall . This was the bare act itself . It was as solemn as a young couple signing a $15,000 mortgage on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States was last , Here again President Truman , with a genius for disrupting proto : col , came down with Mr. Acheson , caught sight of Vice-President Barkley below him , and practically hauled him up onto the stage , where Mr. Barkley 's brown suit ? was contrasted with the black-coated diplomats . Then it was all over .                     