@@710605

txt The first session of the Eightieth Congress adjourned early today . When the final gavel fell in the Senate , at 3:50 A. M. , there began what was expected to be a fivemonth suspension of national legislative action . The House already had adjourned at thirty minutes after midnight .. The session ended as turbulently as it had begun in January . At that time the issue was the seating of Senator Theodore G. Bilbo , Democrat , of Mississippi . From the opening the House sat for 126 days , the Senate for one fewer . Almost 1,900 major and minor bills were reported to the two Houses for consideration . Most of them were passed . Late last night the issue causing the Senatorial storm was the Republican move to force authorization of a Senate investigation into the handling by Tom C. Clark , Attorney General , of the Kansas City election fraud allegations . Early today the legislative fighting movki to Republican opposition to the Presidential selection of Philip B. Perlman of Maryland to be Solicitor General of the United States . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote of the Republican-controlled Judiciary Committee . Filibuster Tactics Develop There was obviously a connection between the two issues . By 1 A. M. distinct signs of filibuster appeared with the Perlman nomination being employed as a vehicle through which the Republican side could counter-attack the successful Democratic battle against the Clark investigation . Senator ON . en Brewster , Republican , of Maine , told the Senate at 2:35 A. M. that occasion had been found to " fight fire with fire . " The session took on the aspect of a showdown under stress of filibuster . Most of the members of the Senate sat around sleepily , worn down by a week of all-night or mere twelve-hour sessions , to hear or not to hear the oral efforts that ensued . Mr. Brewster picked Senator Millard E. Tydings , . Democrat of Maryland , as a target . Mr. Tydings was one of the principal sponsors of Mr. Perlman . On July 7 , 1941 , however , Mr. Tydings made a two-hour speech in opposition to the nomination of Robert H. Jackson , former Attorney General , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Mr. Brewster insisted , and was supported by a 41 to 38 vote of the Senate , that . the Tydings speech be read back to the Senate . Thus , it was conceded , a voiceraving filibuster was on in full force . With the clock hands hovering around 3 A. M. , Mr. Brewster took on where the reading of the Tydings speech left off . At 3:35 o'clock a record vote was called on the nomination of the proposed new Solicitor General . Mr. Perlman 's nomination was confirmed by a vote of 58 to 21 . The only business left , the House having quit , was that which concerned the Senate confirmation or rejection of nominations and matters pertaining only to Senate investigations . As the Perlman nomination was about to be acted on Senator Brewster requested that it be put over . When objection was entered by Senator Carl A. Hatch , Democrat , of New Mexico , Mr. Brewster moved adjournment . At 12:54 A. M. a recorded vote defeated the motion , 41 to 38 , and the Senate went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Brewster launched a determined attack upon it . As the final hours approached , Congress had completed action on the last of more than a dozen appropriations bills of the session which carried $34,863.142,995 for Government operations and pro- , grams of the present fiscal year . Republicans had obtained authorizations for investigations into causes and effects of high consumer prices , the country 's immigration system and the State Department 's international information and exchange educational program . Earlier , Congress had author : - ized investigations , here and throughout the world , into foreign assistance and relief programs . With appropriations well on the way to final determination , Democrats in both houses grew caustic over the results of the Republican economy drive . Savage oral tilts raged . At the height of battle in the House chamber , Representative John Taber , chairman of the Appropriations Committee , roared , in fog-horn basso profundo : " The Democrats opened this session filibustering to save Bilbo . Now they are filibustering to save the Pendergast political machine in Kansas City . " The supposed last day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to long periods of no action . Non-controversial measures slid through , under unanimous - consent proceedings , by scores . Those containing controversy were nailed , debated and sometimes blocked . In the afternoon legislative battling halted suddenly . Announcements of the death of Mrs. Martha Truman , mother of the President , cast a pall over Senate and House chambers . A resolution of sympathy to the Chief Execedtive was adopted . The House and the crowds in the galleries stood silent for thirty seconds . Contests soon were resumed . One raged at length over a proposal by Senator Chapman Revercomb , Republican , of West Virginia , that the Senate Judiciary Committee investigate the entire American immigration system . The move , quickly viewed by some as an attempt to discourage the entry into this country of dis- placed persons from Europe , was fought resolutely . However , Mr. Revercomb 's measure finally was adopted . The Stratton DP bill , which would permit the entry of 400,000 displaced persons during a period of four years , was not put on the Republican " must " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the next session . The House , apparently refreshed by a good night 's rest , began its clean-up work at 10 A. M. It moved smoothly and for the most part harmoniously through accumulating conference reports and last-day measures . By 6:15 P. M. the House had completed all the business before it . Rather than remain in session inactive while waiting for other matters to arrive from the Senate it recessed , subject to recall on twenty minutes ' notice . Not so in the Senate . Members , heavy-eyed and still somewhat on edge from two long sessions  --  one of eighteen hours ' duration  --  went to work at noon . There was a great spurt . The calendar was called and the Senate passed forty-one bills in fiftyseven minutes . As usual , Senator Robert A. Taft , chairman of the majority policy committee , was calling the signals in the Senate , with the majority cooperating generally for a speedy conclusion of the work . Republican leaders announced early that the first session of the Eightietii Congress would quit in recess , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the departure resolution , as drafted for the vote , the getaway took adjournment form , but with Congress subject to possible recall to duty on demand of the Republican Congressional high commend . Without such a provision a call could be issued only by the President of the United States . Instead of adjourning the session sine . die , the resolution set a date , Jan. 2 , 1948 , the last day be- fore the second session begins according to Constitutional amendment . Thus , under the terms of the measure , the first session itself could be resumed on call of the President of the United States or on call of the President pro ternpore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House and the majority leaders of bot hhouses , acting jointly . Senator Taft said the leadership at present anticipated no reautumn . But he added : " A lot could happen in two months to change the picture . On he Democratic side , the President " as the natural power of recall . We reserve the right to call Congress back if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act specifies , in a general tone , that Congress should adjourn sine die not later than the last day of July each year . It permits Congress itself , though , to change the quitting time much to suit itself . As the session neared its close as the first since March , 1918 , where one party controlled both Houses of Congress and the other the national administration , Republican leaders looked back over son for recalling Congress in the the legislative program charted last November . What had been mapped as a 20 per cent over-all reduction in personal income taxes had resulted in two vetoed measures calling for cuts of from 10.5 to 30 per cent . The Taft-Hartley labor relations bill had over-ridden a Presidential veto and was in effect , and still under hot controversy . The pledged elimination of Government controls came out with many eliminated at White House urging , with many being taken off anyhow , and with rent control compromised heavily . The proposed limitation of the Presidency to two terms was adopted by Congress and submitted to the states . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused many upheavals as departmental and agency budgets were slashed . Some indicated , however , that while some Governmental payrolls dropped sharply the personnel of others was on the rise . Republican plans for driving Communists and Communist sympathizers out of the Government ran into various unexpected situations . Before the Republicans in Congress had taken action the President by executive order called for a $24,000,000 loyalty check throughout the Government establishment : He made it a stipulation , though , that the order would become effective only when the necessary appropriations had been made . A Republican loyalty bill was passed recently by the House . It was so sweeping and stringent , however , that it received scent attention on the Senate side . When that measure appeared to be lost , appropriations were granted for about one-half the sum ter which the President had asked . Another item on the early Republican program was the reduction in the shortage of housing. , The long-range housing bill of which Senator Taft is co-author remains inactive . Yesterday the Senate adopted , as did the House previously , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedies of the housing situation . Measures involving United States participation in  --  the many activities of the United Nations encountered little opposition , where there was any . The voting margins on questions of foreign aid , however , narrowed as the session progressed . It wee known weeks ago that the administration would seek no more money for such purposes during the remainder of the seseit5e . Dune ing the adjournment Europe , Latin America and the Far East will find Congressional investigating parties - checking oh foreign-aid programs on the ground . Besides the labor-management legislation , the session pissed the portal-to-portal act to knock out an estimated $5,000,000,000 of suits that had accumulated with a sudden sweep throughout the country . The Republicans also took over a Presidentially sponsored bill to create a new line of succession to the Presidency and passed it . Liquidation of the Selective Service System , except for the retention of its records , was another action of the first session . As the beesicei was closing there were seen n some quarters indications that the second session might . have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropping off at a rate that may cause later alarm . The session had only touched upon the long-pressed program for universal military training . The House Armed Services Committee approved a UMT bill Friday . There were no plans , however , for floor action before Congress left . It appeared to some at the Capitol that there might be a necessary choice , when the next session convenes , between universal military training and a possible revival of peacetime selective service over a wider ate-range . Reorganization of the swollen Executive Branch of the Government was pursued by the Democrats through the creation of a commission , headed by former President Herbert Hoover . Again the 1 per cent social security tax on employers and employes was frozen , this time until Jan. 1 , 1950.                     