@@711671

txt Creation of a Continental Air Command to strengthen the country 's defenses against possible enemy attack was announced today by the Air Force . Placed over the existing Air Defense Command and Tactical Air . Command , the new level of authority would enable the Air Force to " throw the full weight of the com bined units " into either defensive ' or tactical operations " as circumstances may require , " the announcement stated . " This will provide for speedy cooperation with the Army and Navy under possible future contingencies : " said the Air Force . Headquarters for the new command will be at Mitchel Air Force Base , New York . Lieut . Gen. George E. Stratemeyer , veteran Air Force officer experienced in both continental and overseas operations , was named by Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg , Air Force Chief of Staff , to direct the new authority . A parallel effect of the formation of the Continental Air Command will be the strengthening of the Air National Guard and the Air Reserve programs , so-called civilian components of the Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all services last month . In a step toward organizational simplicity , the action also will make the six regional Air Force command areas identical with those of the Army . The new command will be responsible for all units and functions now assigned to the Air Defense and Tactical Commands . The Air Defense Command is restricted in its operations to the continental United States , and its primary mission is to defend the country against attack . It is subdivided into six regional commands assigned to the " conduct of operations capable of warding off or containing air - attacks . " The civilian segments of the Air Force also come within the responsibility of this command . The Tactical Air Command is trained for joint action with the country 's ground and sea forces . It is expected to assist surface units taking and holding enemy territory and has three principal objectives  --  the gaining of air superiority . isolation or confinement of battle areas , and the destruction of enemy forces within those areas . Reconnaissance is another function of this commend . There are no geographical restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States they are assigned to a theatre commander . New Responsibility Defined Formation of the over-all Continental Command to join and coordinate the activities of the Defense and Tactical Commands creates within the United States a responsibility similar to that enjoyed by the Strategic Air Command , which carries air warfare and Long-range attacks to the enemy anywhere in the world . The reorganization of top-level authorities will give the following Air Force and Army command I areas the same geographical lim-its : The First Army and the First Air Force ; the Second Army and the Fourteenth Air Force ; the Third Army and the Ninth Air I Force ; the Fourth Army and the Twelfth Air Force ; the Fifth Army and the Tenth Air Force , and the Sixth Army and the Fourth Air Force . The Army , meanwhile , named Maj. Gen. Charles W. Ryder , formerly commander of the Ninth Corps in Japan , as special assistant to the Chief of Staff for Civilfauf ; kenponents . This appointment places General Ryder , in terms of National Guard and Reserve units , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Quesada , appointed by the Air Force last Week . The President in his Executive Order asked that the National Guard and Army Reserve programs be speeded up , together with the parallel Air Force programs , and placed under the direction of an I " active , capable , high-ranking officer . " " General Ryder , " said today's1 announcement , - " is considered by the Army to meet all these requirements . " General Stratemeyer also has held several of the Air Force 's top positions . In the early months of the war . he commanded the Southeast Air Corps Training Center at Maxwell Field , Ala . After a shift as Chief of the Air Staff in Washington beginning in June , 1942 , he was sent overseas late in 1944 as commanding general of the IndiaBurma sector and commanding general of the Air Force operations in the China theatre . In February , 1946 , he was recalled to take command of the Air Defense Command , which he began at Mitchel Field in March , 1946 . He will be succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    