@@705573

txt The Hawaiian Command of the U. S. Army Air Force was strengthened today by 21 of the latest type of four-motored bombers , and it was announced that further reinforcements would follow later . The big bombers reached the Pacific outpost yesterday after a secret mass flight from California which took them over some 2,400 miles of open water . Lieut . Gen. Delos Emmons , Commander of the Army 's General Headquarters Air Force , was in the leading plane . The bombers described by the Army as the latest B-17 D. model , were equipped with protective armor , leak-proof fuel tanks and the greatly increased fire-power found necessary in the European war . Their maximum speed was said to be in excess of 200 miles an hour and their operating range " in excess of 1,000 miles at sea . " Officials said the flight was the largest on record for heavy bombers , though smaller number of the same type craft have flown repeatedly to South America on good will missions . The group cleared Hamilton Field , near San Francisco , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawaii 13 hours and 59 minutes later . Col. Eugene L. Eubank was the Group Commander . ? Because the bombers are not equipped to light on the sea in case of tmergency , the Law provided destroyers at three stations along the route . The heavy bombers normally carry crews of seven or eight , so upwards of 150 men were involved in the transfer . The War Department has been reticent in recent months about plane and troop movements to off-short outposts , but today , presumably with an eye to the effect abroad , it was quick to proclaim success of the flight and to stress that Hawaii 's air defenses were being strengthened substantially . " Prior to their arrival , " it was added , " the most modern type of medium bomber with an operating range of approximately 800 miles at sea had been a part of the Hawaiian Command . More or these medium bombers also are to be delivered in the near future . " In less than three months , it was learned , several squadrons of new type fighter planes as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islans to safeguard the Navy 's principal offshore operating base . The range of the latest arrivals enables them to operate , if deemed advisable , to Midway , Wake , and other islands in the string of bases being built by the Navy , or to cross the Pacific via the island stepping stones used by the commercial clipper flying boats .                     