@@707879

txt Only a few days less than four years since he raised the standard of French resistance to the enemy , Gen. Charles de Gaulle visited today that strip of France that the Allies have reclaimed from German domination . He crossed the Channel aboard the French destroyer Combattante , flying the French colors . It was a sentimental visit rather than a return to his native land for the man whom Vichy declared a traitor and sentenced to death in August , 1940 , for defying orders to return to a France un ' der the German heel . After enthusiastic welcomes in French towns , General de Gaulle re-embarked for England , The United Press reported . But for the head of the French Committee of National Liberation , who is seeking recognition for it as the Provisional Government of France , even to set foot on the beachhead required the assent of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower as Commander in Chief of the Allies ' forces and the approval of President Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill . For that reason his visit helped to allay some . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and Britain to devise a formula of cooperation and by Mr. Churchill 's urgent appeal to the House of Commons today to spare the Government for the present from justifying its course in that direction , on the ground that to do so now could only comfort the enemy . French headquarters in London indignantly denied Washington reports that , at the last minute , General de Gaulle had canceled orders that would have sent several hundred French officers into France with the invading armies as liaison officers . As far as could be learned tonight General de Gaulle is one of the very few . French emigres who have been permitted to visit the beachhead . On his arrival he was greeted by British officers at Gen. Sir Bernard L. Montgomery 's headquarters . Afterward he visited towns and villages in the liberated area . Mr. Churchill , asking the House of Commons not to force the issue ' on the French situation , said that it was necessary to consider the ' United States and its relations with the French Committee . The tone of his answers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the rift that prevents the Committee from becoming a full-fledged partner in the campaign of liberation . Disposing of seven questions on General de Gaulle and the Committee with one answer , Mr. Churchill made it clear that he was concerned lest the discussion serve merely to " emphasize any differences which might exist " He made such a strong plea for the indulgence of the House that some members who know his own mental reservations about General de Gaulle wondered what statements could be worse than his implications . Churchill Not Pressed In general the members were not disposed to press Mr. Churchill , but subsequent questions showed that there were several specific points , such as the question of the authority on which francs were supplied to the invasion troops , that they would like to have cleared up soon . Most Labor and Liberal members and some younger Conservatives favor the immediate full recognition of the Committee as the Provisional Government of France , but the main body of the Conservatives holds to a cautious line , although even these foresee the time when expediency may demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romer , gave Maurice de Jean , the French Minister here , a note announcing that Poland recognized the Committee as the Provisional Government . General de Gaulle will return to Algiers to discuss diplomatic problems with members of the Committee before proceeding to Washington to confer with Mr. Roosevelt . However , some quarters here argue that , before his visit to Washington , preliminary conversations might usefully be carried on between Pierre Vienot , one of the Committee 's representatives here , and the United States Ambassador , 1 . John Winant.                     