@@711998

txt A new heat record for this year was set f.t 4:25 P. M. yesterday when the temperature was officially recorded as 77.2 degrees . The fine weather which brightened holiday plans was expected to end today , at least temporarily . There was no prediction yet for Sunday , but cloudiness and showers were forecast for this afternoon . With school out and the city beginning to receive holiday travelers yesterday , midtown streets and shops were unusually crowded . Outbound traffic began to rise above normal and La Guardia Airport reported fifty-two extra flights had been scheduled during the day . At least sixty more were scheduled today . Extra cars will be carried on many regular trains today and tomorrow . Yesterday 's record was a little more than 4 degrees above 1949 's previous high of 73 established on March 27 . The Weather Bureau said the warmest April 14 on . record was in 1941 , when the temperature reached 84.7 degrees ; and the coldest in 1940 when it was 28.3 . As has been the case repeatedly this season , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported a snow and sleet storm had struck Nebraska . Parts of Missouri and of Minnesota also felt the effects of unusual weather and storm warnings were posted all along the Great Lakes . But it was very nearly a perfect day in New York and a fine occasion for a story about Bryant Park , one of the most densely populated parts of the city when the mercury rises . " I 'd say that between 12 and 2 today , we had 10,000 people in this park , " said Thomas Wade , a wiry blue-eyed man who is in charge of it . Only 9.602 acres  --  from Fortieth Street to Forty-second Street along the Avenue of the Americas  --  the park is hemmed in on three sides by stores and office buildings and on the fourth by the New York Public Library . Mr. Wade is general foreman a all Park Department property between Seventeenth and Fifty-seventh Streets . In addition to supervising =eh projects as the reseeding of the lawn ( which has just been com ' pleted ) he has many other duties . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " We have to call an ambulance at least three or four times a week . " In the last year , he said , two ( persons dropped dead on the same 1 bench and the park staff has become a little superstitious about it . Mr. Wade , who started in the Park Department twenty-one years ago as a tree-pruner , had unlimited facts at hand abopt his domain . He said that but for the vigilance of his maintenance crew of five the park would easily qualify as the city 's messiest in addition to its other distinctions . " Twelve hundred pounds of paper are collected after every warm day , " he said . Morever , every year dozens a Ur : - fruit trees have to be raked up , he said , because a good part of the pits that are thrown away during lunch hour seem to sprout . 