@@704688

txt Attacks on those who hold a " defeatist " attitude toward the future of the American economy were made on three fronts yesterday . Raymond Moley told the New York Bond Club that productive capacity of the American industrial system is a greater world force than Europe 's mobilized armies and that " It is time to return to private life those who believe this country is economically senile , matured and washed up . " Economic policy commission of the American Bankers Association pictured unlimited potential demand In this country for " better homes , better food , more clothing , improved housing , furnishing and greater amounts of the services that are rendered bt public utilities . " Fowler McCormick. vice president of International Harvester , told the TNEC that small , family-size farms constitute a " great market " for further growth in the farm machinery Industry . One - power in this world greater than all the armed forces now mobilized is the capacity of the American industrial system to produce . Raymond Moley. contributing editor of Newsweek. asserted at a luncheon meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people will consider as they look toward the 1940 campaign is whether the Administration in office has given this country 's productive genius full opportunity to operate , he added . Mr. Moley declared " it is time to return to private life those who believe that this country is economically senile , matured and washed Securities and Holding Company Acts Discussing specific laws regulating business . Mr. Moley said it was his judgment that the Securities Act of 1933 and to some extent the Holding Company Act of 1935 were written with altogether too little cooperation from those most familiar with the problems involved in the fields of investment banking and utilities ; through no fault of investment bankers or utility companies , he added . Many engaged in those businesses were ready and willing to cooperate , he said Mr. Moley emphasized that law must constantly be revised in the light of practical experience . He criticized the theory of economic defeatism and said that " the Washington intelligentsia has turned to a theory which assumes that our industrial system is mature ; that so far as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little opportunity for private savings : and that government will have to propel life-giving capital through the veins of our economic life . " He added , if we accept this theory " we may well envision a future government that is a cross between a soup kitchen and a pawn shop . " Hurts Little Fellow Mr. Moley asserted that the people of this country want the power of government to contract rather than to expand . He said that despite " all the talk about helping little fellows , the net of the Administration 's economic legislation has been to make life more difficult for the little fellow and to make the big fellow bigger . This is attested by many industrialists They can pay high wages . They can bargain with employes in accordance with the most rigid impositions of the NLRB . It 's their smaller competitors who are panting in the effort to conform . " He warned that " if we succumb to the disease of the super-government now , it will not be because we have had inadequate warning from abroad . " Commenting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. A.toley said , " A law is passed to guarantee the right of workers to organize . But in the administration of that law , government reaches out beyond this initial protection and actually participates in the organization of labor . Laws are passed to provide the investor with a fair amount of information . But in the administration of these laws , we see the beginnings of an attempt to assume a managerial function in the issuance and sale of securities . An effort is made to protect consumers of electrical utilities and to conserve valuable public properties . In its administration , it becomes a gigantic competitive enterprise , crushing out private enterprise wherever it comes in contact with it . " Mr. Moley urged the 500 members of the Bond Club who attended the meeting to read an article by Thomas F. Woodlock in The Wall Street Journal of April 24 on the subject of economic defeatism                     