@@706618

txt A full-hedged shortage of chemicals , dealing a body blow to consumers ' goods industries and to the farmer , is in prospect . It will be here before another summer rolls around . Chemical shortages which have occurred so far have not been noticed very much by the average individual but those ahead will be as plain to the consumer as his sugar ration card . Here 's the reason that shortages are coming : Arms output , a big chemical user , is on the uptrend but chemical production is already at capacity and there is little expansion under way to increase that capacity . War production has not reached its peak . New plants for smokeless powder , T.N.T. , aluminum , magnesium , aviation gasoline , synthetic rubber , ships , planes , and tanks are still being built . They all ? consume chemicals ; within another six months they 'll be Rutting a heavier burden on a chemical Industry already straining its seams . Expansion of chemical plants had been planned to take are of additional war needs . But most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because not enough materials are available for the plants and equipment . The consumer must bear the brunt . as chemicals are devoted to war output . Construction actually has been stopped on one or two large half-completed chemical plants . Farmers Will Feel the Pinch The farmer will probably be among the first to feel the reduced supplies of chemicals . Fertilizer makers are worried about the supply of nitrates to make plant foqd for crops next spring . Synthetic nitrogen , generally made as ammonia , is now going into smokeless powder ; the supply of natural nitrates from Chile is curtailed because of the shipping shortage . Big new ammonia plants are under construction but it takes a year and a half to build them . Smokeless powder plants , on the other . hand , can be put up in about  --  a year . So the poWder plants now being built will be finished first arid -M 6tkay ' ? e ammonia that otherwise would go into the farmer 's fertilizers . The liquor industry has been requested to supply alcohol for smokeless powder and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make any more whisky for storage . The industry will have to depend on its stocks . There may be enough anti-freeze alcohol for the reduced number of cars on the road this winter ; but it may have to be rationed . Prestone ( a glycerine-like fluid made from hydrocarbon gases ) is out . It was scarce last winter . Now it is all going to airplanes and essential chemical uses . Soap producers will make all the glycerine they can from fats for the Allies to make explosives and for synthetic resins for paints . So there will be no glycerine for automobile radiato  --  s . Probably there wo n't be any for cigarette makers , who use it to keep tobacco from going dry . Need for glycerine is the real reason for the drive to collect household fats . Plastics for civilian uses will probably be very scarce . Heavy duty types made from phenol ( from coal tar ) and formaldehyde ( from wood alcohol ) are already going to the armed forces . Other kinds that seemed destined to remain for civilians are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ( Cyanamid 's be and Libbey-Owens ' Plaskon ) will be used to make closures for glass containers , but there may not he enough to go around . Paint Industry Must Regress The paint industry , proud of its progress over the past decade , is going back to World War I days in the kind of old style paints it will make for the consumers , and there may not be too much of those . Ships , tanks , shells for guns , Army trucks , military equipment of all kinds are taking all the synthetic resins which are the basis of the ? better paints and lacquers that the householder and industry have been using . The chief raw materials for making these synthetic resins are a coal tar acid called phthalic anhydride and glycerine , by-product of soap making . Combined they make what are called alkyd resins . Phthalic comes from naphthalene ( moth flakes ) but the supply of this is not plentiful enough ; although more than 100 million pounds of phthalic are being made annually it Is still not enough for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it goes into smokeless powder . Soda ash , one of the most common heavy chemicals , may be short next year for the first time In its history when big new aluminum plants will be finished . Soda ash is needed in the chemical refining of bauxite ( aluminum ore ) to the tune of several hundred thousand tons . Original plans called for doubling some of the principal soda ash plants in the country but construction has been stopped to save materials . There will be plenty for the aluminunt pleats , but it means that civilian industries will be pinched . Over 31 , E million tons of soda ash are made In this country each year  --  mostly from brine . The lime is supplied from limestone or oyster shells . The glass Industry takes ; around 1 million tons yearly ; soap takes a quarter of this and the chemical incinstry takes about 11/2 million tons to make caustic soda and other chemicals . Glass Makers Will Suffer Most The glass industry , largest consumer , will bear the brunt of the rationing that will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ table wear , building blocks , windows  --  will probably be curtailed ' to save glass for containers , needed to ease the tin shortage . At the moment there is plenty of soda ash because the big demand for aluminum has not started and the huge consumption of plate glass by the automobile industry has stopped . But a new shortage seems bound to appear . Shortage in soda ash may also affect another alkali , caustic soda , used mainly in making rayon , soap and chemicals ; it will be , called on to substitute for soda ash in various places . Exports of caustic soda have already been curtailed , although South America is crying for it . A big deposit of natural soda ash , has been found in the west but alkali producers believe that it will not be developed right away because of the lack of equipment needed for mining it and the transportation difficulties involved . The third chemical in the alkali group , the green gas chlorine , will be increasingly scarce . An extremely versatile chemical , it is needed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until recently plans called for almost doubling the nation 's chlorine production by building new plants , but this expansion has practically been abandoned for the time being . Shortages of materials is the reason . Uses of Chlorine Chlorine is. used in vinyl plastics which go into ethyl gasoline , neoprene synthetic rubber , a dozen solvents , fluids to protect army tents and tarpaulins from fire and water , and even into thiokol , the rubber substitute which civilians hope may help out the tire shortage . Chlorine also goes into carbon tetra-chloride and ' tri-chlorethylene used by dry cleaners to clean clothes . These materials were scarce for a while ; then a drop in demand , as industry shifted from peace to war work , loosened up the supply . Solvents of this type were used by makers of automobile upholstery to clean their fabrics , and by auto equipment makers for degreasing . There was a lag in demand as these industries shut down and turned to war business but soon there will be a shortage again . Fortunately for industry , a few of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so . There is ample sulpher and sulphuric acid , for example . Using all the facilities of the whisky distilleries would eliminate an alcohol shortage for war needs . The supply of cellulose made from cotton linters and from wood pulp will probably be ample ; it is the basic material for smokeless powder . So far it seems likely that there will also he enough cellulose for making rayon and plastics . Chemical companies are now using every available bit of equipment and are building a good many new plants out of junk piles . Old and obsolete equipment has been dug up from warehouses and scrap heaps and reconditioned . It is obviously not , too efficient but it will save materials and help to swell output . Leaders in the industry believe that a great more can be done along this line .                     