@@706298

txt Amid rtimors that large convoys of American troops , with naval protection , are moving around somewhere in the Pacific and that Japan 's over-extended lines may soon bring a halt to Nippon 's victorious progress . the Japanese were settling down to their conquests of the past week end . If the Japanese flag is not already flying in Rangoon , that port is not in Allied hands , for when the British found fresh Japanese landings on the west bank of the ' Rangoon River , they evacuated the port and moved northwards to join hands with their Chinese allies in central Burma . By way of effecting closer cooperation with the Chinese , Lieut . Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell. who had arrived in Chungking on a special mission from President Roosevelt , has been appointed chief of Staff in the Chinese theater under Gen. Chiang Kai-shek , while China is sending a military mission to Washington . Although the Stilwell appointment does not necessarily point to any specific move , it obviously makes possible the organization of offensive moves against Japan from the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third landing on New Guinea at Finschhafen , 60 miles west of Lae , thereby strengthening their position covering the north coast of Australia , the conquest of Java was continuing in its final stages . Dutch authorities in London stated they were completely out of touch with the East Indies . They added that the sole governing power for the whole Dutch Empire is in Britain and that no arrangements will be made with the Japanese Government . The Netherlands Colonial Ministry , headed by Dr. Pieter S. Gerbrandy , Premier and Colonial Minister , is to take charge of the war effort throughout the Empire . Meanwhile , effective work has been done by American submarines on Japan 's elongated supply lines in the Western Pacific , according to a Navy report stating that a large Japanese destroyer and naval tanker have been destroyed while an aircraft carrier and three cruisers have been put out of action by torpedoes . Burma : British forces have abandoned the southern tip of Burma to the Japanese and have withdrawn successfully " into Central Burma to continue their fight " side by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said today . Rangoon has been evacuated of nrlitary defenders but not before all dock installations , oil refineries , and other valuable equipment had been destroyed by demolition sqeads . Additional destruction , planned and executed by American engineers and drillers , is proceeding at Bassein , an important port 90 miles west of Rangoon and key city of the Irrawaddy River Delta . They said the Irrawaddy oil fields would he so thoroughly destroyed the . lapanese could not repair them in five years . A British force isolated around Pegu , 40 miles north of captured Rangoon . was reported cutting its way through the Japanese toward the main body of troops which broke through the Japanese astride the Rangoon-Prome Road after " heavy fighting. , and two attacks . Syriam from the Irrawaddy oil fields 300 miles away . The oil fields now are within striking distance of Japanese troops . A British Army communiqu ? said all industrial objectives had been demolished before Rangoon was evacuated . All dock installstior , oil refineries , and machinery which could not be moved were destroyed . The RAF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Light enemy patrols were reported active in the region of Taukkyan , a village 21 miles from Rangoon at the point where the Burma Road branches into two routes toward Mandalay , one via Pegu , the other through Prome . Japanese patrols closing in on Rangoon wore native clothing , making it . difficult to detect them among the natives , it was reported here . Japanese agents , it was said , were responsible for many of the attacks made by Burmese natives on Europeans evacuating Rangoon along the western branch of the Burma Road . China : A Chinese Government spokesman announced today the appoint-ment of Lieut . Gen. , Joseph W. Stilwell , former United States Military Attach ? at Peiping , as Chief of Staff in the China theater under Gen. Chiang Kai-shek . He said China was sending a military mission to Washington and also announced that China and India would exchange diplomatic representatives . They will be commissioners with ministerial rank . General Stilwell arrived in Chungking March 4 on what was announced as a special mission for President Roosevelt . The General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans during a minor Chinese rebellion in which Gen. Chiang Kai-shek was taken ' prisoner by the " Young Marshal " Chang Hsueh-liang . General Stillwell was then a colonel . President Roosevelt sent General Stillwell to China Feb. 9 to confer with General Chiang , and raised his rank to that of lieutenant general two weeks later . nese forces had sunk or damaged 767 enemy vessels , had captured another 134 , and had destroyed 1,161 airplanes since the beginning of the war in the Pacillc The communiqu ? said enemy losses in fatalities alone amounted to 79,999 up to the time Japanese forces penetrated Johore in the Malayan campaign . It also claimed 119,028 prisoners of war . The communiqu ? said : " The Japanese armed forces secured the following brilliant military results : " Aircraft shot down or destroyed on the ground totaled 1,101 ; captured , 21 ; tanks captured , 592 ; automobiles captured , 10,054 . " Dutch East Indies : Netherlands East Ind* officials are working Out plans forContinuing the struggle against Japan from outside the overrun islands and aiming at recapture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " New machinery " for safeguarding the interests of the Dutch East Indies and for keeping up their resistance soon will be set up in " certain parts of the world , " the Agency declared . The Netherlands Governmentin-Exile in London issued a categoric statement that any arrangements toward cessation of hostilities with Japan were " out of the question , " and pointed out : " No communication exists between the Netherlands Government and the Netherlands East Indies . The enemy is. therefore , tree to circulate any stories he may think useful . " The actual military position on the islands is not known . The military commanders , including those having to operate singly , have been instructed to fight to the last . They have freedom of action where resistance would no longer serve any useful purpose . " Whatever the outcome of the military operations in the Netherlands East Indies . the powers of the Netherlands authorities , whether military or civil , do na extend beyond arrangements regarding cessation of local military operations . " New Guinea ? The Japanese made a third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are marshaling there for what Australians are convinced is an imminent attempt to invade their continent . The landing was at Finschhafen. where there is a small airfield and a harbor which can accommodate moderate-sized vessels . The strength of the new landing force was not stated . It is 60 miles west of Lae which , with Salamaua , were the sites of two previous Japanese landings . These and repeated Japanese air bombardments of Port Moresby  --  another air raid there was the tenth  --  have banished any doubt among officials that Australia may be overlooked by the Japanese temporarily in favor of a drive into India . Australia 's Air Force , strengthened by the return from other fronts of battle-proved fliers to defend their homeland , has been ordered to take the offensive against the gathering enemy strength at the Commonwealth 's doorstep . Air Minister Arthur S. Drake-ford said that some of these were commanding the RAAF and that it was using every resource at its command to strike at the springboards of invasion on New Guinea , some of them but 45 minutes by fighter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a delaying action , however , as the new enemy landings and renewed air operations underlined the conviction of Australian authorities that an invasion attempt has become imminent with the fall of Java . Philippines : A Japanese light cruiser ' , belled the port of Cebu on the island of the same name in the central Philippines , the War Department re-Inserted today , but only slight dam-'age was inflicted on the City . WASHINGTON , March ** , growing American ground swell , for hard offensive action against the enemy today brought funda- I mental changes in the Army and Navy High Commands , with unprecedented power going to air officers . Simultaneously , United States naval units in Far Eastern waters showed the path to quickest victory as their bold , slashing attacks sank or knocked out of action five Japanese warships and a tanker . This combination of good news immediately heartened persons here who look upon the great United Nations defeat in Java : Is clear warning that immediate and drastic steps arc imperative If Allied positions from the Red Sea to New Zealand are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquest . The two major changes in the armed force High Command came with the elevation of Admiral Et nest J. King to a position of supreme command over all American naval functions , combining both the duties of Commander in Chief of the Fleet and Chief of Naval Operations , and the elevation of Maj. Gen. Joseph T. MeNarney to the post of Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army . Both Arc Air Officers It is judged significant that both Admiral King and General are air officers , the former having once been Chief of the Bureau of Naval Aeronautics , and the latter a present member of the Army Air Forces . Admiral King , who enjoys wider confidence in Washington than any other American naval officer , will be responsible for the separate but Intimately connected tasks of preparing long-range war plans and of carrying them out . He will be assisted by executives , notably rear Admiral Russell Willson , who will administer fleet duties , and Rear Admiral Frederick J. Horne , who will do the same for naval operations . But Admiral King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country is to win at sea and guarantee this victory. , Admiral Harold R. Stark , who was relieved of the post of Chief of Naval Operations , has been named Cpmmander of the United States ? , ' forces operating in European waters  --  a post which is expected to become increasingly important and significant . Admiral Stark relieves Vice Admiral Robert L. Ghormley , Who will return for a brief duty tour in Washington and then take a command at sea . The Army shift follows and implements the recent executive order of the President reorganizing the Army into air , ground , and supply commands , each with its commanding officer responsible only to Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Marshall . Accent on ' Youth The changes brought the interesting and , to many observers , encouraging news that the great majority of the 33 new General Staff members announced by the War Department are men under 50 years of age , giving an unwonted tinge of youth to what hitherto has been a unit largely comprised of men close to the retirement age , General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Deputy Chief of Staff on the Army Air Forces , is but 37 . He is the youngest general in the United States Army . Officials disclose that the " accent on youth " was a deliberate measure designed to foster boldness of concept and execution in America 's war plans . The key position accorded General in the new setup can be seen from the fact that he is to be the sole deputy to Chief of Staff General Marshall , whereas previously the Chief of Staff had three deputies . The appointment is viewed as but one of many recent assurances that the War Department is fully awake to the full role which the airplane is fitted to play m modern warfare . As one-time head of the Navy 's Air Division , Admiral King is undoubtedly the most air-minded naval officer ever to head the country 's sea arm . This , combined with the unprecedented power and scope of his position , will result in a drastic increase in the emphasis upon the airplane 's role at sea , it is held . Strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy already has the strongest naval air force in the world , and within the next year or so should have a total of 18,000 planes . The latest American successes at sea , coupled with the extensive damage already done Japanese naval and mercantile fleets , have led to a downward revision of opinion as to the sea- and battle-worthiness of enemy seacraft . Even when the results of the surprise attack upon Pearl Harbor are included , it . is now apparent that the United States Navy has inflicted far greater losses of a permanent nature upon the Japanese than it has suffered . What is more Japanese losses have been inflicted by every type of American armed force  --  submarines , surface craft , high-level bombing planes , dive bombers , torpedo planes , and even land-based artillery . Thus the Japanese Navy is said to have shown an all-around vulnerability which only increases the necessity for America to press home its attacks with more craft and on a larger scale . At the same time , care Is taken to point out that , while Japan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that Tokyo does not still have adequate sea power for full-scale duty in the Western Pacific , the Southwestern Pacific , and the Indian Ocean . Reduced as is Japanese sea power , it is overwhelmingly greater than any which the United Nations are now in a position to bring against it in that part of the world . It is further stated that the Japanese losses are not a prohibitive price to pay for the conquest of all of the Netherlands East Indies , Malaya , a large part of Burma , most of the Philippines , and much of New Guinea . Nevertheless , the numerous sinkings and damagings of Japanese destroyers and cruisers already have made it markedly more difficult for Japan to raid American supply lines In the Pacific , it is said . 