@@704683

txt The New Deal 's " easy money " policy met with extreme but unsuccessful objections from the advisory council to the Federal Reserve Board on several occasions last year . This was revealed last night with publication of the annual report of the board of governors of the Reserve System . including recommendations made during the year by the federal advisory council . The council 's position was brought to light at a time when the Roosevelt Administration is seeking a further extension of cheap money policy by supporting a bill in Congress designed to lower interest rates on farm credit . The council , made up of private bankers , first recommended in February , 1939 , that the Reserve Board study the effect of a federal " easy money " policy on the accumulation and investment of savings and on the financial structure of the country " with especial references to its effects upon the maintenance of a sound banking system . " Turned Down in March This recommendation was turned down . in effect , in a letter from the assistant secretary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion was expressed in this communication that a special study would not add to the knowledge already possessed by the board plus that being acquired regularly through its own studies and those of other official agencies . Consequently , the advisory council in June made another recommendation in which it gave formal expression to its view of what the council believes to be the " dangerous condition toward which the country appears to be moving " Pointing out that the so-called easy money policy has been followed since 1929 upon the theory that it would stimulate business , cause business to borrow and impel banks to lend . the council stated that while neither result had been attained the policy " has done and is doing undemniable economic injury to the whole savings class of the American people . " Sees Weakening Effects Through its failure to bring to the banks " normal " rates on their loans and investments , the recommendation stated , an easy money policy tends to weaken the capital position of banks and to ' ' encourage an essentially unhealthly position of the bond portfolios of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at progressively lower interest rates . " The council also asserted that by lessening the current cost of government financing , the easy money policy has the tendency of making the public and Congress indifferent to the steadily mounting public debt and " is tending to create illusions " as to the eventual cost of carrying the government 's debt . It is the belief of the council , as expressed in its recommendation to the reserve system . that " the time has come to face squarely the ' fact that the entire banking system is confronted with a distinct menace to the soundness of its capital structure through the continuation of an abnormally ' easy money ' policy A prolongation of this situation threatens the existence of private banking and with it the whole system of private enterprise " The council concluded with the request that the board , " as one of the greatest single service. ; which it can render to the country as a whole , ' bring about a modification of the policy of " extreme easy money . " These views were reaffirmed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system 's active participation in the government bond market in the weeks immediately following the outbreak of war in Europe . The opinion was expressed at that time that while the council had acted in a ' grave emergency , " the market price of government securities should be allowed to find its " natural level " free of official support " as rapidly as possible consistent with an orderly market . " Although the Reserve System holstered the bond market by purchasing $473,000,000 worth of government securities between August 2S and September 25 , the system 's portfolio at the end of December was $80,000 000 smaller than a year earlier .                     