@@705739

txt Gov : Dwight Green today vetoed the bill to legalize handbooks or parlors where bets might be made on horse races . His action followed an opinion by Attorney General George F. Barrett that the bill , as drafted , was unconsti ? tutional . Gov , Green 's veto message indicated he would have vetoed the bill , even had it been in constitutional form . His objections to it were on moral grounds . Discussing the enforcement of pres. ent laws against gambling , he called attention to two kinds of enforcement  --  one kind just before election . the other after election . He said he is not convinced'that gambling laws can not be enforced . Power Vested in Cities . Approval of the bill by the governor would have enabled the city of Chicago , as well as other cities and villages in the state , to pass ordinances licensing handbooks . The Kelly-Nash Democratic organization of Chicago was known to favor the bill because of the power it would have put in the mayor 's hands . It did not purport to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cards , roulette wheels or other devices . It covered only race betting away from race tracks . The bill was supported in both houses of the legislature by Republicans as well as Democrats , but the Kelly-Nash delegation voted for it almost to a man . It emerged from the session on the last day , June 30 , a conference between the two houses having been necessary because of minor changes made in the senate after its passage in the house . The bill was introduced by Representative Emmett of Brookfield Cook county , a Democrat . It provided for a Cook county licensing commission and a downstate licensing commission , to act as appeal boards from the local authority which would have issued licenses to operate horse race betting parlors . Text of Veto Message . After summarizing the bill and its purposes the governor 's veto message said : " The first obvious objection to the bill is that it prescribes no qualifications for those seeking a license . Presumably , any person who desires to operate a gambling place could obtain a license , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or be notoriously disreputable . It is well known that there is a tens dency for a hoodlum element to g , ravitate to gambling places . For that reason it would seem that at least there should be some prerequisite of good character and reputation to the issuance of a license . " This bill has been highly controversial . During many months of discussion involving it , I have kept my mind open and unbiased . I have listened patiently to the arguments for and against this legislative proposal . Three Arguments Answered . " Three principal arguments seem to be advanced in its favor . The first is that because of the desire in human nature to gamble it can not be suppressed and therefore should be legalized and licensed . Second , that those who have the time and money to attend race tracks have the opportunity to bet , while those not so fortunately circumstanced are deprived of an equal opportunity and should be given it by the institution of legalized gambling places . Third , that since gambling flourishes illegally for the profit of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the profits obtained by the state and city . These arguments strike me as being of doubtful validity . It is true that the love of risk-taking is pres. ent in a greater or less degree in all human beings ; but it is a characteristic that must be held in check rather than encouraged . If it were to be developed , it certainly should // Governor Green , not be under the auspices of gambling houses . " I am not convinced that gambling houses cannot. he suppressed . We have seen I hat before elections , when illy or county administrations/in our metropolitan centers are striving to create a good impression upon the public . there seems to be no difficulty in closing places of gambling .. It also has been rumored , that in the Metropolitan district , those who are politically unacceptable to the officers in power are successfully suppressed , while the supposed impossible of suppression is only ' in reference to those who are politically friendly . Barrier to Gambling . " If gambling houses can be closed before elections there would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made if a conscientious effort were instituted by law enforcing officers and agencies in our metropolitan area . Before we surrender it may be necessary to try tile experiments of electing public officials who are honestly interested In suppressing gambling . That would at least be worth trying before giving up In ' defeat . " The second argument seems likewise untenable . The placing of bets ' is made more difficult by the requirement that they be made only at a lace meeting . If wholesale gambling were a benefit to the community there would be no doubt that opportunities for betting should be increased , but the contrary is true . " Tho IliIrd argument . is Hurt since the operation of gamblIng.houses appears to be difficult to . suppress , the state should acquiesce and participate in the profits , Ages of Legal Background . " This argument is really one for imposing new and additional taxes ' . upon the people . Whether money is gotten for the state or city directly by taxation or thru taking part of the profits on gambling , the result to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the money comes from the pockets of the taxpayers . This plan would amount to collecting greater taxes In the dishonest guise of a privilege license . " The arguments for this bill seem to me to be without sound foundation . This bill proposes-a novel experiment-In law making . For many centuries the common law , upon which our legal system and constitution is founded , has condemned gainii ? ' bling and gambling contracts as legal . The constitution of 1870 expressly prohibits the general assentbly from authorizing lotteries or gift enterprises for any purpose . Those rules of the common law and the constitution have been developed out of centuries of experience of intelligent people  --  an experience which has shown that widespread gambling devastates the character and enterprise of individuals and communities . " No normal parents would train their children in gambling rather than in the arts of hard work and thrift . This bill asks the state to do in the community what no parent would think of doing in his own home . " Years of observation have taught us that gambling leads to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult for him who Indulges in it . Gambling often has resulted in poverty , in broken families and in theft and embezzlement . I do not desire to be a party to increasing that train of disastrous consequences . " I ant convinced that the large majority of people in our state are not yet ready to reverse the basic principle of law and conduct which has been developed thru centuries . They are not prepared to admit that the state is beaten and can not enforce its laws . " In addition to the foregoing , the attorney general has held this bill to be in violation of the constitution . " For the reasons stated try me above , and for the further reasons stated by the attorney general In his opinion , copy of which is transmitted herewith , I veto and withhold my approval from house bill No. 372. "                     