@@708574

txt The torch that was iit in Berlin haE come back to the city of its origin . The great conflagration which it spread across more than two thousand miles of Europe , and finally to the whole world , is now sweeping through the capital from which it started . And the ragged remnants of the once proud armies that marched out of it to strut through many lands , to murder , rape and loot , are now being buried under the falling walls of their own doomed capital . The Day of Judgment has come , indeed , and it has come with a blood-red dawn not only for Berlin but for Hitler 's whole " thousand-year Reich . " And not the least bitter part of it for the Nazis is the fact that on this day they stand condemned by the very tenets by which they lived and fought . It was they who most loudly appealed to naked force on the theory that history justified all deeds by their success ; yet in the final test it is they who , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that are not only far greater than theirs but have also sprung from faiths not dreamed of in their ideology . Flaming Berlin , through whose rubble-strewn streets now swirls what is perhaps the bitterest and bloodiest battle of this war , is the symbol of history 's judgment on Hitler and his works . But symbolic of the forces that brought this judgment day to pass is another event that has either taken place or is about to take place  --  the junction between the American and Russian armies somewhere south of Berlin , which will finally cut Hitler 's Reich in two . It is these two mighty forces , sprung from different ways of life and originally separated by many thousands of miles , but united with all the United Nations in the common determination to resist aggression , that have turned the balance against Hitler and thus insured his defeat . And the historic importance of this event ? as symbolic for the war as for the future peace ? is shown by the Allied decision to announce it , not as a mere routine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governments of the Big Three Powers . In point of fact , Berlin , however important as a symbol , no longer possesses the same military importance it once had . Already blasted into ruins from the air , it has ceased to be the center of the Nazi Government ; and it has likewise ceased to be the transportation hub of Germany 's two fronts because these fronts no longer exist . The penetrations of both the Russian and American armies in the LeipzigDresden area have already cut it off from Hitler 's southern " Redoubt , " and its main function is now to serve as a front-line fortress for the new front which the Germans are trying to develop in the north . As such , it will have to be taken before further progress can be made , and though its fall will by no means end the war , it will be a long step in that direction . As usual , the Nazis announce a fight to the death , and Goebbels , who besides being Reich Propaganda Minister is also the Gauleiter of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every man , woman and child fight the Russians to a standstill " at any price " or suffer instant death . There appears to be no doubt that the Nazis have thrown into the battle all their available military reserves and all they could impress into their service , including the fanaticized Hitler Youth . But it remains to be seen whether the population of Berlin will fight with greater determination in the face of evident defeat than did those of other German cities . Within one week after launch ing their great offensive against Ber lin the Russians have not only over run the elaborate outer defense work of the German capital but have already nearly surrounded it , and have pene trated into its suburbs to its heart a Unter den Linden and the Wilhelm strasse . At that rate , the fall of Berth would appear to be near at hand .                     