@@706057

txt The average motorist may have to accept some sort of gasoline rationing during 1942 . It may not come , however , until late in that year . Meanwhile , there is a distinct possibility that sometime earlier he may have to be content with gasoline of a lower quality than he is now usine . These conditions are predicated on " things to come " in the form of a sharply expanding defense ( Victory ) program in this country and the non-availability of certain compounds to bring gasoline to its present high grade . The Victory program envisions the use of an almost fantastic number of mechanized units  --  airplanes , tanks , trucks and cars  --  which will require a larger quantity of gasoline than heretofore consumed . This is aside from expanding requirements of other oil products . Today 's mechanized army in the United States is still in its infancy , according to this program . There has not yet developed any extraordinary demand on the oil industry comparable to what will be forthcoming from the Victory program . Military Oil Requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on how actively the equipment is used . On a shooting war basis it is expected that from 200 to 250 million barrels of all kinds of oil products will be consumed per year by the military . This figure naturally is little more than an informed guess . But it is a figure which forms the basis of oil industry estimates . As a comparison , however , it is interesting to observe that early this year testimony before the House military affairs committee  --  before the proposed Victory program was incubated ? was to the effect that maximum war effort would see the Army and Navy using 10% of total U. S. petroleum production , or about 140 million barrels a year . As to aviation fuel , alone , it was anticipated by an Army spokesman early in 1941 , that the Army-Navy needs- would be about 1 million gallons daily , or 9 million barrels a year of 100-octane quality . Now , the aviation program is to be more than doubled from what it then was . Hence , it will be necessary to achieve far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviation gasoline is in the neighborhood of 40,000 barrels daily . The prograffi anticipates that by January , 1943 , this will be stepped up to 120.000 barrels a day . A substantial part of the expanded production is to be developed for supplying the needs of Great Britain and Russia . To some in the industry it is doubtful if the 120.000-barrel goal will be adequate to meet all demands ? U. S. , Great Britain , China and Russia ? if active warfare is undertaken . Refinery Expansion Expansion of refinery capacity to produce this fuel , moreover , presents something of a. hazard for private capital since there is no assurance of a return of the investment in a reasonable time . To compensate for this hazard , the government has committed itself to threeyear contracts for aviation fuel and , in addition , is willing to undertake financing . Anticipating further increases in demand for oil products in 1942 , the Bureau of Mines , a few days ago , stressed the necessity of maintaining the present high rate of refinery operations during winter months , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is probably at capacity in the latter area Increased aviation fuel capacity is also likely to have a definite bearing on the economy of the industry after the emergency . The trend to even higher octane gaaohnes for automobile use will be hastened  --  but those companies which are producing the aviation grade of gasoline will have the edge on its production and sale . It is likely that this higher octane aviation gasoline will be blended with lower grades to make the better quality fuel . When the gasoline that is ? required to transport defense workers in their cars to and from their homes to plants is added to that actually needed by the military and affiliated foreign governments , the total probably will be materially higher . That defense workers depend principally on automobiles to carry them to their work was shown in a survey , recently completed . It revealed that at least 55% use their cars , most of them because they are fairly distant from the plants . These workers , in order to keep defense production rolling , will be gives priority on gasoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the quality , of gasoline , perhaps will precede actual rationing . Just a few days ago the Ethyl Gasoline Corp. , which controls the production of tetraethyl lead , a compound used to lift the octane. or anti-knock , rating of gasoline was forced to place its product on an allocations basis to .... refinery customers . Such allocations for the next year to November 15 , 1942. will be made on actual takings by customers in the preceding twelve Months . While Ethyl Gasoline expects to fill 100% of last year 's volume that expectation is based on the availability of raw materials needed in the manufacture of tetra-ethyl lead . Its manufacturing capacity is in excess of present output but prohibitions on raw materials have prevented a stepping-up in production . Of necessity , priority in fulfilment of orders for tetra-ethyl lead will be given to the military especially for aviation gasoline , and to foreign governments engaged in war against the Axis powers . What remains will be doled out to domestic refiners . With zio increase in production of tetra-ethyl lead , and taking into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by both the U. S. and affiliated foreign nations , it seems axiomatic that the average motorist may get a lower quality of glsoline In the not distant future . Should the tempo of war be accelerated by Great Britain . and other foreign nations , it is not unlikely that increasing demands will be made on the U. S. for oil supplies . Moreover , if the Germans are successful in cutting off Russia 's rich oil fields in the Caucasus it may be necessary , if Russia continues to wage war , to furnish practically all the Soviet 's oil needs . Hard Put to Meet Added Demands These are conditions which may face the American oil industry in 1942 . The industry is geared for all-out aid to the United States and Great Britain . but it will be put to pressure to fulfill additional demands that might materialize . Little aid can be expected from South America . Venezuela , the third largest oil producing nation in the world , is already at a peak and so is Colombia . Moreover , these nations have inconsequential refining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large refining centers , are practically at capacity . The Near East may help somewhat in alleviating the pressure on the U. S. for oil supplies . but if trouble develops in that sector of the globe this aid can be ruled out . Other factors to restrictions include the limitations of refining facilities in the United States . Today the American industry is at about 93% of capacity and to bring into play any additional equipment will mean the utilization of some obsolete , or high cost , facilities . Refineries can not be built over-night and there are priorities on materials required in their construction .                     