@@705547

txt During the larger part of the past week public interest concentrated on price controls , priority regulation , government financing and tax measures ? that is , on questions of broad economic policy . Labor relations passed into the background , perhaps temporarily . On Friday the President focussed attention on the practical question of expanding production of defense goods through more intensive use of existing plant facilities . in which direction there is admittedly much room for improvement . While no little confusion prevails in the application of hastily devised measures of government regulation of industry . it is probably a safe generalization that regulators and regulatees are gaining in will to cooperate toward the common end . A favorable beginning was made on the defense bond subscription campaign , but of course its success depends on a sustained rate of purchase throughout the defense armament period . This is true respecting both its usefulness to the Treasury and its effectiveness as an economic balance wheel in transferring purchasing power from private to government hands . It will presumably take a good many months to determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendencies . Meanwhile Congress will have enacted the tax program for 1942. probably in a form not differing widely from the pretty drastic proposals of the Treasury Department . Later on , the question is likely to arise whether defense bonds must be offered on more attractive terms to avoid the inflationary disposition of them to the banks . ? ? ? Something like a joint debate has opened on the expediency of reducing federal nondefense expenditures as an alternative to extreme taxation or enlarged deficit financing . The Speaker of the House and the chairman of its ways and means committee last week asked in mild tones for Administration leadership toward economy . The President 's letter of May 1 to Chairman Boughton discussed general principles of taxation without mention of expenditures . During the week appeared declarations from the Chamber of Commerce of the United States and the economic commission of the American Bankers Association emphaalring the necessity of substantial " reductions in non-defense-'Items . But Chairman Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board does n't want to see agricultural benefits or social efforts reduced . ? ? ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country is now on the way to inflation . They asserted that production could not be increased sufficiently to prevent it , that arbitrary price controls were necessary but not enough , that taxes must be raised greatly , that non-defense public spending must be reduced and that buying of government bonds by individuals must by all means be encouraged . Still more  --  the monetary instruments of credit control and price repression which Chairman Eccles and his colleagues unanimously recommended in January must be prepared for action . Mr. Eccles still wants these , but says they are now secondary in importance to heavy income and corporation taxation , plus excise taxes specifically directed to curtail the production of selected non-essentials . The primary aim of taxation , he says , now should be not revenue but maintenance of stability in the national economy . Which sounds almost as though he would have the Federal Reserve System abdicate the function for which it was created . ? ? By several steps the present systems of persuashe control over priority of orders tend admonitory price regulation were extended and brought nearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these subjects are frequent . It is almost a foregone conclusion that both phases of regulation will soon be brought under statutory authority ; they doubtless would hal , e been before this were it not for the obvious difficulty of taking control of prices without exercising at least some influence on the wage movement , and of administering compulsory priorities while government requirements of the various materials and products vi ere practically impossible to calculate . ? ? ? Out of this unavoidable confusion a settled program can only be slowly evolved . The difficulties attending the process are well illustrated by the position of the railroads After having believed until very recently that they were sufficiently equipped with rolling stock for the defense emergency they find themselves called upon to take over an unexpected volume of tonnage heretofore moving in coastwise vessels now to be assigned to British supply service , to move quantities of grain from interior storage to seaboard elevators before the winter wheat harvest begins and at once to replenish coal stocks depleted during the recent strike  --  these tasks being added to that of handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must obtain thousands of new cars . ? ? ? At the close of the week it appeared likely that steel production might recover from the effects of the coal strike more rapidly than the trade has been expecting . It is noteworthy that in the week to April 16 total railroad carloadings increased 12% over those of a year ago , despite a 66% shrinkage in coal movement . A rise in estimated automobile production to 130,000 , against 108,000 the week before and 99,000 a year ago reflects the producers ' and the public 's effort to satisfy new car demand in advance of the output reduction announced to begin in August . Much the most conspicuous feature of the business scene was the strength of numerous commodities markets , a number of which made " new highs " for the season , including some not affected by any possibility of actual shortage .                     