@@706806

txt Only two years have passed since the battle of Britain was raging , but already the exploits of the United States Flying Fortresses and Britain 's Lancasters have called into question the lessons it taught . Chief among these was the tenet that daylight bombing in the face of strong fighter defenses was an extravagant expenditure of men and machines compared with the damage the bombers could do . Now the experts are wondering whether , with new and more heavily armored precision bombers this is still true . Air warfare has moved ahead Considerably since the Royal Air Force was shooting down Nazi planes by the score in Kent ; as the R. A. F. 's heavy raid by Lancasters on the ? Le - Creusot arms plant amply demonstrated . Those big bombers flying in daylight and unescorted by fighters went on and bombed their target , spread over nearly 300 acres , and returned with the loss of only one machine . But the British are not so foolish as to assume that the peak of precision and perfection has been reached by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry out Reich Marshal Hermann Goering 's threats of terrible reprisals for raids on German cities , will follow either its old pattern of attack or the pew ones devised by Air Marshal Sir Arthur T. Harris . When the war in Western Europe reaches the stage of a final slugging match between the opposing air forces preliminary to invasion by one side or the other , it is remarked by experts here as quite likely that the Nazis will adopt tactics new to either side . That was the meaning of a message of Prime Minister Winston Churchill that was read by Herbertliforrison , Minister of Home Security , today before a huge crowd attending a Civil Defense display at Wembley . " Undoubtedly , " this message said , " the Allies are overtaking the Germans in air power , but none of us must rest upon his laurels or remain unthinkingly content with ' the methods of 1940-41 . We can ' not know with any certainty the total weight of the attack that the Germans may be able , or may decide , to bring to bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 and menacing enough to call for everything the civil defense can produce to defeat it . It is our duty to be prepared every day and at all points . This is the assumption Which the national interest demands we make . " Mr. Morrison , addressing the crowd , declared that he was following the precepts laid down by the Prime Minister . He added : " We must keep our minds open and be ready to learn and grow . But we must also avoid being stampeded by any panicky theorizing into needless tactical gambles . It may be said that we can not count on a German air attack taking the form it took in 1940-41 , I agree . But neither can we count upon it taking the form the R. A. F. has taken in the Ruhr and Rhineland . The Germans may lack the power or their ideas of how to use it may differ from ours , but our defenses may compel them toll abandon what they would like to I do and do only what they can . We must keep our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything that may come . " Twenty thousand men , women and children who attended the demonstration saw a mock divebombing attack by planes on a miniature village on the Stadium terrace during a battle between Home Guards and invading parachutists : More than 1,000 real explosive incendiaries were ignited during the bombardment , under cover of which parachute troops landed and occupied the village . The Home Guards went into action against them with the newest weapons and finally wound up the manoeuvres with a bayonet charge after tommy-gun fire and grenades were exchanged . While the battle was going on Civil Defense forces put out incendiaries and cared for casualties . Six thousand Civil Defense workers  --  women as well as men  --  from thirty-one local authorities in Middlesex took part in the demonstration .                     