@@705376

txt Japan wants no war with the United States , Kichisaburo Nomura , new Japanese ambassador to this country , declared today . He said it is his firm conviction , based on the attitude of the Japanese people , that there should not and will never be any hostilities between the two nations . The envoy 's remarks were regarded by many as surprisingly optimistic in view of the Roosevelt administration 's attitude on the far eastern situation and the growing tension as reflected in recent warnings for Americans to depart . Faces 100 Reporters . The occasion for uttering them was the ambassador 's first formal press conference since his arrival . An admiral in the navy and former naval attach6. here , Nomura smilingly answered questions for more than 100 reporters , with tile aid of an interpreter . Asked to comment on the remark of Undersecretary of State Sumner Welles that this country la more interested in the deeds of other courttries than in tile words of their spokesmen , Nomura paused a moment then said : " Well , that may be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promises of our words . " Ho then cited in support of this reply the negotiations now going on between his government and Thailand for the establishment of Japanese air and sea bases and the negotiations with the Dutch colonial government regarding the purchase of goods needed by Japan . Sees Rights Protected . ' The envoy was also asked whether it will ever be possible to reconcile tile United States nolicv of commercial equality with the " new order " in the far cast as proposed by Japan . He replied : " I believe after victory and peace in China and the restoration of normal conditions in that country , that the rights and interests of America can be protected there . " " Do you mean that full commercial equality would be the law in China for a third power after Japan establishes itself there ? " he was pressed . " I do , " he replied gravely . What Is the Japanese attitude toward proposals to fortify Guam and Samoa as American sea and air bases ? he was asked . The reporter recalled that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects . " Of ' course , from Japan 's side , we do n't like to see bases established so near our territories and waters , " the ambassador stated . " But we recognize that as far as we are concerned these islands ale American possessions and we have no right to Interfere . " Singapore of No Concern . Does the British mining of the waters around Singapore constitute a threat to relations between Great Britain and Japan ? was another question . Nomura answered that what the British do with Singapore does not concern his government . " Would not the three way axis treaty requires Japan to go to war with the United States if the United States should be drawn into war with Germany ? " Nomura was asked . The reply was that such a premise is merely one interpretation of the treaty and that there could be no answer . As reporters pressed with further questions on the GermanyItaly-Japan alliance , the envoy continued : " When Japan entered into that agreement , its intention was to preserve peace on the Pacific ocean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not envision war with America . They do not want war ; rather , they want to avoid it . The Japanese believed that the signing of the three power pact would prevent the spread of the European conflict to Asia . "                     