@@707159

txt Mayor La Guardia assured New Yorkers yesterday that the reduction in bus service made necessary by the gasoline crisis would not be enforced according to any arbitrary formula from Washington but would be worked out locally to meet " actual needs . " The Mayor , who made his announcement after he had talked by telephone to Joseph B. Eastman , director of the Office of Defense Transportation in Washington , warned , however , that the reduction in bus service here would be drastic . He said ways would be found to cut the service here , but added that he believed the pleasuredriving ban and the restrictions on motor transport should be extended to other parts of the country . " I admit it the gasoline shortage in the East is a transportation problem , " the Mayor said . " It 's a situation created by the war , and all such restrictions should be on a national basis . " It was understood at the ODT district office here that the program to be worked out by the city would cut existing bus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring them to about twothirds of normal , as a 15 per cent reduction has been in effect since last October . Preliminary discussions have been held among James J. Sheehy , assistant chief police inspector , who is State Administrator of War Transportation ; P. N. Simmons , ODT regional director of local transport ; Henry C. Wall , ODT district manager , and other city and Federal officials . . Milk companies , the milk driver unions and the taxicab operators and workers struggled with the problems created by the 40 per cent mileage reduction order , but without reaching solutions . Meinhers of the Milk Dealers Association of Metropolitan New York , after an all-day session , announced last night that " every effort " would be made to observe the skipa-day delivery plan which ODT had ordered effective last midnight . Under the order , which requires that retail deliveries of milk be made only every other day , the milk companies made their deliveries last night or early today , but a spokesman said : " Some doors will not have the bottle of milk outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The effect of the delivery reduction order on labor relations in the milk /distribution industry , already somewhat shaky , was unclarified and unpromising after the day 's developments . The milk drivers are opposed to any lay-offs resulting from the delivery cuts without some satisfactory provision being made . Spokesmen for the milk companies and the milk driver locals of the Brotherhood of Teamsters , A. F. L. , were to have met during the morning with Ralph Seward , impartial chairman of the milk industry . The union spokesmen did not appear and said later they had not received the telegrams asking them to the conference until after the time set for the meeting had passed . Mr. Seward said last night that he would keep in touch with both sides . Edward 0 . Mather , executive director of the milk dealers ' association , said he was hopeful that a meeting with the union men could be held today . Union officials were in conference all day , but refused to make any statement . In the absence of any discussion with the drivers ' spokesmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivery reduction order . The taxicab industry will have to take the full 40 per cent mileage cut  --  at the beginning , anyway ? members of the ODT taxicab advisory committee were told yesterday by Clewell Sykes , chief of the ODT taxicab section , who came here from Washington to discuss the New York situation . The advisory committee , headed by Hugo Werber , chairman of the United Taxicab Council , met with Mr. Sykes and Henry C. Wall , New York City district manager of the ODT motor transport division , at 220 East Forty-second Street . Mr. Sykes said the full 40 per cent cut would hold for the taxicab men until further determination was made by the ODT in Washington . The meeting discussed the type of formula that might be used in working out an appeal for sup- , plemental rations , if they should ' be granted later . The committee , which represents owner-driver and fleet operator groups , was to meet again in a few days to prepare recommendations to be sent to Mr. ' Sykes in Washington . Several other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order became effctive . An official of Unitd Parcel Service Inc. , which operates , 600 trucks for 375 clients , includ-1 ing virtually every department store except Macy 's , said that " we are working out schedules as best we can . " He added that confer-1 ences would be sought with CDT ' officials to obtain greater clarifi-1 cation of the order . Trucking Industry Reaction William J. Clark , ODT regional director of motor transport , said copies of the ODT order had been , distributed through motor truck 1 , associations , chambers of com- ' merce and other bodies to the affected industries . He remarked that the reaction from the trucking industry indicated that the gravity of the gasoline situation was understood and every effort would be made to comply with the order . " Possibly we may have to get an interpretation on just what is an antique ' or a novelty , " he said , referring to the ban on deliveries in those categories . " But these are minor matters and the general terms of the circler are clearcut . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purport . " Mr. Clark added that he understood that bus operators throughout the region had filed plans for curtailments up to 30 per cent , and indicated an additional 10 per cent cut might be effected . In New York City , the average 20 per cent cut for city buses will be increased wherever possible , it was said . Mayor La Guardia , announcing ODT 's agreement to let the city work out its own program , said : " I talked with Mr. Eastman and was very happy to learn , and relieved quite a bit , that the reduction of service will not be ordered arbitrarily . The reduction will be on a reduced amount of fuel and we will adjust our service to actual needs to the best advantage of the public . " I had feared it would be on a theoretical basis and that they would say that the subways could absorb the bus traffic on bus lines paralelling the subway routes . It would be impossible for the subways to absorb bus traffic during lunch hour particularly in Queens . There will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves . It will be much easier if the adjustment is made locally . " Urging a nation-wide spread of the war-time restrictions , the Mayor declared that New York City produced 68 per cent of the nation 's clothing , but that New Yorkers did not wear 68 per cent of the clothes produced in the country .                     