@@706424

txt Warning the German people tonight that a combined British-American bombing offensive of growing intensity is about to be opened against them , Prime Minister Winston Churchill sent chills and shivers chasing up and down the spines of his listeners by leaving it to Adolf Hitler to choose whether the horror of gas warfare is to be added to the miseries of Europe 's suffering millions . This grim , unexpected reminder that the belligerent powers have even more murderous weapons in their arsenals to be unloosed at the moment when one breaks the humanitarian Geneva protocol of 1929 came as a complete surprise to most listeners , who in these islands have fallen into the habit of leaving gas masks home gathering dust , What they had expected was a conventional Churchillian review of the war , occasioned by the second anniversary of his Premiership . He gave them that  --  dwelling on the strength of Britain 's new allies , Russia , the United States and China , and advising them to be " of good cheer "  --  but he added an ominous note of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every one 's mind since the war began may still have to be faced . Soviet Fears Gas Attacks The Soviet government , he said , had expressed the view that the Germans in the " desperation of their assault " may " make use of poison gas .. gainst the armies and people of Russia . " The Prime Minister went on to assert that " knowing our Hun , " the British Government , while " firmly resolved not to use this odiou- weapon unless it is used first by the Germans , " had not neglected preparations " on a formidable scale . " " I wish now to make it plain , " he continued , " that we shall treat the unprovoked use of poison gas against our Russian ally exactly as if it were used against ourselves , and if we are satisfied that this new outrage has been committed by Hitler we will use our great and growing air superiority in the west to carry gas warfare on the largest possible scale far and wide against military objectives in Germany . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add this additional horror to aerial warfare . " We have for some time past been bringing our defensive precautionary arrangements up to date and I now give public warning so that there may be no carelessness or neglect . Of one thing I am sure : that the British people who have entered into the full comradeship of war with our Russian ally wile not shrink from any sacrifice or trial which that comradeship may require . " Mr. Churchill 's words took on extraordinary significance in view of the charge of the Russian Tass agency that the Germans were using gas mines in Crimea and in view of his inclusion of Russia 's armies as well as the people in his warning and because he promised swift retaliation " if we are satisfied that this new outrage has been committed by Hitler . " The Prime Minister 's unexpected reference to the possibility that poison gas attacks may supplant civilian bombing among the horrors of this war was the outstanding feature of his speech , but his reference to the imminence of American participation in the air offensive against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For some days there have been hints that United States air forces soon would be joining the Royal Air Force 's attempt to smash Nazi war industries , but this was the first real official confirmation of a fact that will one day burst with devastating force upon Hitler 's Reich . The extent of the American preparations to carry the war to Germany on a scale never reached by the Luftwaffe 's attacks on Britain in the Autumn of 1940 has been a closely guarded secret . The details still are , but Mr. Churchill 's speech , declaring that the British " and presently the American bombing offensive against Germany will be one of the principal features in this year 's World War " Is something that might well be pondered soberly by Nazi leaders , who might also remember the British gift for understatement . Indicates New Front Is Unlikely In yet another sense this part of the Prime Minister 's speech was intensely interesting because it will be read in connection with his subsequent remarks about the agitation for opening a western front in Europe . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this year 's warfare in the west , it can be deduced that the chances of an invasion , which Mr. Churchill said was so healthily desired , are rather small . This may prove small comfort to the German people , who were informed by Mr. Churchill that they had lost more men on the Russian front than the 2,036,893 who died as a result of injuries or were killed in action during the four and a half years of the last war . Herr Hitler , Mr. Churchill declared , had committed two fatal blunders , the first in attacking Russia and the second in overlooking the rigors of the Russian Winter , known to every schoolboy . To those followers of Herr Hitler who are facing air attacks on a scale never known before , Mr. Churchill gave words of advice which , if followed , would destroy the Nazi war machine and hasten the liberation of Europe . It was to abandon the centers where munitions works are being carried on and go to the fields and " watch their home fires burning . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " meditation and repentance " for the crimes they have committed at Herr Hitler 's bidding and remember that " the tyrant 's overthrow is the first step " out of their own and the world 's troubles .                     