@@705456

txt But Delay Has Made Task Difficult ? Nazis in Position to Strike Sy C. L. SlIEFLZESEUGMIEC By Telephone to Tas hi-sty YORK Tmane . ATHENS , March 22 ? A Spring pregnant with uncertainty and prescient with disaster descended this week upon the Balkans . From the Carpathians to the Sea of Marmara armies mobilized and manoeuvred . The winds of propaganda blew strongly from Russia , from Germany and from Britain 's Mediterranean sphere . Attitudes were not yet crystallized . Facts had not yet clearly emerged . It was evident only that this peninsula promised well to become the chief scene of active warfare in 1941 . To realize how well the stage has been prepared for such disagreeable events , it is wise to make a comparison with the Balkans of a year ago , when every one was congratulating this traditionally turbulent area on its skillfulness in avoiding the martial vortex . Poland was still the only land overrun by Germany , and Italy was at peace and in a state of at least relative prosperity . France boasted the greatest army in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mutual indecision . Russia was winding up her costly but successful excursion into Finland . Balkan Entente Spoke The Balkan Entente had recently met in Belgrade to emphasize its determination to safeguard the neutrality of its members , but it was clear where the sympathies of this French-inspired grouping lay . Francophile Grigore Gafencu of Rumania relinquished the presidency of the Entente Council to the Turkish Foreign Minister , Shukru Saracoglu , representing an Allied power . Only Greece and Yugoslavia appeared to be demonstrating true symptoms of neutrality , and not only were the inhabitants of both these countries overwhelmingly proAllied , but Premier John Metaxas of Greece , whose attitude had until then worried some British and French observers , surprised every one by the firmness of his views . The collapse of France precipitated the collapse of the Southeastern European structure built by France  --  a structure whose foundations had already been seriously undermined by French hesitation . As France fell , Italy entered the war , immediately establishing a threat on the western periphery of the Balkan peninsula . Russia grabbed Bessarabia while Germany was tied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elimination of Syria , all prospects of quick and efficacious military aid disappeared and Germany was easily able to bring down by termite tactics the rotten edifice of Rumania . This broke up the Balkan Entente , the last existing alliance of " .. ie Versailles Europe . " At the moment when Premier Mussolini made the cardinal mistake of attacking Greece , thus putting an end to the bewildering German tactics of quiet infiltration and peaceful absorption of the Balkans , the situation underwent certain astonishing fundamental changes . Greece 's brave and unexpectedly successful resistance fatally damaged Italy 's prestige and had its reflections on the entire Axis position . Britain 's conquests in Africa strengthened the discouraged pro-democratic sympathies of the lands bordering the Mediterranean sphere , and especially in Yugoslavia a resurgence of spirit was marked . Germany has sought to counteract these effects by her long-expected occupation of Bulgkria , which neither the dilatory tactics of King Boris nor the efforts of British and United States diplomacy were able to forestall . German diplomacy was able to weaken somewhat Turkey 's ties to Britain ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time to discourage secret Yugoslav-Turkish talks . Britain has , however , for the first time taken a certain initiative in the diplomatic warfare in this region , which had for so long been going Germany 's way . British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's Near East trip has already had important results , and it is clear that his negotiations have not yet terminated . Censored passage . Eden 's Objectives He die his best on an official visit to Turkey , accompanied by General Sir John Dill , chief of the British Imperial General Staff , to stiffen the sagging attitude of Ankara . He returned to Athens on another official trip with General Dill and the results of this are already obvious in the form of vastly increasing British aid . He conferred quietly with Ronald Ian Campbell , the British Minister to Yugoslavia , who was able to return to Belgrade with certain specific propositions , counterbalancing Germany 's mixed offering of threats and blandishments . As a result , Yugoslavia has been encouraged to mobilize and not only to reaffirm her determination to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urgent insistence on a sort of halfhearted friendship pact . With this situation prevailing , Mr. Eden is obviously seeking to follow up these partial successes , for their full effects have been limited by their tardiness . His conference at Cyprus this week with Mr. Saracoglu was clearly designed to encourage Turkey to avoid an elastic interpretation of her alliance . If Mr. Eden can win over either Yugoslavia or Turkey to a definite and active stand it is probable he will also win over the others , and may be able to cement a new Balkan bloc of Greece , Turkey and Yugoslavia , closely bound to Britain and implementing in a practical fashion the somewhat shaky bilateral accords now link1 ing most of these nations . Army Versus Fleet It is an extremely difficult task and far from certain to succeed . German diplomacy is backed up by the immediate presence of the German Army , which , to Yugoslavia in particular , appears more impressive than the British Fleet . All these lands have come to distrust Russia , so not too much credence is placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , if Mr. Eden is successful he might achieve for Britain a solid Balkan front , which in the end could prove the undoing of the Reich , or he could forestall the anticipated Nazi invasion when Herr Hitler 's generals realize that they will be up against a strong bloc of armies . backed by the British Fleet and American factories . It is still too early to foresee with any accuracy what this Spring will bring , and it still appears far likelier that a German attack is imminent than that British diplomacy will be able either to forestall it or anticipate it with a similar military move .                     