@@707513

txt Printing presses on wheels now move into the front lines along with the Army . These mobile units are small , compact . lightweight shops . completely equipped to turn out maps and charts for troops , showing them just where they are and where their objectives lie in the country ahead . The units also print propaganda leaflets to be dropped by airforce pilots behind enemy lines . A number of trucks and trailers , operating as a unit , make up these traveling shops . or " trains " as they are called . Some trailers are air conditioned to make sure equipment will work properly . A developing tank with a temperature control device is included and an electric refrigerator goes along to preserve perishable materials . Each train has its own power generators and filtration equipment to supply plenty of pure water and each unit carries fire fighting equipment . Vehicles are connected by an inter-unit telephone system . The trains can be completely camouflaged on short notice , materials for this purpose are standard equipment . The most complete trains . supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outfits . These carry four presses . machines and accessories for making layouts and for photographic and plate processing work . Military maps have to be extremely detailed , showing not only roads , rivers and towns , but contour lines by which the elevation of any point of land may be determined . In supplying maps to the troops . a unit follows a. more or less standard routine . Old maps and all other topographical information about the area to be charted are collected and studied At the same time flyers are blmp ) * in the air over enemy lines , photographing sections of the country to be shown in the maps . Planes for this work are equipped with special cameras ; some of them use several cameras at a time . Exceptionally clear weather is necessary for accurate aerial map work and the pictures must be taken in flight at a fixed altitude on a straight course . When the flyers return , prints of each section photographed are assembled in aerial mosaics and reproduced in a finished photograph . Maps are then drawn from these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in four or more colors. can be turned out in a few minutes and supplied to the advancing troops . Harris Seybold Potter Co. , for example , nakes a mobile press with a good many aluminum parts instead of steel which reduces the weight considerably The base of the machine is made of welded steel to strengtne.n it against the strains of traveling over rough ten story . This press is adaptable enough to print on paper of widely varying thicknesses , even down to that as thin as onion stock or Bible stock . It can sprint a sheet of paper as large as 20 inches by 221 , j inches and turns out as many as 5.000 sheets an hour The Addressograph - Multigraph Ccrp makes a press for the Army which is usually used for printing smaller sheets . It Can run off 5,000 sheets an hour . also . Another company building printing equipment for the Army is Webendorfer-Wills Division , American Type Founders .                     