@@705644

txt German and Russian relations seem to have approached a critical point , according to reliable diplomatic information , and sensational developments may be looked for in a very short time . Various estimates indicate that the crisis will mature perhaps tomorrow , certainly before mid-July . Roads leading to Russia from Rumania have been closed and mined , according to reports to The Associated Press . Reports to The United Press said Germany had increased her forces in Finland . A report to The Associated Press said Joseph Stalin was encountering strong army opposition to his policy of appeasement of Germany . The German and Russian Armies have completed enormous concentrations on their common frontier . According to foreign military attach  --  s , the Nazis now have 120 divisions of their own and 25 Rumanian divisions in place between Galati and . the - Baltic Sea . .. The - Russians are said- to : have:15P divisions at various points between the Black Sea and the Baltic . Heavy concentrations of airplanes and tanks have been recently reported from both sides . Diplomatic Moves Started A series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a reliable diplomatic source , that the Russian Embassy in London gave the Foreign Office assurances that no economic , political or military talks were taking place between the Soviet and the Reich , but , this statement is not believed . The reason for apparent tension between the two powers is believed to be Germany 's desire to get control of the wealth of the Ukraine and . the Caucasus in order to reinforce the Axis position for a long war . It is reported that the Reich requested at least temporary joint sovereignty over the Ukraine and a share in control over Russian industry and transport . Persons who have just arrived from Moscow state that Premier Josef Stalin will never accede to this . The German - Army has now evacuated the South Balkans , leaving an Italian force in the conquered territories . Men , ground materiel and large quantities of aircraft have been sent to Rumania and Poland . Military experts state there are now 120 German divisions in position near the Soviet border . One hundred of these are concentrated in Poland , Slovakia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Siret River . Twentyfive Rumanian divisions in ... ve been equipped and properly distributed . It is reported that German officers are preparing the Finnish Army for a possible action . Nazi U-Boats Beady Six German submarines are now said to be ready to operate in the Black Sea . Technically , they belong to the Rumanian Navy and have been assembled at Galati from parts shipped down the Danube . The last is reported to have gone down the ways May 25 . Large numbers of metal pontoons have been constructed by German technicians in Rumania . As soon as they are completed they are shipped away , but no one knows where . A German reserve army of fiftyfour divisions is stationed at various points in Central Europe , including Austria and the Czech Protectorate . This could be transported quickly eastward , if necessary , for two motor roads through Slovakia , in the direction of Poland and the Soviet , have been - mrapleted . Budapest and Bucharest hear.that a German-Russian war is now a matter of days . to Rumania the people are given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precautions are in effect in Bucharest and Constanta , and the public is ' tieing informed that if danger develops it will last only ten days . ? German military patrols during the past few weeks crossed the border into Russian Bessarabia several times . No Soviet troops were seen . Travelers arriving here from Constanta report that considerable sabotage has been evident in Rumania . Foreigners are subjected to careful scrutiny , and measures are being taken to prevent any one from approaching regions where troop Movements are taking place . The Rumanian train service has been greatly curtailed , presumably for military use . Military experts believe that the Germans , if they feel it necessary to attack Russia , intend to use Finnish , Hungarian and Rumanian troops to add to the effectiveness of their push and at the same time hope to stir up trouble in the Baltic States , where the Soviet is now in control . The Germans will have to move into the Ukraine fast if they open hostilities , in order to prevent the burning of the crops . The harvest here was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be even greater because many of the peasants have eaten the grain distributed for this year 's seed . On the Russian side it is stated that Premier Stalin does not want war but is not in a position to make concessions which might undermine , the standing of his regime . It is said that Russia has already with-drawn recognition to Axis-occupied countries as a concession to the Reich and is willing to give up any claim for a share it the control of the lower , Danube . However , because this is apparently not satisfactory to Herr Hitler , it is thought Mr. Stalin has assumed more control in order to prepare the country for a crisis . A huge Red Army has been assembled for what the Tass Agency describes as usual manoeuvres . It is said to include fifty-five divisions in the Ukraine and the occupied provinces of Rumania and 100 divisions from there to the Baltic and the Finnish border . Large quantities of heavy tanks have been assembled at various points . The Soviet is trying to increase the efficiency of its - my by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   