@@711951

txt Seven visitors from Moscow are due to arrive at La Guardia Field this afternoon . They are on their way here to attend the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace which will meet in this city on Friday . They are coming to present the argument that world peace is readily obtainable through friendly and trustworthy cooperation , which , of course , is true . But they are also coming to tell us that such cooperation is the objective of the Soviet Government of Russia . And this we will not find easy to relieve , in the light of the written record of Soviet policy and action : the sabotage of the Marshall Plan , the coup d'etat in Prague , the conquest of the Balkans , the blockade of Berlin , the thirty vetoes in the United Nations , the defiance of the Security Council in Korea , the slap in the face to the Assembly over Greece , the wrecking of the plan for international control of atomic energy that had the approval of every other nation represented in this undertaking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stability and authority of every democratic government in the world . The Soviet propaganda line has become so easily identified and so thoroughly discounted , the Soviet practice of standing words on their heads so that dictatorships become " democracies " and aggressive moves become " peaceful intentions " is so generally recognized for the sheer nonsense it is that we do not think these Moscow visitors will make much of a dent upon American opinion . In this respect we do not share the apparent concern of our State Department that if certain prospective visitors from non-Communist countries were also permitted to attend the conference it could be used as a successful sounding board for Soviet propaganda . We would let them all come , and all talk , and all do the .. best to convince us that counterfeit words speak louder than explosive actions . There is so little chance of their doing this that we think our Russian visitors are about to waste their time . We wish , in fact , that they were coming for a more worth-while and potentially profitable purpose . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves instead of to tell us a bedtime story written in the Kremlin . We wish that they were here to see how an average American working man 's family lives , what this worker earns and what his money buys . We wish they were taking in a debate or two on Capitol Hill to see how the twoparty system works in practice . We wish they were dropping in on the federal courts to see how a patient judge leans over backward to give a scrupulously fair trial to a group of their own fellow-Communists . We wish that they were here to take a close look at the whole American scene and that their purpose was to carry back with them to Moscow as accurate and as candid a report on it as possible . For the first condition of peace is understanding . And understanding does not prosper under the censorship of the police state and behind the Iron Curtain .                     