@@706699

txt Meatless days , the imposition of price ceilings on live lrogs and cattle , and the ironing out by the Office of Price Administration of inequalities caused by taking Lenten prices as the basis for the ceilings put on meat at the retailer 's level , are the measures with which it is proposed to end the meat shortage , it was learned today . The OPA announced that plans were being made to put a price ceiling on live hogs . It indicated that similar action would be taken soon on cattle prices . J. K. Galbraith , OPA deputy administrator , told a delegation of livestock producers that- the ceilings would be worked out in conjunction with representative groups of producers and would be submitted to Secretary Wickard for his approval . At the Agriculture Department it was said that there was little doubt of the plan 's approval . Western Cattlemen Protest The OPA ceiling on livestock prices is planned despite the protests of a score of Western cattlemen , who told Price Administrator Leon Henderson this afternoon that imposition of the ceiling would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . Mr. Henderson replied that , while he appreciated hearing their viewpoint , it was the conviction of OPA that livestock prices must be lowered . On Friday the Food Requirements Committee will meet to discuss the establishment of meatless days , among other measures . The idea is to appeal to the public to go without meat one day a week in September and October . The committee also will work out plans for better distribution of the available meat supply by means of allocation . The OPA will do its part , it was learned , by leveling out some of the inequities in the ceiling prices for pork and beef . In March , which is taken as the base , meat prices were far higher in some localities than in others . For instance , in Boston the Lenten demand for meat was low and the prices low also . As a result , Boston ceiling prices have been so low that it has been able to get little of the available supply . as against regions where March prices happened to be higher . Beef @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the spread between the price of grade and prime beef was only 2 cents . Livestock men say that this was because , with the grass coming up , farmers with lean stock were withholding it from the market in order to fatten it up . Now , as a result of the freezing of prices at the March level , the spread is too small to make it worth while for the farmer to feed his stock . If this situation continued it would make the meat famine even worse , in the opinion of such authorities as Albert S. Goss , master of the National Grange . Celli ings on livestock corresponding merely to the ceilings for processed meat would not relieve the situation , it was declared . Mr. Galbraith said today that vigorous steps would be taken to enforce the grading provisions of the beef regulation , designed to insure that the spread between various grades of beef would approximate the relations prevailing during the base period in March . His impression of the reason for the narrowing of the usual spread , however , appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grades . Expects a Stable Market Mr. Galbraith took occasion : to assure the beef-cattle producers that the OPA would take no steps which would discourage normal feeding , and marketing of livestock . - " While feeders must exercise normal caution and avoid paying high prices for feeders , " he stated , " the working out of ceilings will be undertaken in close consultation with producers and with a full and complete recognition of the market relationships that are involved . " Wherever possible advance announcements of Impending action will be made so that producers can make necessary adjustments . Producers may depend that anything in the nature of surprise action will be avoided . " The strong demand for beef cattle that is in prospect means that the market will be more rather than less stable as compared with other years . Feeders who buy carefully may look forward to the corn , ing year with confidence . "                     