@@705312

txt The 11 oosevel t administration today clamped down a lid of secrecy on the testimony a high ranking army , navy , and aviation corps officials before the house foreign affairs committee considering the President 's war dictatorship bill , The action was taken in the apparent fear that the witnesses would be forced to admit that Col. Charles A. Lindbergh. former Assistant Secretary of War Hanford , , and Gen. Hugh S. Johnson were correct when they asserted that the United States would be in no danger of invasion it Great Britain . fell . Previously cabinet of . Mats had led a fear campaign by picturing an early German invasion 11 congress did not surrender its war . making and spending powers to Mr. Roosevelt in order that England might have unlimited aid . Gag Suddenly Imposed . Gen. George C. Marshall , army chief of staff ; Admiral Harold R. Stark . chief of naval operations . and Maj. Gen. George Brett . acting chief of the air corps , were to have appeared at an open hearing . They had stated their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , evidently operating under orders , suddenly imposed what was termed by RepresentaUve Hamilton Fish R. , N. Y. the most outrageous gag rule in his 20 years ' experience in congress . Tempers flared and heated words were exchanged by Fish and Chairman Sol Bloom D. , N. Y. , but the majority insisted that the three officials be heard in executive session . Bloom later announced that this secret session would be held next Monday . Castle ' resents Views . The open hearing proceeded today , with William R. Castle , former under . secretary of state and former United States ambassador to Japan , denouncs ing the President 's measure as " clearly a war measure " Castle spoke as a representative of the America First committee . " In the year 1776 , " remarked Castle , " the declaration a inde. pendence led to war . Is bill 1776. which may some time be called Oti4 renunciation of independence , also going to lead us into war ? " The committee met as usual at lel o'clock this morning , the minority , members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present . Representative Luthet A. Johnson D. , Tex. suddenly moved that the committee close its doors to the public . " So ordered ! " said Bloom . Minority Members Protest . Minority members , bewildered , pro . tested and inquired what was going on . It was then learned that Chain man Bloom had called the three of . deers and told them they had not been invited by the committee but merely by Fish and that they ought to insist upon being heard in secret session only . About this moment , Fish received a letter from Gen. Marshall by messenger . Marshall wrote that he had been informed by Blown that his presence had not been requested by the committee . Only the previous evening , Bloom had announced the names of the three witnesses and none of the majority members objected . " Evidently Mr. Bloom heard front the highenups , " commented Fish . " I deny that ! " yelled Bloom . " I talked to no one , not to the Prest. dent or the secretary of state or any , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important bill ever before congress , ' declared Fish . " It is well understood by all the committee members that representatives of the army and navy frequently appear at open hearings and have the William R. Castle as Iii testified . EA . P. Vilrephoto.3 absolute right to decline to answer any question , asserting that they will answer it in executive session . " Generals Marshall and Brett and Admiral Stark have made many such appearances before congressional corn . mittees and are well able to guard cmfidential information . " What the committee should want it , not political information , such as v. as largely received from cabinet off : era , but the expert testimony from the highest ranking officers of the army and navy In open session to answer the statements made In open scion by Hanford , Col. ? ndbergh. and Gen. Johnson . Entitled to Know , He Says . " The country is entitled to know , : or example , whether Lindbergh was correct when he said we had only tiverai hundreds of modern combat ; : anes. which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy Frank Knox that we had 2,500 modern fighting planes . It is entitled to Lave the views of military experts on the possibility of Invasion of this country and of the possibility of victory in an attempt to take Europe away from Germany . " All the minority sought to bring not were answers to statements v Lich had already been made Pubtidy  --  whether we have done any . thing to follow the suggestion made by Col. Lindbergh more than a year ago that we acquire Latin American bases . " The committee was derelict in its duty and responsibility to congress and the country by not calling for this expert testimony . " Democrats Issue Statement . Democrats stalked out of the committee room and went into a huddle in a nearby office . After nearly two hours , they issued a statement assert . Ing that the officers themselves had expressed a preference for testifying in secret . Fish immediately countered by saying he had again been assured in telephone calls to the three witnesses that they were perfectly will . ing to testify openly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but was prevented by an objection from Representative Johnson which Bloom sustained . Fish appealed from the ruling of the chair . The Bloom ruling was upheld on a strict party vote , 13 Democrats voting against 9 Republicans . Several hundred spectators surged forward as the hearing was recessed and surrounded Bloom and Fish , who exchanged verbal punches . Castle Condemns Powers . The scene was calmer when the afternoon session started with Castle on the stand . Out of his 16 years ' experience in the state department under both Democratic and Republic . an administrations , Castle voiced a grave condemnation of H. R. 1776 as giving to the President far greater powers than should be exercised by any one man . Castle said that if the bill had to be passed the powers given the Pres ' . civnt should certainly not be granted tor a period of longer than one year . " I have no use for those who say that because Hitler has broken the rules of international law we are free in do the same " he declared . " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminals any more than the methods of local thugs . Points to Destroyer Deal . The President authorized the press to quote him as saying , in an . suer to the question whether he 1-nizht ? give away part of the navy , that it was ail cow jumped over the moon stuff , ' all Mother Hubbard stuff . Yet , not long ago he gave away 50 American destroyers . To receive a quid pro quo for them in the shape at naval bases did not affect the legal principle . " To take the ostensible purpose of the bill , it may be said that if we honestly want to aid Britain without involvement in the war and as speeday as possible , we can do so only by enlarging with all speed our facilities for production , by permitting the British to purchase all such output of our factories as our technical military and naval authorities certify is not necessary for national defense . " Cites British Position . The measure . Castle asserted , would give the President such power that In practice he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the United States . " The President alone could say what supplies were to be pent and when and where , " the witness told the committee . " Thru his control of the supplies flowing out from what he pleases to call this ' arsenal of democracy , ' he would become supreme in all military matters , British as well as American . At home , congress would he impotent , and in Britain , fear , rather than gratitude , would bring the British government to the feet of the American President . " We would have two world die . tators , one for the totalitarians and one for the democracies . " Castle said the bill purports to be a bill to help Britain but actually is a measure creating a dictatorship . Questions Bill 's Helpfulness , " It does not enable us to help Britain more than we are doing now except in so far as it permits the President to ignore such laws as he pleases and thus to make war , " he said . " Many Americans believe this gauntry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral than as an We are not now at war . Britain is at war . But even so the British parliament functions as effectively as ever . It is not in the nature of an Englishman to surrender his liberties . ; is no Englishman would want to do away with parliament , so no American should want to do away with congress . I for one am certain that the congress of the United States Is just Hs patriotic and works just as Inteliigently for the good of the country as does the parliament of Great Other Witnesses Assail Bill . Wiliam C. Dennis , president of rsrlharn college at Richmond , Ind. , another witness heard by the committee today , said he opposed the bill because " It is a legislative authorizeGagged at Dictator Bill Hearing delegation of legislative power , it repudiates certain planks of both the Democrats and Republicans , and , without necessity or adequate justification , it probably would involve the United States in war . " William J. Grace of Chicago , representing the Citizens ' Keep Out of War committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war making measure . " Other witnesses heard today in. eluded John Burke of New York , representing the American Defense society , and Benjamin Marsh of Wash . ington , representing " the people 's lobby . " A statement by Amos Pinchot , also representing the American Defense society , was read in his absence . Roosevelt Rejects Queries . President Roosevelt at his press conference refused to discuss reports that he is willing to accept certain amendments to the bill . He had been reported as agreeable to a time llmi. tatlon on his powers , to a specific prohibition against the use of naval vessels as convoys , and to a provision that he report regularly to congress on transactions , except information deemed by the army chief of staff and the chief of naval operations to be military secrets . The President also declined to comment on Col. Lindbergh 's testimony Yesterday , particularly regarding Lindbergh 's testimony that if this country had refrained from giving moral backing to Britain and France , the European war would not have started . Mr. Roosevelt said he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a question , asked why he should read it . The senate foreign relations committee voted to hear Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr . as its first witness when open hearings begin next Monday . Secretary Knox will be heard Tuesday and Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson on Wednesday . The house open hearing will close tomorrow with William C. Bullitt , former ambassador to France , as an administration witness .                     