@@711036

txt In his impressive statement yesterday on the " grave decisions " made by the British Government following the collapse of the London Conference , Foreign Secretary Bevin bluntly declared that Soviet Russia has embarked on a career of expansion not only in Eastern but also in Western Europe which might lead to Russian domination of that continent . And he solemnly warned of the danger of such domination by one Power . This warning finds grim substantiation not only in the " cold war " declared by Russia against the Western democracies , and the direct and indirect aggression by the Kremlin and its Communist Fifth Columns , but in the documents issued by the State Department on the Nazi-Soviet conspiracy for the division of Europe , which lit the torch that set the world aflame . For these documents unfold a tale of secret intrigue and rival skulduggery , of naked conquest and cynical disregard for world opinion and the rights of other nations , in which Russia was not only a participant but a driving force . What is even more important , they provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of new opportunities provided by some of our own policies , is nothing new in itself , but only a rigid pursuit of the same aims on which Stalin- embarked before the last war , and which he sought to realize first with Hitler , then against Hitler , then with the Western Allies , and now against them . These aims are connected with the Communist ideology only in so far as that ideology can serve as a weapon in the Kremlin 's hands  --  a weapon which can be set aside at will , and can be revived or turned against new foes when that appears to serve the desired ends . For at the very beginning of their contacts with the Nazis the Russians made it plain that ideology had little to do with Russian foreign policy . And after the conclusion of the NaziSoviet pact Molotov could even denounce those short-sighted men who , after that event , were still attracted by " the vulgar anti-Fascist agitation " As shown by the documents themselves , the initiative toward the conspiracy did not come from the Nazis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Britain , then seeking agreement with Russia to stop Hitler and prevent war . In fact , the Germans themselves were taken by surprise , and suspecting at first a Russian scheme to exert pressure on the Western Allies , remained skeptical to the point that Hitler ordered an interruption of the budding negotiations . But when the Germans saw that Moscow was in earnest , they leaped eagerly at the chance of realizing their own schemes of conquest , with Russian collaboration , and readily offered the price which the Western Allies were in no position to pay . That price was the partition of Eastern Europe into a German and Russian zone of influence at the expense of the Baltic states , Poland and the Balkans . What is equally significant , Hitler made it clear . very early that his purpose in conducting the negotiations was war against Poland , and , indeed , it would have been impossible to carry out the whole plan otherwise . The Russians not only did not object to this , but prepared to secure their own spoils by early military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congratulations from Molotov to Berlin when Warsaw fell . Beyond that , the documents also show that it was Stalin himself who first suggested that there was no room in Eastern Europe for a Polish rump state , and who raised the question of its complete partition between the victors , with proper adjustments in the Baltics . Moreover , to the very moment that Hitler turned on his partner , Moscow continued to applaud German conquests in Scandinavia , Holland , Belgium and France , and backed its stand not only with words but also with massive deliveries of grain and other materials , even with a naval base on the Murman coast which enabled Germany to beat the British blockade when Britain stood alone . Yet it was an uneasy and suspicious partnership , which began to chill when Germany advanced into the Balkans , and especially when , after the Russian amputation of Bessarabia , Hitler undertook to guarantee Rumania 's new frontiers . This development brought Molotov to Berlin for what proved to be a fateful conference in November , 1940 . As a result , Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , Italy and Japan , and even submitted the draft of a pact to divide the world between them . Germany was to satisfy her ambitions by " territorial revisions " in Europe and Central Africa , Italy was to expe.na in Northern and Northeastern Africa , Japan was to move into Eastern Asia south of the Japanese Islands , as she later did , and Russia was to fulfill her territorial aspirations in the direction of the Indian Ocean . This pact was accepted by the Soviet Government , but only under conditions which have since become familiar , because they are the same demands Russia has been making during and since the war . These demands included , besides German withdrawal from Finland , a " mutual assistance pact " with Bulgaria , which from the Russian precedent set in the Baltics meant Russian occupation of the country ; military and naval bases within the range of the Bosporus and the Dardanelles , if necessary by war against Turkey ; penetration in Iran in the direction of tile Pe - sian Gulf , and acquisition of the , Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Europe and M the Far East , Stalin has now gained far more than he asked then ; but these demands proved too much for Hitler , who saw himself hampered in his own career of conquest . Within a month he had issued orders to his armies to " be prepared to crush Russia in *a quick campaign ( Operation Barbarossa ) even before the c'bnclusion of the war against England . " It is an ironic sidelight on history that he explained his troop concentrations in the Balkans as being necessary to keep Britain out of Greece ? an argument which the Russians are using today against the United States . The specific maneuvers depicted in these documents have now become history . They do not exculpate the Nazis , but they carry a warning to the Western World which it can ignore only at its own peril .                     