@@709279

txt Making their first move since John L. Lewis led their organization into the American Federation of Labor , leaders of District 50 of the United Mine Workers in this city extended an invitation yesterday to the American Federation of Municipal Transit Workers to become part of District 50 and pool forces for a fight to dislodge Michael J. Quill 's Transport Workers Union , CIO , from its position in the city subway system . Bernard G. Brophy , president of the AFL transit union , which asserts it has a membership of 5,000 , said he would not " hesitate for a minute " to recommend acceptance of the bid from the United Mine Workers if he were assured that Mr. Lewis planned to take an active interest in the organization of New York transit employes under the UMW banner . Mr. Lewis , as founder and first president of the Congress of IndusRASKIN trial Organizations , was instrumental in negotiating the first contracts won by Mr. Quill 's union on the old Interborough Rapid Transit and Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Systems , which have become part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the AFL transit union ' to join the Lewis organization , which has begun a recruiting campaign among subway workers , was issued by George F. Ridlon , field representative of District 50 . He said he hoped to confer with Mr. Brophy soon and expressed confidence that the two groups would merge . Mr. Brophy , voicing equal eagerness for a meeting with Mr. Ridlon , said his only reservation about recommending an alliance of the two unions would be removed if it were demonstrated that Mr. Lewis " meant business " in his drive to establish a strong AFL union in the field now dominated by the CIO transport workers . Mr. Ridlon revealed that District 50 was conducting a strike ballot among 800 workers in the marine departments of the Lehigh Valley , Erie and Long Island Railroads . He added that the balloting would be complete by Thursday and that the votes tabulated thus far were unanimously in favor of a strike . However , under the mediation procedure prescribed in the National Railway Mediation Act , at least ninety days must elapse be-fore the men employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foods , coal and general merchandise can leave their jobs , Mr. Ridlon conceded . He said the union would welcome the appointment of a mediator to con:Bider its wage dispute with the railroads . TWU TO PUSH BUS PAY RISE Increase of $2 a Day to Be Sought After March 1 Harry Sacher , attorney for the Transport Workers Union , CIO , in arbitration with the Fifth Avenue Coach Company over the terms of a contract for 1945-46 , including the question of one-man operation of double-deck buses , announced yesterday that after March 1 the union would press for a wage increase of $2 a day . His announcement was the first indication that the TWU would extend its previously announced demands to cover employes of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company . Heretofore the union 's emphasis had been on getting the $2-a-day rise for employes of the city 's unified transit system . Whether the workers of other bus lines under contract with the TWU also would seek a similar rise in pay was not made clear . Mr. Sacher left the way open for additional wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Adrian P. Burke , arbitrator , asking that all pay provisions in the contract be effective only until March 1 , 1946 . The contract under discussion would be retroactive to Oct. 1 , 1945 , and the union has asked . that it run until Sept. 30 - of this year . Mr. Sacher said that after March 1 , the , union would call for additional increases , but did not name the amount . In response to a question yesterday he specified that further demands would be for the rest of the $2 . Mr. Sacher did not say , however , whether the union would seek that sum even in the event that Mr. Burke decided in favor of two-man operation of the buses , for which it has been arguing .                     