@@710713

txt Secretary of State George C. Marshall strongly indicates that there should be a special session of Congress in late October or early November to provide temporary aid for Europe as a sort of advance on the long-range , Marshall program . But , the Secretary indicated to a press conference , he is not ready ? pending final world from President Truman  --  to make his decision known . He said the President is being kept informed of all the facts in the situation , The Secretary told newsmen that Europe must have some kind of temporary aid this year and only Congress can authorize it . This was a strong intimation that he believes a special session of Congress will be necessary . But the Secretary declined to say flatly such a session should be called . He did say the State Department would have at hand by late October adequate facts on which to chart a course of action . ' Urgent Plea His statement came on the heels of an urgent plea from London that the United States assume a large share of Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country is making preparations to do so . Secretary Marshall , when saying the State Department , will have needed data at hand by late October , commented that the majority of Congressional committees visiting Europe will have returned by that time . He declined to estimate how much aid may be required preliminary to the long-range plan he has projected for European reconstruction . At the same time , Secretary Marshall said he does not think it is possible to get authority for aid without a special session . Data Expected His statement added that he hopes that " shortly thereafter the complete data for the European recovery program can be screened and made available in order that the program may be faxed in its entirety and that any action taken to meet immediate needs may be correlated into the general program . " Secretary Marshall made these other reports on the status of American foreign policy matters : 1 . The Anglo-American talks on shifting some of Britain 's dollar burden in Germany to the United States are primarily a War Department problem , but the State Department will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its special session Sept. 20. 2 . Secretary Marshall is " gratified " at the formation of a coalition Government joining Greece 's two main political parties in a single Cabinet . He tsaid in a statement that the national unity Government in Athens demonstrates " the desire of loyal Greek political parties " to work together for their nation 's welfare . 3 . Talks with China and Britain on Korea had to be postponed because the ussians rejected an American invitation that they also attend a proposed four-power conference . The United States is studying the Soviet reply to decide what move to make next .                     