@@709683

txt The fact that Madame Sun Yat-sen 's public criticism of the Kuomintang ( Nationalist Party ) this week was not published by the Government-controlled Central News Service emphasizes that the press situation in China is largely responsible for the lack of a strong , effective public opinion . Aroused public opinion , it is felt , could demand a settlement of the country 's internal strife . Not only are Communist newspapers banned in Nanking and Shanghai , but the Democratic League  --  a leftist minority party with a great desire to influence public thought by its program for settling differences peacefully at the present time  --  can not put its views into print either . . Officials of the League who told me this say they dare not start a newspaper because they know it , would not be allowed to continue as an organ critical of the Kuomintang . And right now the League is very critical of the Kuomintang indeed . League 's Ambition Recently , two Democratic League leaders were assassinated , and in this connection , the League declares , " Gestapo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feat of directly assassinating important political opponents . " In their own words , League . members state this follows " a long string of political outrages , perpetrated for years by Gestapo elements , including the closing of numerous newspapers and periodicals , the recent beating of peace delegates at Nanking , the shooting of innocent students at Kunming last November , and countless other similar bloody acts throughout the country . " When the secretary of the League 's Information Committee , Charles C. Lu , was asked , about the numerical strength of the League , he replied he could not make even an approximate estimate because " fresh groups just start up on their own . " But he said there are more than 30 branches , several among Chinese communities overseas . Mr. Lu declared the League 's ambition is to spread its democratic teachings among what is described as " the 98 per cent of the Chinese who belong neither to the Kuomintang or the Communists . " Free Press Needed porters " among China 's 470,000 , - 000 inhabitants . In this guess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties because they want to  --  not because they feel obliged to in order to obtain a livelihood or for reasons of local security . Early this year , figures published here , gave the Kuomintang 's total membership as 3,114,000 persons excluding soldier members numbering 4,328,000 . Here is what the Democratic League , which " never had an army and never wants an army , " would say to the Chinese people at this critical juncture of China 's national history  --  if it had a medium for doing so : " China at present is hCading for a civil war of unprecedented scalt . The entire country is threatened with general destruction of life and property such as will certainly bring about its final collapse . For the Kuomintang and the Chinese Communist Party , after protracted negotiation 's ' have not been able to come to terms on an agreement and an ' appeal to arms seems to be their only alter-native , " For the past months , we have participated in the Political Con sultative Conference and en- ' deavored all we could to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Had the decisions made in the P. C. C. been carried out , the present crisis would have been averted and China already would be on the path to peace and recovery . " In carrying out the P. C. C. ' decisions , the China Democratic League holds the following points to be vitally important : 1 . A coalition government should be formed under the condition , that all participating parties be placed in equal legal standing and the reorganization be done in accordance with a plan earlier agreed on by all concerned . Coalition Urged 2 . Reorganization of the Central Government on a coalition basis must include both the policy-making body ( the State Council ) and all the executive organs , especially the Executive Yuan . Responsible posts in the latter must no longer be monopolized by one party as during the past 20 years . The members and nature of such posts , to be given each party must be agreed upon beforehand . The president of the Executive Yuan also should be agreed upon beforehand . 3 . The coalition principle should oe further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and north and central China where the Kuomintang and Communists both are struggling for control . The League believes such a local coalition will solve the present military conflict . 4 . The coming National Assembly should include all Chinese political parties , and they should be placed on an equal status . It should not be an organ manipulated and monopolized by one party . 5 . Since Kuomintang members dominate in the coming National Assembly , there must be a guarantee that the new constitution to be passed will be a *truly democratic one , such as has been largely agreed upon in the P. C. C. He said , " I am sure we could get the support of at least 20 per cent of these if there were only a free press . " He reckons neither the Kuomintang nor the Communist Party has more than ' 4.000,000 " active sup                     