@@709961

txt President Truman ? surveyed the situation at the regular Friday Cabinet meeting , and then continued to explore it with Secretary of the Interior Julius A. Krug . Mr. Krug remained closeted with the President for more than a half hour after the general Cabinet session broke up . Today was the day on which Mr. Lewis was to announce whether his 400,000 United Mine Workers ( A. F. of L. ) will quit work in the soft coal pits next Wednesday . Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson told reporters after the Cabinet meeting that the coal situation had come up , but that there had been " only the most general mention " of it . Development Hinted Attorney General Tom Clark said Mr. Krug told the Cabinet there might be some development this afternoon . Presidential Secretary Eben Ayers told reporters that Mr. Krug conferred with Mr. Truman at the White House for " a few minutes " yesterday and saw him again today at the regular Cabinet meeting . Mr. Krug has been running the mines since the Government seized them last May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Mr. Krug had discussed with the President in connection with his talks with Mr. Lewis and other United Mine Workers officials . Both sides have kept silent on the progress , if any , these talks have made . Intervention Denied Asked if the President had intervened in the coal situation , Mr. Ayers said not to his knowledge . He said that Reconversion Director John R. Steelman , the President 's adviser on labor matters , was present part of the time during yesterday 's conference with Mr. Krug . The time drew near for Mr. Lewis to announce a decision on whether he will " void " his contract with the Government and thus close down the mines . Sphinx-like as usual , the United Mine Workers ' chief gave no advance sign whether he intended to terminate his Government contract five days hence ? next Wednesday midnight . One high official told a reporter privately that Mr. Krug was hopeful Mr. Lewis would continue to dicker , without laying down a flat five-day ultimatum , but there was little optimism among other Government negotiators . This official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and called him a stooge for the operators " in the first of their two meetings Wednesday . After walking out in a huff , Mr. Lewis returned at Mr. Krug 's request . They then chatted " pleasantly but without result , " the official said . 