@@712366

txt The Foreign Ministers of the Big Four powers met for more than three hours last night at the Waldorf-Astoria but were unable to break the deadlock over the treaty of Austrian independence ... They are expected to meet again tomorrow night , it was announced The discussion was strictly informal and was not considered a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers . At its conclusion a brief communiqu ? was issued saying : " Mr. Schuman , Mr. Bevin , Mr. Acheson and Mr. Vishinsky , the Foreign Ministers of France , Great Britain , the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , met informally at 5:30 P. M. in the Waldorf-Astoria today . " They exchanged views on the discussions of the Austrian treaty which have taken place among deputies of the four countries since the Paris meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers . " It is expected they will meet again on Wednesday at 9 P. M. " The talks made " no progress at all , " an American source said . They were said to have taken the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not completed . It was understood , however , that they never got beyond Article 35 , covering disposal of former enemy assets in Austria  --  and definition of what assets were in that class  --  and the return of Austrian railroad rolling stock held by the Russians as war booty . The Western powers , though they have opposed any meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers at this United Nations Assembly , on the ground that it would serve no useful purpose until ' the Austrian question was out of the way , were believed to have taken the initiative in yesterday 's meeting . It has been reported for some time in American and British circles at Flushing Meadow that the deadlock among the deputies was so complete that the only way out was for their ministers to get together , on an informal basis , and seek a compromise . The meeting had to be held before Friday , since Mr. Bevin is due to leave then for Canada and will return here only to sail for England , and the Russians refuse to accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings of the Foreign Ministers . After two and a half years of effort all but the provisions of the treaty dealing with disposal of assets claimed by the Russians as war booty and with the treatment of displaced persons had been settled . On those points , the deputies , when they met last Friday , found themselves completely stalled . A review of all points showed the Russian deputy , Georgi N. Zarubin , Ambassador to London , unwilling to compromise in any form . The deputies ' meeting was adjourned indefinitely for consultation with the respective Foreign Ministers . Last night Secretary of State Dean Acheson , Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin of Britain , Foreign Minister Robert Schuman of France and Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky met in the same suite at the Waldorf-Astoria and conferred nearly three hours . It was the first time since last June in Paris that the Ministers had discussed the Austrian question , though they had taken up the question five times since May 1946 , in addition to 212 meetings of their deputies and $5 of the treaty commission . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had been a major stumbling block and agreed to restore Austria to her frontiers as they stood , before the anschluss with Germany in 1937 . Points still in dispute included Russian refusal to distinguish between displaced persons who had aided the enemy voluntarily and so were not entitled to aid , and those who were pressed into service . The other points were concerned with financial arrangements and disposal of iniustrial assets . t The Russians have refused to return railroad rolling stock , lack of which seriously cripples the Austrian railroads . The Western powers considered this agreed to in Paris , but since it was not put down in writing , the Russians refuse to recognize the agreement . There also is disagreement about payment to be made to Russia for supplies and services given to Austrian civilians since 1945 . Austria has recognized a debt of 44,000,000 schillings , but the Russians have not given any final figure for the limit of their claims . Although both United States and British circles expressed optimism before last Friday 's meeting of the deputies , the atmosphere seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to show whether there is any point in more talks at this time among the deputies or whether it will be necessary to thrash out the question on the top level before reaching any agreement . The deputies have been Samuel Reber for the United States , Marcel Berthelot for France , W. Ibo Mallet for Great Britain , and Mr. Zarubin for Russia .                     