@@704794

txt Large numbers of Italian troops were reported early today to have been landed along the Yugoslav coast at two Italian points as the Yugoslav Government prepared to fight in defense of its territory if necessary . It was reported from Berlin yesterday that Italian forces had invaded France through the Riviera , but this was denied in Rome , and German military quarters said later that they had no knowledge of any such movement . Reports from Split on the Adriatic coast said that large forces of Italian troops had been landed at // ITALIANS REPORTED ON YUGOSLAV COATI // the Italian port of Zara , which is a small " island " of Italian territory on the Yugoslav mainland behind several Yugoslav islands , and on the Italian island of Lagosta . Zara is seventy miles north of Split and 125 miles south of Trieste , while Lagosta lies off the coast south of Split . The Yugoslav Government called up technical troops in large numbers and ordered further fortification work at once on the Italian and German frontiers , The Associated Press reported . Yugoslavia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yugoslav soil , despite his statement that he would try to prevent the war from spreading to Yugoslavia , Greece and Italy 's other neighbors . The return of the Italian and Russian Ambassadors to their posts strengthened a belief in some diplomatic circles in Belgrade that Italy had reached some sort of an agreement with Russia to prevent the war from spreading to the Balkans . Would Expect Soviet Help BELGRADE , Yugoslavia , June 10 UP ) ? " If Yugoslavia 's frontiers are violated , Russian intervention is expected on our behalf , " sources close to the Yugoslav Government said tonight . A Foreign Office spokesman limited official declarations to this statement : " Yugoslavia will maintain strict neutrality . In the event of Turkey 's entry into the war , the Yugoslav position will remain unchanged as far as we are concerned . " Two Ministers resigned from the Yugoslav Cabinet late today in a movement expected to bring formation of a government of national concentration as a qqnsequence of Italy 's entry into the war . Premier Dragisha Cvetkovitch is expected to succeed 'd himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his Cabinet in order to make the nation united for any eventuality . The two resigned Ministers were representatives of the Moslems . They were Srdjan Budisavljevitch , Minister of Social Welfare , and Dr. Dzafer Kulenovitch , Minister of Forests and Mines . Italian Activity in Albania wireless to Tin New YORE Time . ATHENS , Greece , June 10 ? Italy has accelerated her military preparations in Albania , according to information emanating from Tirana and repeated by responsible sources here . These reports say that during the past week troops have been transported , each night across the Strait of Otranto and that there have been sizable shipments of heavy artillery and mechanized equipment . It is understood that new dispositions of units have been made on the Yugoslav frontier and that other troops have taken up positions near the Greek border not far from the Greek city of Florina and north of the road leading to Ioannina , where a Greek army corps is based . A new flurry of nervousness accompanied these reports . It is said that Italy is launching against Yugoslavia a propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that demonstrations recently occurred along the Yugoslav border . Fortifications are being completed at tremendous speed and reinforcements of coastal defenses are being constructed in the regions of Santa Quaranta and Atroterauni . Otranto Bay is closed and heavy artillery has been placed in the hills above Santa Quaranta . It is as yet too early to give any truthful account of Greek public opinion concerning Italian intervention in the European struggle , which , though long expected , came as a tremendous shock . No official statement has been forthcoming and tomorrow 's newspapers will carry no pertinent editorial comment . Therefore , it will not be known to the general public how much stock is to be put in Premier Mussolini 's statement that this country need have no fear as a result of Italy 's decision . It is generally believed that Greece 's policy will continue to be one of neutrality and that a determined effort will be made to preserve a perfect balance of sentiments . At the same time a great deal depends upon the attitude of Turkey , with which this country is closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is in no wise discontented with the status quo in the Mediterranean . Greece Takes Precautions ATHENS , Greece , June 10 ( P )  - -  Naval and military precautionary measures were instituted by Greece early this evening following Italy 's entry into the war . Fears were expressed in highly placed quarters that either the Allies or Italy would attempt to establish naval bases on Greek islands in the Aegean Sea .                     