@@710291

txt A united , militant uprising of all the veteran groups in Massachusetts today attained the stages of solid organization where the voice of the veteran could be I heard clearly for the first time challenging private enterptise to " either build the houses we need or we will build them ourselves . " Spurred into action over the obvious delays in moving veterans into decent houses , the State 's veteran organizations , in co-operation with the Producers ' Council and the Massachusetts Federation of Churches , have been quietly drafting plans for channeling " packaged " shelters into Bay State shortage areas . The opening blast in this consolidated movement will be sounded tonight at the initial meeting of a newly organized Massachusetts Allied Veterans Housing Commission in the Buddies ' Club , representing the American Legion , the Veterans of Foreign Wars , American Veterans Committee , Disabled Veterans Association , Jewish War Veterans , and the Marine Corps Veterans . National Drive On Moving smoothly into the public focus under the initiation of Robert Murphy , Chairman of the American Legion 's Massachusetts Housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive already has attained national proportions . Two " pilot " houses to sell for $6,000 above the land are being tested by the Producers Council at the University of Ohio for introduction shortly in Massachusetts . By channeling " packaged " houses through a few co-operative contractors , obtaining land where possible from the local communities , and virtually performing every building operation within the factory for a  --  semblirig on the site , Veteran Housing Commission intends to cut , housing costs to the bottle . Organization of nonprofit housing co-operations under veteran supervision in every city in the Commonwealth is the immediate goal of the drive . Key men in the veteran setup , aside from Mr. Murphy and Mr. Fecitt , are Albert S. Bigelow , Chairman of the Massachusetts Emergency Housing Commission , Lawrence F. Quigley , Commander of the American Legion , Massachusetts Department , and James Reynolds , Department Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars . Two Sets of Plans These men have devised two sets ' of community working plans , each to be made of a group of five houses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses can be erected on the same type of foundation , and containing identical structural components . Thus , all framing members will be detailed as in steel erection , and local contractors will be able to set up a saw on the site to take full advantage of on-the-job fab rication . The workability of the veterans ' system of building is seen in the fact " that it precludes several of the more serious objections to prefabrication , namely , the greater mass and weight that prefabrication brings into the housing picture , and the inflexibility of design and layout in prefabrication . " More than two dozen communities in the Bay State have been setting the stage for the veteran drive in recent months through nonprofit corporations comprised of veterans assigned to the task of using housing funds borrowed by the communities . Savings are made ( 1 ) In the allocation of public funds for veteran housing , ( 2 ) utilization of municipal credit resources at 1 to 2 per cent , ( 3 ) packaged economies . The Massachusetts Council of Churches joined with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social issues involved . " Decent housing is essential , the Council stated , " to combat the rise in juvenile delinquency and the loss of faith by the veteran . "                     