@@705317

txt Committee consideration of and action upon the Administration 's Lease-Lend Bill is again expected to be the chief business before Congress in the coming week , with consideration of other defense proposals probably occupying two Senate committees . The Senate isolationist bloc , through Senators Wheeler and Nye , announced tonight a plan for introduction in the Senate tomorrow of a resolution calling on President Roosevelt to ascertain the war aims of all belligerents , their peace conditions and " any and all secret treaties for disposition of territorial spoils . " This strategy may give the isolationists a chance to ventilate their views on the Senate floor under the broad freedom of debate in that body . Secretaries Hull , Morgenthau , Stimson and Knox will give three days of testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , which starts its hearings tomorrow . But the four Cabinet members can hardly offer much more evidence in support of the Lease-Lend Bill than they presented to the House Foreign Affairs Committee two weeks ago . Plan of Isolationist ; The Senate committee , having an unusual proportion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet officials sharp examination , and with the WheelerNye resolution before the Senate , the opposition viewpoint can be agitated also in floor speeches for several days , thus possibly " stealing the play " in the newspapers . In a statement announcing their intention to offer the war aims resolution tomorrow , Senators Wheeler and Nye said that the threat was imminent that this country will become involved in the war and that therefore the nation should know the war and peace objectives of the warring powers . " Most historians and students agree , " the statement asserted , " that the Treaty of Versailles provoked the present war . Before the United States goes any further along the road to war we should have assurances from our potential allies that American boys will not be plowed under European soil every twenty-five years . " The isolationists ' resolution asserts that at the end of the first World War this country discovered that Britain and France had secret treaties which " clearly revealed their purpose was to conquer peoples and territories and not to preserve democracy or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar " appeals are now being made again to the " noble ideals , sympathies and emotions of the American people . " The Versailles Treaty , the resolution continues , " completely disregarded American concepts of democracy and peace , " with the result that the world now has less democracy than it had in 1917 . House Hearings End Today The House Foreign Affairs Committee expects to wind up its hearings on the lease-lend measure tomorrow in an executive session at which it will receive the testimony of three military and naval chiefs . Accordng to Chairman Bloom , the committee will then start executive consideration of its report on the bill , with the prospects that it can be sent to the House by the end of the week . Mr. Bloom said he expected that House consideration of the bill would take the most of next week and predicted passage at the end of probably five days of debate . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee , getting under way tomorrow , expects , Chairman George said , at least three weeks of public hearings on the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow with testimony by General George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff of the Army ; Admiral Harold R. Stark , Chief of Naval Operations , and Major General George C. Brett , acting chief of the Army Air Corps . The committee 's majority decided to hear these officials in closed session , as requested by General Marshall , who said this would permit free and full answers to questions of strategic importance which he believed committee members probably would ask . General Marshall , who originally was invited to testify by Representative Fish , ranking minority committee member , also requested that he be called by the full committee rather than by the minority leader . Mr. Fish , who has been attacking the lease-lend bill , protested that " higher-ups " in the Administration were responsible for the committee 's decision to make the session executive , on the theory that the military and naval chiefs ' comments would be critical of the bill , but later admitted he was only guessing . Fish Plans Amendments Mr. Fish will offer a group of amendments to the measure when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression is that it will be reported with no important changes beyond a twoyear limitation to the authority proposed to be given the President to lease and lend military equipment and munitions to Britain . Secretary Hull will lead off for the Administration tomorrow in the Senate committee consideration of the bill . Either Secretary Morganthan or Secretary Knox is expected to follow while Secretary Stimson is expected to appear Wednesday . Beyond that the committee has no witness list prepared . Chairman George said last week , after a subcommittee meeting with the four Cabinet officials , that the subcommittee had suggested they put in the record their formal statements before the House group , with any elaborations or modifications they desired , and then submit to committee questioning . Mr. George , newly elevated to the committee chairmanship , will make a radio speech on the bill tomorrow night at 10:30 . He has announced his general support of the measure . The House will have nothing important before it during the week , but its Ways and Means Committee will start taking testimony Wednesday on an administration bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to eliminate the " partition " around the $4,000,000,000 debt increase specifically allowed for defense spending , and to make future Federal money-raising issues taxable by the national government . President Roosevelt is reported to have asked that the House press for quick action on the debt-limit increase measure . Last week the House passed four important defense bills , which are now before Senate committees , and consideration of these probably will begin in the next few days . Three of the bills authorize increase appropriations to the Navy for various purposes and are pending before the Senate Naval Affairs Committees . A fourth appropriates funds to build 200 merchant ships and ship yards in which to construct them . It is before the Senate Appropriations Committee , where action is expected during the week . Both the House and Senate Judiciary Committees have received Attorney General Jackson 's recommendations for reform of the proceedure of Federal administrative agencies . This is a sweeping bill , offered , in a way , as a substitute for the Logan-Walter bill vetoed by the President in the last session . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will come quickly .                     