@@706591

txt At least two demonstrations took place in France yesterday on the occasion of Bastille Day , one in Vichy and the other in Marseille , according to private advices to THE NEW YORK TIMES from the European Continent . The demonstrations occurred in connection with appeals from General Charles de Gaulle , leader of the Fighting France movement , who asked for demonstrations from patriotic Frenchmen throughout both zones of France . The information available indicated that the demonstration in Vichy was of a " passive " variety ? processions before the monument to the World War dead and the distribution of tracts dropped in the Vichy area early yesterday morning by the British Royal Air Force . The demonstration at Marseille , however , consisted of a " spontaneous " parade up the Cannebiere , the main thoroughfare of the city , by thousands of French citizens bearing small French flags . Traffic in Marseille was held up for hours as the police vainly tried to break up the demonstration , making many arrests . Two women were killed and five other persons were hurt during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vichy . Other demonstrations undoubtedly took place in other parts of the country , but censorship restrictions will prevent any news of them from reaching the outside world possibly for days , it was said . Reports from Paris told how Bastille Day , with its memories of " Liberty , Equality , Fraternity , " was marked by the severest of measures against Jews . Applicable forthwith by order of the German authorities , Jews in the occupied zone no longer may frequent public establishments or attend public manifestations . The list is so comprehensive that Jews have nothing left but to remain at home or walk aimlessly in the streets . They may not go to restaurants or eating houses of any kind , cafes , tea rooms , bars , theatres , cinemas , concerts , music halls or " other places of recreation . " They may not use public telephone booth. , , attend markets or fairs or bathe in public pools ; visit museums , libraries , public expositions or monuments of historic interest ; Aor may they take part in sport events or attend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horse races but pari-mutuel betting is forbidden to them . Finally , they may not use camping grounds for hikers . This German order , like the one issued on Monday , threatening with death the French male rela7 tives of saboteurs , and with jail the female relatives , is signed by " the supreme S. S. Elite Guard and police leader in the area of the military command in France . " The exclusion of Jews from public places will be facilitated by the fact that they must wear a yellow " Star of David . " It is reported from Paris that Marcel once a prominent journalist on the defunct Echo de Paris , has been arrested and will be prosecuted for refusing to comply with this order . The general public 's reaction to this application of the Nuremberg laws is believed to have been marked by several demonstrations in the area of the French- capital .                     