@@704983

txt The United States is looking for defense bases on the Pacific coast to do for America 's " back-door " what the deal with Great Britain has done to protect the " front-door . " This was indicated today by utterances in official quarters , following reports from San Francisco that Frank Knox , Secretary of the Navy , had declared that negotiations were already under way . Stephen T. Early , the President 's Secretary , was reminded that yesterday after a conference with the President Senator Alben W. Barkley ( D ) of Kentucky , Majority Leader , told reporters that no more defense sites were being acquired . Mr. Early responded with another question  --  had Senator Barkley not meant " on the Atlantic ? " Way Cleared for Action The reported comment of Mr. Knox dealt with Cocos Island and the Galapagos Islands , the first owned by Costa Rica and the second by Ecuador , north and south of the Panama Canal respectively . Mr. Knox also said that three new bases are being developed in Alaska . In less spectacular fashion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense program continued to move through the congressional mill . The House prepared today to approve the already-passed $5 , - 000,000,000 supplemental defense bill in its revised form . This vast new sum is soon to sluice through the munitions works and factories of the United States , increasing defense activity and incidentally , many believe , producing a business boom . Airplanes which will be paid for out of this fund have , in many instances , already been started . The House voted 143 to 75 against using the $5,000,000,000 bill as a vehicle for repealing the law authorizing the commandeering of national defense plants . It did so after hearing arguments that the plant commandeering controversy could be better cleared up in the pending conscription bill . The House put aside the draft bill temporarily to act on the privileged conference report on the appropriation bill . Voting on the first amendments to the draft bill will begin sbortly and passage is expected before the week end . The Senate Finance Committee , meanwhile , wound up hearings on the excess profits amortization bill today . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of a night session. ? Among officials appearing yesterday wet e William S. Knudsen , Leon Henderson , and John D , Biggers of the Defense Commission who criticized many restrictions written into the bill in the House . Friction Over Draft Bill Chief point of immediate friction in the defense program is over the draft bill . This provoked a fist fight on the House floor yesterday and from the very start of debate has packed the galleries . Chief obstacle to - immediate enactment of the draft is an amendment which would postpone it , pending a 60-day trial of voluntary enlistment . This would delay the matter comfortably until after the November elections . This same amendment , when it came before the Senate , was defeated by only 2 votes-41 to 43 . Mr. Roosevelt opposes such postponement . The temptation to put the unpopular step off , however , until the election is over may prove irresistible to a group of representatives , who are all up for re-election . The Navy entered the fray yesterday in a formal memorandum submitted to the House by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticized the present " draft-industry " provision , designed to force recalcitrant business firms into line , as " too drastic . " Other developments included : House Committee approval of $150,000,000 housing program for Army , Navy , and Defense establishments ; Navy approval of seven new schools to train 4,000 radio and signal men for reserves ; testimony by a United States Chamber of Commerce official , to the Senate Finance Committee , that the tax bill was " discriminatory " ? and would " jeopardize " defense ; and new agreements by the Navy with manufacturers for 2,617 war planes and 27,000 propellers.                     