@@706808

txt With planes , smoke bombs and detonators in action to provide a realistic touch , 4,000 men , women and children were moved from Camden by land and by water today in the greatest surprise test evacuation of its kind ever Staged in the country . As the first example of how civilian defense workers would swing into action if the city of 130,000 residents were bombed , the evacuation was accomplished ' with what officials said was a minimum of slips during a six-hour alert that began at 10 A. M. and lasted until shortly after 4 P. M. The evacuees , who had not been previously informed , were taken swiftly from the " bombed " city in a flotilla of ferryboats , tugboats and Coast Guard patrol dispatch boats that carried them on the Delaware River to refuge in Pennsauken township and Gloucester . Buses , bakery wagons and laundry trucks also were used to carry them to safety in eight neighboring communities . Wherever the evacuees were taken , schools had been converted into casualty stations , homes had been opened as temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by first-aid and civilian defense groups . All traffic was halted in the affected area by auxiliary police and air raid wardens when orders were received to speed the flow of the " wounded , " many of whom were taken from Camden on stretchers , to the improvised " hospitals . " Twenty-five thousand civilian defense workers took part in the dramatic test , which required an hour more to complete than had been expected . The simulated raid encompassed every phase of action that would be necessary if the in- dustrial city were actually a target of enemy planes . So realistic , in some cases , were 1 conditions that one woman suffered a heart attack , and three collapsed of exhaustion as they were being transported to Pennsauken Township on the ferry boat Bridgeton . None was in a serious condition . They were the only real casualties , although scores of the evacuees , bandaged for the wounds they were supposed to have suffered , were taken from the city . Evacuation Planned for Weeks The evacuation , which had been carefully planned in its broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 10 A. M. with the sounding of an alert from the Camden control center of the Civilian Defense Council . At once , air raid wardens , auxiliary police and firemen , Medical Corps and other specially assigned civilian groups sped to their stations . Authorities in Pennsauken , Merchantville , Haddon Heights , Haddon Field , Woodlynne , Audubon , Gloucester and Collingswood were notified that citizens in Camden were being evacuated and were asked to set up shelters , to open their homes and prepare food at emergency food stations . Simultaneously with these precautions , more than a hundred motor boats , manned by auxiliary Coast Guardsmen but each commanded by a regular Coast Guardsman , began assembling at predetermined points along the Delaware River . The central removal point in Camden was the Marine Terminal , at the foot of Becker Street , which is opposite Pine Street in Philadelphia . Ear-Splitting Blasts Heard Fifty minutes after the alert had been sounded , ear-splitting explosions shattered the usual quiet of a Sunday morning as aerial and smoke bombs were set off . Dense clouds of smoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , spotting the site as an evacuation center , splattered " incendiaries " all over the place . In all , 1,500 were evacuated by boat from the terminal amid scenes that needed only crumbling buildings and broken bodies to complete their realism . As quickly as the civilians were loaded aboard ' the boats , the vessels streaked down stream for safer regions . I In the meantime , scores of wildly dissimilar motor vehicles were assembled at previously selected centers to take over the job of getting the 2,500 away from ' the " bombed " area . The broad truck driver who an hour earlier had left Mrs. Jones 's buns on her door step was back again , this time , to take her and her family to the relative safety of the suburban areas around the city . By now , the Camden fire-fighting equipment struggling with the " blaze " at the marine terminal had been augmented by two Philadelphia fire boats that had raced across the river soon after ' the first finger of smoke appeared over the building . " Casualties " were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by air raid wardens . When the number of " wounded " at a given dressing station was estimated , the warden in charge notified the control center In Camden as to how many buses , trucks or private cars were needed . The center , in turn , communicated with emergency transportation centers , and vehicles were dispatched . Shortly after 11 o'clock the first truck loads of evacuees reached Marine Terminal . It was 11:43 A.M. when the first " casualty " arrived . She was Miss Katherine Hewitt , 24 years old , who was brought to the terminal in a bread wagon and was suffering from a " broken leg . " She was transported swiftly to a . Coast Guard cutter and the bread wagon , with the stretcher restored to its equipment , raced away on another errand . Most of the civilians removed by boat were taken by two ferryboats , one of which transported 700 to Pennsauken , while the other was taking 500 to Gloucester . They were escorted downstream by Coast Guard cutters , the gm crews of which manned their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Confusion Dispelled Momentary confusion accompanied the arrival of the first evacuees in each of the cooperating suburbs . It was only momentary , however , as civilian defense and military authorities rapidly restored order and dispatched the Camdenites with a minimum of delay to the improvised shelters , feeding stations and emergency hospitals . For most of the 4,000 , it was an all-day assignment . They were not taken back to Camden until after the alert was over , which meant that many of them did not reach their homes until shortly before nightfall . Civilian defense officials who supervised or observed the test included Mayor George Brunner of Camden ; Willard Schriber , coordinator of defense in Camden ; Colonel Charles F. Stanton , New Jersey Military District Commander , and Rex McCrossen , State Civilian Defense Administrator for South Jersey . Some 776 regular and auxiliary Coast Guardsmen , under Captain E. A. Coffin , district Coast Guard officer , took part .                     