@@705811

txt The priorities system at present governs the flow of basic industrial materials according to the " squealometer . " The louder the squeals from prioritiespinched consumers , the more Washington tries to control the stream of materials . Recently , for instance , when the squealometer ( a term coined by a priorities official ) registered trouble in steel and copper , those two metals were clamped under more strict controls . But one of the two most important impending changes in the priorities system will be the gradual adoption of a governing device more accurate and scientific than the squealometer. most officials agree . More Scientific Process on Way The new device will be " scheduling . " Scheduling is a process whereby the government checks a manufacturer 's intake of raw materials against his prospective output of finished products . By reviewing each requisition for raw materials , the government holds the intake of raw materials  --  whether for defense or nondefense purposes  --  down to the amount necessary for current operations , thus spreading as far as possible the available supplies of scarce materials. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control by mathematics ; it 's complicated and titanic , and it will be slow in coming . Principal reason that the squealometer be discarded , officials believe , is that the pressure of squeals will blow it up . The protests from manufacturers , labor organizations and tradesmen who are being pinched by priorities are too much for it to endure . Are Materials Being Hogged ? Behind these protests is the suspicion . shared by many officials in the defense organizations . that the Army . Navy and lease-lend operations are bogging more raw materials than are n. " : eded. squeezing civilian production more painfully than it needs to be . Officials cite three principal reasons for this suspicion . First , the air is full of stories about military purchases being larger than necessary . The Army , for instance , at one time submitted to OPM a cartridge manufacturing schedule which looked adequate for full-time fighting by a fourmillion-man Army . At another time . OPM asked the Army to check over the size of its 37 mm shell orders . At still another time the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in case . Rumors that the British were lease-lending American steel for reexport from Britain was another example of these stories . Another variation of these " too big " stories are the examples of unnecessary uses to which , the military forces put scarce materials . like using brass hinge pins in doors and altiminum hat-stretchers . Second , there are recurring reports of uneconomical use of scarce materials due to bad timing . An aircraft company , for example , is said to have 18 months ' supply of aluminum extrusions but to be short aluminum for wing tips . Similarly , shipyards are said to have several months ' supply of steel plates . Third . for some reason which priorities officials still ca n't explain , the consumption of raw materials for defense continues to exceed all estimates and to appear abnormally large in proportion to final output . " It 's like a desert river , " an official said , speaking of the flow of raw materials into munitions , " the stream goes underground and you lose sight of it for a while . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a part of it has disappeared . " OPM Ca n't Explain Variations Even though OPM officials allow for the fact that they have a very low opinion of the Army 's estimates of the raw materials neces-sary to make munitions , they still are unable to explain the variation between estimates and actuality . Being without information to refute these suspicions about " unnecessary " limitation on civilian supplies , the priorities system probably will be pushed to abandon the squealometer , commodity by commodity , in favor of some more exact system . Most officials are reluctant to undertake the cumbersome task of scheduling the flow of raw materials . They do n't like the prospect of " having everything move on a ticket from Washington " through each step in the elaborate mechanism of American industry . This reluctance is reinforced in several officials by a feeling that " it 's a good safety measure " to let munitions makers have superabundant stocks of materials , even at the expense of more drastic curtailment of civilian uses . One official who is currently checking the raw material inventories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , if 1 found a factory with four months ' supply of brass , I would be relieved rather than otherwise . " However , as the supply-demand situation tightens in a commodity , the priorities system shows a tendency to move toward exact scheduling . The Case of Aluminum Aluminum used in aircraft is the only instance of full-fledged scheduling yet attempted by defense authorities . On the seventh of each month , each aircraft manufacturer sends to the Army at Wright Field . Ohio . and to OPM copies of its aluminum orders . The amounts called for on these orders are checked by officials against the manufacturer 's scheduled operations . If the orders seem excessive , they are reduced . Aluminum can be shipped only on officially-approved orders . The fact that aluminum now has only one important user , the aircraft industry , makes scheduling of it easier than scheduling of any metal like steel or copper having multifarious uses . However , the priorities system is moving in three ways toward " squeezing the water " out of defense orders and controlling them : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required gradually to submit their orders to scrutiny and " freezing . " For instance , OPM has reviewed the orders for nickel steel placed by the aircraft industry and is now turning to the orders placed by ordnance manufacturers . Each major group of consumers of nickel steel will be investigated . After assuring itself that orders are not excessive . OPM " freezes " them by assigning priorities to the amounts and delivery schedules which it believes proper . Signs point to a similar check on copper and , later , on other metals . Second , a similar control , starting from another angle , is used on certain defense construction projects , including shipbuilding . The amounts of materials needed for the project and the time at which they will be needed are checked by OPM , and priority ratings are granted only on approved amounts and time schedules . Third , there are plans  --  as yet almost wholly untried but much talked about and favored  --  for " allocating facilities , " a process which might result in government-sponsored cartelization of basic industries so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a higher level of output . These three substitutes for the squealometer , although thus far only narrowly applied , point the direction of the priorities system 's future growth .                     