@@704625

txt DELEGATES CLOSE President 's Two Slates Are Hard Pressed in Many Sections DEWEY RACE A SURPRISE Republican Total Vote Runs Greater Than the Democrats ' Count by . 10-to-8 Ratio President Roosevelt led Vice President Garner by more than two to one in returns from . Wisconsin 's Democratic Presidential preference primary yesterday . In the Republican contest for delegates Thomas E. Dewey held a substantial . lead over Senator . Vandenberg . Page 1 . In Kansas City John B. Gage , heading the Fusionist or " antiPendergast machine " ticket , was elected Mayor over Flavel Robertson , Democrat . Page 8 . In New York State a slate of Garner delegates trailed their unpledged rivals . Returns were inconclusive in the fight between the right and left wings of the American Labor party for control of the State committee . Page 1 . The Wisconsin Primary By TURNER CATLEDGE Special to THE NEW Yoaa Mars . MILWAUKEE , Wednesday , April 3 ? President Roosevelt and District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey of New York City piled up commanding leads in incomplete returns early today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was leading Vide President Garner by more than two to one iii incomplete reports from the Democratic preferential primary . Delegates-at-large pledged to Mr. Dewey were steadily pulling away from those who proposed to vote for Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan at the forthcoming Republican convention at Philadelphia . The first 825 precincts to report in the Democratic race , out of a total of 3,011 , gave Mr. Roosevelt 41,108 , to 18,089 for Mr. Garner . Virtually all the districts reporting were outside Milwaukee . Mr. Dewey made a clean sweep of the four posts for delegate at large and two district delegates in each of the ten Congressional districts , on the basis of incomplete returns , maintaining a two-to-one lead over the slate pledged to Senator Vandenberg in almost every contest , The United Press reported . In the first 826 boxes tabulated in the Republican contest , the four delegates at large pledged to Mr. Dewey averaged above 40,000 while those supporting Mr. Vandenberg averaged less than 24,000 . These returns showed the leading Dewey-instructed. delegate , former Governor Fred R. Zimmerman , to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goodland , the leading Vandenberg delegate candidate . Figures in the delegates races showed the Republican vote exceeding the Democratic by a ratio approaching 10 to 8 . This fact , plus the comparatively good showing for Mr. Garner and his delegates , led Wisconsin observers to interpret results as a check to the third-term movement and to the New Deal . Roosevelt-Farley Slate Ahead Candidates for delegates in the three ; cornered Democratic contest Were running comparatively close together , but those of the so-called " Roosevelt-Farley " slate , sponsored by Charles E. Broughton , National Committeeman , were in the lead in almost every section . Garnerpledged anti-third term delegates were running close behind , in a number of places , however , thus continuing the threat of the Vice President 's backers to win at least some of the Wisconsin delegates for the Chicago convention . With the count just starting in Milwaukee County , John J. Slocum and William R. Callahp , co-chairmen of the Wisconsin Garner for President Club , issued the following statement : " The vote registered by Vice President Garner in Wisconsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country districts , is a thorough vindication of the courageous position taken by the Garner-pledged delegates against the terrific odds of Presidential prestige which they faced . " At this time it appears probable // ROOSEVELT LEADS 2 TO I IN PRIMARY // . from the incomplete returns that a number of Garner delegates have been elected . The exact number can not be known for some hours . " Just after this statement was issued John W. Callahan , 22-yearold Marquette University law student and candidate for delegate at large on the Garner ticket , moved into third place . If he maintains that position he will be selected as one of the four delegates at large . Virtually all the early count related to the Democratic preferential primary , which has no binding effect on the delegates , and to the contests for delegates at large in the two parties . Scarcely any rtturns had been received from the individual delegate races in the State 's ten Congressional districts . These results will probably not be until later today . Rural Returns Counted Earlier Most of the early returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milwaukee , local interest shifted from the Presidential to the Mayoralty contest , as Daniel W. Hoan , Socialist Mayor , dropped behind his youthful opponent , Carl F. Zeidler . President Roosevelt 's lead over Mr. Garner was no surprise . Garner mahagers had no illusions about polling a big vote in the preference primary . Indeed , they professed to be greatly pleased at what they characterized the " slight " margin piled up by the President . Their statisticians , including Emil Hurja , former assistant to James A. Farley , who came here to ob-. serve the Garner campaign , estimated that it would be possible for the Vice President to capture four or five of the State 's twenty-four convention delegates if the early trends continued through the count . Mr. ' Dewey 's lead over Mr. Vandenberg was a surprise to mast political observers in Wisconsin . However , he was picked to run a neck-and-neck race with the Michigan Senator , especially after his personal visit to the State last week . Few forecasts gave him more than an even split of the delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tables would be turned When the large Milwaukee vote began to roll in . Such a reversal was considered unlikely , however . Scarcely second in local importance to the returns in the Presidential primaries were figures indicating the imminent danger of defeat of Milwaukee 's Socialist Mayor , Daniel W. Hoan . With more than one-fourth of the city Mayoralty vote counted , Mr. Hoan , dean of the nation 's big city Mayors , trailed his youthful and conservative ? opponent , Carl F. Zeidler , by more than 3,000 . Yesterday 's voting ended one of the most mixed-up primaries this State has ever seen . On the Democratic side the ' voters had the first opportunity to cast their ballots for either Mr. Roosevelt or Mr. Garner in the preferential primary . So far as delegates to the coming party convention was concerned , however , the preferential election meant nothing . In addition , they had three slates of delegate candidates , two pledged to Mr. Roosevelt and the other to Mr. Garner  --  four delegates at large and ** each of the ten Congressional districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how badly the New Deal leader and his slate of third-term delegates would defeat the anti-third term forces of Mr. Garner . It was felt many days ago that Mr. Rooevelt would defeat Mr. Garner in the preference vote , but backers of the veteran statesman hoped to elect four or five delegates and thus show that Mr : Roosevelt might not be able to gain the third-term nomination without ' a fight . - The Vandenberg-Dewey contest tightened up considerably in the last few days after Mr. Dewey 's trip into the State . ' Unable to produce their . candidates on the Stump , backers of Senator Vandenberg relied on superior organization and 1 the pulling power of their individual candidates for delegates . Observers generally agreed that should Mr. Vandenberg lose a majority of the delegates to Mr. Dewey , it would be due largely to his declination to make a personal campaign in the State . Taft Backers Watching Backers of Presidential . candidates who did not enter the primary were among the most inter-ested watchers of the Wisconsin test . Supporters of Senator Rob-1 ert A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Vandenberg in the Republican primary , ' expecting thereby to nip the Dewey candidacy in the bud . The Taft forces have been accused by backers of other candidates of offering financial and managerial aid to the Vandenberg campaign . The most interested onlookers on the Democratic side were support-ers of Paul V. , Federal Security Administrator . The forces have a State headquarters organization here in Wisconsin , but it was inactive as such during the campaign . The outcome in Wisconsin is expected to have a strong influence on the pre-convention campaigns In both parties , and especially to test the strength of the " stop Roosevelt " and " stop Dewey " ? movetnents , into which the contests have developed . The effects may be noted next Tuesday - in similar primaries in Illinois and Nebraska . The President and Mr. Garner have been entered in the preferential primary in the former , ' and Messrs . Dewey and Vandenberg in a popular test in the ; latter . Mr. Dewey 's name will also appear , unopposed , on the Republican ballot in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MILWAUKEE , April ** Republican ballot offered voters a chance to show their support of Senator Vandenberg or District Attorney Dewey by electing party convention delegations pledged to them . In each party , twenty-four convention delegate seats , two for each Congressional district and four for the State at large , were at stake . ' In addition to voting for delegates pledged either to the President or to Vice President Garner , Democrats could show their preference by balloting for Mr. Roosevelt or Mr. Garner .                     