@@706528

txt House Ways and Means Committee members are dissatisfied with yesterday 's decisions on the post-war credit plan and the closely related 94 ' , , excess profits tax rate In ! ejecting the credit  --  although committed to its general principle  --  and voting to retain the tentatively approved 94 , , tax on excess profits , the Committee went against the advice of its own experts . the Treasury Department and War Production Board head Donald Nelson Several members said they regarded the action , which they attributed in part to frayed tempers , as a serious mistake . It is their Intention to seek a reconsideration next week before the committee turns its tax program over to the drafting service to be whipped into legislative form . A new withholding program for personal income taxes was proposed to the House Ways and Means Committee by the Treasury . This contemplates collections beginning January 1 at the rate of 10 , , of the amount above basic exemptions , half of which world be credited against the payments due on taus year 's taxes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Story below . Reject Cut In Flat 94% Rate The post-war credit plan . submitted by the Treasury and supported in part by the staff of the joint committee on taxation , was defeated by a vote of 11 to 9 . The Committee then voted down a motion to cut the excess profits tax rate from 94 , , to SO ' , and a second motion to cut the rate to 90 , ' , The post-war credit is designed to make an extremely high excess profits tax workable . The credit amounts to a refund ? after the war of a part of the excess profits taxes paid during the war The Treasury had propose a that the credit consist of 34 , , of a company 's excess profits This would have the effect of reducing the excess profits tax to SW , . The credit plan is based on the pretty well established fact that a tax rate which approaches a confiscation level not only removes the incentive to keep costs dow n and maintain production at maximum efficiency , but actually encourages waste With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , excess profits tax back after the war , when it could be used for conversion to peacetime production . it was thought that industrial producers would watch their costs more closely . In a letter this week to Committee Chairman Doughton , W P B. Chief Nelson warned that a 94 , , excess profits tax rate without provision for a post-war credit might endanger war production by removing the incentive for efficient production . While the Committee did not make details of the Treasury proposal public , its general outline is known . ' Under the plan , a corporation would be given a credit amounting to of its excess profits . This credit would be represented by certificates . The certificates could be converted into cash at stated intervals after the war . How Credits Would Be Con  --  erted The credit arising from 3942 excess profits would be convertible in the third year after the war is over . The credit arising out of 1943 excess profits would be convertible in the fourth year after the war and credit arising out of 1944 excess profits would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of the fifth year would be convertible an the sixth year . Also , the Treasury proposed that a corporation converting its credit be required to report the receipts as income subject to the corporation income taxes . Committee members found many faults in Treasury plan . Some thought the credits should be represented by Government bonds of fixed maturity . Others held it should take the form of non-interest bearing , non-negotiable bonds which would become interest-bearing and negotiable after the war so that a corporation could liquidate them whenever it had need for cash . Before the whole plan was thrown out , the Committee approved an amendment which would have made receipts from conversion of the credit taxable as a capita ' gain at a rate - , f instead of taxable as income at regular income rates . Immediately before the plan was voted on , a row was precipitated when a proposal by Representative Gearhart ( Rep. , Calif. ) , for consideration of a general post-war corporation relief plan was blocked . Mr. Gearhart made his motion Thursday and a move to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . But action on it was headed off by what members termed a parliamentary maneuver by supporters of the Treasury plan . The Gearhart motion called for consideration of a fund . to be built up from a portion of excess profits taxes . which would be parcel .. el out to companies needing financial assistance after the war .                     