@@707423

txt Some alleviation of " the worst famine in India 's history " has been brought about by the arrival of 650,000 tons of food grains during the past three months , by the establishment of government feeding centers , and by the application ul food price controls , Food Department authorises have announced . Even so , it is acknowledged that the situation is still serious , espc , cially in the rural areas . The Food Department of the Central Government now plans to send an average of ot 3,000 tons of food grains daily to Calcutta during the next two imonths . Much of this  --  some 2,000 tons ? , I will be dispatched daily to outlyI ing districts by road , rail , and river transport , with the assistance of the Army . Sir J. P. Srivastava , head of the Food Department , has disclosed that he hopes a food rationing system may be adopted in Calcutta shortly . He has a reserve of 50,000 tons of grain with which to start the operation of such a system . Rice Control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to get people back from the-cities to their home districts , the establishment of rest camps as recommended by the Viceroy , Lord Wavell , and with improved distribution of supplies to the districts , some further amelioration of the situation may be expected . The next big problem will be to I obtain control of the winter rice crop  --  which from all accounts promises to be excellent  --  so that it does not go into hoards or " black . markets . " The Bengal Government is now working out details of such a Ischeme , but it is probable that a l good deal of assistance will be required from central authorities before putting any scheme into effect . The Bengal Government has also announced lower ceiling prices for rice and paddy from the first of December until Jan. 14. and still further reduction from Jan. 15 on ' ward . They have also stated the optimistic view that the prospects ! justify the hope that actual market prices will be well below fixed maximum wholeSale prices . But everything will depend upon their success in preventing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's visit to Bengal was an event of immense importance , both in its practical results and psychological effect . This assurance of sympathy and desire for resolute action on the part of the head of the state has been helpful in restoring public confidence . It gave a right lead to any district officers disposed to water down the facts of the situation , and stimulated the Bengal Government to redouble its efforts . Active assistance by the Army to the civil authorities in distributing the food to districts outside Calcutta , which was immediately set under way by the Commander in Chief , Gen. Sir Claude Auchinleck , at the Viceroy 's request , has already proved its great usefulness and must have a steadying influence on the public . Since these new moves there has been a notable lessening of political recrimination in regard to the famine , a certain softening of the atmosphere of discussion , and a more constructive approach to the whole tragic solution . Other factors working in that direction include the arrival of food grains from outside India , assistance offered by Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deep interest and concern shown in the House of Commons debate . The feeling of isolation and lack of understand-. ing on the part- , of the Outside ' world which oppressed the Indians , in addition to their knowledge of the grim realities of the Bengal situation , has been to some extent dispelled . In the forthcoming food debates scheduled to take place in the Central Assembly , the European group , the Moslem League , the Nationalist Party , and the Independent Party are expected to unite in asking for the appointment of a Royal Commission , or some other body , to inquire into the various questions relating to the present distress , including the causes , effectiveness of the remedies applied , ' and measures to prevent a recurrence in any part of India . Members of the Congress Party who have reappeared in the Assembly at this session to participate in th'ese debates are opposed to the idea of a Royal Commission . Royal Commissions are not associated with rapid action , but in any case no such body can be expected to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searching inquiry Into long-range problems , in the case of Bengal , and other problems connected with food production in other parts of India might eventually serve a most useful purpose . 