@@705706

txt 0 . British shipping in the Pacific has been very nearly eliminated and still is being constantly reduced . Very few English bottoms are now operating either between Canada and the United States or between the West Coast of America and Australia and the Far East . There only two notable exceptions to this . One consists of the shipping lines owned by Dominion companies which have been reluctant to adopt the British Government 's policy . It is admitted there has been considerable opposition , not only from private firms in ' the Dominions but also from the Australian and New Zealand Governments . London is not in a position to override this resistance but agreement is slowly being ' obtained and a policy or " cross trades , " whereby British lines are turning over to American shipping all services outside of the war zones , is being gradually carried through . The other exception is that of a certain amount of Free Norwegian shipping operating in the Pacific which though technically allied to Britain does not come directly under the control of the Ministry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious exception . Some Exceptions 1 . There are certain shipping routes outside of the war zone where " cross trades " with Americans are not possible . The most obvious ones are those from Canada and the East Coast of the United States to South Africa . in the case of arms , munitions , and airplanes . Britain offered this route to the Elder Dempster Line , who refused it on the grounds that it would be a violation of the Neutrality Act for American ships to carry munitions and war materials . 2 . The British maintain they would like nothing better than to turn over all shipping routes outside of the war zone to merchant vessels flying the American flag , but the Americans simply have not got the ships to take over a lot of British routes . It is pointed out here that most of the available American shipping is being concentrated on the route from New York to Suez carrying supplies that Britain is using in the Middle East , and that that explains in part why more American bottoms are not available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these " cross trades " are being carried out as Cast as America can produce ships . 5 . A certain relatively small amount of British shipping services is still being operated between the Dominions where this is considered iecessary from the viewpoint of maintaining essential British Imperial communications . Even these essential services , however , are in process of being reduced . The speed ) f this process is said here to depend mainly on the capacity of American shipping to take over the job . 6 . At the same time no attempt is made here to hide the fact that there has been a certain amount of tension between British and American shipping interests over certain tranfers or " cross trades " in the Pacific . The British believe they have good reason to suspect that certain powerful private American shipping interests have been bringing pressure to bear  --  among other ways by spreading propaganda rumors to the effect that the British are competing with America while crying for more ships ? so as to exploit England 's present difficulties in order to get hold of Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . Thus certain delays have been due to the fact that British firms wanted more definite promises as to what was to happen after the war and American lines were only willing to give vague assurances that no unfair advantage would be taken . As this country is primarily dependent on its merchant shipping the British Government naturally was not prepared to force private firms to relinquish entirely their shipping position without certain safeguards . It is considered a matter of national interest for the future as well as a matter of practical business not to give up all shipping advantages that have been developed over many years without satisfactory guarantees regarding postwar readjustment . Aiding Wal . Effort 7 . It would be a mistake to assume that where British or Allied shipping is still operating outside of the actual war zone these ships are not pulling their weight in the war effort . In the Pacific , for instance , some British ships are still operating to bring ores , rubber , and other war materials from Malaya and the Netherlands East Indies to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transshipped to Britain . The necessity of obtaining these materials without delay and the inability of American lines to provide sufficient shipping facilities is given here as the reason why all commerce of this sort has not yet been transferred to American vessels . Evidence of the fact that Britain is not endeavoring to carry on its shipping business as usual outside of the war zones is seen in the example of the Tasmanian apple crop , which at normal times is bought by the British and is transferred almost in its entirety to the United Kingdom in the autumn . Last year the British Government bought the crop , but had to sacrifice it because not a single British ship could be allocated to bring it to Britain . The same thing has been true of some other Dominion crops . It is emphasized here that Sir Arthur Salter , as shipping representative of the British Government in America , was sent there to deal with precisely such shipping problems , and any complaints of unfair competition with American shipping ought to be reported to him . The conviction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any such apparent competition or will be glad to take steps to remedy it at once .                     