@@706925

txt America 's liberalized cable censorship is permitting Australians to receive the full impact of the storm of criticism and doubt which has been raised over President Roosevelt 's nomination of his campaign manager , Edward J. Flynn of the Bronx , as Minister to Canberra ? and personal Ambassador to the Southwest Pacific . A. D. Rothman of the Sydney Morning Herald , one of the leading Australian correspondents in the ' United States , wryly informs his readers that worse appointments have been made in the past and adds the consoling note that " it is extremely doubtful that the Senate will confirm his appointment . " The nomination of the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee , who is resigning his party post next week , " has already assumed proportions of a great political sensation , " Mr. Rothman cabled his paper , " although , " he added , " men , perhaps less suited for diplomatic or other high posts and appointed for reasons of gratitude by various administrations under not widely dissimilar circumstances from the case of this Democratic leader , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government posts in the past . " Without . entering the discussion ag to the suitability of Flynn for the post , it can be said that the reason his resignation is arousing so much opposition is that , since the last congressional election , the Democratic Party , from the President downward , is on the defensive and its acts are subject to more intense scrutiny than ever before . . . " But in case of Mr. Flynn , it is extremely doubtful that the Senate will confirm his appointment . " This judgment or , one might suspect , this note of optimism , is not unanimous in the Capital today . The fact is that Republican concentration on the purely political and personal aspects of the arguments against the appointment and obvious determinatio , n to make the opposition completely one-sided and partisanly profitable is manifestly solidifying the Democratic ranks . Democrats Absent This was evident in the Senate yesterday when Senator Styles Bridges ( R ) of New Hampshire , surrounded by 22 of the 38 G. O. P. members , found virtually all of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his speech only one Democrat was on the floor . It now looks as though Democratic Party lines would hold against the Republican onslaught . Many now suspect that the attacks on Mr. Flynn have been so extreme but so                     