@@711543

txt When he spoke from the platform of the nearly filled Hollywood Bowl , studded with movie celebrities from Ginger Rogers and Hedda Hopper to Charles Coburn and " the Great Gildersleeve , " Harold Perry  --  the Governor warned : " We must neither ignore the Communists nor outlaw them . If we . ignore them , we give them the cloak of immunity they want . If we outlaw them , we give them the martydom . they want even more . In this country there 'll be no thought police . " While pledging that Communists who break the nation 's laws against treason will " get traitor 's treatment , " Mr. Dewey is putting his primary reliance upon " making this free system of our better for every one of us . " Social Security Pledged To his end , he gave assurance to Californians  --  and to the country  --  that " we will increase and expand the social security program for Americans to remove the anxieties of insecurity , of unemployment , and of old age . We will deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " On the basis of confidential information reaching his train from his-adviser , John Foster Dulles , in Paris , where the American , British , French , and Soviet foreign ministers or their deputies are in conference , Mr. Dewey is giving strong backing to the position which the United States is taking ' &160:gee-; tharbiliartis-an foreign policy is not going to be seriously strained by the , presidential campaign . In approving the stand against allowing Soviet acts of force to drive the western powers from Berlin , Mr. Dewey hailed the Berlin air lift as " carrying the freight of peace . " He said that the United States must and will prove its " determination to stand by the free peoples of Europe until United they can stand by them- selves . " In Berlin , he added , American " planes and men are giving the world fresh proof that America has what it takes . " Throughout his two days in California , all along his speaking route from San Bernardino to San Francisco , Governor Dewey manifestly is retiping political rewards through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be " a full partner in the next national administration . " He says again and again that he and Governor Warren " want the same things for America , " and in emphasizing this he is not unaware that Mr. Warren has earned overwhelming popular majorities here even during the time Mr. Dewey was losing in California four years ago . s . The two Republican nominees may need all the assistance they can give each other , for , unless they are only counseling against overconfidence , ? the California GOP political strategists who have boarded the train along the way are advising that this state " is not in the bag yet . " They point out that Henry A. Wallace is losing strength and that the latest Gallup Poll shows that President Truman has gained 6 percentage points since early September . It would be foolish to make fiat predictions about California at this stage , but the consensus still is ' widely on the Dewey-Warren side . Appeals to Workers Pointedly directing his remarks to those who may be tempted to follow Communist ideology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose rights to organize , to bargain collectively , and to strike he promises to uphold , to bear in mind that , " , behind , the km:L.:curtain lives the most ruthlessly exploited worker in the world . " Still without mentioning him by name , Mr , Dewey accused Mr. Truman , by virtue of his " red herring " remark , " of shutting his eyes to the rampant evil " of Cornmunism . " He says that here at home , " Communists and fellow travelers have risen to positions of trust in our government " and declared that this is giving aid and comfort to the cause of Communist aggression everywhere .                     