@@704685

txt A Senate-House conference committee yesterday reached a complete agreement on a comprehensive transportation bill which probably will be reported to the two houses next week for final action . Passage of the legislation at this session of Congress thus seems virtually assured . Announcing the agreement , conference committee members said they would meet next Wednesday to sign their report . The conference report has been agreed on except for the language in certain instances , it was said Full details of the measure as finally agreed upon will be withheld until Wednesday . In general , however , the bill brings the domestic water carriers under regulation of the Interstate Commerce Commission : broadens Federal regulation over the highway carriers : creates a special board to study and report on subsidies to the several transportation agencies ; and generally seeks to bring about more equal regulation of the three main types of freight carriers Delete Railroad Consolidations Senator Wheeler ( Dem .. Mont 1 , chairman of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee announced that the conferees had deleted from their agreement all provisions pertaining railroad consolidations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Wheeler said he thought the measure was " a very good " one and that it was " fair " to the water and highway carriers " The conferees leaned over backward to protect their interests . " he declared . The conference agreement is a compromise on separate bills passed by the two houses at the last regular session . These measures differed in so many important respects that the conferees have been working on their agreement since early this year . Both bills as originally passed by the two houses provided for repeal of the consolidation provisions of the transportation act of 1920 . This would have restored to the carriers the right to propose their own mergers along natral lines instead of having to follow a prearranged national consolidation plan formulated by the ICC . Settle Consolidations Point The House , however , added an amendment which , in effect would have prohibited consolidations if railroad labor was adversely affected by such tie-ups . Actually , this amendment would have prevented any consolidations , and . as the House conferees insisted on its retention if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate all sections pertaining to consolidations This action preserves the existing requirement that consolidations must he carried out in conformity with the ICC 's official plan . While railroad officials here were disappointed that the conferees were unable to agree on a change in the consolidation provisions , they asserted that the existing statutory requirement in this connection was more preferable than its repeal with the restrictive amendment . The conferees previously announced an agreement on three changes in the Interstate Commerce Act , which should greatly assist the railroads in making rate adjustments to meet the competition of other agencies The most important of these is one which will shorten materially the time which must elapse before railroads can make " fourth section " changes in their rates A second change would extend the general prohibitions of Section 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act to the water carriers . Long and Short Haul Clause Generally , the fourth section of the ICC act , also called the " long and short haul " clause , provides that a railroad may not charge less for ta long distance haul between two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hauls between those points on traffic moving in the same direction . However , exceptions may be made covering the movement of specific commodities between designated points when the ICC finds that granting relief to the carrier in those cases does not upset the general principle and is in the public interest . The third alteration accepted by the conferees was repeal- of the " equi-distant clause " of the fourth section . This clause restricts the authority of the ICC to allow departures from the fourth section and nas been most troublesome for railroads seeking rate changes to meet competition . The legislation as agreed upon by the conferees will contain a broad declaration of policy which would place Congress on record as favoring equal competitive opportunity for all types of transport agencies . Railroad officials consider this highly important .                     