@@708753

txt One hundred thousand families in the New York area who pay $100 or more a month in rent are subject to higher charges under the decision handed down on Monday by the United States Emergency Court of Appeals , holding rent for the so-called luxury type of living quarters to , be " inadequate " under present ceilings , a study of rental records showed last night . Nearly 50,000 of these higher-rent suites are in Manhattan , and about 8 per cent of the apartments there are affected by the order . While officials of the Office of Price Administration were considering whether they should grant an increase without further ado or try a court appeal , it was reported in authoritative circles that if the former course of action were followed the OPA order probably would not call for much more than a 5 per cent rise in the higherpriced suites .. Rentals of $99 or less are not affected by the order , and even for the " luxury " apartments and hotel suites present rentals will apply until the OPA acts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until . July 25 , to comply with its decision . Reactions to the Decision Mixed reactions and some uncertainty followed announcement of the decision , which applies to all of New York City , Nassau and Suffolk Counties . Mayor La Guardia , who had opposed the appeal by the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee and other representatives of landlords for a blanket rise of 10 per cent on rent for housing here , expressed disappointment over the court 's position . " I do n't ' like it , " he commented . " From the facts submitted , I do not believe the finding is warranted . Here we broke our backs to reduce realty taxes , and immediately the rents are raised . The court is wrong ! " Spokesmen for several realty organizations expressed gratification , but contended that the decision did not go far enough and that increases were in order also for apartments renting for less than $100 , on the ground that operating costs and other charges had risen for all types of buildings . OPA executives expressed the view that the ruling was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general purposes of control were upheld and the order for a rise affected " only a small per- percentage " of the rented quarters in this area . Daniel P. Woolley , regional head of the OPA , hailed the decision as a vindication of the agency 's position on low-rent and medium-rent apartments , which , he pointed out , represented the " great bulk of all dwelling units in this area . " He said he believed less than 3 per cent of all dwellings in New York City were subject to increases under the court ruling . In Washington , Rent Administrator Ivan D. Carson expressed gratification over the decision , explaining that it involved adjustments only for a " comparatively select and small group " of landlords here , as compared with a 10 per cent over-all increase asked in the landlords ' petition on which the court acted . OPA Studies Three Courses The OPA is studying three possible courses of action , and hopes to announce its position soon . One would be to grant a modest rise in rents for the luxury suites ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the third would be a request to the Emergency Court of Appeals for a rehearing and reconsideration on the basis of new evidence . John J. Scofield , regional OPA rent executive here , emphasized the fact that ceiling rents for all classes of apartments and homes would remain unchanged until further action was taken by the OPA . Escalator clauses in leases calling for periodic rises also will remain inoperative for the time being at least , Robert S. Fougner , regional OPA rent attorney , explained . Reference by the appeals court to rental incomes of 1939 led some tenants to believe their rents might be returned to the levels of that year , when they were paying in many instances considerably higher rates than at present on big apartments . OPA executives reported that if a decision were made to give higher rents above $100 in compliance with the court ruling , no " extreme " rises would be countenanced . William E. Russell , chairman of the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee , which sponsored the appeal for a rent rise above the ceiling level of March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the court decision indicated certain rents were " not generally fair and equitable . " He added that Charles E. Hughes Jr. , the organization 's counsel , was making a study of " the lengthy and detailed opinion " to clarify its application , but said his committee believed the suggested increase must be " substantial " in order that owners might receive the same net operating return as in 1939 . Mr. Russell noted that the War Labor Board now had under con- : consideration another increase in the pay of apartment-house employes and a shortening of their work periods , w which would further increase building owners ' expenses . Victor J. Matthews , president of the Brooklyn Real Estate Board , said the rent rises would be applicable to a number of apartments there , particularly in Brooklyn Heights , parts of Flatbush and Bay Ridge , and the Eastern Parkway and Park Slope neighborhoods . He expressed disappointment that the rise was not granted for other than luxury housing . The ruling " may bring us nearer to the inflationary gulf , " said 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a harbinger of what is to follow , " he said . " Whatever wage increases are granted by the WLB to these apartment-house employes will have to be passed on to the tenants . " John J. Lamula , legislative representative of the Joint Rent Action Committee , expressed fear that owners would use the decision " as a lever to pry the door open to wholesale rent increases for all apartment dwellers in this area . " He argued that increased occupancy in the war years and less decorating and repairs had more than offset any increase h1 operating costs .                     