@@711966

txt The I pending $5,50,000,000 authorization for continuing the European Recovery Program was brought nearer Senate passage today by an Administration compromise drawing the teeth of a proposal to suspend American aid to any nation not in compliance with United Nations mandates . At the same time Senate and House leaders agreed to rush action Monday on an unexpended balance of $54,000,000 under the China aid program . Unlike European recovery funds , which were appropriated on a fifteen-month basis , the China aid appropriation expires at midnight tonight . Senator Owen Brewster , Republican , of Maine , disclosed the compromise had been contrived by Senator Arthur H. Vandehberg , ranking Republican member of the Foreign Relations Committee , with the State Department . His original proposal , while applying to any country in violation of Security Council orders , was directed at the Netherlands in retaliation for its Indonesia policy . Conceding that the compromise would pass " overwhelmingly , " the Maine Republican said that by its terms " aid would be denied if the United States would be violating any United Nations obligation not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations was taking preventive or enforcement action . " The difference between the origfinal and compromise proposals , Senator Brewster explained , was that whereas his plan called for automatic sanctions by this country in the form of aid suspension , the compromise would warrant such action only after sanctions had been invoked by the Security Council to implement its own directive . Senator Brewster said the compromise proposal was far from acceptable to him but that he would support it as " better than nothing . " His chief objection to it , he said , was that it would amount only to " a slap on the wrist " and could be nullified entirely by a single veto on the Security Council . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee rejected the Brewster proposal when it was offered in that group as an amendment to the pending measure . The reason ' given for its rejection then was that it was not germane to a foreign aid bill . The Economic Cooperation Administration suspended all grants ' in aid of Indonesia as a dependency of the Netherlands when the Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protective custody . It based its action on a finding that the country 's system of distribution had been interfered with an that it was without any assurance its aid funds would be used for recovery purposes . The United Nations Security Council subsequently issued a cease fire order , directed the release of the Indonesian authorities and in general commanded a restoration of the status quo ante . Fund Agreement is Reached Under an amendment introduced today by Senator William F. Knowland , Republican , of California , and accepted by Chairman Tom Connally of the Foreign Relations Committee , the $54,000,000 of unexpended China aid funds would be made available to the President through Feb. 15 , 1950 . The funds could be used anywhere in China " which he may deem to be not under Communist domination , to be furnished in such manner and on such terns and conditions as he may determine without regard to the foregoing provisions of this act . " Senator Elbert D. Thomas , Democrat of Utah , made the point that the banning of Communist China areas from benefits of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " wherever there was a question as to the extent of Communist control and would lay the United States open to charge of having caused food riots in China . In the absence from the- floor of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , Republican of Massachusetts , who had expressed some interest in the amendment , the Senate agreed to let the proposal go over until Monday when it becomes automatically the first order of business . In the House , leaders planned to pass a similar authorization of the China aid fund under a suspension " of the rules . Forced into a Saturday session on the single objection of Senator William Langer , Republican , of North Dakota , the Senate devoted most of its afternoon session to an extended presentation by Senator Allen S. Ellender , Democrat , of Louisiana , in support of his amendment to increase to 25 per cent the amount of counterpart funds abroad available for strategic materials purchased by this country . The original law directed that five per cent of funds should be available for the purpose , but little use was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not exist in sufficient abundance in the countries having such funds . Another amendment by the Louisiana Senator would prohibit the use of such counterpart funds by recipient governments for the purpose of public debt retirement . Counterpart funds consist of local currencies commensurate with the amount of aid supplied in grants by ECA which are deposited by the government in a trust fund to be used for purposes mutually agreed on with the United States . Great Britain and other countries have used their counterpart funds for public debt retirement with encouragement from ECA as one of the most effective methods of strengthening currencies and economies in , line with Marshall Plan objectives . " Our national debt is over twice that of all European countries put together , " Senator Ellender said . " I can not support a program that increases our own national debt and permits the use of those funds to reduce the national debts of those being assisted . "                     