@@708540

txt With the assignment by the American Joint Chiefs of Staff of General and Admiral Nimitz to share the command in the Pacific for the attack from the east against the Japanese Empire , the framework is completed for the later phases of the war against Japan . From both the military and the civilian standpoints , the decision to share the Pacific command instead of appointing one over-all commander in chief , as was done in Europe , appears to be the wiser course . Instead of being an unsatisfactory compromise , it appears a logical step , as was the corollary decision that no " outsider " should be sent in , either from Europe or from Washington , to supersede the men who have directed the bitter fighting of the first three and a half years of the war in the Pacific . The appointments have been earned . No two commanders in any war theatre , with the possible exception of Generals Stilwell and Chennault in China and Burma , have done more with less or , from the layman 's point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistakes . Their two joint ventures up to now , the assault on Hollandia , New Guinea , and the Philippines campaign  --  where unhesitatingly accepted the Navy 's on-the-spot recommendation as to the time and place for the original landings  --  both resulted in overwhelming success . Until they joined forces to attack their common enemy , both General and Admiral Nimitz had successfully planned , and General had personally directed , many brilliant campaigns . On 's slate there are Milne Bay , Buna , Lae , Salamaua , the Admiralties , Bougainville , New Britain and Morotai . Nimitz planned the early carrier strikes against the Gilberts and Marshalls , Wake and Marcus , Guadalcanal , Tarawa , Saipan and Guam , and the great sea battles of the Coral Sea and Midway . Thus far there has been little personal contact between the two men , but intimates of both say that what meetings have been held have been friendly , and each has both publicly and privately professed a respect for the other 's abilities and personality . Pessimists who are fearful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staffs probably are thinking too much of the past , when there were n't enough men or planes or ships in the Pacific to go around and both the Army and the Navy felt that the other was hoarding its resources . There was little correlation then between the various strategic commands in the Pacific . In the early stages of the war one area commander sometimes learned of the other 's plan only when they were in operation and publicly announced . The loose ends have been collected since those days . Probably there will always be some feeling between the services , especially in the lower echelons and especially around the rear bases . But this largely evaporates when the issue is joined against the Japanese in a combat zone . The differences are more apparent in Washington than in Manila or Guam . And the jealousies probably were never very important and have been overemphasized anyway . The Marine Smith-Army Smith disagreement on Saipan over tactics was the only major interservice clash that has been made public . The Army , the Navy and the Marines have collaborated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing in the increasingly bitter fighting which is now under way on Okinawa . Whether General and Admiral Nimitz will establish a joint headquarters has not been announced . That would seem a logical step , but not necessarily the only solution . They are never farther from each other , even if thousands of miles apart , than the nearest radio or cable station . In our own view , the best possible combination has now been put together to insure the successful corn pletion of the great task that lies ahead , the complete defeat of our Japanese enemy .                     