@@706016

txt Court reversal of the Cambridge Election Commissioner 's policy on invalid ballots today threw out of the window a large part of three days ' work in the Plan E proportional representation election count and upset all totals obtained to date . By order of Judge John C. Swift of the Middlesex Superior Court , acting on petition of one of the 83 candidates , Francis J. Roche , ballots marked with two or more first choices must be treated as valid . In such cases , Judge Swift ruled , the vote should be counted for the candidate indicated as second choice , and should not be discarded as the Commission previously has done . This high-explosive bomb tossed in the laps of tabulators at Memorial Hall , Harvard , came as the Election Commission thought it had completed the transfer of votes from eight defeated candidates . Protest Likely Two Democratic candidates , William M. Hogan , Jr. , and John J. Toomey , reserved the right to protest the entire election count , they announced this afternoon . No substantial upset in the relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recount . A delay of several days , however , is considered likely . The court reversal of previous policy , while appearing to involve only a minor technicality , will alter the total number of valid ballots cast , the quota necessary for election , and the surplus obtained from Francis J. Sennott , successful candidate . Because Mr. Sennott 's surplus will be changed , all nine counts completed today must be revised , each depending , as it does , upon the others . Completion of the ' 73 necessary counts , formerly anticipated for this Friday , probably will not come until next week , it is now pointed out . The court decision was rendered after Mr. Roche , Democratic can- didate running in tenth position , had asked a writ of mandamus requiring reallocation of 91 ballots formerly considered invalid . The court ruled in Mr. Roche 's favor . Ironically , the Election Commission originally decided last Wednesday to do exactly as it is now forced to do , but reversed its decision Thursday upon advice of Richard C. Evarts , Cambridge City Solicitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday 's session , aroused several other candidates to protect , and led to the court action . Tabulators today had begun the long process of declaring defeated the candidates with smallest number of votes . As each is officially put out of the race , his ballots are transferred to men marked as the voter 's second choice . Landis Defeated First man to be defeated today was Dean James M. Landis , Chairman of the Plan E. Committee , who did not know that he was a candidate . One voter had written his name on the ballot . Another one-vote candidate was James Peters , Custodian of the Cambridge Police Headquarters . Transfer of these two ballots to second choices constituted the third count in the election . After elimination of six defeated candidates in addition to Dean Landis and Mr. Peters , the 16 candidates not yet elected were as follows : John D. Lynch . Plan E John H. Cocoran , Plan E Thomas C. . Ind Marcus Morton . Jr. , Plan E Michael A. Sullivan , Ind . Russell Gerould . Plan E @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr .. Dem Frank J Roche . Dem . A. John Serino . Plan 7 A. Frank Reel . Plan E Hyman Pill . Dem William D. Hillis . Ind . Whiting . Plan 7 John J Toomey                     