@@709743

txt BOARD PREPARING TO RULE TOMORROW ON PRICE CONTROLS Decontrol Group Shapes Its Decisions On Question of Restoring Food Curbs OPA HOPES FOR ROLLBACK Plans June 30 Prices on Most Meats If Control Is Won and Subsidies Suffice By CHARLES E. EGAN Special to Tar NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Aug. 18 ? Saddled with the responsibility of determining price questions affecting a major segment of the nation 's economy , the Price Decontrol Board spent a busy time today preparing the decisions it is scheduled to announce Tuesday evening . At that time the board will rule whether or not price controls are to be restored upon meat , grain , milk and dairy products , cottonseed and soybeans . If the board fails to rule to the contrary , price controls will automatically be restored upon all the products . Meanwhile , the Office of Price Administration also put in a full day preparing orders which it will issue in event the Decontrol Board allows ceiling prices to be restored . It was at work also on the preparation of orders advancing prices on items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new ceilings by next Saturday , thirty days after the present Price-Control Act became law . Subsidies a Price Factor If the board decides that controls are to be restored on meats and dairy products it must also decide whether subsidies are to be paid on the products , and if so , how much . Paul A. Porter , Price Administrator , said last night that June 30 ceilings would be re-established on most meats if the board authorized the move and also fixed payments of adequate subsidies . He added that the Department of Agriculture and his agency were in agreement that if controls are reinvoked and sufficient subsidies set up , milk prices will be rolled back to a level of 1 cent a quart higher than those existing on June 30 . Milk prices generally , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , have climbed 2 to 4 cents a quart since the old price law expired on June 30 . Of the advance 2 to 3 cents is attributed to the discontinuance of subsidies . Mr. Porter said that , even though Congress allowed only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OPA asked , " there still will be enough money to pay the June 30 subsidy rate on beef and pork and probably on veal . " He added that there had been no decision as to lamb . CIO Presses for Ceilings In a move Friday , widely interpreted as designed to influence the Decontrol Board 's decisions , the United Automobile Workers , CIO , served notice upon the Chrysler Corporation and other automobile manufacturers having wage agreements permitting renegotiation on sixty days ' notice that they would reopen such agreements on Oct. 16 . Walter P. Reuther , president of the UAW , said the notice did not necessarily mean a new wave of strikes . He added that the union would watch price developments in the intervening period and press for whatever wage levels living costs required by October . He expressed hope that the Administration 's stabilization program would operate with sufficient efficiency to prevent any sharp advance in costs , of basic items . The day before the Congress of Industrial Organizations Council , meeting in emergency session here , had indicated that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and milk being rolled back to the June 30 levels . In addition to preparing tenta. tive orders to be issued in event the Decontrol Board decides to restore ceiling prices to the five basic items upon which it held hearings last week , the OPA was busy yesterday drawing up schedules on mandatory price increases for other items . These must be issued pef ore Saturday . Understood to be in the process of preparation was an order increasing prices of electrical houseliold refrigerators at least 2.5 per cent , as well as price advances for a wide variety of building matePials . A further advance in coal prices was seen as a possibility . The agency announced today removal of price controls from all dried fruits except dried apples . The ruling is effective tomorrow // upon all such products with the exception of dried prunes and raisins . Subsidies on prunes and raisins were discontinued on July 28 , and as to those commodities the action is effective as of that date . Imported and domestic dried apricots , figs , peaches ( including nectarines ) , pears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis that supply is more than adequate to meet demand . This follows criteria for maintaining ceilings on foods that are provided in the Price Control Extension Act of 1946 . Domestic raisins and currants , including Zante currants , have been removed on the basis that it is inequitable to maintain price control over them . The fact that controls on table grapes and wine have already been removed would place these users in a more favorable buying position than the dried fruit industry . The discontinuance of subsidy payments on dried prunes and raisins would require OPA to raise ceilings correspondingly . It is expected that prices of dried prunes will be no higher than present ceiling prices plus the amount of the subsidy heretofore paid on those items . Consumer packages of cut dried fruits and figs are not expected to be raised in price to any appreciable extent because of today 's measure , OPA said . Board Works Ten Hours WASHINGTON , Aug. 18 ( 51 -- The Price Decontrol Board adjourned shortly before 7:30 P. M. , Eastern Standard Time , following more than ten hours of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress , but still has two or three things to decide , " a spokesman said . He added that none of the three members had given the slightest indication of what issues they might already have settled , or of what decisions remain to be made . Announcement of the board 's decisions is tentatively scheduled for 7 P. M. Eastern Standard Time , Tuesday . Deliberations will be resumed tomorrow morning .                     