@@710353

txt The Senate Republican leaders began drawing together today to stiffen the labor bill , which came only yesterday from committee . At the same time , they laid down a program to put the finished product through to final passage with all possible dispatch . It was clear that the promptness and great vigor with which the House had passed its own more drastic version of union regulation , by nearly three to one , and in less than three days of debate , was having some impelling effect on Senate plans . Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , the Republican whip , said : " The House has performed arid it is now up to the Senate to perform . " The Senate Republican policy committee decided to take up the labor issue the moment the question of aid to the Near East was finished . Thus there was at least a prospect that debate might begin before next Tuesday has passed and a virtual certainty that it would get under way by next Wednesday . Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio , the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , had to leave the policy conference before it was concluded and was not available to discuss plans . Maneuvering Starts In other quarters , however , it was made plain that Mr. Taft 's loss in committee of a number of restrictions in the pending omnibus measure already had led to preliminary maneuvering to seek to restore his position on the floor . Senator Wallace H. White Jr . of Maine , the Republican floor leader , reported that while the conference of leaders had thought the present version " a pretty good bill " objection had been made that it " does n't go as far as some would like . " Senator Wherry for his part:declined to speculate as to whether Mr. Taft would be able to regain in detail all the provisions denied to him by a bipartisan coalition in the labor committee , but predicted : " It will in any case be a stronger bill than it is now . " Mr. Wherry stressed several times his view that the Senate Republican majority thought that quick action was the first essential . He suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . depending , as an aid to their case , on the ultimate Senate-House conference to which the differing bills will go for compromise . House Bill Much Stronger The House bill , passed 308 to 107 yesterday , would go much farther than the Senate measure as it now stands , and also considerably beyond what Mr. Taft had in mind before his defeats in the labor committee . A great deal of yielding on the part of the House conferees thus would be necessary if the final legislative version is to be as relatively " soft " as the bill wanted by Senator Taft 's committee colleagues . The House , however , has shown little disposition to yield to the Senate 's more restrained approach toward labor legislation in general . Senator Wherry referred to this as illustrated by the fact that cons ferees from the Senate and House have been meeting inconclusively since April 2 on the divergent ' measures passed by each to knock out portal-to-portal back pay claims and restrict the Wage-Hour Act . Here again , the House version was the harder , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The House spokesmen have remained adamant to Senate proposals for- a. more moderate bill , so much so that a failure of the present conference and the appointment of a , new one is being discusssed . In the meantime , both the Amer. ican Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations continued to attack the House labor measure . Calling it " vindictive , " Nathan Cowan , legislative director of the CIO , declared : " We will oppose it at every step of the legislative process and in the courts . " He referred to it as a " probably unconstitutional measure . " Joseph A. Padway , general counsel to the AFL , also raised the question of constitutionality , and asserted : " It 's a piece of fascism . I do n't think Hitler did any worse toward the labor unions than this bill. ?                     