@@710640

txt Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister , launched a determined attack today on the new United States resolution under which the United Nations Security Council would ' order Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria . to " cease and desist from rendering any further assistance or support ' in any form to the guerrillas fighting against the Greek Government . " Mr. Gromyko 's statement was , interpreted as giving unmistakable notice that he would veto both the United States resolution and an Australian proposal , which , without attributing responsibility to either side , orders all four nations to stop the fighting . Both resolutions . invoke Chapter VII of1 the Charter , applying to threats to the peace , breaches of the peace , or acts of aggression , under which the Council can order enforcement measures , going as far as a collective declaration of war by the fifty-five member nations . The Soviet representative said that the United States resolution constituted " the crudest interference " in the internal affairs of Greece . He added that the Australian resolution was worse than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vetoed two weeks ago , and " competes success-1 fully with the second American resolution . " " One can not solve the Greek question as proposed in the American and in the Australian resolutions , " said Mr. Gromyko . " They , are missing their mark . They may , correspond to the interests of one or two countries but not to the interests of the development of good neighborly relations between states and , consequently not to the interests of the United Nations as a whole . " Mr. Gromyko was silent , how- ever , on Mr. Johnson 's announcement that in the event of a new Soviet veto the United States would appeal the Balkan question to the General Assembly . A further statement by Mr. Johnson on Tuesday was interpreted by other delegates as meaning that the United States also planned to invoke Article 51 , the self-defense article of the Charter , in order to bolster any decision of the Assembly , which ranks as a recommendation only . These delegates attribute to Mr. Johnson 's declaration an importance comparable with that of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Truman Doctrine , and Secretary Marshall 's speech at Harvard University on the Marshall Plan . Leaving aside the question of Article 51 , these sources point out that Mr. Johnson announced the decision of the United States to place before the fifty-five member nations a question that the Security Council has proved itself unable to decide . Under the Charter , the Council has primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security , but American sources pointed out tonight that this was not an exclusive responsibility . The General Assembly can discuss virtually anything it wants to , but it can not take a decision on a question on which the Security Council is " exercising its functions . " This means apparently that the Council would have to take the Balkan question off its agenda , which should present no difficulty , since this presumably would be a procedural vote , with no Soviet veto . However , it is not considered beyond the bounds of possibility that Mr. Gromyko , if the Soviet Union wants to fight a. resolution in the General Assembly to the limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this action was a substantive question and therefore subject to his veto . The Security Council is now operating on the understanding that the great powers , if they choose , can veto a finding that a question is procedural , and thus can invoke the veto on practically anything . In - any case , it is taken for granted that the Australian resolution will result in the twelfth Soviet veto , and the United States resolution ( assuming neither is withdrawn ) in the thirteenth . Herschel V. Johnson , deputy United States representative , has announced that he would accept the Australian resolution ( with one or two changes ) if the United States resolution was vetoed , but the Australian resolution was introduced first and has priority on the agenda . Gromyko Speech . Bitter For the most part , Mr. Gromyko'A 36-minute speech " today apparently was the same that he prepared in justification for his veto of the original United States resolution two weeks ago . By the time it had been translated from Russian into English and French it was time for lunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question again until Tuesday at the earliest . The Soviet representative , however , interpolated a bitter attack on the " absurd " new United States resolution , and charged that , instead of a serious attempt to solve the Greek question , it was " only a political game which only makes it more difficult to solve this question . " " It is obvious , " he said , " that this creates an unhealthy atmosphere in the Security Council and not only in the Council . Around this fact all those are warming their hands who would like to see a collapse of the task of cooperation in the United Nations organization . " It is clear that those who can create such a situation bear the responsibility for it . One can not hide from this . behind statements on the ' veto . ' " Mr. Gromyko pointed out that the original United States resolution only invoked the milder Chapter VI , applying to situations and disputes threatening peace and security , instead of the more drastic Chapter VII . Chapter VII had been invoked previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gromyko said the United States resolution resulted from " this friendly competition , " although " it took twelve days for the Greek embryo to become a finished American product . " " The new American resolution , " he said , " contains from beginning to end inacceptable provisions . It contains the unfounded assertion that allegedly Albania , Bulgaria and Yugoslavia gave aid and support to Greek partisans and that this support constitutes a threat to the peace in the meaning of Chapter VII of the Charter . " It contains an appeal to Albania , Bulgaria and Yugoslavia to discontinue giving further help and support to the Partisans , as well as a direction to the subsidiary group to inform the Security Council on the compliance of Albania , Bulgaria and Yugoslavia with this resolution . " It is permissible to ask  --  what has changed during the last two weeks in Greece and on the Greek frontiers to make the United States introduce such proposals ? It is well known to all that nothing has changed during this time . And if something has changed , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American military equipment has begun to arrive in Greece . " Greek democrats have now even a greater chance to be hit in the head by a bullet than before . * * Alter declaring that Mr. Johnson 's statement accusing Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria of interfering in Greek affairs was an " insult " to those countries , Mr. Gromyko said that everyone knew the purpose of the " so-called new American proposals " and counseled moderation in this and other matters . " I do not think that it is necessary for me to dwell at length on the observations made by the United States representative on the veto , " Mr. Gromyko said . " The Soviet Union does not consider itself obliged to agree to proposals on the Greek question or on any other question , which , in the opinion of the Soviet Government , do not correspond to the interest of the maintenance of peace and the development of friendly relations Cbetween states , and even more , which if adopted could only complicate the situation . " The Soviet delegation takes into account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which sometimes such proposals are . being hidden , but the substance of these proposals . " 