@@706687

txt American-built bombers and fighters are giving very convincing answers to criticism abroad of their stamina and punch . They have met the best that both the Germans and the Japanese could throw against them and have shown a margin of fighting superiority that has delighted , but not surprised , top officials of the United States Army Air Forces here . In the opinion of men who have made a very close study of all types of aircraft and their p'rformance , American warplanes have proved themselves conclusively and , in the case of the enemy , devastatingly . American aircraft are believed able to take their place in any sort of aerial warfare and against any kind of A : : : s opposition and to come out on top in a substantial majority of occasions . An examination of the past week 's aerial boxscore will show American four-engine bombers have encountered and mastered the toughest sort of German resistance and that United States fighter planes have swept through the finest Japanese opposition like miniature tornadoes . British Doubts Dispelled Despite the ruggedness which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Pacific , there were still some doubts last week among British officials as to whether the American four-engine bomber could take the sort of opposition it would receive over German-held territory . The past eight days should have pretty well dispelled such doubts , airmen here hold . They point out that Flying Fortresses have not only conducted four daylight raids over well-protected positions in France but they have also been honored by massed attacks of the Focke-Wulf 190 , reputed to be the best German fighter plane ever built . Sometimes alone , sometimes protected by the Spitfires of the Royal Air Force , the Flying Fortresses have shaken these attacks off in much the same manner that a plough horse shakes the flies from his back . One group of Flying Fortresses was attacked on Aug. 21 by a superior number of FWl9Os but when the firing was over , it was discovered that at least *three of the German planes had been destroyed and nine others so badly damaged that they were believed to have been lost . All the " Forts " returned safely . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of particular attention if it were an isolated example or one which could be , attributed to a fortunate combination of circumstances . But it was not an unusual example , Over and over again , American four-engine bombers of both the Flying Fortress and Liberator type have battled their way through overwhelming odds and have taken a disastrous toll of opposing aircraft . Today 's news from the Southwest Pacific only confirms previous reports of the steady advantage which American fighter planes have maintained over the much-vaunted Japanese Zero fighter . Gen. Douglas 's headquarters announced that United Nations fighting planes attacked a formation of 13 Zeros over Eastern New Guinea yesterday and downed four of the enemy without losing a plane . This gives the United Nations a positive two-day score of 17 to 0 , while there is reason to believe that several other Japanese planes were also destroyed , since they are known to have been badly hit . Although the United Nations are more anxious to publicize Japanese losses than their own , so far as is known there has been no Allied air defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-day Japanese repulse since the days four or five months ago when the United Nations were so outnumbered as to make aerial resistance little more than a brave gesture . It is known that an increasing number of Bell Airacobras , carrying a 37-mm. cannon in the nose , are now turning up in Australia , taking the place of the valiant but older Curtis P-40 . There is mounting evidence that American plane builders made a wise decision when they refused to sacrifice armor and fire-power for speed , as did the Japanese . According to eyewitness reports from the Pacific , the Americans sometimes have trouble to catch the Japanese Zero fighter , but when they do , the latter seldom survives a burst of gunfire . As newer models of the flying Fortress and of American-built fighters make their appearance over Western Europe and the Western Pacific , the United Nations can expect even better reports , it is said .                     