@@704872

txt One of the most spectacular air battles of the war thus far , with a hundred or more planes engaged , raged off the Channel coast yesterday . Big formations of British and German planes came to the death grip after Nazi airmen had attempted to attack a convoy . At least fourteen German raiders were shot down and at least twenty-three were severely damaged , according to London reports . These said that the British had lost two fighters . Reports of the German High Command yesterday claimed that German bombers had sunk a British cruiser , damaged another , sunk four merchant vessels and damaged three more , all in the Channel . Ten British planes were reported shot down in the engagement , with four German craft admitted " lost . " Seven R. A. F.  |p1P.nes  raiding the AmiensGlissy airport in German-occupied France were reported turned away by anti-aircraft fire and all seven shot down by German fighters . The number of British planes downed in yesterday 's raid over Sola airport , near Stavanger , Norway , is now raised from twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sir Edward Grigg , Under Secretary for War , warned the House of Commons last night that the German aerial onslaughts might be the prelude to an even greater attack . The fierce fight over the Channel was overshadowed during the day by intense air activity in which the Germans raided parts of Scotland , England and Wales , killing and wounding civilians here and there and damaging private property . The authorities did not state whether any military targets were hit . Offensive Is Continued Meanwhile the R. A. F. continued its vigorous offensive against Germany , bombing naval dockyards at Wilhelmshaven and Bremen and attacking air bases and oil refineries . A lone German three-engined ' bomber first spotted the Channel convoy . According to the captain of one ship , it dropped several bombs , all of which missed their targets , and then was driven off by British fighters . Soon afterward a large number of German planes , believed to have taken off from near-by points in France now under Nazi control , appeared and the big fight ensued . Ground watchers made varying estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . Some said 100 ; others said 150 . This aerial attack on the convoy appeared to be in two phases . In the first phase fifteen German bombers overtook the convoy . Escort vessels sent up an intense barrage of anti-aircraft fire , but the German planes dived through it , showering down numerous high explosive bombs among the ships . A spectator on the cliff said that not a hit appeared to have been scored . Fighters Join Action The R. A F. fighters immediately roared up to intercept the raiders , darting through the haze of gunfire smoke overhanging the Channel with their machine guns rattling full blast . Soon afterward the first group of raiders was chased off . The second phase developed ten minutes later . Thirty or more German bombers , protected by fighting planes , droned over the Channel at the 10,000-foot altitude . Quickly they dropped salvo after salvo of bombs , which were seen bursting near the ships in the convoy while the anti-aircraft guns roared and British fighters again closed in to attack . At the approach of the R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clouds above which they had been hiding and the fight was on with a vengeance . Three German bombers were shot down in less than three minutes , all hurtling brokenly in vertical dives into the sea . Another had its tail shot off . One bomber and one fighter collided in midair killing each other . Still another German fighter plunged into the sea after a British pilot had poured a stream of machine-gun bullets into its tail . One by one , in rapid succession , other German planes were sent to a swift end . Finally the German squadrons broke off the engagement and made for home . Some of them were so badly damaged that it was considered probable that they did not reach the French side of the Channel , according to London reports . While the battle was going on , " the sky was black with planes , " the skipper of one ship in the convoy related . He added that hundreds of bombs splashed into the sea . During yesterday 's German raids on Britain several persons were reported killed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy raiders dropped bombs on two channel towns and a Norfolk coast village , killing some other civilians but not effecting any military damage . A Dornier bomber was shot down during the morning visits . R. A. F. bombers , besides attacking the dockyards at Wilhelmshaven and Bremen , bombed freight yards in the Ruhr , oil refineries at Monheim , and airbases at Borkum , Texel , Schipol and Walhaven on Tuesday night , according to an Air Ministry communique . Three planes of the British coastal and bomber command failed to return from extensive escorts and reconnaissance patrols , the communiqu ? added . A completed check up on Tuesday 's British air activities , officials said , showed that a total of fourteen R. A. F. planes was lost , and not twenty-eight , as was asserted by the German High Command . Big Drive Predicted LONDON , July ** air battle was waged amid new and strong hints that the first drive of Nazi invasion might start at dawn tomorrow . While the thunder of bombs and the rattle of machine-gun fire still could be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's air assault was only a prelude  --  that the real blow might come by daybreak . Sir Edward Grigg , Under-Secretary of State for War , warned the House of Commons tonight that all this might be only a prelude to another and greater assault at dawn and his words suggested that an attempt at invasion might be in his mind . " At this moment , " he said , " it may be that bombers are over many of our towns . Tonight thousands of our soldiers will be on the alert , waiting for an attack which may come in several places at dawn . " Unlike raids of weeks ago , when the bombers came a few at a time without fighter escort , today 's raiders brought whole flights of fast , light , fighting planes to ward off the British Spitfires and Hurricanes . One squadron of nine big bombers was guarded by fifty lighter planes . The bombers were guarded within two full circles of Messerschmitts . British pilots called the fight " the same old story  --  British air victory against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dived through the ring of Messerschmitts to reach the bombers . One British pilot was credited with roaring high over the ringed bombers and then diving iAto the center and bringing down one fighter and a bomber . " In aerial combat , " the British Air Ministry said , " there is no time to watch what happens to the enemy , so accurate figures on enemy losses in such a day 's fights will probably never be known except to the German High Command . " The British reported the last waves of attackers finally driven off , but late tonight the drone of bomber motors still was heard intermittently over the coast . Britons viewed the day 's intensive bombing as a trial thrust from the air at newly strengthened coastal defenses . Netherland Bombing Reported AMSTERDAM , German-Occupied Netherlands , July 10 JP ) ? British bombers killed four civilians and wounded four at Rotterdam last night , it was announced here today . 10 PLANES BAGGED , SAY NAZIS They Declare Their Fliers Sank Cruiser and Four Merchantmen Wireless to Tma NEW YORK Tams . BERLIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an air attack on Great Britain came upon a British convoy off the cliffs of Dover this afternoon . Heavily protected though the convoy was , both by air and sea , the Germans reported sinking one cruiser and four merchant vessels , while another cruiser and three merchantmen were said to be seriously damaged . German pursuit planes guarding the bombing squadron engaged British pursuit planes . Ten of the British were reported shot down as against four Germans reported " missing . " The total tonnage sunk is reported to be upward of 21,000 tons . The vessels reported " damaged " are estimated at upward of 19,000 tons . The damaged craft , when the Germans banked away and headed homeward , were stated to be listing heavily and some of them afire . This alleged success over the open sea had its parallel in a reported successful repulse of a British air attack on the French airport at Amiens-Glissy in German-occupied France . Seven British planes that tried to attack the airport , Germans say , were forced by anti-aircraft artillery to turn away before reaching their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . German pursuit ships then took off to harry the British on their return trip . It is claimed all seven were shot down one after another . The number of British planes shot down over the Stavanger-Sola airport in Norway yesterday was reported increased to twenty-eight instead of twelve originally claimed . Further battles with succeeding waves , of British machines took place sporadically all afternoon , it was stated , and this accounts for the increase over the original figure . The Germans said they did not lose a plane . Dogfights Over Channel The English Channel yesterday and today must have been the scene of some lively dogfighting , for the Germans report their Englandbound bomber squadrons met repeatedly with British pursuit craft seeking to repulse attacks before they reached British soil . In spite of these efforts , the Germans claim to have successfully bombed many objectives on the British Isles , including airports , munitions factories and gasoline dumps . Airports at Pembroke and Ipswich were reported bombed and damaged with hangars and planes set afire . At Norwich , Leeds , Tilbury and Swansea arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported observing many fires as they swung away . British shipping also appears to have suffered heavily , according to a German Army communiqu ? . In addition to losses reported in this afternoon 's attack off Dover , Germans claim to have sunk one patrol vessel and three merchantmen totaling 26,000 tons off the south and east coasts of England while ten more ships were reported set afire or otherwise seriously damaged . A U-boat furthermore reports sinking 35,187 tons of merchant shipping . This brings the total tonnage sunk since July 1 to upward of 500,000 tons , according to German Army communiqu ? s , with more than 165,000 tons sunk since July 7 . With July not yet half over , Germans , according to their reports , have sunk more than half the total tonnage that their U-boats ' sent to the bottom in April , 1917 , blackest month of the World War for shipping , when nearly 1,000,000 tons of Allied vessels fell victim to the unrestricted submarine warfare . British air losses yesterday were placed at twenty-nine planes , including one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated , were downed in air battles and one by anti-aircraft artillery . To these must be added ten planes reported shot down off Dover this afternoon , seven bombers that did not get home after an attempted raid on Amiens airport and one brought down off Helgoland the night before last . German losses , including four planes shot down off Dover are placed at seven .                     