@@707955

txt Governor Dewey declared today that a group with " unlimited financial resources was " playing politics with the right of New York State 's fighting men to vote ! " He said that those advocating the use of the supplementary Federal ballot in New York ignored the fact that such ballots could not be counted under the State Constitution . The Republican nominee did not identify the group he charged with a " campaign of deceit , " in a prepared statement , but some elements of the CIO have been conducting a campaign to bring about use of the Federal ballot by New York service men and women . A delegation of 800 persons came to Albany last week to urge the Governor to authorize use of the Federal ballot . The Governor asserted that the State soldier vote was drawn to fit precisely Title 2 of the Federal law and that it was a " model of simplicity . " TEXT OF STATEMENT Following is the text of the formal statement : " For some time now a group with unlimited financial resources has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's fighting men to vote . Instead of helping soldiers to vote , they have distributed millions of misleading circulars designed to confuse both the public mind and the mind of soldiers . It is time this campaign of deceit was labeled and exposed . " Accordingly , I urge all families and friends of members of the armed services immediately to write to them , telling them the truth about their right to vote in the State of New York . " The New York soldier vote law is a model of simplicity , drawn to fit precisely Title 2 of the Federal law . Every member of the armed forces all over the world will be // handed a postcard . This is required of the Army-Navy by Federal law . All a soldier has to do is to sign his name and his home and service address on that postcard and mail it to the War Ballot Commission at Albany . Even a letter or card to the soldier 's friends or parents will serve the purpose , if sent to Albany . The soldier will receive a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office printed on it . " This is the simplest application form of any State in the Union and yet it meets the requirements of the State Constitution so every ballot will be both complete and valid . " Even before the Government postcards have been placed in the hands of the men and women in the armed forces and almost four months before election , the New York State War Ballot Commission has already received more than 130,000 applications . " I have been urged , in addition , to approve the Federal supplementary hallo tfor use in New York State . This is only a partial ballot for four offices and would be void and worthless under the Constitution of this State . 1 decline to connive with any group advocating use of a ballot by our fighting men which under the Constitution of New York State could not be counted . " In 1917 the same problem was before the people and the State of New York then insisted upon a full ballot for its soldiers as required by its Constitution . " I appeal to the families @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them advising them not to be deceived as to their right to vote . All they have to do is send in the postcard which the Army and Navy will give them , or any other piece of paper bearing their name and home and service address , and they will receive a full ballot . ' The deadline for receipt of applications for war ballots under the State law is Oct. 15 . Ballots must be returned by Nov. 3 . State officials have estimated that about 350,000 applications will be received from members of the armed forces from this State and that more than 200,000 of these will cast ballots . About 1,100,000 New Yorkers are in the armed forces . Governor Dewey conferred today with Kenneth Bradley , National Republican Committeeman and State chairman from Connecticut , who said an appeal by the Presidential nominee was a substantial factor in Governor Baldwin 's decision to reconsider his refusal to run for re-election in Connecticut . CIO Leaders Offer Retort In comment on Governor Dewey 's statement in Albany , Joseph E. Curran , president , and Saul Mills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last night that " the New York CIO has since midApril issued more than 700,000 soldier vote application cards and we have issued literature telling the people the facts about the Dewey ' soldiers ' ca n't vote ' law . " " We intend , " they declared , " to continue our efforts to inform the public and guarantee that every one of New York 's million men and women in the armed forces is given an opportunity to vote . We intend to continue these activities in spite of the fears and rantings of those politicians who see personal advantage in keeping the vote down this coming November . "                     