@@707446

txt More than 3,500 members of the International Association of Machinists , an American Federation of Labor affiliate , stayed away from their jobs at the four Henry J. Kaiser shipyards at near-by Richmond today to attend a union meeting held to act on a jurisdictional dispute with the AFL International Union of Operating Engineers . Clay P. Bedford , general manager of the Richmond yards , asserted this evening that Harvey Brown , international president of the machinists , had declared himself to Kaiser officials to be against any work stoppage . But , after conferring several hours with Clyde Jackson , labor coordinator , and James Egan , la ' bor relations director , of the Richmond yards , representatives of the machinists said that they would not call their men back to work until they received jurisdiction over . work awarded to the operating engineers . They were said to assert a right to summon " a continuous meeting , " which they held did not constitute a strike . Another Day 's Stoppage Set Receiving a report of the conference , the machinists recessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parley with shipyard officials . The War Labor Board was represented at the conference and a Federal conciliator was assigned to the dispute tonight . The immediate source of the controversy apparently lay in the construction of new facilities in connection with a changeover from the building of Liberty ships to Victory ships in Yard No. 2 of the Permanent Metals Corporation , a Kaiser concern . Carl Berner , business agent of Lodge 324 of the machinists at Richmond , said that the machinists had been doing repair work on all heavy equipment in the four yards under a joint contract with other unions , some of which , unlike the machinists , were connected with the AFL Building and Construction Trades Department . According to Mr. Berner , a situation developed a month ago whereby the operating engineers sought and obtained from Richard J. Gray , acting president of that department , an award giving to the I operating engineers jurisdiction over machine - repair work , thus requiring machinists engaged in this work to pay $80 each to the operating engineers as initiation fees . " This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the AFL , in a letter in October said the building and construction trades department had no authority to make any jurisdictional award between an affiliated and a non-affiliated union , " he went on . " We have told the company that it had abided by an award which the letter of Mr. Green declares is null and void . " Finally , Jim Egan , labor relations director of the shipyards , told us we would have to get a clearance through the operating engineers . This is not a strike . We have been stalled along on half . promises and called a meeting to inform the members what action had been taken by the company . " Agreement Cited for Engineers Victor S. Swanson , business agent of Local 3 of the Operating Engineers , said at . his San Francisco office that " the facts " all ' supported the engineers . He cited an agreement signed on Jan. 20 by himself , along with Mr. Berner and other union officials and representatives of the Permanent Metals Corporation and the Kaiser Company , Inc. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the event any jurisdictional dispute shall arise between the various unions with reference to the jurisdiction over the work , or any classification of employment , whether or not included in the schedule hereto attached , such dispute shall be settled by the unions concerned in accordance with the practice of the Building and Construction Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor , without permitting the same to interfere in any way with the progress and prosecution of the work . " This provision , the operating engineers and the Kaiser officials contended , made it an open and shut case against the machinists . Mr. Berner informed the machinists ' meeting that the company had rejected two union proposals : that the machinists do repair work on heavy machinery pending arbitration and that a new contract , superseding the old agreement , cover this work .                     