@@712142

txt Harvard University officials have vigorously defended the right of their faculty members and students to engage in political activities without being subject to campus " loyalty " investigations . They have announced themselves unalterably opposed to any form of restriction which would deny professors " the same rights to express themselves as other citizens . " And they are backing up this Position with notice that they will reject any gift offered on the condition . expressed or implied , that such freedom be compromised . Position Headlined Harvard 's views on this controversial educational issue were made public today following an extensive and hard-hitting written debate between Harvard officials and a Law School alumnus . Frank B. Ober , a prominent member of the Maryland bar , told Dr. James B. Conant , Harvard president , that he had decided not to subscribe to the Law School Fund because of Harvard 's " apparent attitude . . . toward extracurricular activities of professors giving aid and comfort to communism .. . " Specifically . Mr. Ober said he objected to the activities of Dr. Harlow Shapley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assistant professor of English composition . Mr. Ober protested that Professor Ciardi had addressed a Progressive Party rally in Baltimore to speak against anti-Communist legislation drawn up by a state commission headed by Mr. Ober . Maryland 's General Assembly adopted the Ober bill in March . It provides fines and imprisonment for membership in any organization ruled subversive . Penalties are stiffer for active members of such groups . All public employees are required to take a loyalty oath . Shapley Crititized His objection to Dr. Shapley was that he served as chairman of the so-called New York " peace meeting " a few months ago , a session which generally was regarded as Communist-dominated . While admitting that Mr. Ciardi 's speech " was not reported to any extent . and I do not know what he said . nor do I know whether he is a Communist . " Mr. Ober contended that " the ' meeting gained some respectability by the statement that a Harvard professor took part in it . He did not offer any specific complaints against Dr. Shapley other than the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Quiz Urged To correct what he considers to be a wrong Harvard attitude , Mr. Aber recommended that " the test of a professor 's actions ought not to be whether he can be actually guilty of a crime . " Reasonable grounds to doubt his loyalty to our government should disqualify him , for the position is one of trust , and the government has , if it chooses to exercise it , regulatory power over education . " Dr. Conant ? who recently joined other leading educators in agreeing that proved Communist Party members should not be permitted to teach ? delegated Grenville Clark . New York attorney and a senior member of the Harvard Corporation , to reply to Mr , Ober in detail . Proposals Rejected Mr. Clark 's letter to Mr. Ober was approximately 5,000 words long , but it made its intention clear at the outset , and reaffirmed it throughout the text . " Let us say at once , " Mr. Clark wrote , " that your proposals  --  apparently to dismiss or censure two professors , and certainly to impose drastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will not be adopted at Harvard , so long as Harvard remains true to her principles . " Those proposals are absolutely contrary to Harvard 's tradition and all she stands for . " Bold Decision The seriousness with which Harvard officials evidently take their position may be gathered from the fact that the contents of the letters were released to the press before their scheduled publication in the June 25 , 1949 , issue of the Harvard Alumni Bulletin . Virtually all college administrators have had to make decisions on this question during recent months . Alumni attitudes weigh heavily on administrators , and bold decisions are not always easy to make . " I do not see how you can expect reasonable men to think of participation in open and legal meetings on public subjects as the equivalent of secret plotting to commit crime merely ' because Communists or ' fellow travelers ' take part in such meetings , " Mr. Clark said . Called Bask Freedom A professor 's right " to speak his mind and espouse unpopular causes " is a vital part of American freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he added , would be for the university to repudiate " the search for truth by a free and uncoerced body of students and teachers . " One segment of alumni feeling on the matter is expressed by John B. Marsh , Law School Fund chairman , who wrote a letter to Mr. Ober urging support of the fund , but stating that he , too , w6hed Professors Shapeley and Ciardi could be " stopped in some way consistent with reasonable academic freedom . "                     