@@707292

txt Transoceanic air service from Boston to London is proposed in an application filed today by American Airlines with the Civil Aeronautics Board in Washington requesting New York-London and Chicago-London air routes . Page 2 . Prediction by English airmen that the aerial blitz which they are capable of unleashing will mean the end of the war by Christmas was brought home to Boston by Edward Weeks , editor of the Atlantic Monthly , who has just finished a six-week tour of England and Scotland . Page 2 , Attempted theft of gasoline ration coupons last night from Dorchester board wis frustrated when coupons were stored overnight in police station vaults . Page 5 . To retain boys and girls in high school while they continue in war work , reduction of the school hours offers possible answer , A. Russell Mack , State Supervisor of Secondary Education in Massachusetts , said . Page 5 . Washington : NWLB Rejects Lewis ' Second Bid The National War Labor Board rejected John L. Lewis second bid for portal-to-portal pay for his United Mine Workers in an 8-to-4 decision disapproving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Illinois Coal Operators Association which would give miners $1.25 a day additional to cover underground travel time . It approved other provisions including one giving time and a half for the eighth hour in any day . President Roosevelt , making his quarterly Lend-Lease report , placed total Lend-Lease aid ' at nearly $14,000,000,000 and also advised American civilians that they have been allocated 75 per cent of the nation 's uroduction for the current fiscal year . Page 8 . Undersecretary of War Robert P. Patterson , and Lieut . Gen. William S. Knudsen , Army war production adviser , are inspecting Allied bases in the Southwest Pacific , it was announced from Allied Headquarters there . Local shortages of gasoline on the East Coast were acknowledged by the Petroleum Administration for War which blamed growing " over-consumption by the public , " but stated that no war workers need go without gasoline . Striking employees of the Brewster Aeronautical Corporation , Johns%dile , Pa. , were directed by the National War Labor Board , to return to work immediately and unconditionally . Page 1 . Gift money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as nonessential . Regular money order service is not affected by the Federal Communications Commission 's order to Western Union and Postal Companies . A new system of call letters for Frequency Modulation ( FM ) radiocast stations has been adopted by the Federal Communications Commission , effective Nov. 1 . Calls now are a combination of letters and numbers , the new calls will be all letters . About 45 stations now operating and all future licensees will be affected . Judge Samuel L Rosenman of the New York Supreme Court , legal adviser to President Roosevelt , may resign from the bench soon to take a full-time job as a special aide to the Chief Executive . . In Europe : Nearly 250,000 Persons Quit Berlin Nearly 250,000 women and children , in addition to a large number of Government officials , have already been evacuated from Berlin despite transportation difficulties , the British Radio reports , quoting a Stockholm paper . In Britain two out of every three men and women between the ages of 14 and 64 are working full time for the war effort , bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . A 12-car mail train is now carrying letters across North Africa at the rate of 250,000 pounds a month to Allied soldiers stationed in that theater . The train supplements sea and air transportation . Warning to Bulgaria that Greek and Yugoslav territory occupied by Bulgaria in 1941 must be evacuated , was given from London by Dr. Momteniloff , former Bulgarian Minister there . " When the day of reckoning comes , " he said , " no distinction will be made , say , between an attack on Greece , and attack on Britain . " Ivan Main : , Russian Vice-Commissar for Foreign Affairs , arrived in Teheran , Iran , en route to London , where he was formerly Soviet Ambassador . No official explanation of the trip has come forth as yet . Ettore Mull , former Secretary of the Italian Fascist Party , has been shot , after being arrested for alleged serious irregularities in the affairs of a concern with which he was connected , says the official Italian news agency . Recognition of Rome as an open city according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Swiss commission to supervise demilitarization . This report came by the way of a Swiss dispatch from the Rome correspondent of the Basler Nachrichten , and has not been confirmed in London . Denial of reported transfer to Germany of British prisoners held in Italy comes from the Swiss Government which states " there is no confirmation about any British prisoners of war in Italian hands having been transferred to Germany since the Badoglio regime was set up , " according to the British Radio . National : Draft of Aircraft *Strikers Ordered Gov . Prentice Cooper of Tennessee called on Tennessee draft boards to induct immediately striking employees of the Vultee Aircraft factory at Nashville . The draft order was issued after the Governor had been informed that a walkout in one department of the Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corporation plant was spreading to several other departments . Another break in the " Big Inch " pipe line brings to three the number of breaks discovered within two weeks in the 85-mile spur from Phoenixville , Pa. , to Bayonne , N. J. This one occurred near New Hope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieut . Gen. Walter C. Short , on charges of gross negligence in connection with the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor , Dec. 7 , 1941 , was urged in a resolution passed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars , San Diego Council . Marvin Jones , War Food Administrator , reported to representatives of the food industry meeting in Chicago to plan the " Food fights for freedom " campaign that the present outlook is for total food production this year exceeding the 1942 record by 5 per cent , but he added the demand for some food will outrun the supply . Page 8 . The Springfield , EL . Federation of Labor , central body of American Federation of Labor unions in John L. Lewis ' home town , went on record as opposing the readmission of Lewis ' United Mine Workers into the A. F. of L. The War :                     