@@710333

txt Secretary of Interior J. A. Krug declared that the record of John L. Lewis 's United Mine Workers on safety in the coal pits is one of " almost unbroken neglect . " He told a Senate Public Lands Subcommittee the union had failed to take advantage of the creation of mine safety committees under the Krug-Lewis coal contract . Other details : Page 15 . President Truman will fly to Missouri Saturday for a week-end visit with his mother , the White House announced . Senator Tom Connally told the Senate that Russian expansion must be stopped short of Greece and Turkey because the Soviets are aiming for " world dominion . " The Texas Senator , top Democratic member of the Foreign Relations Committee , bluntly declared that Russia wants to " control the destiny of Europe . " Boston : Building Trades Laborers Quit Jobs Several thousand laborers walked off jobs in Metropolitan Boston as the first big strike in the building trades in this area since the twenties got under way with increased wages as the disputed point . Page 2 . Increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haven , and Hartford Railroad by approximately 10 per cent was authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission . Page 2 . The Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities was in error in ordering revocation of increases last year in rates charged customers of the Boston Consolidated Gas Company , the State Supreme Judicial Court ruled . Page 4 . Europe : Stassen Granted Interview With Stalin Prime Minister Stalin received Harold Stassen , candidate for the United States presidential nomination , who is on tour of Europe . A Moscow dispatch said Foreign Minister Molotov also was present during the 30-minute interview . A city-wide roundup of criminal elements and Allied army deserters in Berlin was opened by the four Allied powers . Approximately 500 German police also are taking part in the operation . So far , 385 persons have been taken into custody . Twenty members of the Supreme Soviet of the U. S. S. R. left Britain after a month 's tour of shipyards , military installations , and art galleries at the invitation of Britain 's Parliament . Maria Pasquinelli , Italian schoolteacher , was convicted in Trieste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Winton , shot at Pola Feb. 10 , the day Italy signed the Allied Peace Treaty , Soviet Ambassador to Greece , Konstantine K. Rodionov , left Athens for Moscow . It is understood he did not ask for a re-entry visa , National : Phone Negotiations Being Renewed Contract negotiations across the country , largely dormant or deadlocked since the start of the coast-to-coast telephone strike Monday , showed new signs of life in some areas . Renewal of give-and-take negotiations coincided with the reaching of a settlement basis , in Washington . D. C. , between long-distance lines workers and American Telephone and Telegraph Company . Page 18.1 A deep-seated earthquake , sharp in some sectors but causing no serious damage in heavily-populated areas , rocked more than 60,000 square miles of California , Arizona , and Nevada , The Wyoming Conference of the Methodist Church adopted a report in Endicott , N. Y. , which described the granting of public funds to transport pupils to parochial schools as " an infringement upon the historic American position of separation of church and state . " Pacific : Roxas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manila that an investigation by the Philippine Congress of reported irregularities in disposition of U. S. Army surplus property in the islands would be " most advisable . " India : Gandhi ' Backs ' Rival for Presidency Mohandas K. Gandhi , leader of the Hindu-dominated AU-India Congress Party , declared in New Delhi that he " would be glad " if Mahomed Ali Jinnah of the rival Moslem League were made first president of the Indian Republic , the Associated Press said . Meanwhile , new outbreaks of communal fighting were reported in Calcutta and Benares .                     