@@707008

txt City Is Alert in First ' Double Red ' ; Test Held Reply to Nazi Threat City life went on through thirtyfour minutes of simulated air raid conditions last night in a " doublered " blackout drill that progressed smoothly . The first audible blue signal sounded above the city at 8:56 P. M. , the all-clear at 9:30 P. M. Mayor La Guardia took the reports borough by borough after he had cruised through the blackout from Madison Square Garden to City Hall . He pronounced the drill 1 " very satisfactory . " " Today 's news front Berlin German radio threats of reprisal on New York for bombing of Berlin probably had something to do with tonight 's excellent results , " the Mayor said . " The people realize now that I've-not been playing with these drills . It 's damned serious business . " He said response to signals everywhere was " excellent " and traffic was admirably handled . He thanked all the services for their work in the double red drill . The next test , he announced , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the test . Major John A. of Major Gen. T. A. Terry 's command , an observer in Times Square , said it was " very good . " He praised public cooperation , the behavior of Times Square pedestrians . Police Commissioner Valentine , heading the police ' at Madison Square Garden , where Mme. Chiang Kai-shek was speaker at a mass ? meeting , saw the test from Eighth Avenue and- Forty-ninth Street . The only vehicles that moved within his vision were two mail trucks without lights in Eighth Avenue . " Swell , " was the Commissioner 's comment . No more , no less . It was the city 's first double red . The , next time the sirens will go without previous public notice just as if unidentified or hostile planes had been sighted . In Times Square observers noticed that street lamps became dark a few seconds before the first red signals ( enemy planes overhead ) wailed out across the city . At the moment the lights snapped out , police cars turned on their sirens , and piercing intermittent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from any previous air raid drill . Virtually all other night drills have been by bright moonlight , when pedestrians , motorists and policemen could see what was going on about them . Last night the sky was sullen and lowering and gave off hardly any light . Few Minor Violations There were a few minor violations during the drill , but in a city of seven millions , as one policeman pointed out , this is to be expected and in most cases would be remedied between the first blue warning and the actual " enemy overhead " cry of the red siren . Last night the IRT subway kiosk just north of The Times Tower was lighted through a good part of the drill . A light burned fairly high up in a building on the east side of Sixth Avenue at Forty-sixth Street . Another row of bluish window lights was visible at the rear of a Forty-fourth Street hotel somewhere between Broadway and Sixth Avenue . These were the only lights visible from the Police information booth in Times Square , except for the hooded red and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reds forming ruby chains the lengths of Seventh Avenue and Broadway as far as the eye could reach . The signals came as follows : Yellow ( inaudible ) at 8:43 P. M. ; first blue , 8:56 P. M. ; first red , 9:02 P. M. ; second blue ( enemy gone but may return ) 9:08 P. M. ; second red ( enemy again overhead ) 9:14 P. M. ; second blue , 9:20 P. M. All clear , 9:29J P. M. Soon after the first red two cars moved into seventh Avenue from Forty-fourth Street and headed south . The Mayor was in one of these cars , Fire Commissioner Patrick Walsh in the other . Their cars showed blinking red lights . Later a Coast Guard car moved in the same direction and a car with a Texas or California license plate . This had red blinkers , so the police assumed it bore official observers . On the second blue signal buses , trolley cars , cabs and pedestrians moved again , quietly and with no hint of hurry . There was no frivolity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only preparation for what may some day be real , and their discipline is perfect . A taxicab that had started to move on the second blue signal became stalled near the police information booth . When it failed to move as the second red wailed across the sky , white-helmeted policemen put their shoulders to it and pushed it to the curb to clear the roadway for any possible emergency traffic . It was a good show . Brooklyn , Staten Island , Queens and the Bronx turned : n similarly good reports . There were no ? incidents , no accidents during the test .                     