@@709481

txt BYRNES PROPOSES DEADLOCKED BIG 4 RECESS FOR MONTH Urges ** Peace Parley in July , Even if Big Powers Still Are Not in Accord MOLOTOV PUTS OFF REPLY U. S. Also Asks for Immediate Change in Italian Armistice and Decision on Austria By C. L. SULZBERGER By Cable to Tins Nzw YoRE TIMES . PARIS , May ** of State James F. Byrnes , clearly recognizing that the Council of Foreign Ministers had drifted into new diplomatic doldrums , made a desperate effort this afternoon to revitalize the mechanism for making the peace treaties . He urged convocation of a twenty-one-nation peace conference on July 1 or July 15 , immediate signature of the re vised armistice terms for Italy ands an agreement to instruct the Foreign Ministers ' deputies to prepare ) draft terms for an Austrian settle-1 ment . Emphasizing his belief that the Council must fix a date for the full peace conference even if the Council 's members still are split by disagreements on some issues , Mr. Byrnes seemed to acknowledge that this far from completely fruitful Big Four session was drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 . By that time , he reasoned , the deputies might have eliminated some of the dividing issues and narrowed the area of disagreement on others . If the Big Four can not agree at this present session on a date for the twenty-one-nation conference , the responsibility of summoning it could , under Mr. Byrnes ' plan , be committed to the Council session in June , which presumably would be held in Paris . Troop Question Discussed In the course of an gtensive review today of most of the questions that the Council has been scrupulously examining since April 25 , Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov of Russia promised that if Britain and the United States agreed on procedure to withdraw their troops from Italy , Russia would consider evacuating her army from Bulgaria . That army is estimated to number 200 , - 000 men . However , Mr. Molotov said there // was no question of pulling the Red Army out of Rumania as yet and , although he did not say so , he presumably holds the same view regarding the Soviet forces in Hungary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has objected to a proposal that all four occupying forces in Austria be cut to the bare bone . What Mr. Byrnes did today , in effect , was to wrap all his arguments and objectives into one bwidle and present them as a coordfilated program . After some discussion it was indicated that both Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin of Britain and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault of France supported Mr. Byrnes . Mr. Molotov began by arguing against the Byrnes plan , but finally suggested that it be considered by the Foreign Ministers tomorrow afternoon . This delay conceivably could permit the Soviet representative to ask Premier Stalin for his views on the entire question . Big Four Accord Put First By and large , one can report , there is no special optimism concerning the response . Mr. Molotov has strongly expressed his view that no full peace conference can be called until the Big Four 's Foreign Ministers themselves are in agreement and , furthermore , he does not wish to add Austria to what he considers an overcrowded agenda . It is understood that Secretary Byrnes feels that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace conference date must be set now or at a midJune Council session whether or not there is full agreement on all major issues . Hence , were Mr. and M. Bidault agreed to these Molotov to agree tomorrow , it deleted 54 lines Byrnes clearly is seeking now to get only three main things done : ( 1 ) To force an agreement that a full peace conference will be called soon . ( 2 ) To prevent Italy from suffering further as a result of treatydrafting delays by swiftly implementing armistice revisions . ( 3 ) To widen the agenda to include Austria , because until the Allied armies can be withdrawn from that land  --  whose treaty is not yet even being studied ? the Soviet Union considers it deleted 9 lines to precipitate action . He said that the " Council should frankly face the facts which it confronts " and that there was every prospect of agreement on several minor issues as soon as special commissions had concluded new studies . As for major points of division , he said that " decisions must await @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Secretary Byrnes then expressed the view that by agreeing to a one ' month Council recess each member could " give undivided attention to a re-examination of our positions in the hope of finding means of reconciling them . " He added that " such use of our time is calculated to be more fruitful than to extend our present session . " Expressing his conviction that the Big Four are obligated to the smaller Allies to set a peace conference date , Mr. Byrnes said " our agreements and our disagreements " should be submitted to the July conference that he had proposed . Thus , Mr. Byrnes recognized the likelihood that a meeting of minds probably would not be possible even a month from now , but it is on this clause that his proposition is likely to be rebuffed by Mr. Molotov . In the Soviet view , full agreement must be reached , and so far there is not even a hint of one on Trieste . In asking for action on Italy and Austria , Mr. Byrnes said that if deleted 2 lines suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of agreement we have already reached , we may look to the future with ? confidence that our indispensable unity will be strengthened and preserved . " To nobody 's surprise , Mr. Bevin agreed that troops should be permitted to remain temporarily in some countries , ceilings fixing limits on their numbers be specified . It was amply evident after today 's two lengthy sessions that the Council stalemate is jelling and that Mr. Byrnes is trying to get the Big Four to agree to certain major commitments , so that the peace-making processes will . not too long be interrupted by such currently insoluble problems as that of Trieste . Byrnes ' Three Objectives eral villages and lateral mountain valleys , as well as a population that the Austrians estimate at 50,000 , or 25 per cent of the total population of South Tyrol . This would give Austria complete control of the Brenner Pass and about thirty miles of railway south of it . along the line that the Austrians call " Pusterthal Bahn . " When M. Bidault brought up this new Austrian claim , Mr. Molotov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which the Council had previously withdrawal of occupation forces from Austria . This would knock the props from under Moscow 's present formal excuse for maintaining huge armies in Danubia and would pave the way for British and American evacuation of northeastern Italy . This afternoon 's meeting started with discussion of a request by Austria  --  filed after rejection by the Council of that country 's claim to South Tyrol  --  for minor rectification of her frontier with Italy . 50,000 Persons Affected deleted 54 lines have the deputies study the claim and make recommendations . M. Bidault then pointed out that many other matters had to be reviewed again , including the Italian-Yugoslav frontier , Italy 's colonies and the Dodecanese Islands . Mr. Bevin , who has been more or less in a corner since Mr. Molotov switched the Soviet stand on the colonies and agreed with M. Bidault that they should be placed under Italian trusteeship , said that since new plans had been submitted , they should all be sent to the ' deputies in an effort to arrive at a general compromise . Hints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several telegrams from Tripolitania hinting at trouble if Italian administration were restored . These , he said , came from the Arab Mufti and from members of the Jewish community , among others . Mr. Molotov then said that there seemed to be some agreement that Italian trusteeship would be the best idea . He said that Italy stood to lose by other treaty settlements and that this should be taken into account in finding a colonial solution . He added that he had examined Anthony Eden 's pledge to the Senussi tribes of Cyrenaica and had concluded that it would not be affected by giving Italy trusteeship over the colonies , including the Cyrenaican portion of Libya . The pledge , he said , merely meant that the area involved would not be returned to Italy . Mr. Bevin denied this . He said . he could not accept such an interpretation , arguing that the pledge meant that the Senussi should not be placed under any type of Italian domination . He said he would sign no treaty calling upon Britain to violate a pledge that had been given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he saw no way out but to send the complex subject back to the deputies . At this point the tender subject of the Italian-Yugoslav frontier and Trieste came up , but when it became evident that nothing new would he offered the subject was referred to the deputies . Economic Review Heard The morning session was complicated and unsatisfactory , and although Mr. Byrnes did his best to untangle it , he could not . It inconclusively heard a report of the economic committee dealing with such subjects as restoration of enemy property and contracts and renunciation of claims by enemy lands against the Allies for war losses . Mr. Molotov urged the committee to confine itself to broad recommendations , but Mr. Bevin said that vague statements were useless . When the Council called for a report on reparations in this general connection , they found it was not yet at hand . The most important debate this morning was on the broad subject of reducing Allied troop garrisons in former Axis lands . This was broached when Mr. Molotov announced that if Britain and the United States agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand that the Red Army be permitted to remain in Bulgaria . Mr. Bevin objected to linking the questions . Mr. Byrnes suggested that the Council 's military committee night frame provisos in all treaties stipulating troop withdrawals , save on essential communications lines , when the peace was signed . Draws Attention to Rumania Mr. Bevin argued that enough Soviet forces would remain in Rumania anyway to protect Danubian communications to the Soviet garrison in Austria and that if any balance were to be drawn it should be between Rumania , not Bulgaria , and Italy . The Rumanian armistice permits Russia to keep forces in Rumania to maintain lines of communication westward , but there is no such clause in the Bulgarian armistice . Mr. Molotov said that nobody had hitherto expressed objection to the presence of Soviet forces in Rumania . Mr. Byrnes said that if the military committee found it was unnecessary to retain American forces in Italy to supply Austria , they would be withdrawn after the treaty had been signed . However , this committee 's four members are going to reflect the views of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Bevin said that if only accord were reached on Austria , the whole question concerning communications lines would be eliminated for everyone . Mr. Byrnes then offered the new idea that , should any treaty specify that foreign troops could remain in any of the former Axis satellite countries , the military experts should determine in advance a fixed maximum to be permitted . Nothing was done about all this and there the matter rests .                     