@@712368

txt After bitterly attacking the Soviet Union for refusing to render " any genuine cooperation " with the Western powers since the war , British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin told the General Assembly yesterday that " notwithstanding all our disappointments , the United Nations has performed a great task . " Mr. Bevin emphasized the necessity of great power cooperation to make the United Nations work effectively , and complained also that the organization " has perhaps attempted too much and achieved too little . " But his speech , on the whole , contained more approving references to the United Nations than any he has delivered in several years . Mr. Bevin 's hard-hitting attack on Soviet policy stood in contrast to the moderate tone of Secretary of State Dean Acheson 's address in the Assembly last week , in which he urged patience in solving the disputes between East and West . Replying to Andrei Y. Vishinsky , Soviet Foreign Minister , who again accused the Western powers last week of blocking the prohibition of atomic weapons by international agreement , Mr. Bevin said this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives " had been willing to come out of their shell , to raise their curtain and to open the way to the system of control approved by the General Assembly  --  which we and others believe to be the only workable and effective system yet devised  --  there might well have been effective prohibition today . " 1945 Declaration Recalled Mr. Bevin said that Britain adhered to " the original " declaration by President Truman , British Prime Minister Attlee and Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie King in Washington in November , 1945 , which called for international action to bring about the use of atomic energy for peaceful and humanitarian ends instead of destructive purposes . He added , " We are ready to take all constructive steps to give effect to it . " Although he did not formally announce the British position , Mr. Bevin was cool to Mr. Vishinsky 'S proposal for a Big Five nonaggression pact , pointing out that the Soviet Union had rejected former Secretary of State James F. Byrnes ' previous proposals for a Soviet-United States alliance against future aggression by Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered no objection yesterday to the inclusion on . the Assembly agenda of the three Soviet resolutions introduced by Mr. Vishinsky , although Mr. fought unsuccessfully in the Assembly 's Steering Committee against the Soviet request that they constitute a single item . Vote Is 13 to 0 In addition to the nonaggression proposal , these called for an Assembly declaration urging prompt agreement on the " unconditional " prohibition of the atomic bomb with " appropriate strict international control , " and Assembly criticism of the United States and Britain for allegedly preparing a new war . The steering committee , by a vote of 13 to 0 , with Chile abstaining , voted in favor of including these as an additional item , and by a vote of 9 to 0 , with Brazil , Chile , Greece and Venezuela abstaining , recommended to the As ; sembly that they be assigned to the Assembly 's Political and Security Committee . Warren R. Austin , the United States representative , said , however , that he wanted the record // BEY-IN SAYS RUSSIA BARS COOPERATION Contimed:froni Pagel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the repetition of ? : a type of propaganda we have- had at every session of the Assembly , " which the United States wanted to meet in open debate . He added that they were " put up in the ' Oise of an olive branch , ' but were surrounded by " many ? poisonous thorns . " Mr. Bevin , who devoted most of his speech to criticisms of Soviet behavior , said that it was the eliberate policy of the Soviet ernment " to use its agents and its Cominform to upset the economy and political structure of every Western power . " " Every step that has been proposed in order to rehabilitate - the world , such as the Marshall Plan ; the assistance to underdeveloped countries or any scheme devised to raise the standard of life throughout the world has met with , violent and abusive propaganda ofl the kind to which we have become ) so accustomed , " Mr. Bevin said . Comment ' Is Sardonic He accused the Soviet Union of having destroyed the independence of Czechoslovakia and other countries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we have any opinions ourselves and dare to exrpess them , we are labeled warmongers . Thus , he said , Yugoslavia has " become a warmonger overnight . " Mr. Sevin recalled that in his speech to the General Assembly a year ago he had said that " if it was found that we could not proceed on a universal basis , as we had hoped , we must try to get on with those with whom we could . His prediction , he said , had come true in the North Atlantic Treaty . Insisting that the Berlin blockade was raised only because of the " determination of the Western powers to combine to give effect to the principles of the United Nations in the face of this possible aggression , " Mr. Bevin said the problem had not yet been satisfactorily settled . In referring to Secretary General Trygve Lie 's statement in his report to the assembly , which he said , claimed credit for the United Nations in settling the Berlin incident , Mr. Bevin said : " I fear that that is an over-simplifiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , who followed Mr , Bevin , maintained , however , that the attempt of the Council of Foreign Ministers to reach agreement on the Berlin question and the Austrian treaty was primarily responsible or the recent improvement in the international situation . He added that a Mexican resolution calling on the Great Powers to I renew their efforts to settle their differences , which was adopted unanimously by the General Assembly last year , had been the " modest origin " of the great moral force in the service of conciliation and peace . Dmitri Z. Manuilsky , Foreign Minister of the - Ukraine , said later that ' Mr. Bevin 's speech had been a disappointment becatie the world wanted to hear the answer to the Soviet proposals , and that the effect had been the same as the devaluation of the pound . The ' General Assembly succeeded in ending its opening debate without a night session , and Brig . Gen. Carlos P. Romulo , its - President , said afterward that on the basis of its work in Paris a year ago , it was two days ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be impossible to dispose of all the items on the agenda by- Christmas and that it may be necessary to continue tha session in the new year . The Assembly 's key committee , the Political and Security Committee , will meet at Lake Success this morning , and it was , understood that the United States and Britain wanted it to take up the Greek question as the first item . However , the Soviet Union was expected to ask the committee to take up the new Soviet proposals as soon as possible .                     