@@709922

txt Letters to The Times World Law Needed Question of the Veto Right Is Held to Obscure Real Issue The writer of the following letter is author of " A Democratic Manifesto " and of the recently published " The Anatomy of Peace . " TO ? THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The speeches of Attlee and Churchill in London , of Molotov , Austin and several representatives of the small nations at Flushing , confirm that the dominating issue of the present meeting of the U. N. Assembly is the veto power . I fear all the smoke and sound about the veto is obscuring the real issue . If the veto " has impaired the effectiveness of the United Nations , " as THE TIMES says , what was it that impaired the effectiveness of the League of Nations , whose Covenant did not grant special veto rights to any of its member states ? Why was it that the League of Nations , while unequivocally condemning aggressions , was unable to prevent them and to uphold the principles of the Covenant ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations to solve any of the major political problems on its agenda must obviously be more ' fundamental than exercise-of the veto right . It is self-delusion to deny that since cessation of hostilities relations between the victorious powers have been constantly deteriorating . Each meeting of the representatives of the sovereign powers , within or outside the United Nations , has only added to ttils degenerative process . What is calming our drift toward conflict ? Nations , just like individuals , are motivated by fear and the allpowerful urge for security . There are only two ways to satisfy that urge for security , either by a legal order or ' by preparedness to fight , possibly to shoot first . Never during 5,000 years of history could peaceful human relations be established except by either a legal order or conquest and oppression . History proves that human relations could be kept peaceful within one sovereign system of law , no matter how different were the people , no matter how divergent their outlooks , their religions and social institutions : But history also proves that peaceful relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign rights which were not integrated in a legal order . All attempts to maintain peace between such sovereign units by treaties , alliances , leagues , failed . As the world is organized today under the U. N. Charter , sovereignty is vested in the individual nation-states . Relations between these nation-states have remained unregulated by law . All we are trying , to do is to keep peaceful relations through negotiations and treaties within the United Nations  --  a league of sovereign nation-states . This has been tried many times in the past but never succeeded once . This is anarchy in international relations . Sovereignty Criterion Our drift toward another conflict has absolutely nothing to do with the veto power , which is , whether we care to admit it or not , a criterion of sovereignty , inherent in the sovereign nation-state institution . It is absurd to demand that the right of veto , the right to say no , be abolished without demanding simultaneously the abolition of the sovereign nation-state structure . As long as they uphold the fundamental conception of the U. N.  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason to excite themselves about the veto nor has the Soviet Union any cause for fear of losing her " veto . " Whether we maintain or " abolish " this magic formula , the positions of Cuba and the U. S. S. R. within the existing sovereign nation-state structure would remain exactly the same . In the small , integrated world of today , we can not evade the fact that the interests of the sovereign units do not run parallel and that the two major surviving power units act as two poles of attraction to which the scattered sovereign units must gravitate . This process has nothing to do with communism or capitalism . It is an age-old historical process which  --  irrespective of the social and economic content of the units  --  must erupt in violence , unless the conflicting sovereign Units are integrated into a higher legal order within which the inevitable and innumerable conflicts in human society can be fought out by , legal procedures instead of violence . Has Never Succeeded To govern governments , to coerce states seems to be an obsession with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past and never succeeded once . We can never apply force peacefully against a state because that is war . Force can be applied peacefully only against individuals within a well-functioning legal order . The basic and fatal fallacy of the United Nations Charter is that it deals with states and not with people . Events are moving so rapidly that soon , very soon , it may be hopeless even to talk of establishing a peaceful order before another war overtakes us . Intelligent people who were capable a year ago of discussing the problem . objectively land i according to principles are beginning to lose their capacity for independent thinking under the emotional impact of events . Coming East from the San Francisco Conference , . President Truman said in Kansas City : " It will be just as easy for nations to get along in a republic of the world as it is for you to get along in the Republic of the United States . Now when Kansas and Colorado have a quarrel over the water in the Arkansas River they do n't call out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war over it . " On Nov. 23 , 1945 , in the House of Commons , Foreign Secretary Bevin declared : " We need a new study for the purpose of creating a world assembly elected directly from the people of the world . . . who , in fact , make the world law which they , the people , will then accept and be morally bound and willing to carry out . . . ? I am willing to sit with anybody , of any party , of any nation , to try to devise a franchise or a constitution for a world assembly , with a limited objective  --  the objective of peace . " Chinese Prime Minister T .. V. Soong declared at the San Francisco Conference on April 26 , 1945 : " If there is any message that .. ny country ... wishes to give this conference , it is that we must not hesitate ' to delegate a part of our sovereignty to the new international organization . . . . Among nations , no less than among individuals , we must forthwith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new French Constitution adopted by the French people on Oct. 13 , 1946 , contains the following paragraph : " On condition of reciprocity , France consents to the limitations of sovereignty necessary to the organization and defense of peace . " Andrei Y. Vishinsky , as representative of the U. S. S. R. , before the Security  --  Council in London on Feb. 10 , 1946 , as ' reported in THE TIMES , made the following statement : " I would ask whether the United Nations can be an effective organ if national sovereignty is not limited . The nations must sacrifice a part of their sovereignty if the United Nations is to be a real and effective organ . " Life and Death Issue If these are the views of the five great powers , holders of the veto right , and if the small- nations are really anxious to change the present fatal trend of events , then why does someone in the Assembly not raise this life-and , death issue , instead of delivering monotonous pre-fabricated speeches claiming innocence of his own nation and blaming all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no one among the delegates the courage of Alexander Hamilton , to stand up and , acting against his mandate , explain to the others that a league of sovereign states can never prevent war among its members , that peace is law and that world peace means the regulation of international relations by world law , by world government ? Has not one representative of the major powers the stature of George Washington to declare  --  irrespective of expediency , practicality and chances of reelection  --  that our duty is to raise standards to which the wise and honest can repair ? Whether we can organize this world under universal law so that each nation and nationality can peacefully pursue its own way of life , whether we can create a - legal order by consent and persuasion before the next explosion forces us to battle again , no one can . tell . But let us at least talk about it . Let us ' at least focus the attention of the peoples on the solution of the problem overwhelming us . Let us not waste any more time on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly would act , not as the representatives of their sovereign states , but as the representatives of " We , the people . . . " ? as the Charter solemnly opens  --  events would soon prove again that history is nothing but the perpetual reincarnation of the impossible . EMERY REVES . New York , Oct. 31 , 1946 . German Peace MovementTo THE EDITOR OE THE NEW YORK TIMES : There has always existed in Germany a peace movement including different types and various groups , which tried very hard to convince and educate the German people that war is inconsistent with culture and civilization in general and with true German culture in particular . Immanuel Kant was one of the outstanding figures of this movement in its earlier years . Many distinguished thinkers have followed his steps . After the First World War such organizations as the German Peace Society , the German League for Human Rights , the International Women 's League for Peace and Freedom and other organizations attracted thousands of cultured Germans . It will be of interest to all friends of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany is again trying to organize a peace movement to educate and influence the German people against rearmament and war and to entrench the ideas for which they fought . According to reports which have reached this country only lately , they are in urgent need of encouragement . Only a minority , having no financial means at their disposal and having just come out from hiding , these brave men and women must start , from scratch to organize a new anti-militarist and anti-fascist movement . The German anti-militarists , unheard warners - in the desert of stupidity , ignorance and selfish interests , will not be responsible for any kind of " peace , " - which , as many fear , might be only another truce between two wars . In order to detract the German people from any ideas of revenge and . new aggression , their work is definitely more important than ever .. That is the reason why I appeal to Americans to give them our encouragement . I know Americans will understand that in sending parcels and letters to these anti-militarists they will be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to follow my appeal and will write to me at the Library of Congress , I shall be glad to furnish the addresses of worthy . anti.militarists . DR . VEIT VALENTIN . Washington , Oct. 30 , 1946 . To THE Eorroa 3.0 rTIE NEW Yoaz Twese The letter from Henry Mayer in your issue of Oct. 27 , upholding the right to strike of public utility workers as well as others , apparently under any and all circumstances , calls for comment . The letter tacitly concedes that such conflicts constitute war . The letter uses phrases such as " after the gauge of battle has been flung , " " the arena of economic conflict , " " the perennial struggle between capital and labor . " It must be said that strikes , whether accompanied by violence or the express or implied threat of violence , constitute war . The recent labor war in New York City is said to have cost one and one-half billions of dollars . Ignoring Rights Warlike nations when engaged in actual belligerency are inclined to ignore the rights of neutrals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the lexicon of many labor leaders there is no such word as public rights or the rights of the public ; the right to strike is absolute and includes the right to strike against the public safety as well as the public welfare . wonder Comrade Stalin regards this as " anarchy . " The right to picket is extolled as part of the right of free speech , when it is in fact the power to interfere by force or by a oycott with the use of the employer 's property and with his right to deal with others . The so-called jurisdictional strike is wisely regarded by many labor leaders as an intolerable abuse , which must be remedied by labor leaders themselves in some manner . Our lives , our fortunes and our selfrespect depend upon the continuance of public services such as utilities , transportation and the like and , indeed , upon the normal functioning of all industry . The consequences are more dramatic and devastating in the case of services essential to the public health and welfare . Our entire economy is largely dependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous loss to the national Treasury . Everyone realizes that reconversion arid prosperity will be postponed , if not precluded , by continuing widespread strikes . The Wagner act , which was touted as a panacea , has proved a fecund breeder of industrial strife . The dice have been loaded against the employer and in favor of multitudinous seas of strife . Labor leaders can stop our transportation on sea and land and ' cause economic death to those who will not yield . The mines of the country have not been " nationalized " ( or , as A. P. Herbert puts it , " royalized " ) but , without just or any compensation , have been taken out of the hands of the owners and made the pawns of politics ? under the effective dominion of an irresponsible labor despotism . Public Welfare First Neutrals have rights . We have fought wars to prove that . Innocent bystanders have rights . The public has rights . The public welfare comes first . There is no right to strike against the public safety or welfare . The notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servants is utterly intolerable . We have had a twelvemonth of thousands upon thousands of civil wars . This internecine strife can not continue . Self-preservation is the first law of nations . A Government that can not or does not assert and enforce its own supremacy in maintaining law and order and putting down domestic insurrection is beneath contempt . Wise , just and equal laws must be devised to bring about domestic peace ? as well as peace among nations . We must get back to work and production so that all may be well fed , well housed , well clothed . These civil wars must cease . Let us have peace . IRA JEWELL WILLIAMS . Philadelphia , Oct. 291 1946 . Civil Service Workers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Editorially you comment on the strong classes that are dominating the scene in the Soviet Union , and one of them mentioned is the managing bureaucracy , which may influence certain changes within the Russian state . Getting closer to home , we have in the United States close to six million civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken into consideration . Their strength is powerful enough to cause government heads worry pdoviding paper work to fill plenty of their time . New projects , statistical surveys , and wild goose chases have to be organized to keep this powerful white-collared army busy . While in years past these people looked for private employment , they now want the security of Government employment with pensions , good hours and little responsibility that comes with Government employment . Given governmental power , they in ? ject themselves in ? any and every enterprise . They can be called " business hamperers " rather than aids to busi ? ness . D. LITMAN.                     