@@708178

txt A substantial portion of the Japanese fleet has now been committed to possible decisive action for the third time since the Pacific war began . This conclusion , which is all that information up to this moment justifies , gives the measure of importance of the Philippine Islands in the scheme of Japanese war plans , For this is the first time that Japan has risked its fleet in substantial strength in what is for Japan the defensive phase of the war , Its two pt &lous; commitments in comparable scale were the related battles of the Coral Sea and Midway where Japan was attempting to complete its plan of conquest . Not since the effort to paralyze American sea power , which those engagements represented , has Japan risked a major fleet action . Yet now . after allowing the approaches to its inner seas to be torn away one by one without accepting the challenge it finally does commit major strength to the defense of the Philippines . Three Forces Involved Both the scale of this commitment ? a minimum of five battleships . 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the three forces involved , expresses an effort to make one last use of the advantages of holding the Philippines and controlling the passages through them . Two of the forces located gte placed in the waters of the central Philippines . The third was found steaming south from the area of Formosa . This is enough to define the Japanese plan of action which is obttiously based on possession of the inner passages through the islands . It represents a squeeze maneuver which is still theoretically possible , but will cease to be possible once the passages are in American hands . The enemy undoubtedly hopes to catch Admiral William F. Halsey 's forces between its force moving south from the Formosa area and the two others debouching through the inner passages . It has the advantage tin to this time of passages between the island which must he assumed to be still under enemy control either from artil- lery based on the shores or mina This advantage . of control of the inner passages . emerges today a. the : - take which has finally drawn the Japanese fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not important enough . The passages through the Philippines are so important and so vital that they act as a magnet to induce on the enemy the risk of his sea power . The outcome of acceptance of that risk is still to be determined . It can end in one of two ways . Either there will be another hurried Japanese withdrawal or an action which can hardly end other than in a severe reduction of ' Jap-anese sea power . That would mean an enormous advantage to the concluding phases of the Far Eastern war . but an advantage which needs to be anticipated with reservations . Elimination af the entire Japane , e ! leo v.-ould enable Allied nay : : l oirces to approach the China roast ; , 1 liner and undertake the opening of the final stages of the war , perhaps six months earlier than would otherwise be pos , ible . It would permit the concentration of Allied energies on offensive action against Japahese land and air power . It would not . however , materially ease the difficulties of overcoming the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the China coast sooner and in greater strength . They could obtain air bases sooner on the islands from which Japanese home industry could be brought under concentrated attack . But overcomirm that ground resistance in China and crippling Japanese war production would remain just as hard a task as it was before .                     