@@710441

txt They have been auctionTime 's ing off the furnishings in Long the old Murray Hill Hotel , Vistas and we are treated once mores to an example of the flexible idea of antiquity , in New York . A hotel built in 1884 seems to elicit fully as much sentiment as a Trinity Parish 250 years ' old , which latter anniversary has just been celebrated . ' We can do better than that . The same issue of this newspaper which reported the first Murray Hill Hotel auction showed the churchyard of old St. Paul 's in Mount Vernon , founded in 1665 . That is a very respectable age even for old places like Paris or London ; it is ten years older than St. Paul 's Cathedral in London . It has become a habit in this column to take note of real estate items in the business pages which announce the sale of a piece of property which has been " long " in the hands of the same owner ; sometimes it is as much ? as thirty-five years and sometimes It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a couple of hundred years . The emotions apparently respond with equal facility to John Peter Zenger 's favorite church in 1733 and J. P. Morgan 's favorite hotel in 1903 . More and more voices Reprieve are being raised in defor fence of mothers when Mother charged with being enemies of the human race . One speaker at a social workers ' institute thinks it absurd to hold Momism responsible for juvenile delinquency . It is a verdict which most of us may have reached for ourselves if we once stopped to compare the possible number of children who have been made delinquents by- their mothers with the probable number of children who have been saved from delinquency by their mothers . At the same time , it is not to be denied that if there were no mothers there would be no delinquent children . Newburyport 's 10 per When cent price cut plan , acPrices cording to an AP dispatch Yield from that pioneer Massachusetts town , has failed . The retail merchants say the thing can not be done without the cooperation of the suppliers . Somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wildfire publicity which descended on Newburyport , that the plan would not work . It reminded an elderly generation , among other things , of a certain Buy-aBale crusade many years ago . Then the plight of the cotton growers of the South was to be relieved by every one of us buying a bale of cotton , presumably for personal use . An older and more effective way of dealing with high prices than by blueprinted organized movements seems to be already under way . It was revealed in our business column reports the other day which said that buyers arriving in New York for their seasonal purchases are 25 per cent fewer than last year . When the buyers refuse to play , the too high prices melt away . Incidentally , the AP Across story from Newburyport the announces the failure of Board something more than the projected 10 per cent price cut ; what has failed is the 10 per cent cut " across the board . " For a while it looked as if this nation , with its uncontrolled thirst for happy new phrases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board phenomena . Now , it is true that a wage rise can be for different groups of workers or a flat rise across the board for everybody . A tax cut can be for different groups of taxpayers or a single across the board cut for everybody . But pretty soon it began to look like another case of level or resolve ; highly useful words for many occasions , but dragged in by the neck in too many instances for the sake of fashion . It did begin to look as if American parents would no longer be approached for dimes for ice cream cones . They would be urged to hand over 10 cents across the board . On the other hand , lan " OK guage is at its best wjien Sir , " Gen. Mark Clark in a BritIs OK ish sublnarine off Algeria , - soaked from repeated duckings and pantsless though presumably wrapped in a blanket , suggests to the commander that a double ration of rum for everybody on board might be in order , and Lieutenant Jewell replies , " OK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will sign the order . " A lieutenant saying OK to a general is inconceivable . OK , sir , is something else again . There is nothing like The approaching one 's probCool lems , man or nation , in Approach a relaxed state of mind . That is why it is so pleasant to have the merchandisers offer so many casual things to wear for the approaching hot weather ? casual shirts , casual jackets , casual slacks , casual shoes otherwise known as sport shoes , even casual hats , if one can think of a hat being casual . If the American people in the next few months fail to deal intelligently with all their weighty problems it should not be for want of light-weight , relaxing summer dress . For that matter , shirtsleeves are already well established as the American civilian uniform in hot Washington weather .                     