@@709594

txt Massachusetts ' second major prison strike in six months occurred when 600 inmates of Norfolk Prison Colony refused to go to work unless privileges withdrawn following the escape of two men were restored . Page , 2.1 Maine 's Legislature will convene in special session July 8 to deliberate on veterans ' problems as well as the bonus , Gov . Horace A. Hildreth announced . Flour sufficient to make 71/2 tons of bread have been saved in the past two months at Fort Devens by reducing the size of loaves and substituting other desserts for pastries , it was announced , A five-cent Boston Elevated fare for children between five and 14 years oid was announced by Edward Dana , President and General Manager . This rate will be in effect from June 27 through Sept. 12 . Europe : Briiish-Polish Financial Pact Signed A British-Polish financial accord setting forth terms for settlement of Poland 's war debt to Britain has been signed , a London report said . Italy and Greece will restore diplomatic relations shortly , the Italian Foreign Ministry announced in Rome . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the draft law until next March 31 but prohibiting the induction of 16-year-olds was passed by the House 259 to 110 and sent to the Senate . It came after a War Department announcement that the Army plans to draft no one in July and August , John W. Snyder was sworn in as - the 53d Secretary of the Treasury . He took the oath of office in the presence of President Truman . who remained to shake hands with the hundreds who attended the ceremony . Chief Justice John P. Higgins of the Massachusetts Superior Court has resigned as a member of the 11-man war crimes tribunal in Japan , the War Department said . He gave as his reason " imperative " need to return to his duties in Massachusetts , asserting that the military trials promise to last longer than originally expected . Congressional reaction to the Pravda statement that the United States is seeking to establish " world rule " through the Baruch plan presented to the United Nations was sharp , Some congressmen feared an atomic arms race may result . Page 41 The price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watching developments in the Senate and House with con -- siderable anxiety . I Financial Pagel Herbert R. O'Conor , Maryland 's Democratic Governor , held a sizable margin of the popular vote in his battle for the nomination for U. S. Senate , but the incumbent , George L. Radcliffe , was still making a fight for if as far as convention votes were concerned . Mr. O'Conor , p veteran Maryland campaigner making his first bid for national office , had 88,816 votes in 982 of the State 's 1.331 polling places to 64.930 for Mr. Radcliffe , who is seeking a third term .                     