@@711405

txt Revere citizens  --  now organizing for a " new broom " city manager government in 1949 ? today proclaimed their intentions to make the current clean sweep of racketeering permanent under a forthcoming Plan E setup . Gerald L. Woodland . President of the Revere Committee for Plan E , Inc. , said that " the people of Revere are very deeply disgusted with what has gone on in the past . " That is one reason , he contin'tied , why residents of this seaside city voted by more than 13 , - 000 to 2,000 last fall for a new Plan E city manager charter . The first Plan F city council will be elected in November , 1949 . Breather in Probe Meanwhile . a breathing spell developed in Assistant Attorney General George F. Fingold 's probe of alleged municipal corruption , shootings , and racketeering . A hard-working team of state officials and detectives pushed themselves to the limit last night , and picked up their clue-laden trails today . Mr. Fingold and state detectives left their Revere headquarters to question a suspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the end of the week another " 10 or 12 arrests " are anticipated , They will be in addition to the four Revere city councilors and a Brookline real estate agent already arrested on charges of bribery . Four phases of the probe being explored by the investigators are gambling and alleged pay-offs , monopoly control of slot machines , alleged housing slush funds , and alleged licensing irregularities . The Plan E group in Revere , Mr. Woodland said , is watching the progress of Mr. Fingold with intent interest . Although the directors of the Revere Plan E Committee have met to discuss the situation , no formal action will be taken until all the evidence is on the table he reported . Referring to Mr. Fingold 's activities , Mr. Woodland said that something of this nature has been " needed for a long time . " Revere underwent an investigation similar to the present one in 1937-38 , he recalled . Apparently it did not stick , he added . This time the Plan E supporters hope to solidify their gains by a complete change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Plan E Committee , in addition to Mr. Woodland , are Robert F. Welch , Vice-Chairman ; Frederick L. Stevens , Treasurer ; Patrick J. McCarrick , Director ; and William E. Noel , Director . The current probe was touched off by statements of Judge John W. of Chelsea District Court that Revere racketeers were trying to " muzzle " police .                     