@@705041

txt German bombers sounded London 's curfew early last night , and this morning the attack was following the pattern that the last twenty days have made tragically familiar . As midnight passed , according to The Associated Press , not a single fire was to be seen on the city 's horizon . The United Press reported that northern and northwestern suburbs were hit in the early morning , that Southampton had had its most punishing raid of the war , that the government had appealed for more fighter planes quickly and that the Germans yesterday lost thirty-one raiders as against destruction of eight defending craft . The Germans came to one part of North London in rapid succession one after another , dropping many incendiary bombs which started fires , but the blazes were extinguished before other raiders could use them as beacons . Some German planes released parachute flares , then followed them with explosives , one of which hit a hospital maternity wing . A northwest coastal community had its worst raid of the war but information regarding the extent of south of Tegel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday morning . Incendiary bombs were dropped around the target and a large fire was started . Other targets in the Berlin area were the Schoeneberg railroad yard , the Tempelhof Airport , and a munitions factory at Ruedersdorf . Heavy high explosive bombs were dropped on the Schoenberg yard , just three miles from the center of Berlin ; a line of bombs was dropped across the northern half of the airport ; railroad lines near by were also attacked , and a blazing fire was started at the munitions factory at Rudersdorf , the fliers reported . Over Kiel for Two Hours The formation detailed to attack Kiel stayed over that heavily fortified target for two hours . Using heavy bombs they concentrated on the north end of the dockyard , where the pilots reported they saw several hits on the shipyards . After dropping several flares they located the warship Scharnhorst , which engaged the Renown during the Norwegian campaign . Though it is not claimed the battleship was hit , the pilots said one brilliant yellow explosion was seen very near the warship , and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning wore on , other British bombers sought out many of the chief railroad centers deep in German territory . During the night they bombed tracks and freight yards at Ehrang , Hamm , Mannheim and Osnabrueck , the pilots reporting direct hits at all these places . Several salvos of heavy bombs were dropped across the tracks at Ehrang . A young Irishman who took part in this attack said he started several fires that quickly spread about the place . Circling around to see the extent of the damage , he said he saw one terrific blue explosion , which led him to believe an electric powerhouse had been hit . The pilot who attacked the freight yards at Osnabrueck reported several warehouses were blown up . He said he saw a large smokestack fall across the tracks . A great deal of damage Was also reported at Mannheim , where incendiary bombs started several fires , and at Luebeck , where high explosives were dropped on the railroad yards . A rail line near Hanover and the main line at Luenen also were reported hit . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where the planes dropped down low and attacked dock gates , and at Rensburg , west of Kiel , where a factory alongside railroad tracks was set afire , the fliers said . Nearer Objectives Attacked Later yesterday morning faster medium Blenheims went into action against objectives nearer home . They attacked the seaplane base of Warnemuende and dropped bombs " within the target area . " The docks of Antwerp and a power plant at Brussels were also attacked . Then the planes moved on down the coast to raid invasion ships at Flushing , Dunkerque , Ostend , Calais and Boulogne . Bombers piloted by Polish fliers carried out a low-level attack on the docks and quayside at Ostend . Faced with fire from ground batteries , an Air Ministry official said , the planes scored several direct hits and started fires . Boulogne had one of the worst nights since the Germans battered it during their conquest of France . British bombers were over the port for three and a half hours . They not only raided the docks but also reported several hits on the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , a British pilot said , could be seen fifty miles at sea , and another great blaze was started at Brest , where bombers of the coastal command set oil tanks afire . The record of the British planes in these attacks indicates the immunity with which a modern bomber can fly great distances over hostile territory . Many of these bombers covered more than 1,000 miles and stayed over their targets long enough to make repeated attacks yet the Air Ministry statement last night said not a single one failed to return . As a result of these incessant night raids the British feel the Germans will have the greatest difficulty in trying to invade this country . The raids have already held up the attack so long that bad weather is starting . Dark rain clouds gathered over the Channel last night , and there were occasional showers . A cold wind blew out of the northeast , and the sea was choppy , with mist hanging over it . More R. A. F. Raids on Coast LONDON , Friday , Sept. 27 UP ) ? British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the Continental coast all the way from Zeebrugge , Belgium , to Cap Gris Nez , France , early today in a raid , that dwarfed even their previous savage assaults . Starting at Dunkerque , the Royal Air Force set the first great fires blazing , then struck next to the south at Calais , Boulogne and Cap Gris Nez , nearest Nazi-held French port to Britain , and completed the almost solid line of flames with attacks on the Ostend area to the north . German searchlights frantically stabbed the skies in an effort to locate the British bombers for their ground batteries , but the beams were virtually lost in the bomb flashes and fires reflected brilliantly in the night skies . The nightly attack on Adolf Hitler 's potential invasion bases followed a day of raids that spread fire and destruction from Berlin to the Channel coast and an angry retort from German shore batteries that shelled Dover . An authoritative British journalistic voice warned that henceforth Berlin , too , regularly was to feel this systematic attack . For , said a headline in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister for Aircraft Production  --  the Royal Air Force " will be over Berlin every night . " Many Berliners Out Early Wireless to THE NEW YORE : Truss . BERLIN , Sept. ** past night 's British attack on Berlin was the longest yet experienced and brought more people out on the streets at 4 o'clock this morning than had ever been seen before , even at a New Year 's Eve celebration . The material damage was said to be slight , but the attack , according to German reports , again took a toll of civilian lives , which the German press declares will be avenged a thousandfold . "                     