@@712196

txt The World Council of Churches tonight called upon all churches and Christians in totalitarian lands to resist all attempts to make them waver in their faith . In a militant declaration , issued at the ' close of its conference in Chichester , the Council 's Central Committee told Christians that the " liberty which they receive from their Lord can not be taken away by the violence or threat of any world power or destroyed by suffering . " Speaking in one voice , 150 Protestant and Orthodox denominational bodies of forty-four countries denounced totalitarianism as a false and evil doctrine . They said there could be no social justice that did not recognize the rights of man and his duties to God . " Religious freedom is the condition and guardian of all true freedom , " the statement declared . These views were contained in a declaration of religious liberty , with particular reference to church groups in European countries , drawn up by a special committee of Christian leaders . The committee met in private under the chairmanship of the Bishop of Chichester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Church of Czech Brethren was the only representative of an Eastern European church on the drafting group . Governments Are Warned Commenting upon the declaration , Dr. Bell said : " We hope this statement may not only be a consolation and a , , means of strength to men and women in churches who are suffering ' great hindrance , but that it will actually come as a ' take care ' to governments of countries who gard themselves and who want to be regarded as civilized governments . " The Central Committee , which is the governing body of the Council , said " the churches themselves must bear no small part of the blame fen the resentments among the underprivileged masses of the world , since their own efforts to realize the brotherhood of man have been so weak . " Justice is not to be won by totalitarianism , which teaches that everything is permissible to gain a social and political end , the declaration said . It added , " Only the recognition that man has ends and loyalties beyond the state will insure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " countries where the state is antagonistic to the Christian religion or , indeed , wherever full religious freedom is denied , " the statement urged ministers to " continue to preach the whole gospel " and all Christians " to stand firm in their faith , to uphold Christian principles in practical life and to secure Christian teaching for their children . " Earlier today delegates of the Central Committee protested against discrimination and repression exercised by dominant religious majorities against minorities . During the discussion Dr. M. E. Aubrey of the Baptist Union of Great Britain said while his church sympathized with the Roman Catholic Church in Eastern Europe , where it was meeting diffictilties , in Spain there was suppression by a religious community . The committee decided to hold its next meeting in Canada if possible during the first part of 1950.                     