@@706525

txt Prime Minister Winston Chui-chilt of Great Britain arrived in the United States today for conferences with President Roosevelt on " the war , the conduct of the war and the winning of the war , " the White House announced shortly after S o'clock tonight . Speculation that the talks would cover the task of opening a second front in Europe would be " perfectly justified , " a spokesman affirmed . Mr. Churchill was scheduled to begin his conferences with President Roosevelt " immediately . " It was said at the White House that no further statements on his visit should be expected this week . The Prime Minister was accompanied by ranking British staff officers and two personal aides . It was apparent that considerable secrecy would be maintained until the talks were completed . No information was vouchsafed as to how Mr. Churchill reached here for his unannounced visit . Follows Molotoff Visit The arrival of the British Prime Minister , who had spent late December and early January in this country soon after its entry into the war , followed by only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Commissar . The latter led to a full understanding between the United States and Soviet Russia on " the urgent tasks of creating a second front in Europe in 1942 . " It was thought natural here that the Roosevelt-Molotoff conferences would be followed by others between the President and Mr. Churchill . It was noted that the talks between the American and British leaders followed visits of ranking United States Army , Navy and Air officers to London and of British military and supply leaders here . It was thought in diplomatic circles that final policy might be determined in the talks that began today . Although it had been known since early afternoon that Mr. Churchill was arriving , it was only about fifteen minutes before the announcement that reporters were called to the White House . Stephen Early , Presidential secretary , dic1 tated the following informal statement to reporters in his office without referring to notes : " Mr. Winston Churchill , Prime Minister of Great Britain , is again in the United States . The Prime Minister will confer while here with the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the conferences will re , very naturally . the war  --  the conduct of the war and the winning of the war . " With the Prime Minister when he arrived were General Sir Alan Brooke Chief of the British Imperial General Staff ; Major General Sir Hastings Ismay Secretary of the Imperial Defense Council ; Brig . Gen. G. M. Stewart Director of Plans of the War Office ; Sir Charles Wilson Mr. Churchill 's personal physician ; Commander C. V. R. Thompson , secretary and aide , and Mr. Jonn Martin , private secretary to the Prime Minister . " I do not anticipate any further statements by the President or Prime Minister this week . " A reporter asked Mr. Early whether the discussions would deal with the opening of a second front . The Presidential aide replied , " I think that conjecture is perfectly justified . " It was noted when the White House disclosed the MolotoffRoosevelt agreement June 12 , upon the Russian Foreign Minister 's arrival in Moscow by way of LonI don , that the accord did not flatly state that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since then press reports from London have reflected serious doubt . that such a front actually could be opened during the next six and one-half months . Whether a final decision upon this point will be taken by Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill is a matter of pure speculation . Some diplomats here , however , have seen signs that Washington is more inclined than London to believe the early opening of a second front is practicable . The arrival of a third large American troop convoy in Northern Ireland was announced only last Saturday . Some observers have noted indications that American action might be planned to begin shortly . More United States troops will be called up in June and July than in any previous months , according to reports in usually reliable circles . Under the agreement by which the Joint Staffs Councils were established , Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill have the final word on strategy . Conjecture , therefore , naturally will center upon the possibility that decisions with respect to a second front may be reached at the current conferences . It also was regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get together again for the type of conversations that deter- I mined strategy and proved so satisfactory soon after the United States entered the war . Mr. Churchill 's visit takes place at a moment when the British are being thrust back in Libya and the Germans are besieging Sevastopol in Russia and threatening a new major push near Leningrad . It also comes at a time when China 's supply problem has become critical and only a trickle of supplies is reaching her by air . It was regarded as obvious that the Prime Minister would not leave Britain at such a moment with such important members of his staff unless there were more than casual matters to discuss . Diplomats noted that it was soon after Mr. Churchill 's last and equally dramatic visit to this country that a governmental crisis arose in London that led to the reshuffling of the War Cabinet . They surmised that the Prime Minister would not come here again unless major decisions of world importance were to be taken . Mr. Early 's remark that he did not look for furthei statements by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken as a clear indication that a statement might be expected after the visit was completed . During his previous visit to this country Mr. Churchill addressed Congress , attended church publicly with the President , took part in one of Mr. Roosevelt 's press conferences and was seen in public a great deal . This kind of program was not expected to be followed this time , at least until urgent business had been dealt with . The press , which had known of Mr. Molotoff 's visit well in advance and kept the secret until he returned home , did not even have a hint until today that Mr. Churchill was on his way . The veil of secrecy surrounding the British leader 's trip was dropped , however , as soon as he was safely on American soil .                     