@@706062

txt MOVE NOW TOKYO 'S Hull Hands ' Document ' to Kurusu  --  Roosevelt Sees Chinese Envoy PEACE POLICY STRESSED State Department Says Plan Offered to Japan Hews to Non-Aggression Principles Fiy BERTRAM I ) . 1117LEN Special to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , Nov. 26 ? Proposals looking to readjustment of relations between Japan and the United States were handed by Secretary of State Cordell Hull late today to Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura , the Japanese Ambassador , and Saburo Kurusu , the special Japanese envoy . It marked the culmination of the first phase of the conversations that have been in progress since the arrival of Mr. Kurusu from Tokyo ten days ago . Although no detailed explanation of the proposals was vouchsafed , ; t was assumed that they embraced a plan for permitting further discussions of the problems between the two nations . The proposals were presented during a conference of an hour and a quarter between the Japanese and Mr. Hull . They were immediately taken by the Japanese envoys to their embassy for study . The two diplomats went into conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave no information . But it was observed as they emerged from Mr. Hull 's office that they were beaming . Adhering to Principles The State Department contented itself with a statement to newspaper correspondents to the effect that the United States was adhering to basic principles . From this it was assumed that the peace program enunciated by Mr. Hull on July 16 , 1937 , was being kept in mind . The State Department said : " The Japanese representatives were handed for their consideration a document that is the culmination of conferences back and forth during recent weeks . It is unnecessary to repeat what has been said so often in the past that it rests on certain basic principles with which the correspondents should be entirely familiar in the light of many repetitions . " . The statement of principles of July 16 , 1937 , envisaged maintenance of peace , national and international self-restraint , abstinence from force , adjustment of disputes by peaceful negotiation , observance of international agreements , observance of treaties , respect for the rights of others , economic security and stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mean that the negotiations have been completed . Everything now depends upon the Japanese reaction . The next move is up to them . Until they have made their reply it is not certain that a basis of negotiation has been reached . Conciliatory View Recalled However , it was recalled in diplomatic circles that Mr. Hull 's attitude had long been that there was no problem that could not be adjusted by negotiation , provided all the interested parties were consulted . Nevertheless , China is one of the most interested of the powers in the present negotiations , and she is a factor conditioning any agreement between the United States and Japan . Her position is based upon a number of considerations . 1 . She does not want to see American economic restrictions relaxed against Japan . 2 . She will not accept mediation by the United States or any one else between her and Japan . 3 . She wants the United States to live up to past professions and to the diplomatic policy of " nonrecognition " that has been followed since the invasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these considerations that President Roosevelt uurnrnoned to the White // MOVE NOW TOKYO 'S AS U. S. OFFERS PLAN // House this afternoon Dr. Hu Shih , the Chinese Ambassador , and Dr T. V. Soong , Chinese lease-lend agent here , former Finance Minister of China and brother-in-law and confidant of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . They were in conference for half an hour , but to all questions concerning what had taken place , the Chinese representatives had a stereotyped reply : " We have nothing to say . " The only Information they would offer was that the President had sent for them . They were not only uncommunicative , but , contrary to the Japanese more than three hours later , they did not look pleased . Immediately thereafter Secretary of State Hull conferred in his office with Admiral Nomura and Mr. Kurusu . He had been unable to say when he would meet them until after the President had conferred with the Chinese . It was the first meeting between the Secretary of State and the Japanese since Saturday night . In the meantime Mr. Hull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Alexander Loudon , Minister of the Netherlands ; Richard G. Casey , Australian Minister , and , finally , Dr. Hu , who is understood to have made clear China 's position . The circumstances were such as to indicate some new turn in the negotiations . In the meantime , Lord Halifax had given new information to Mr. Hull . There were suggestions today that this was connected with the progress of the campaign in Libya . For , if that campaign should be encountering difffculties , Britain might feel the need of ships from Singapore for use in the Mediterranean . Obviously , a war in the Pacific would occupy not only those but other naval craft . In recent months many British warships have been sent from the Far East to the Mediterranean for temporary service . In addition there were reports that Soviet Russia was encouraging a readjustment of relations between the United States and Japan for peace in the Pacific . It was considered obvious that Russia would prefer peace in that region under circumstances that would reassure her against a Japanese attack on Siberia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be that much stronger in dealing with Germany . It was in view of these considerations that diplomatic observers were inclined to believe that the key to a settlement , even on a - emporary basis , between Japan and the United States should be looked for in China and the attitude the United States would take toward China 's position rather than in Japan . The Tokyo government was believed prepared to give assurances against aggressive actions in the future and perhaps some measures that would tend to . make a dead letter of Japan 's participation in the Axis agreement . Presumably it would be prepared to go this far in return for the assurance of peace in the Pacific for the present that even a limited agreement would bring and in return also for some modification of economic restrictions by the United States . A big question concerned the bona fides  --  that is , the guarantees1 that Japan could offer for abiding by the terms of an agreement in view of the shifting international situation and the uncertainties that surround her political conditions at home . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith could be given in respect to Japanese policies in French Indo-China , a region that does not concern China ? directly but which contains a threat to the Netherlands Indies and Singapore . If Japan would reduce her garrison or withdraw entirely from Indo-China , it was assumed that this would be regarded as a token of good faith . Japan is reported to have 50,000 troops there and to be contemplating reinforcing them . The French commandant is understood to be collaborating with the Japanese in what is described in diplomatic quarters as the " Vichy manner . " But French district officials are said to be lukewarm toward the principle of collaboration , so that the Japanese occupation presents difficulties for the Tokyo Government . Consequently the attitude taken by the conferees here toward that situation may go far toward determining the outcome of the diplomatic conversations looking to an adjustment .                     