@@709118

txt pg . Letters to The Times ROBERT T. OLIVER.DAVIS QUINN.LOUIS PECK , E.S . SHUCK.H.W . KENT.MARY H. HADLEY . 25 Letters to The Times Korea 's Future in Balance Independence Following Fair Election Viewed as Best Plan To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Events in the Orient are evidently rushing to some kind of a climax . The dramatic resignation of General Hurley , the appointment of General Marshall as special Presidential representative to Chungking , and the increasing aid given to the Chinese Nationalist Government against the Manchurian Communists are some indications of the pressure building up beneath the tightly clamped lid of secrecy that has veiled our negotiations and intentions in that area . Much more significant is the report that at long last our State Department has initiated a conference with Russia concerning the joint occupation of Korea . We may be confident that no such conference would be announced unless there were definite expectations of an agreement on future policies . Five Choices Outlined The nature of the agreement may be expected to be one of the following : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Establishment of a trusteeship over Korea , to be administered actually by the United States and Russia , but probably with a face-saving inclusion of Chinese and British representatives . 3 . Surrender of Korea to Russian " influence " to be exercised through Korean officials trained in Siberia and already installed in office in northern Korea . 4 . Incorporation of Korea into the area of the Japanese Empire , to be governed , along with the remainder from Tokyo , by a new Allied commission to which General will be subservient. 5 . Withdrawal of the Russian and American forces , to be effected as soon as arrangements may be completed for holding a fair election of a new and independent Korean Government . Pressure Advised Surely any student of the Orient realizes that our own self-interest -- to say nothing of justice  --  will be served only if the fifth alternative is put into effect . General Hodges , who as commander of American occupation forces in Korea is necessarily but reluctantly carrying out our State Department policies , is taking every step he can within the limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has extended every courtesy and recognition to Dr. Syngman Rhee , around whom Koreans of every shade of political opinion except the extreme Communists are rallying . He has brought to Seoul Kim Koo and other officials of the Provisional Government , with whom Dr. Rhee is working in closest harmony . And it is reportedly through his efforts that the negotiations with Russia have commenced . However , the likelihood remains that the fifth alternative is the one least likely to be adopted unless the pressure of informed opinion in this country may bring it topass . Surely . General Hurley 's resignation and blast against certain State Department advisers was predicated on the assumption that other counsels would prevail . Now , while the negotiations are in progress , is the time for everyone who would prevent a third world war to speak up for an enlightened , just and firm policy toward Korea and all the Orient . ROBERT T. OLIVER . Syracuse , N. Y. , Dec. 3 , 1945 . Adirondack Park Endangered Proposal to Flood Moose River Part Viewed With Regret To THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Adirondack Park faces destruction . The fate of this last remnant of primeval wilderness in the densely populated eastern United States  --  with its unsurpassed scenic value , wild bird and animal life , a nation-wide haven of vacationists and sportsmen , home and winter yarding grounds of the largest deer herd in the East ? is at this moment before Congress . It is proposed , by erecting two great dams , to flood 278,000 acres of the famed Moose River section of the park . This section is the finest and only large area now left in the park that is undefiled by roads , its wonderland of lakes and streams and swamps being thankfully accessible only by trail or cross-country forest cruising . The project , weakly disguised as designed for flood control and hydroelectric power , emanates from Washington and is plainly/a political idea to cope with post-war unemployment and to spend $4,000,000 . In fact , War Department engineers admit that only 16 per cent of the proposed storage capacity will be reserved for flood control . Certainly the flooding and devastation of this unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blessed with an abundance of waters and power . Here also is the last sanctuary , in the industrial East , of the bear , otter and other interesting mammals that were once common and are now rare or near extermination . The Moose River herd numbers one thousand deer . The streams in this particular region draw trout fishermen from many States and the furred and feathered game that abounds here has , given to this part of the park a nation-wide reputation . Besides serving the sportsmen , the peace of this wilderness offers escape from the crowded city , in vacation time , to hikers , campers , naturalists and artists and an increasing number of nature lovers . No other dense ? population area in the world has accessible for the use of its citizens a comparable region of wilderness and rugged beauty and , in fact , if it is foolishly destroyed after preserving it all these years , one will sadly no longer be able to say , " New York has everything ! " At this moment only strong and immediate public opposition can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , 1945 . Toll Roads Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your edtiorial " New Roads Needed , " discussing the proposed New York-Buffalo through-way you stated that " the Pennsylvania Turnpike linking Harrisburg and Pittsburgh , which is a toll facility , proved immensely popular for both commercial and passenger car traffic . " You obviously are unaware that proposals for extension of the turnpike and creation of other toll roads in Pennsylvania are being met with vigorous opposition by highway users and this opposition recently resulted in formation of the Pennsylvania Free Roads Association . Pennsylvania 's experience with this problem , which certainly poses a national issue , has taught that a privately financed road can not profitably exist alongside a State-financed road unless the Government subsidizes the toll road corporation to the extent of practically 50 per cent of the initial investment . Besides , before the corporation can be certain of profitable existence it must have assurance from the State that existing parallel free highways will riot be improved . E. S. SHUCK. : Clearfield , Pa. , Dec. 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dam " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I was . much interested in your editorial " The Senate Keeps Its Dignity " and your remar 's on the use of the the phrases " It is n't worth a dam " and " I would n't give a dam " for something or other were common . Inquiry of the piousminded would have led to the explanation that " dam " was a small coin of insignificant value used by gypsies , and so careful souls could use the word with clear conscience , H. W. KENT. , New York , Dec. 1 , 1945 . . Comment on NAM Report TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : After careful reading of the recent report of the recommendations of the National Association of Manufacturers which appeared in THE TIMES I understand what is meant by " The mountEiin labored and brought forth a mouse . Three years ' study of the problem . of reconversion ! Ye gods and little fishes , is that the best business leadership can evolve ? I would be ashamed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MARY H. HADLEY . Swarthmore , Pa. , Dec. 1 , 1945 . Camp Schools Are Advocated Assemblyman Peck Urges Plan to Curb Juvenile Delinquency To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES In your issue of Dec. 1 S. A. Berenson advocates punishment of neglectful parents as a means to prevent juvenile delinquency . While undoubtedly there may be much to be said on that score , inasmuch as home influence is always a potent factor , yet the elements of environment , slum conditions , and prevailing economic conditions within a particular family often create circumstances beyond the control of the individual . At the same time I do not wish to minimize the fact that there exist cases where all too often parents are not alive to their responsibilities . However , it is my theory that government likewise owes a duty to the citizens of tomorrow . Prior to my election to the Assembly I had the honor to serve as a member of a draft board for four years , and my experience disclosed not only that our youth constitute our first line of defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been of the health of its future citizens . The result was amply demonstrated by the unusually heavy percentage of physical rejections . At the last session of the Legislature I sponsored a bill in the Assembly authorizing city education boards as well as school districts to construct and operate summer vacation school camps for education , physical training , recreation and maintenance of all children between 8 and 15 , the courses to include instruction in agriculture , farming and other subjects ; camps to be part of the school system , but optional ; the State to pay 75 per cent of the cost , the balance to be advanced by the city or school district . Each child would have a month 's free stay at camp . An appropriation of $5,000,000 was asked . The bill was killed in committee . I believe that if such a bill were enacted not only would juvenile delinquency receive a death blow but ' a great step forward would be made in fostering good citizenship , good health and good-will among the generations of thefuture . I expect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PECK , Member of Assembly , Bronx Seventh District . New York , Dec. 1 , 1945.                     