@@711068

txt ? The British Government believes that an international force will be needed to enforce the partition of Palestine and will not oppose the creation of such a force in the Security Council , Arthur Creech Jones , Britain 's Colonial Secretary , indicated in a press conference today . Mr. Creech Jones emphasized that " if the United Nations means business " it must " arm its decisions with arrangements so that those decisions can become really operative . " At the same time Britain 's top man on Palestine policy carefully avoided implying that the British delegation would either advocate or vote for an international armed force when the Security Council takes up the problem of how to partition the Holy Land Tuesday . The United States has decided upon its course in the Council , but Secretary Marshall would not disclose its nature at a press conference in Washington . Britain Wo n't Take Initiative Britain , it was learned authoritatively , may be expected to abstain from taking a position on either side in this particular issue . Mr. Creech Jones , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British policy and not to initiate any new policy line . While refusing to confirm that Britain had asked the United States not to lift the embargo on arms shipments to the Middle East , Mr. Creech Jones said the British Government was " aware of the very great pressure on America to get this ban lifted , " and he emphasized that Britain was " very much exercised " at what would happen if it were . The Palestine issue flared up violently in the Trusteeship Council this morning when Awni Khalidy of Iraq walked out of the meeting , called to consider the draft report on the special regime for Jerusalem . Mr. Khalidy denounced the whole partition plan as " illegal " and charged that the proposed trusteeship of the city of Jerusalem was illegal and a breach of the Charter . Declaring that the Council would be " held responsible for an action charged with the most dangerous possibilities , " Mr. Khalidy stalked out of the meeting . Centers Attack on U. S. Making one of the strongest attacks yet against the United Nations plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , which he accused of " leading the campaign for partition with a zeal reminiscent of the early Christians " and of having " sealed off its mind from the beginning to anything but partition . " Even national interest was forgotten in this " fanaticism , " he said , and went on to ask how it could be in the interest of the United States " to initiate an armed conflict in a most strategic part of the world , and by that play into the hands of those wnose policies and doctrines thrive on trouble . " Following up this oblique reference to the Soviet Union , Mr. Khalidy continued : " It was even less easy to see how it could be in the interests of the United States to try to close the front door in Greece and open the back door in Palestine . It was not easy to see how an important issue like oil did riot figure in the calculations of a government which acknowledges that oil is the lifeblood of both peace and war . " The trusteeship plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Trusteeship Council is considering , is " utterly illegal and expressly against the Charter , " according to Mr. Khalidy . He maintained that Jerusalem was an integral part of Palestine ; that trusteeship as laid down in the Charter was " entirely and basically a temporary regime , " and that the Charter did " not en- visage in any way a permanent trusteeship . " Francis B. Sayre of the United States , president of the Trusteeship Council , pointed out after Mr. Rhalidy had walked out of the meeting that the Council was acting under special mandate from the General Assembly and not under ordinary trusteeship procedure . Afterward Mr. Sayre expressed his conviction that there was " no doubt whatever " as to the legality of the Trusteeship Council 's action and said it was intended to go right ahead with the adoption of the draft ? report and the appointment of a Governor of Jerusalem . Sr:fr.:ring Tension Over Issue The flare-up in the Trusteeship Council was symptomatic of the growing tension at Lake Success over the Palestine issue . On all sides there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way to becoming a United Nations crisis . The main topic of conversation among the delegates was whether the Security Council would act to provide the " military forces in adequate strength " demanded by the Palestine Commission . A source close to the Soviet delegation expressed the conviction this afternoon that Russia would certainly not oppose the creation of an internatoinal force , and would be prepared to contribute to such a force . With Britain abstaining , the view here was that the veto was not likely to be applied and that , therefore , the prospects of action of some sort by the Council were somewhat brighter than had been generally expected . The commission heard from Dr. Karel Lisicky , its chairman , an informal account of his talk with Mr. Creech Jones . This , it was learned , followed the same line as the latter 's statement to the press today . " If we have appeared at times not very forthcoming in regard to some of the requests of the Palestine Commission , " Britain 's Colonial Secretary said , " it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the evacuation of Palestine . " He steadfastly refused to give way on the question of allowing the Palestine Commission to come to Palestine more than two weeks before the end of the mandate on May 15 , insisting that this was " a security problem . " Asked whether he really believed there would be an attempt to assassinate the commission on its arrival , Mr. Creech Jones said the Arabs were determined to make the work of the commission impossible . " There are some Arabs that would stop at nothing , " he said . " Certainly security arrangements must be made if the commission goes to Palestine . " Five Going to Jerusalem The names of five members of the United Nations Secretariat who are leaving soon for Jerusalem as the advance party of the Palestine commission were announced by Trygve Lie , Secretary General , at his press conference today . The five are Pablo de Azcarate y Florez , deputy principal secretary ; Col. A. Roscher Lund of Norway and D. Ghosh , senior officers , and Miss Audrey Owen , administrative assistant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formerly Deputy Secretary General of the League of Nations and Ambassa11 dor of Republican Spain to London . Colonel Lund was a member of the Security Council 's commission of inquiry in the Balkans last year . Mr. Ghosh is economic affairs , officer in the trusteeship department of the United Nations . Miss Owen has been a documents officer at United Nations Headquarters . Mrs. Tobin , formerly of the British Foreign Office , was a member of the UNSCOP secretariat in Palestine last summer .                     