@@711577

txt A former Springfield business executive was charged today with embezzling $300,000 from his company and packing some of It away In his safety deposit box and using other parts of it to buy real estate in his wife 's name . Eighteen indictrrents charging embezzlement and forgery were returned against Harry D. Anderson , 52 , onetime vice president and secretary-treasurer of the Springfield Brewing company . lie now is employed by the Dunbar Trucking company of Springfield . The Sangamon county grand Jury action charged Anderson specifically with embezzling $27 , 000 and forging checks totaling $2,955 . State 's Atty . John W. Curren explained that the criminal charges covered only the last three years , as permitted by law . Civil Suit Flied The embezzlement of $300,000 In brewery funds in the years from 1941 to 1947 was alleged In a civil suit filed In behalf of the company by Its president , Nicholas A. Schiangen . The suit asked for an accounting and injunctions . This suit also made the First National bank of Springfield a defendant , alleging it was negligent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with cashing and debiting to the company numerous forged checks with forged indorsements , and with giving company employes cash on checks payable to the company without receipts . Anderson was alleged to have a lock box in a local bank containing part of the " unlawfully abstracted " funds or property he purchased with the funds . It was also charged that real estate now owned in the name of his wife , Margaret , was purchased by him with the company 's money . False Invoices Charged Ile conducted his misappropriations , it was charged , by making false entries in the company 's books , thru false invoices , issuing fictitious cnecks , and forging indorsements on checks . Anderson had charge of the company 's books and records and was its principal accounting officer during his six years with the brewery , it was asserted . He began work with the company in August , 1941 , as a clerk and bookkeeper . Little more than a year later he became vice president and subsequently held the titles of agent , secretary , secretarytreasurer . Ile left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The company was well known at one time for its production of Gold Coast beer but is not now operative , altho still in existence . Circuit Judge DeWitt Crow granted petitions for injunctions sought by the company to restrain Anderson from transferring his property or withdrawing anything from his bank account and safety deposit box but added the provision that the brewery post a bond of $50,000 . Schlangen. 50 , was in the news last month when his yacht sank at Savannah , Ga. , as he and Martha Sleeper , stage and screen actress , and two crew members were sailing . from New York City to Fort Lauderdale , Fla . Buffeted by high winds , the yacht sought shelter in the Savannah river but was thrown against a Jetty and sank until the deck was 2 feet under water .                     