@@704843

txt President Roosevelt refrained from any assurance that he would not be a candidate for a third term in offering Colonel Frank Knox the secretaryship of the navy , the Chicago publisher , who was the Republicans ' 1936 Vice Presidential candidate , today assured the Naval Affairs Committee , to which his nomination had been referred . This testimony was at direct variance with published accounts , especially current during the Republican convention at Philadelphia last week . The stories were to the effect that Colonel Knox had told close friends , after his acceptance of the nomination as Secretary of the Navy , that President Roosevelt would not be the Democratic can ' didate in November and the Democratic mantle would fall on the ' shoulders of Secretary Hull . Colonel Knox told the committee that the Cabinet post was first of , fered to him last December . At that time , he said , Mr. Roosevelt had emphasized the importance of national unity and a nonpartisan approach to the , problem of national defense . Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its early stage , and was being called " a phony war " in a large section of American public opinion . Under the circumstances he had seen fit to decline the nomination , and President Roosevelt was inclined to agree too after thinking over the representations Colonel Knox made to him . After the capitulation of France was almost certain , about a month ago , Colonel Knox said that a " personal friend " of President Roosevelt approached him to ask whether he would reconsider his decision . He told this intermediary : " I would do anything the President wanted me to do , from putting a gun on my shoulder up . " ' A day later came the formal offer from the White House , and on the following day the nomination was sent to the Senate . Senator Ellender asked the question which every member of the committee was burning to ask . " Was there any discussion about the third term ? " ' " Neither then nor at any subse- quent time were any promises or commitments made on either side , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in subsequent questions . The questioning of Colonel Knox in regard to his fitness for the post of Secretary of the Navy was mainly conducted by ostensibly hostile members of the committee , of whom Senators Bone , Holt , Tydings , Johnson and Walsh were the most active . The general tenor of their questions was whether President . Roosevelt has in mind any military intervention in the European war . Senator Holt started the examination proper by asking Colonel Knox whether the nominee had had any experience in naval affairs or in naval procurement . When Colonel Knox said he had had none , the West Virginia Senator asked : " Why did the President want you to be Secretary of the Navy ? " " You had better ask the President , " Colonel Knox replied . " I suppose it was because we agree on the question of sea power , its uses and its destiny . " Senator Holt had prepared voluminous excerpts from speeches and editorials by the nominee . Before beginning his reading of the editorials from The Chicago Daily News , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonel Knox writes only those editorials which appear on the front page of that newspaper , but that he " stands behind " every editorial that appears in the paper . Out of these questions , and out of excerpts from a speech he made in Cleveland on Oct. 24 , 1939 , a few weeks after the European war had broken out , Colonel Knox gradually built up the following explanation of his own concept of what should be the policy of the United States in regard to the European conflict : This country should follow a course of " selfish security " in place of " collective security " in view of present conditions . In pursuit of this aim , it should extend all possible moral and economic aid  --  every aid short of military participation  --  to Great Britain in the hope that this help will insure Great Britain 's ultimate victory or , at least , keep the fight alive until the United States has time to prepare for " any eventuality . " Because of the events of the last forty days in Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wise to withdraw- from Asia and say so frankly , because of the embarrassing possibility that it might be exposed to war in the Atlantic and the Pacific at the same time . Reversing his previous endorsement of a ' strong policy " which would admit of no change in the status quo in the Far East , Colonel Knox said there was no point in the United States makin threatening gestures at Japan over the Netherlands East Indies , China or any other Asiatic question unless it is prepared to " go through with it , " which might , he said , mean war . Throughout the day 's testimony Colonel Knox maintained that he has never advocated sending American military forces to fight in Europe . The hearing was finally recessed until tomorrow morning when Senator Holt read a published statement by Helen Essary , newspaper columnist , to the effect that Colonel Knox had advocated to her that American soldiers and sailors be dispatched at once to aid the Allies . Mr. Holt told Senator Walsh , chairman of the committee , that he had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a recess until tomorrow . He also said Mrs. Essary should be summoned to give her account of the conversation which Colonel Knox said she had misunderstood . Senator Lucas , Democrat of Illinois , was the only member of the committee who asked Colonel Knox friendly questions during the session , although Senator Johnson of California , in an amusino. interchange , finally got Colonel amusing agree that he was as much of an isolationist as Mr. Johnson . This was based on a series of questions and answer in which both found that they believed the United State should go to war only when its own vital interests are attacked and that , in such event , they both would fight .                     