@@707823

txt Gov . Green guaranteed today teat mere WILL be no pulling of punches and no evasion of issues In the platform presented for ripprove to the state Republican convention in Springfield next Thursday . He asserted the Guy . Green . platform will call for the fullest safeguard for the sovereignty of the United States in its post-war relationship with ether nations and show that Illinois does not have to wait for any other section to lead the way on that issue . Gov . Green set forth the Mackinac Republican charter as the model for platform pronouncements on international policy . Congress ' Assent Needed . The Mackinac conference unanimously adopted a platform in favor of responsible participation by the United States in post-war coOperalive organization among - sovereign nations to prevent military aggression and to attain permanent peace with organized justice in a free world . " In urging this , the declaration asserted that such steps should only be taken as do not conflict with the Constitution and the Bill of Rights . The declaration emphasized that constitutional procedures be adhered to in international commitments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States could not be taken into a League of Nations or other agency without the action of congress anti the President , Furthermore , It was declared that whatever action is taken should be " with due regard for all American interests and responsibilities . " After day long conferences with Frank G. Thompson , chairman of the state convention platform committee , and other party leaders , the governor announced a call for a Meeting of the full pre-convention Oatform committee We'dnesday in the Leland hotel . He said the purpose of the meeting will be to receive suggestions and to permit open discussion of the proposed planks . Praises Mackinac Plan , " Regarding the international poi ! cies of this nation , the Mackinac charter sets them forth in the clear and sincere way which can never be misunderstood . The words of that charter , adopted by the wisest and most far seeing leaders of our party , never can be construed in any way except as an avowal that - the Constitution of the United States shall never be violated In any of our relations , foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construe them except as expressing the fullest safeguarding of the sovereignty of this nation . " There wilt be no doubts , after the platform Is submitted , if there could ever have been any doubts , that the Republican party in Illinois , welcomes the greatest oppor. tunity it has ever had to become a spearhead of the drive to national victory in the November election . Because Illinois has taken leadership we will include those planks in our state platform which can leave no doubt of our determination to maintain that leadership . Study Previous Platforms . " We are studying the state plat. form of the Illinois Republican par . 1y of 1940 and 1942 with the intention of including those planks which have proved their worth . " I am sure that when the platform is submitted Thursday , and after we have been aided by the discussion of the pre-platform comsnittee Wednesday that we will present a declaration of Illinois Republicanism upon which we shall be most proud to stand . " 