@@707126

txt Restoration of the War Labor Board 's independence to enable it to pass upon wage increases without the restrictions imposed by various executive orders will be demanded by the executive council of the American Federation of Labor when it meets in Washington beginning May 17 , it was learned yesterday . Members of the council have expressed particular objection to President Roosevelt 's " hold-theline " order of April 8 , which , they say , has made the War Labor Board useless , and to the imposition upon the board of the authority of James F. Byrnes , Economic Stabilization Director . Some members of the council , it was learned , may go so far as to urge the resignation of A. F. of L. representatives from the board unless it is restored to its original status of an independent tripartite agency . Woll and Meany Lead Fight Leading the fight for restoration of the War Labor Board to its original authority at the meeting of the A. F. of L. executive council , it was learned , will be Matthew Woll , vice president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of L. , both members of the WLB . The question also will be discussed by the executive board of the Congress of Industrial Organizations when it meets in Cleveland on May 14 . The meetings of the governing bodies of the two labor groups may decide the fate of the WLB , which has been assailed by John L. Lewis and his United Mine Workers as " a court packed against labor . " While neither the A. F. of L. nor the C. L 0 . has approved the recent coal stoppage , many of their leaders and affiliated organizations sympathize with the miners ' demands and their war upon the WLB 's Little Steel wage ceiling formula . Mr. Woll declared yesterday that " the War Labor Board has become a policeman 's club , " that " all its judicial powers have been practically destroyed , " and that " it is now operating within a straightjacket . " " Unless ' its discretionary and judicial powers are restored to it , its usefulness has been practically ended , " he continued . " The War Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to keep wages and prices stabilized while meeting the specific needs of groups of workers living and working under conditions requiring readjustment , until the board 's players were taken away . The charges that the board was giving unjustified increases had no foundation whatever . If the charges had been true , the thing to have done was to reorganize the board instead of putting it in a straight-jacket " Discusses Coal Strike Mr. Woll added that had the WLB retained its original status and powers , the wage conflict in the coal industry , the stoppage that ensued , and the renewed stoppage now threatened , probably would have been avoided . " It is reasonable to assume , " he said , " that had the board been permitted to retain its old character it could have given the miners ' demands consideration on their merits and thus would have probably averted the coal crisis . " He declared that the great majority of organized labor was in sympathy with the miners ' demands , both for economic reasons and for reasons of labor solidarity . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization would certainly react upon the position of all organized labor , " Mr. Woll said . " Therefore , I hope that a constructive solution of the wage dispute in the coal industry will be found . " He warned that the attacks of industry and persons predominant in the Administration against the miners threatened the position of organized labor as a whole . " The time has now come when ' unity in the labor movement has become an imperative necessity , " Mr. Woll said . " Labor must once more be united under one banner if it is to repel successfully the attacks leveled against it in Congress , in many Legislatures through draconic anti-labor laws , and through the mobilization of certain powerful industrial groups . " There is also the question of the growing influence and infiltration of Communists in labor organizations with the purpose of obtaining hegemony over a divided and weakened labor movement Once united the labor movement would see to it that the Communist question in its ranks is solved . Unless labor unites it will be destroyed by the machinations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided on the principle of ' divide and rule , ' by the power of hostile employers and by the conspiracies of the Communists . " Charging that the " placing of the War Labor Board in a straightjacket by various Executive decrees and by the setting up of the Office of Economic Stabilization was a violation of labor 's no-strike pledge , Mr. Woll demanded that this situation be redressed . " While rising prices cut the workers ' real income and mounting profits are concealed . in innocentappearing amortization and depreciation tables on the balance sheets of huge corporations , wages are frozen by the President 's hold-theline order , " Mr. Woll said . " Inflation can not be checked by pressing one side of a balloon . Before it had been reduced to its present impotence the War Labor Board and its several regional boards and stabilization branches and divisions were the sole government agencies that had put an effective check on inflation . Under their administration strikes had reached an alltime low , wages had been generally stabilized under a tri-partite system which preserved flexible constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slowly , eliminated . " Under the President 's hold-theline order , the War Labor Board and all its branches and divisions have been emasculated of their judicial functions , compelled to adhere strictly to the Little Steel formula , and converted into a rubber stamp which says No . Wage stabilization has thereby become wage freezing . What will be the reaction of millions of workers who willingly forsook the strike weapon and trustingly confided their demands for redress of economic grievances to the tedious circumlocutions of regional board , referee , panel , wage stabilization committee , and finally the National War Labor Board ? Approximately 17,000 such cases are now pending . " The cases were sent to the War Labor Board and its subdivisions in good faith  --  a majority of them are of long standing . For these thousands of workers the rules have been changed in the middle of the game . This is injustice , retroactive injustice . It is a penalty for patience and good faith . " By contrast , it is common gossip that the Treasury Department , which acts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more , has been singularly liberal in its application of the ' approval ' stamp . Are we , then , to have two kinds of economic justice ? " The A. F. of L. members of the War Labor Board believe in democratic procedure . In numerous cases which have come before them and in which they considered that demonstrated inequities and maladjustments merited a favorable decision by the board , they accepted the majority decision of the public and industry members , which denied the requests of the workers . That was obedience to the democratic rule of the majority . " But the situation is now altered . Replacing the democratic process of judicial consideration there is now substituted the rigid , inflexible doctrine of executive fiat " Asked what the executive council of the American Federation of Labor would do if the present status of the War Labor Board was continued , Mr. Woll replied : " That would be up to the council . I , for one , however , am of the opinion that , for the sake of American democracy , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported unanimously by organized labor on the production front and on the battlefront , the time has come for labor to declare its independence of unconstitutional government dictation and the intrigues and machinations of politicians . This is essential if the principle and practice of a free American labor movement are to be preserved . " 