@@711619

txt John Foster Dulles , closely watched here as possibly the next United States Secretary of State , accused the Soviet Union today of deliberately inciting trouble in Europe , Africa , Asia and the Americas in a campaign to spread communism throughout the world . Sitting as the United States delegate in the United Nations Assembly 's Political and Security Committee , the Republican party 's topranking adviser on foreign affairs said Soviet leaders preached violence as a means of attaining " world-wide political ambitions . " The text of Mr. Dulles ' speech is on Page 4 . The springboard for Mr. Dulles ' attack against Russian policy was the beginning of full-scale debate bn the Balkan situation . The United States delegate complained that Greek guerrillas were receiving aid from Communist-controlled countries , and continued : " This violent effort to establish in Greece ' a Communist government is but part of a general effort to extend the power of Soviet communism throughout the world . " Mr. Dulles gave the United States ' backing to the United Nations Special Committee on the Balkans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bulgaria to stop aiding Greek guerrillas with arms and refuge . The United States and three other delegations ? Britain , France and China  --  submitted a resolution to extend the life of the committee . Before Mr. Dulles spoke the committee voted 50 to 6 against a Yugoslav resolution that would have given representation to a spokesman for Gen. Markos Vafiades , Greek guerrilla leader . The broad denunciation of the Soviet Union was the second time a prominent United States delegate had warned against the Soviet Union 's attempts to spread its influence . The first came before/ the same Political Committee when Warren R. Austin said the United States would not give up the atomic secrets as long as the // Soviet indicated a belief in " aggressive war " as an instrument of foreign policy . The trouble in Greece , said Mr. Dulles , has the same root cause as the trouble in Berlin and the trouble in Korea . " Wherever one looks , whether it be to Europe , Africa , Asia or the Americas , there is apparent the same pattern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear and violence within to achieve international political objectives , " Mr. Dulles declared . It all follows from the teachings of Soviet leaders that Russia will not be safe until Communist influence is world dominant , according to the United States representative . And he added that Communists believed dominance could be achieved only by violent revolution . The Soviet practice is so at odds with the Charter . said Mr. Dulles , that the question is raised whether Communist governments signed it " with integrity of purpose . " Faced with that situation , he declared , the United Nations must do what it can to muster public opinion to the point where the Russians can not ignore it . Greece , said Mr. Dulles , is a case in point . He quoted from the committee 's report paragraphs that said the guerrillas were receiving large-scale aid from Greece 's northern neighbors . The documents of the committee are full of evidence that the guerrillas are also using Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria as bases and are retreating there when the opposition gets too heavy , Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tinued , it would have been far worse if the committee had not existed and if the Assembly had not taken an interest . " The northern neighbors of Greece have , in fact , been restrained by the presence of the committee and its power of exposure at this Town Meeting of the World , " he told the committee . Not only has- Greece survived , said Mr. Dulles , but , " thanks to her own efforts and those of the United Nations and other friendly states , " she is making steady progrem toward rehabilitation . Ali other speakers today echoed Mr. Dulles ' criticisms of Greece 's northern neighbors . The Greek representative , Panayotis Pipinellis , challenged Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria to open their doors to the United Nations Committee and submit to an on-the-spot investigation . Hector British delegate , held that the three Communist countries were responsible for the committee 's failure to re-establish normal diplomatic relations in the Balkans . Greece , he said , has done everything possible to cooperate with the committee , but Albania , Bulgaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help . Faced with the " undisguised and provocative flouting " of its recpmmendations , Mr. declared the Assembly could not drop the Balkan case . The only thing to do , he said , was to " recognize the continued gravity of the situation " and continue the work of the committee . The two other sponsors of the joint resolution  --  France and China ? joined Mr. Dulles and Mr. in blaming Yugoslavia , Albania and Bulgaria and calling for the renewal of the committee 's mandate . Ales Bebler , Yugoslav delegate , was scheduled to speak , but he was held over until tomorrow when he announced he intended to talk for more than two hours .                     