@@711392

txt MOSCOW REJECTS PARLEY ON BERLIN TO BREAK IMPASSE Reply to Protests on Blockade Asserts Any Talks Must Embrace All of Germany BLAMES WEST FOR SPLIT Soviet Says Currency Reform and Proposed New State Made Its Action Necessary Text of Soviet reply to protest on Berlin is 02t page 16 . By 11:010ESERT IVIA1 " ' " ll-nOVVS Special to lac Now Yo- . LONDON , July ** Soviet Union rejected the Western powers ' demand for the lifting of the blockade of Berlin in notes to I Washington , London and Paris delivered today by Soviet Ambassadors in those capitals . The text of the reply to the United States , as broadcast by the Moscow radio and translated here by the Soviet monitor , said the Soviet Union would conduct fourpower negotiations on the " general question of quadripartite control in relation to Germany " but not only on Berlin as the Western powers had proposed . The Moscow broadcast said the replies to Great Britain and France were similar . The note to the United States repeated the Russian contention that " Berlin is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that zone . " Deny Pressure Is Intended In reply to one crucial passage in the Western Allies ' notes it had this to say : " As regards the declaration of the Government of the United States similar passages appeared in the British and French notes that it will not be induced by threats of pressure r other actions to abandon its right to participate in the occupation of Berlin , the Soviet Government does not intend to enter into a discussion of this declaration for it has no need of a policy of pressure since by violation of the agreed decisions on the administration of Berlin the above mentioned Governments are themselves rendering null and void their right to participation in the occupation of Berlin . " There were a few good features in the note from the Western : Allies ' viewpoint , such as a refer-1 ence to the blockade moves as " temporary measures " and the fact that they had been necessitated by the Western currency reform . There also was an offer to feed all of Berlin with Soviet supplies . However the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Allies ' demands and therefore it brought the United States , Britain and France face to face with further serious decisions . Washington sources said the Soviet reply left the Berlin situation unchanged and indicated that new Western power talks would be held . Discussions between these three powers began almost immediately today and will continue on a more intense basis tomorrow because many hours were lost today in translations , comparisons and preliminary soundings . The British Foreign Office unaccountably gave out during the afternoon that there were " no major sensations " in the Soviet note and that was the official attitude up to the time the Foreign Office closed late tonight . However , the text of the note was the clearest possible demonstration that the Russians had replied with a firm categorical " no . " This was the yita/ passage replying to the Western Allies ' demand that the blockade of Berlin be lifted preliminary to the holding of four-power talks on Berlin ? not Germany as a whole  --  recognized as the crucial issue : " While not objecting to negotiations , the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it carnot link the start of these // negotiations with the fulfillment of any preliminary conditions and that , secondly , quadripartite negotiations could only be effective if they were not confined to the question of the administration of Berlin since this question can not be separated from the general question of quadripartite control in relation to Germany . " The sting of the note was in the tail . Most of it was the expected and now familiar complex of charges that the Western powers were to blame for everything that had happened in Berlin and Germany . The Western Allies violated all the four-power agreements , especially Potsdam , in relation to the demilitarization of the Ruhr , reparations , the setting up of a Western German Government and currency reform . With regard to the Western Ipowers ' assertion that they have the right to be in Berlin , the Soviet note said : " The existence of the abovementioned right in relation to Berlin is bound up with the obligatory fulfillment by the powers occupying Germany of the quadripartite agreements concluded between them in relation to Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued the Russian reply , the Western powers " thereby undermined also the legal basis on which rested their right to participate in the administration of Berlin . " Credit was denied to Western Allies armies for their voluntary withdrawal from parts of the Soviet zone . The note asserted that Berlin and Vienna were , " as is known " captured " only by the troops of the Soviet Army . " The British note was given to Hector , by Soviet Ambassador Georgi N. Zarubin , at noon .                     