@@712030

txt The Democratic House leadership took the bit in its teeth tonight and de ? cided to offer tomorrow a substiMute for the Wood labor relations bill , which labor regards as " almost as bad as the Taft-Hartley law : ) , The substitute will contain six ma. jor concessions to the Wood bill ad. vocates . After a two-and-a-half-hour cone ference of Democratic leaders , Speaker Sam Rayburn announced the content of the substitute measure , emphasizing that it was not an Administration proposal and had not been " cleared " with the White House . Embodied in the substitute bill as one of the concessions is retention of the eighty-day injunction section of the Taft-Hartley law . Since the injunction provision is the only one of the concessions occasioning serious contention among the Democratic leaders , it was believed that Mr. Rayburn made it plain to President Truman at a conference earlier today that the Administration bill had no chance unless it included this feature . Mr. Rayburn attended a White House conference with Vice President Barkley and other Democratic congressional leaders . Taft Section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Rayburn , the bill to be offered tomorrow will include virtually intact the Taft - Hartley section on injunctions in national emergencies affecting health and safety . This section states that where a strike or lockout of such nature threatens the President is empowered to name a board of inquiry . After the board finds the facts the President may direct the Attorney General to enjoin the strike or lockout . One change in the new bill would be to allow the fact-finding board to make recommendations . There were some tonight who felt that the insistence upon the injunction by Mr. Rayburn and his colleagues was a break between the White House and the top House leadership . It was generally conceded , : n any event , that it at least ranged the President against the leadership . The President has voiced opposition to the injunction in national emergency labor disputes and this section of the current law is omitted from the Administration measure sponsored by Representative John Lesinski of Michigan , chairman of the Education and Labor Committee . Organized labor is unalterably opposed to the injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trainmen , declared that his organization would continue its fight for the Lesinski bill . Other Major Concessions The other major concessions of the substitute bill are : guarantee of free speech to employers and employes , obligation of employers and employes to bargain collectively , requirement that unions make periodic financial statements , requirement that union officers and employers sign loyalty oaths and affidavits that they are not Communists before they may avail themselves of the services of the National Labor Relations Board and creation of a joint Congressional committee to study labor management relations . The conference of the Democratic House leaders was held at late afternoon in the office of Representative-John W. McCormack , majority leader . Not all those present agreed to the decision . As he left the conference room Mr. Lesinski was asked whether he approved the compromise . ? " I will go along with the majority , " he said . Representative Andrew Jacobs of Indiana , also a member of the labor committee , expressed the view that the injunction section was " dangerous " but likewise agreed to go along with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic whip ; Cleveland Bailey West Virginia ; John F. Kennedy ; Massachusetts ; J. M. Combs , Texas ; 1Hugo S. Sims Jr. , South Carolina ; Oren ' Harris , Arkansas , and Henderson Lanham , Georgia . William S. Tyson , labor department solicitor , was present but , Speaker Rayburn said , was " only ' a technical advisor . " John Forsyth , counsel to the Labor Committee , was present in that capacity . The Wood bill , sponsored by Representative John S. Wood , Georgia Democrat , has had the support of a coalition made up mainly of Republicans and Southern Democrats . The White House conference of Congressional leaders was held in the morning . At its close Mr. Rayburn predicted defeat of the Wood bill tomorrow . In announcing this evening , after the separate meeting of House leaders , that a substitute for the Wood bill would be offered , he stated that a majority of the conferees had agreed upon it . He added that the ' exact language of the concessions was being worked out . In ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " This is not an Administration bill . It was not cleared with the White House . " His remark was supplemented by the observation that the substitute bill " has the endorsement of the House leadership . " A moment later the Speaker added : " This is what I thought should have been in it in the first place . " In his discussion after the morning conference at the White House he asserted his belief that the power of the Administration to seek injunctions when strikes threatened the nation 's economy should be spelled out in the new law . He declared that he was definitely opposed to inserting in the bill the right of the President to seize plants and facilities . Such a proposal was reported last week as among those drawn up by the Administration with labor approval . Mr. Rayburn said tonight that he did not know when the House would vote on the substitute bill . Whether a vote will be taken on it tomorrow , he stated , depended upon " how many want to talk and we may want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who would offer the substitute bill , it will be put to the House for a vote before the Wood bill . If it passes there will be no vote on the Wood bill or on the Lesinski bill . The latter would repeal the TaftHartley Act and re-enact the Wagner Act with several amendments . In a speech before a section of the United States Chamber of Commerce , Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat , of Virginia , declared tonight that he would vote to retain the " essential features " of the Taft-Hartley act and rejected sharply the recent statement of President Truman that a vote on its repeal would be a test of party loyalty .                     