@@711073

txt Three hundred rollicking but serious-minded high-school students from all reaches of the Commonwealth ruled over Mas . sachusetts today and learned about the techniques of democracy . Unfamiliar peals of youthful laughter filled the State House halls as the students , converging on the golden-domed building this morning , took over the reins of state government , from the Governor 's office down . After an official and cheering welcome by Governor Bradford , the student legislators , sitting under the " sacred cod " in the mahog &ny-paneled; House of Representatives , listened attentively to William Nichols of Weston , square-jawed student-Governor , deliver his sparkling inaugural address . Three Major Issues Foremost among recommendations of the young " Governor " was his outspoken support of universal military training . He recommended also that women be permitted to serve on juries , and urged the " legislators " to defeat the bill before them which would lower the voting age to 18 years . Keen exchanges of debate were anticipated on the voting-age measure and on the UMT recommendation . Political observers were awaiting with interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Names Take Over Reins As the student legislators and officials observed Good Government Day at the State House today , observers noted the interesting representation of names familiar in Boston and Massachusetts politics . The son of John B. Hynes , Boston City Clerk , was among the student officials . Also present were Curleys . Cahills , Curtises , Hurleys , Kellys , and Melleys. ticularly to see whether the young women would vote a unanimous " yes , " and the men against the measure . The bill has been defeated consistently for about two decades by regular state legislators . " Our meeting today is truly significant , " young Governor Nichols said to the student legislators as he opened the joint session of the Senate and House of Representatives . Special Bills Printed " It marks the first time in the history of Massachusetts that students of its high schools , duly elected in accordance with usual elective practices , have ever taken over the reins of State government , though only for a day . " Actual bills were printed for today 's occasion  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the paces of legislative procedure for passing laws . Committee hearings on the issues and full debate on them were carried on after the inaugural address . In the packed House galleries sat the proud parents of many of the " legislators . " Many of the regular solons , enjoying a day off , took a back seat in the galleries , too , watching the student debating and wondering how many of the youths might some day be bona-fide state ' officials . Regular Solons Tune In As the student senators and representatives tussled with UMT , women 's jury service , and votingage issues , the student department heads were busy in the State 's 20-odd departments . Some determined policy for - the day , others signed payrolls releasing thousands of dollars into pay en- velopes . Still others considered appeals for well-paying jobs . An unusual number of regular legislators made their way to the Lieutenant Governor 's office during the day . The attraction there was pretty " Lieut . Gov . " Virginia O'Malley of Mattapan , first feminine Lieutenant Governor of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The House Speaker 's post also was filled by a girl , Miss Patricia Daly of Lowell , who swung a hefty gavel to bring the House to order as it opened . In the Senate President 's chair was Joseph Kavenaugh of Peabody . Basic Purpose Cited At noon the students , their parents , and the regular legislators lunched at the Boston City Club , where Richard S. Bowers . President of the Massachusetts Civic League , presided . The student lunches were paid through the courtesy of the Massachusetts Elks Association . The Civic League , one of the sponsors of the Good Government Day events , paid for many of the expenses out of the Moses Kimball Fund for the Promotion 9f Good Citizenship , Honorary chairman of the sponsoring committee Was Senator Sumner G. Whitter ( R ) of Everett , who sponsored the bill in the 1947 legislature which authorized observance of the day . Other members of the sponsoring committee included Raymond A. Fitzgerald , Deputy Commissioner of Education , and Representative Charles W. Hedges ( R ) of Quincy . Senator Whittier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reminded them of the fundamental purpose of the occasion ? to help them understand more fully " your government so that you may be a better American . " Opposition Voiced Governor Nichols , in stating hi : opposition to the lowering of the voting age , admitted the diver.gence of opinion on the issue " There are those who claim that at 18 years of age young men anc women will vote according to the political beliefs of their parents , ' he said . " On the other hand , man young men and women in thi ! day and age feel that they am mature enough to vote solidly , anc that they are free from some o the prejudices of their parents . ' He doubted claims that womer are too emotional to serve or juries.                     