@@709259

txt ARBITRATIONURGED Union Leaders Will Ask Its Acceptance  --  Seek Seizure Abrogation FUEL CURBS TO BE KEPT O'Dwyer Not to End Rationing Until Men Are at , Work and Stocks Are Replenished By JACK SHANLEY New hope for the , settlement of the week-old harbor carriers ' strike came last night when committees representing workers and employers , after conferring with Mayor O'Dwyer at City Hall , agreed to recommend arbitration of their differences to membership meetings of both groups today . The arbitration proposal will be submitted to members of Local 333 of the United Marine Division , International Longshoremen 's Association , AFL , at an emergency meeting set for 10 A. M. at Manhattan Center , 311 West Thirtyfourth Street . It will mark the third vote by members of the local on continuation of the strike since the order directing Federal seizure of the harbor craft last Wednesday . It will be the first occasion , however , on which the striking men will vote on a proposal in which the factor of arbitration is included . The tugboat owners will meet at 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exchange , 17 Battery Place , for their vote on the proposal . Fuel Rationing to Continue Meanwhile Mayor O'Dwyer emphasized that the emergency rationing of fuel oil that began Saturday would be continued until adequate supplies were again on hand . The agreement to recommend arbitration stipulated that in addition to an immediate return to work by the strikers and lifting of the Government seizure order , the provisions of an eventual agreement would be retroactive to Jan. 1 , the date of expiration of the previous contract . There was a new spirit of optimism evident even before the first meeting at City Hall , attended by the committee members of the local , had ended . It was reported unofficially from several sources that something would be achieved in the direction of a settlement before the sessions closed . It was made clear that " arbitration , " with a mediator who would be acceptable to both sides , was the new factor on which hopes for settlement were based . At the close of the meeting , reporters who questioned Capt . William V. Bradley , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. Ryan , president of the parent union , who also had been present at the conference with the Mayor . Seek End of Seizure Order " We are standing by our original demands , " Mr. Ryan said . " We will go back , to work in a group only for our employers , so the Mayor and the ODT must see to it that the seizure order is vacated after the membership approves arbitration . " When asked how he believed the members of the local would vote on the proposal today , Mr. Ryan emphasized that the thirty-nine members of the local committee had voted unanimously to recommend arbitration , adding : " It 's as certain as anything can be that they will accept the recommendation of thirty-nine committeemen . " He then asserted that there was no assurance that the operators would vote for the proposal . The committee representing the operators met with the Mayor soon after the committee for the local had ended its meeting . The employer group included James P. , chairman of the wage adjustment committee ; Ray Fox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor O'Dwyer declared : " A committee of employers , without the power to bind other employers , met with me at 6 P. M. // I explained the situation to them . After a conversation with me they promised me that every effort would be made tonight to arrange an emergency meeting at the earliest possible hour tomorrow . Mr. was spoxesman for this committee . " The committee promised to recommend to the employers that they accept arbitration under the terms outlined by Captain Bradley of the union at the earlier conference . " All parties left my office at 6:35 P. M. A statement was prepared by the committee representing the workers urging all members of Local 333 to attend an emergency meeting . " The understanding is that in the event of favorable action both sides will make contact with me as soon as possible through committees empowered to sign a- binding agreement to abide by arbitration . At the signature of this agreement , if it takes place , the men are to return to work immediately . " Lawrence C. Turner of the Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrier facilities , was at City Hall while the meetings were in progress . The Mayor said that Mr. Turner had promised that if the strikers were to return to work , all tugs operated by the Government under the seizure order would be released . Committee members of the local met at its headquarters , 80 Broad Street , yesterday before the City Hall conference and at the end of their discussions a spokesman for Captain Bradley said that he had received a unanimous vote of confidence . There were previous indications that consideration of the arbitration proposal was being undertaken but direct questions were answered at the meeting 's close with statements about the scheduled conference at City Hall . ? Meanwhile Government operation of tugs extended to five more privately owned craft and for the first time employes of the city 's Marine and Aviation Department were used in manning them . The civil service employes , estimated to number between thirtyfive and forty , were assigned to the tugs by a Government dispatching office at the Navy Yard in Brooklyn . Previously forty-five Army and Navy-operated tugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodities . The tugs manned by the city employes also wee used for " emergency " transportation work , an ODT official said . The threat to health that the fuel shortage resulting from the strike had caused , according to the Board of Health , became greater when colder temperatures were forecast for today .                     