@@704915

txt Having reaped all the propaganda benefits to be derived from taking orders in Latin America for October delivery and posting cash guarantees of delivery as an indication of its confidence in a quick victory , Nazi Germany is now quietly " hedging " on her commitments by buying goods in this market to fill these orders , exporters charged here yesterday . For the last several weeks , German-owned companies in Argentina , Mexico , Brazil and other Central and South American markets have been placing orders here for chemicals , some metal products and other types of merchandise to be delivered late this Summer , the foreign traders said , Germany is credited with creating a world-wide sensation and scoring a telling point among Latin-Americans early last month when commercial agents began soliciting orders for German-made goods and offered to post cash guarantees that the customer would receive the goods on the date specified . According to advices reaching shippers here , the German agents assured customers that the end of the war vas certain by September , and that Germany would be ready to rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exporters said yesterday that the volume of goods purchased here by German-owned companies in Latin America had not been large , chiefly because the amount of orders the Reich was able to book on her guaranteed delivery sales drive was extremely limited . In all cases , however , the German-owned company has offered to pay cash in advance for the goods needed , but has specified that delivery must be made by early September . It was the offer for cash payment from buyers in markets where only exchange restrictions prevent most buyers from advancing dollars on their shipments that first aroused the suspicions of the foreign traders . Comparing notes with other exporters and checking the recent orders against confidential commercial reports from their representatives in the Latin-American markets , the exporters . said they discovered that the orders placed by these companies resembled closely in type and quantity the goods for which the Germans had already committed themselves . The purchases in question , it was said yesterday , had centered largely upon chemicals , hardware and a variety of other metal products . Although sales of steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export houses here were unable to confirm the reports . They added that inquiries had been received but that it was doubtful that any company would fill the orders under present conditions . Held Up Two Orders Oren 0 . Gallup , export manager for the Faultless Caster Company and secretary of the Export Managers Club of New York , Inc. , nn organization composed of export executives for many of the leading // companies of the country , said yesterday that he had held up two orders from Mexican sources on the suspicion that they had been placed here to cover items on which Germany has been bidding for business under the cash guarantee system . " There is every reason to believe that Germany hopes to use American merchandise to make good her promises of delivery in October , " Mr. Gallup said . " American exporters resent the idea that their goods are to he used to service orders which the Reich booked to bolster her own prestige In the Latin-American nations . " He added that as secretary of the exporters ' organization he has had an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have become suspicious recently of the type of buying that has been done by companies that are German-owned . Virtually all the orders in question , he said , come from companies on the British Government 's " blacklist " of companies the Empire has reason to believe are owned by enemy interests . Dr. Albert Degner , secretary of the Board of Trade for GermanAmerican Commerce , Inc. , said he did not believe the exporters ' suspicions were well founded . Ho added ' , Cat there had never been any verification of claims that Germany was soliciting orders in Latin America for October delivery or that the Reich wad posting cash guarantees of delivery .                     