@@707140

txt WASHINGTON , May 18 ? Secretary Ickes , as Solid Fuels Coordinator for War , told John L. Lewis today that he had no power to negotiate a contract with the United Mine Workers of America , nor to institute collective bargaining negotiations between miners and operators . " In addition , as I have said from the very beginning , any contract must have the approval of the War Labor Board , " declared Mr. Ickes . In a letter to Mr. Lewis in New York , the government custodian of the mines blasted the hope expressed by the union chief yesterday that " our government will now , without further delay , instruct the coal operators of the industry to forthwith engage in collective bargaining conferences so as to insure the making of an agreement in the period again allotted for that purpose . " In the view of Mr. Lewis , as indicated in his letter , " our government " is an organization other than the WLB , which he has persisted in ignoring . Mr. Ickes sent his letter after a conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chairman William H. Davis of the War Labor Board . By-Passing . Declared Barred It is understood that the entire procedural situation in the mine case was taken up at the meeting , and that it was agreed that the WLB had sole jurisdiction and that no government agency would seek to by-pass the board . Mr. Lewis has refused to appear before the board several times , the latest being yesterday . The board asked operators and miners in the Appalachian area to attend a conference here yesterday to complete arrangements for resumption of collective bargaining negotiations under WLB auspices . The operators responded and Mr. Lewis did not , asserting that thc. , board no longer had jurisdiction . // ICKES TELLS LEWIS HE MUST OBEY WLB // since the mines were in government custody . Text of Letter by Ickes Mr. Ickes 's letter to Mr. Lewis was as follows : " My dear Mr .. Lewis : " I very much appreciate your telegram of May 17 , advising me that ; . he membership of the United Mine Workers of America will continue at work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I am somewhat disturbed , how , ever , by the language in your telegram attributing to me the hope that I would be able to institute immediate collective bargaining conferences . I am anxious that there be no misunderstanding between us . " As I told you at our conference on Sunday , May 2 , the President 's executive order does not give me the power to negotiate a contract with the United Mine Workers nor do I have power to institute collective bargaining conferences between the mine workers and the owners of the mines . In addition , as I have said from the very beginning , any contract must have the approval of the WLB . " I believe that you realize that I am exceedingly anxious that a new contract be entered into by the union and the private operators . I am eager t restore the mines to private possession and operation and I think that it is clear that restoration of normal conditions would be advantageous to all concerned . Any interruption of operations is bound to delay the consummation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to do anything possible to contribute to a resolution of the existing controversy , within the limits of my jurisdiction . " Sincerely yours , " HAROLD L. ICKES , " Secretary of the Interior . ' , Roosevelt Views Sought The controversy over a possible agreement between the union and the government , a controversy concerned also with the initiation of collective bargaining conferences by Mr. Ickes , has been under way since May 2 , when Mr. Lewis and three aides conferred with Mr. Ickes in a surprise visit to this city . The President 's views on the coal impasse were sought at his press conference today when a reporter asked whether he supported the position of the WLB that coal negotiations could not proceed until Mr. Lewis appeared before it . The President said it was difficult to answer to question like that yes or no . You would have to get the original phraseology , he de ' Glared , and study the things that ' led up to it and the things that followed it . It was not that easy to answer so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impression that the President was not familiar with the details of the coal dispute , but that he was aware of the main aspects of the situation . As a result of developments today the WLB members felt that they had a " green light " to proceed with their work in the coal dispute . " Very Satisfactory " to Davis " Very satisfactory " was Mr. Davis 's comment on being shown Mr. Ickes 's letter to Mr. Lewis . The panel designated by the board is still at work on its factfinding report and it was indicated the report might be submitted late this week . When it receives the report the board will formulate recommendations , probably late next week . The panel is headed by Morris L. Cooke , industrial engineer , representing the public . The labor member is David B. Robertson of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen , and the industry member is Walter White of the Business Advisory Council of the Department of Commerce . Former Senator Edward R. Burke , representing the Southern Appalachian operators , reported that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lewis in New York . " Mr. Lewis said that he believed that if the parties would get together and bargain collectively1 he felt an agreement might be reached , " Mr. Murke stated . " I said that our position from the beginning has been that we would gladly bargain but that so far as wage increases are concerned they would have to come within the national stabilization program . The union would not bargain under those restrictions . " " No ; omment " From Lewis The letter from Secretary Ickes to John L. Lewis yesterday informing him that adjustment of the coal wage dispute must remain in the hands of the War Labor Board produced confusion and amazement it till ranks of representatives of the United Mine Workers at the union 's headquarters in the hotel Roosevelt . " No comment " was all Mr. Lewis would say as he scanned grimly the contents of Mr. Ickes 's letter when placed before him in a Washington dispatch .                     