@@707716

txt Governor Dewey signed today the Heller bill making it a felony , punishable by a prison sentence up to three years , to do malicious injury te : places of religious worship and instruction or to cemeteries . The new law was enacted as al result of several cases of church and cemetery desecration in New York City and elsewhere in the State . The Governor signed also the Schulman bill permitting the State committees of the major parties , instead of State conventions , to nominate candidates for Statewide office this year and in 1945 . The measure further provides that hereafter , at a State convention at which a candidate for Governor is nominated , the convention may provide that in the intervening years between gubernatorial elections party nominations for other State-wide offices may be made by the State committees . Only two such offices , are to be filled this year : United States Senator and Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals . Neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have decided definitely yet on their Senatorial candidates , but it is expected that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose term is about to expire , will be renominated by both major parties . He is a Democrat . Transfer of five barge canal terminals in New York City from the State to the city and of the Gowanus Bay Terminal from the State to the Port of New York Authority is authorized under two other bills signed by the Governor today . The usefulness of the terminals to the State has ended and State officials thought it would be more desirable to turn them over to the city and the Port Authority than to sell them to private interests . Terminals transferred to the city are the Greenpoint Terminal , Brooklyn ; the Hallet 's Cove Terminal , Queens ; the East 138th Street Terminal , the Bronx ; the Coenties Slip Terminal , Manhattan , and the ' Pier N Terminal , Manhattan . In connection with the transfer of the Gowanus Bay Terminal the State is advancing from the postwar reconstruction fund $1,150,000 to the Port Authority for rehabilitating and developing the pier properties . The loan is to be repaid in annual installments out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ten years after the principal amount is repaid , in accordance with a special agreement . Mr. Dewey signed the Rapp bill , continuing for another year the wartime speed limit of thirty-five miles an hour on State highways , and the Marble bill , creating a ten-member commission ( with an appropriation of $25,000 ) to study and revise the laws relating to counties . He vetoed the Crews bill putting under Civil Service and making mandatory the salaries of custodians and custodian-engineers in the New York City school system . The Governor declared that if the measure became law , it would " seriously and shockingly violate the principle of local home rule . " Sick-Leave Bill Is Vetoed Another Crews bill which was vetoed would have made it manda-1 tory for the City of New York to grant sick leave with . full pay to members of the school teaching and supervisory staffs , who are members of the Teachers Retirement Association , for periods of thirty days each year , such leave to accumulate up to 150 days , if unused . " Such accumulated sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the proposed thirty-day current sick-leave period would permit absence with full pay for 180 days in one year . One hundred and eighty days is only eleven days less than a full school year . Sick leave is a matter which obviously should be left to the rules and regulations of the appropriate board of education . " Governor Dewey rejected the Farbstein bill , reducing from $10 to $5 the fee of County Clerks in New York City for placing on the special term of Supreme Court calendar a proceeding to review assessment on real property , and the Butler bill , striking from the law the provision that a grandparent or grandchild , if able , shall be responsible for the support of a recipient of public assistance or care .                     