@@705055

txt A far-reaching plan to simplify the problems of prospective issuers of securities by permitting them to clear registration and meet other regulatory requirements through regional offices , without direct contact with Was'hington , is being considered by the Securities and Exchange Commission . Issuers of securities thus would be able to file their registration statements in local SEC offices , discuss their problems with SEC representatives there and meet all requirements of the securities laws without having to come to Washington at the expense of considerable time , money and effort . Activities of the regional offices would be subject to review by the SEC at all times , but commission officials feel that with the experience gained from several years administration of the act most , if not all the actual work in connection with registrations under the securities act of 1933 , can be done in local offices . Success of Sala Francisco Unit A move to set up this type of machinery for security issuers has been prompted by the success of an experimental unit established in the SEC San Francisco regional office in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of securities . This unit also has been assisting brokers and dealers who have questions in connection with compliance with the securities laws . Under the steps contemplated , a security Issuer would be allowed to file a registration statement in the regional office nearest him , or the office in the district where the underwriter of the issue is located . This precedure , officials believe , would facilitate distribution of securities by local underwriters . Questions which frequently arise in connection with security registrations , such as the adequacy of the statement , etc. , thus could be answered for underwriters in local SEC offices and clearances obtained without expensive and time-consuming trips to Washington . Public offering of securities would be facilitated in this manner . it is felt . May Utilize Present Branotres It is believed that the nine SEC regional offices now in existence would be adequate to carry out the new procedure . SEC offices are now located in New York . Boston , Atlanta . Cleveland , Chicago , Fort Worth , Denver , San Francisco and Seattle . Officials indicated that a regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that registrations originating there would continue to be handled in Washington . Aside from the many benefits which the regional office procedure would produce , officials believe that " decentralization " of SEC regulation in this manner would strike a popular chord by bringing people in far distant areas in close touch with regulatory authorities . The problems of securities registration long have been a source of complaint by issuers and underwriters , who have taken the position that administration of the Securities Act has tended to impede the orderly flow of capital . Overhaul of Procedure Promised SEC Chairman Jerome N. Frank has promised a general overhauling of administrative procedure under the act to ease the problems of the investment business , and the SEC has taken steps recently to carry out that promise . One major alteration of procedure was an amendment to the Securities Act , which was recommended by SEC , to shorten the 20-day " waiting period " between the filing of a securities registration and the public offering of the issue . SEC has taken steps to cut as much . as possible off this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in considerably less than 20 days . Officials believe that the waiting period , as a general rule , can be cut to seven days . SEC currently is giving consideration to simplifying the problems of the small issuers by giving a blanket exemption from registra . Lion to issues of less than $100,000 . Additional steps to remove " irritants " procedure and rules are in the making . Meanwhile preparations are being made by SEC for conferences with the Investment Bankers Association , the National Association of Security Dealers and others in the invest . ment field relative to amendments to the Securi. ties Act . It is expected that these conferences will get under way within the next week or two and that an " agreed " program can be offered at the next session of Congress .                     