@@705882

txt Finland has " good hopes of peace in the nearest future , " it was announced tonight by a government Spokesman who declared Finland was Germany 's ally " only by accident and will not continue the war any longer than Finnish interests demand . " In a broadcast to the nation , Vaino A. Tanner , the Minister of Trade ' and Communications and leader of the dominant Social Democratic party , denied , however , that Finland would make a separate peace with Soviet Russia . Mr. Tanner will go to Berlin soon to discuss the increasingly pressing problem of sending supplies to Finland , according to The United Press . " The Finns are no party to the great war , " he said . " It is for us an entirely defensive war , a defensive war with the aid of which we desire to secure our frontiers and a lasting peace . Whatever is needed to secure this must be done , but there our task also ends . " Mr. Tanner said rumors about peace negotiations with Russia were unfounded and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us and thus ease the military situation of the Soviet union , both on the Leningrad front and the Murmansk railway sector . " " The Finns not only have not the slightest confidence in the Kremlin rulers , who have broken all previous agreements , but since the Soviet will lose the war with Germany a peace concluded with her would mean nothing , " he asserted . " So far as Finland is concerned the war has gone off unexpectedly well , " he declared in deploring what he called foreign propaganda to misrepresent Finland 's internal situation . " In two months victorious Finnish armies have recaptured more than the Soviet Union was able to take in more than three months of war , plus the ensuing dictated peace . " Maintaining that a strong peace party dominated Finnish opinion , Mr. Tanner said " this party embraces the entire Finnish nation . " The Finns never wanted warlike adventures , he said , and even now hoped fervently for peace , but since " barbarous and expansionist Russia is a neighbor , our long frontier is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas beyond it safe in a military sense . " " Before that there is no possi- bility of concluding peace with anybody , " he added . Insisting that Finland remains the same democratic , liberty-loving nation engaged in defending her independence , Mr. Tanner further deplored " that the great democracies of the West show no understanding whatever . " Launching a 2,000,000,000-mark domestic loan , the greatest in Finnish history , Premier J. W. Rangell told the nation that not only a fighting army but also a hard-working people could enable survival of the trials of this catastrophic era . Two wars in two years , he said , have greatly reduced the number of able-bodied men " although in that respect we have been luckier in the present war . " He added that the responsibilities of the survivors were redoubled and a national ecoonmy based on careful State planning was absolutely necessary .                     