@@710688

txt EGYPT WILL SEEK AMERICAN MISSION TO RENOVATE ARMY Premier Leaves Lake Success to Ask Washington to Send Modernizing Technicians WANTS AIR ADVICE ? ALSO Proposals Are Believed to Be of Strategic Importance for Our Mideast Position By THOMAS J. HAMILTON Special to Tae llaw YORK TIMES . LAKE SUCCESS , N. Y. , Sept. 2 ? Egypt plans to asl. the United States to send a military mission to aid in modernizing the Egyptian Army and Air Force , it was learned today . Mahmoud Fahmy Nokrashy Pasha , Egyptian Prime Minister , left or Washington this afternoon to present his proposal at a series of conferences with United States officials . The Prime Minister , it is understood , will ask the United States to send technicians to Egypt for the following principal purposes : ( 1 ) To make recommendations regarding the organization and equipment of the Egyptian ground forces ( 2 ) To make similar recommendations regarding the Egyptian Air Force . ( 3 ) To give technical advice on the operation of military and civilian airdromes in Egypt . ( 4 ) To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms and ammunition . Would Train Some Officers In addition , it is understood that Nokrashy Pasha , who developed a warm admiration during the war for united States technical services , such as radar , will ask the United States to enroll officers of the Egyptian armed forces in certain training schools maintained by the American Army and Navy . The Egyptian proposals are considered to be of great importance in view of the strategic position of the Middle East in the event of another war . Under the Anglo - Egyptian treaty of 1936 Great Britain was permitted to station troops in Egypt for the defense of the Suez Canal , and a British military mission was sent to Egypt ten years ago to aid in modernizing Egyptian armed forces . Following a breakdown last year in negotiations for the revision of the treaty , Egypt appealed to the United Nations Security Council to order the immediate evacuation of British // ? EGYPT WILL ASK U. S. ARMY 'S HELP // troops from Egypt and the Sudan , and the termination of Britain 's share in the administration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . Council , which will reconvene next Tuesday to resume discussing the Egyptian appeal , but Egypt has not requested the British mission to continue its work , and it is expected to leave Egypt next month . Expect British to Go . Great Britain has- already withdrawn her forces from Cairo and Alexandria , ' and although it is estimated that there are now 75,000 British troops in the immediate vicinity of the canal , the Egyptians are confident that the British will comply with their demand for complete evacuation . During the negotiations last year for the revision of the treaty the British offered to withdraw from Egypt completely by 1949 , but the negotiations broke down over conflicting interpretations of a protocol regarding the future of the Sudan . In any event , the Egyptians consider that hereafter the primary responsibility for the defense of the Suez Canal will rest on them , and they hope to act as a stabilizing influence in the Near and Middle East . For this reason they consider that it is essential to expedite the development of a modern army and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States to that end . Last week , following the rejection of a Brazilian compromise proposal to refer the Egyptian appeal back to the two parties for negotiation , Dr. Alfonso Lopez , Colombian representative , proposed a similar solution that , in addition , would have linked the withdrawal of British troops with the signature of a treaty of mutual assistance between Great Britain and Egypt for the defense of the Suez Canal . Nokrashy Pasha objected strongly to thus linking the question of the withdrawal of British troops with ' a new Anglo-Egyptian treaty , and he was supported by Herschel V. Johnson , deputy United States representative , who said that the United States would accept the Colombian proposal if the proposal regarding a mutual defense treaty was eliminated . On the other hand , Sir Alex-1 ander Cadogan , British representative , declared that the proposal regarding the troop withdrawal was totally unacceptable unless it was linked with the proposed new treaty . As a result , the Colombian proposal was rejected , but it was understood that the United States , together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conpromise that would be acceptable to both parties . Mr. Johnson also supported last week a proposal to ask the World Court to decide on the validity of the 1936 Anglo-Egyptian treaty , which stated that it would remain in effect until 1956 . He suggested that , if the court ruled against Egypt , Great Britain " might well renounce any advantages it holds under such a technical finding . " Egypt 's impending request for a United States military mission is interpreted here as a further indication not only of the continued strategical importance of the Near and Middle East , but of the significance attached to the increased interest shown by the United States in this area during and since . the war . The Sudan , which has few natural resources , has assumed an important role because of the apparent shift in British strategy from Mediterranean strongpoints to air bases in Kenya and other African territory . However , Great Britain would still need bases nearer the Suez Canal if she is to con-. tinue as the principal defender of the Canal . The Egyptian proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether we will help the Egyptians to take over this responsibility or will continue to assume that this is mainly the responsibility of the British . If the British withdraw from Egypt the Negeb ( the extreme southern area of Palestine , which would be included in a Jewish State under the majority recommendations of the United Nations Special Committee ) and Trans-Jordan are the only nearby areas available for bases .                     