@@710309

txt Reparations Blockade The feeling of frustration arises out of a growing awareness of a situation which yesterday 's discussion highlighted . Regardless of how much agreement is reached on any nonpolitical and noneconomic question , when it comes to formulating practical proposals and concrete directives , one immediately encounters an impasse caused by the absence of agreement on economic issues . Until there is agreement in substance on Germany 's economic unity and how it is to be achieved , discussion of other subjects is largely academic . But the economic unity issue in turn is dependent on settlement of the reparations issue . It is the conference 's inability to produce an agreement on reparations that is blocking everything else . It Always Pops Up Again So far when questions arise which repfuse to be settled , it has been the practice of the Foreign Ministers Conference either to put them " in the bag " for later resumption or to refer them to their deputies for study . To these two methods a third one has been added here in Moscow by the formation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specified subjects . Reparations , however , is one issue they have not been able to get- away from even temporarily by such methods . For the only ones who can contribute to its solutions are the Foreign Ministers themselves , and even when they move on to other topics , the reparations issue keeps barging in . French Proposal Th.e only way they might possibly get around it , short of coming to some decision now , would be by returning to French Foreign Minister Georges Bidault ! s pro ; posal , for an expert study of Germany 's economic and industrial capacity to pay reparations , which first came up in the restricted session earlier this week . But even this would involve certain concessions in principle on the subject of reparations from current production . The British notably seem steeled against this . The Russians stand on what they consider their legitimate rights to reparations from current production , Today 's issues of Izvestia directly challenges the United States and Britain . It reasserts that though these nations oppose reparations for the Soviet Union , they themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own . benefit . This the American and . British delegations deny , Izvestia even gives figures on Russian-born wives of 15 Britons to whom the Soviet Government has denied exit visas to enable them to join their husbands have been told that the Soviet Government needs every one of its citizens and in effect they would be " deserting their posts " if they left the country . ? The British Embassy disclosed that both Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery , and Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin had approached Prime Minister Joseph Stalin without result . F. K. Roberts . British Minister in Moscow , called the question " politically unimportant but psychologically important , " and implied that his Government intended to continue its efforts for reunion of the couples . the subject . It charges the British with literally carrying coal to Newcastle  --  Ruhr coal  --  and sets $100,000,000 as value of the coal which Britain will take out of Germany during 1947 . Additionally , Izvestia lists $24 , - 000,000 worth of lumber products to be shipped from Germany to Britain during the current year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal and coke were exported from the British Zone of Germany . Russians Adamant To export coal from Germany , declares Izvestia , is taking reparations in the most direct meaning of the term . The paper describes as " interesting " the charge that the very men who carry out this plan of coal deliveries deny France , which suffered from Ger . man occupation , the coal vitally necessary to reconstruction . The Izvestia article next states that half of the silk industry output in the British occupation zone is shipped to England . It further claims that a large portion of products of the optical industry in the United States Zone , as well as textile and chinaware , is taken as reparations . The Moscow paper mentions specifically the output of A. L. F. A. as being taken over by the occupation authorities . Such charges and criticisms , in substance the same as the Russians have been making for many months , provide a revealing measure of the progress , or rather the lack of it , toward clarifying the central issue of all the discussions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now than before the conference to give ap their claims . 