@@705627

txt Senator Burton K. Wheeler ID. , Mont. called the senate 's attention today to statements by Now Deal columnists That President Roosevelt and the men around him fervently hope and pray that the Germans will shoot first and give the President a pretext to take the country Into war . The columnists , Joseph Alsop and Robert Kintner , have reiterated that Mr. Roosevelt and his " more optimistic " advisers are confident that the so  --  called reconnaissance patrol will provoke the Germans to the point of creating an incident and providing the pretext for which the President is walling . Relative of President . Alsop Is a distant cousin of the President . He and Kintner are favored New Deal columnists who often have access to confidential government records . Senator Wheeler recalled that Mr. Roosevelt once publicly commended a book by Alsop and Kintner expounding the administration 's foreign policy . Half a dozen other senators joined in the war intervention debate touched off by Senator Wheeler 's denunciation of the motives attributed to President Roosevelt by his journalistic idolaters . " Talk about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term with which President Roosevelt excoriated Wheeler not long ago . " To me , if that is true , it is one of the most dastardly things that ever happened to the United States . " In Other Words ? . " " In other words , here are the war and navy departments ; here are the advisers of the President , and , according to this article , the President himself , hoping and praying that an incident will occur that will take the United States into the bloody conflict of Europe and Asia . " I do not believe that any one in the congress who is familiar at all with the constitution will for a moment say that the President has the right , altho he may have the power . to take this country to war without coming to the congress of the United States . The men , the lawyers , and the columnists who are urging the President to take the country to war without coming to congress and who are preaching democracy  --  in one breath they are saying we must go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second breath they are asking the President to violate his oath of office . " In other words , they are saying : To hell with the constitution of the United Slates ' . " Senator Clark Comments . Senator Bennett Champ Clark ED .. Mo. recalled that- Wheeler charged in a recent speech that the administration was seeking to bring about an incident which would serve as a pre ? text for war . " The senator from Montana was assailed and abused like a pickpocket by all these mud batteries of the columnists and the limber legged incense burners of the war party , " Clark said . " . I have criticized the President , ' Wheeler replied . " but never have I charged the President with deliberately hoping that somebody would shoot first so that we would get into the war . " Wheeler next read an article by the same columnists , published this morning , which reported as fact a week old rumor that a United States destroyer dropped depth bombs in the vicinity of a submarine which approached when the war vessel was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunk off Greenland . Wheeler 's Interpretation . " In other words , " Wheeler said , " they are saying , ? Now you have an excuse . Shooting has already started . and you ought to go into the war ' Senator Clark noted that the Washington Post , which he described as " one of the leading war mongering ? journals of the United States , " published the Alsop  --  Kintner column reporting the depth bomb rumor on its front page .                     