@@710284

txt Eleven days after one of the most important foreign policy statements in our history there is an opportunity for another statement which will present American foreign policy not just in one aspect but in all its aspects . The Truman program , as originally announced , has won powerful support in both parties . Senator Vandenberg has joined with Senator Connally in proposing a preamble which reaffirms our faith in the United Nations , but this is an interpretation , not a modification , of the " Truman Doctrine . " This morning , in making his appeal for the Greek war relief fund , Governor Dewey also supports the President , at least so far as Greece is concerned . Meanwhile what tills newspaper 's correspondent , James Reston , calls " a , reliable written report " circulating in Washington goes into some detail as to what we propose to do in Greece . One of its suggestions is " the development of a free zone under Greek sovereignty in the port of Salonaa . " Acting Secretary of State Acheson has been frank and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But much more remains to be said . We need a full and official explanation i of what the new foreign policy will mean , all along the line , in our relations with all countries and with the United Nations . What most of us would like to see , perhaps , is a simplification , of our stated objectives and an elaboration of the methods and agencies we propose to use . This newspaper believes that our objectives might easily be reduced to two : first , to remove the fear of war ; second , to promote economic recovery . Fear is an intangible that can not be eliminated by words . We have tried to eliminate it , so far as solemn promises could do it . We have promoted and supported the Atlantic Charter , the Act of Chapultepec , the United Nations Charter , the Baruch Plan for controlling atomic energy , and mutual defense treaties with Britain , France and Russia . But these are not promises merely to deplore aggression . They are promises to resist it . Ironically , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have to go deeper . If we are to be faced sooner or later by a world-wide crusade carried on by followers of a communistic doctrine , there is not much we can do except to keep our powder dry . But we must proceed on the theory that a doctrinal crusade can not make either armed or doctrinal headway against a free and prosperous outer world . It is not our program to ring Russia round with hostile neighbors . We are trying , rather , to surround her with neighbors who are neither fearful of her nor hostile to her  --  and this because their own systems promote the welfare of their citizens , and because they are part of a world union of nations . Our Greek policy could be stated to advantage in these terms . It is true that we hope to aid the Greeks in restoring peace within their own pre-war boundaries . We ought to do this , however , as a prelude to aiding them to restore , or acquire , economic well-being and political stability under a new election . Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will find certain ways in which we can promote economic health . First , we can support the advisory and fact-finding agencies of the United Nations , such as the Food and Agriculture Organization . Though we must do what U. N. can not do , or can not now do , we must emphasize again and again that we believe in it , wish to strengthen it and will never needlessly " by-pass " it . Second , we can make relief grants to replace UNRRA 's grants . Including what we will have to do in Germany and the purely chafita.ble phase of what we plan to do in Greece , the total of these grants ( some of them possibly recoverable later on ) will be about a billion dollars this year . Third , there are private relief funds to which each of us can contribute . Of these the Gyeek relief drive , for $12,000,000 , opening on Tuesday , is a dramatically apt example . Such funds will be comparatively small in volume , but they are important because they can be accurately directed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can make governmental loans for long-term projects . Fifth , we can help get the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on its feet . This institution ( also called the World Bank ) must lend with the thought of getting its money back , but it will defeat its own purposes if it is too timid . Sixth , as general recovery begins we can encourage our citizens to make ordinary commercial loans . To take esingle instance , Norway is already said to be a good market for such loans . Our foreign policy should look to the day when Greece , Austria and China will also be good markets for conservative investors . Our Communist friends may describe this sort of thing as economic imperialism . But economic imperialism is just the opposite " It feeds on weak governments , low standards of living and considerable risks mitigated by threats of force . These are precisely the conditions we seek to remove . In . the long run , any " vacuum " in Greece can be filled only by self-supporting , selfrespecting Greeks . If our aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have failed . This newspaper believes that a policy along some such lines as these might well be officially declared , with full emphasis on public action , private action and as much action as possible , as soon as possible , by the United Nations . If peace can be maintained and prosperity secured we believe that the ideals we call justice and freedom will also be safe .                     