@@707933

txt CAEN WEEPS IN JOY AS TRICOLOR FLIES Civilians Sing the Ililarseillaise ' When Flag Bearing Cross of Lorraine Is Raised By JAMES By Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES CAEN , France , July 10 ? Almost everyone in a throng of several hundred civilians gathered in the tiny Cathedral Square of Caen for a liberation ceremony today , shed tears of joy when the flag of the Republic of France , bearing the Cross of Lorraine , whipped out from the town 's flagstaff for the first time . A radio news gatherer held aloft a microphone and asked the audience to join in singing the " Marseillaise " for a recording so that the sound of their voices could be // rebroadcast to less fortunate fellow-Frenchmen who are still awaiting their day of liberation . Men , women and children sang with a will . Outside in the square facing the church there was a short but dramatic ceremony led by a chieftain of the French underground in Caen . A small detachment of French and British soldiers  --  all wearing British battle dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the red , white and blue Tricolor of France , with General Charles de Gaulle 's Cross of Lorraine on its white stripe , was raised . As it was run up to the top of the pole soldiers presented arms and several hundred men , women and children crowding the small square sang the " Marseillaise . " Nearly everyone in the throng wept as the flag fluttered in a chill breeze . Ruination Seen Everywhere This ancient Norman city presented a deeply moving , intensely dramatic scene less than twentyH four hours after its liberation by Canadian and British forces . There was ruination everywhere as the result chiefly of the big Allied air attacks last Friday night and Saturday morning that preceded the British and Canadian drive that brought about the city 's liberation after four years under the German yoke . The occupants of the devasted city shed tears of sorrow at the loss of relatives killed by the aerial bombs and artillery fire . The vast majority of natives , whose will to resist the Germans is not only unbroken but intensified into a determination to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the khaki-clad men from overseas who have ousted the much-hated German SS troops at last . Excited groups of men , women and children gathered on the sidewalks , stood in doorways or looked through the open windows of their homes to wave a welcome as armored equipment rumbled through the debris-strewn streets . It was impossible to learn how many had been killed in the bombings on Caen since D-day . Some guessed from 2,000 to 10,000 but they were mere guesses and exact figures will not be known until the officials have made a careful check . In any such tally they will have to take into account the fact that many people left their homes unannounced and fled behind the German lines when the Germans urged them to do so . There are several thousands in the city and they are unanimous in their burning hatred of the SS troops . Residents told how the Germans had stolen automobiles , wagons and bicycles in their flight from the city . They also accused the SS troops of acts of vandalism and visitors were able at least in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caen Roman Catholic seminary . The seminary had been occupied by SS officers and men . The officers had been sleeping in and drinking in rooms once used as studies by priests . Sleeping cots and half consumed bottles of wine still cluttered up these rooms . Desks had been battered and school books and seminary records were scattered all around . The once white walls bore great blackened patches where ink bottles had been smashed against them , and on one of these was printed in German with white chalk : " Germany must win or we shall die . " That was the least of their desecration . In a small ground-floor chapel , ornamental candle sticks had been taken from the altar and bent or broken as if they had been hurled against a wall . On the ' icor beneath the altar lay broken remnants of holy statues . A young French lad sadly said : " No , we do n't like these SS. "                     