@@710546

txt When Foreign Minister Molotov broke up the Paris conference for European reconstruction on the basis of the Marshall plan , he did so on the ground that continent-wide cooperation among European nations would Mean Big Power domination of the small nations to the detriment of their sovereignty and independence . The mocking casuistry of this statement , which is a particularly crass illustration of the totalitarian principle , frankly expounded by Russian spokesmen , that " facts are a political rather than a technical matter , " is rapidly becoming evident . For the Governments of all countries within reach of Russian power , however eager to join in the new Paris conference for their own salvation , dare not do so without Russian permission , and some do not even dare to ask . " Sovereign " Rumania has already rejected the invitation by parroting Mr. Molotov . " Sovereign " Finland , twice invaded by Russian troops , has provisionally followed suit for " political and geographical reasons " for which nobody will blame her . And even Czechoslovakia , making hitherto the greatest pretence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consult the Russian mas7 ters before answering . All this suggests that few if any . of the countries behind the Iron Curtain will be able to join the rest of Europe at Paris July 12 . This does not mean that they will be cut off completely , or that their resources will be wholly denied to the European reconstruction program . For even Russia finds it impossible to be entirely selfsufficient , and her satellites are even less able to do without trade with the Western World , which alone is able to furnish them with what they need and can not get from Russia . But it is daily becoming more evident that Russia has destined them to become her colonial appendages and military outposts , and that wherever and whenever possible their resources and production will be shipped to Russia at Russia 's own prices . Very little will be left for exchange with the West . This is all the more serious bech.use eastern Europe has been the Continent 's breadbasket and contains a large part of its coal and most of its oil . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Europe which cradled our civilization and made our history , and potentially it is still the greatest production center and the greatest market in the world . For it contains eighteen nations ( including Spain and western Germany ) with 300,000,000 of Europe 's most energetic people , with tremendous resources of coal and iron and with unsurpassed scientific and technical knowledge and training . Today it lies prostrate because the political rivalries which at one time made it the dynamic continent that spread its power and civilization to all parts of the globe have exhausted it .. But properly organized so as to release the energies of its people for productive purposes , it can rise to even greater heights than in the past , and not only support itself but also become a pillar of world peace . To start this process of self-rehabilitation is the purpose of the new Paris conference. %But if that conference is to succeed in its aim beyond mere paper agreements it must accomplish two things . It must organize the Continent 's productive capacities and coordinate its varied national economies irrespective of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance that it must pave a way ' for the restoration of German economy , the key to the restoration of Europe . This is impossible as long as Germany divided even among the Western Powers and ruled by Military Governments which not only control but also strangle the country economically . The conference must likewise pave the way for a psychological rehabilitation which will restore political and ecoAomic confidence and provide new in- centives for capital and labor , without which an economic restoration is likewise impossible . This means that it will have to seek at least a pause in the confiscations and nationalizations which now terrify and paralyze the private sector of European economy . And it will have to seek a stop to inflation and put goods behind now worthless or artificially pegged currencies to bring real money out of hiding and give the laborer and farmer something more substantial for his labor than paper scraps . Only thus can European economy be stabilized and enabled to stand on its own feet . And only the promise of such an achievement can justify further American help beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poured out in the vain effort to do it in another way .                     