@@708349

txt PARLIAMENT IS WAITING eagerly for Prime Minister Churchill 's statement on the war situation and Greece when it reconvenes this week . Should this statement fall to satisfy the Labor Party regarding Greece . it might propose a resolution calling for a vote of confidence which would jeopardize the coalition government by causing the Labor ministers to withdraw from the cabinet . With the better turn of events on the Western Front and the more favorable outlook in Greece , flowerer , Churchill may be able to restore his prestige . It would be a sorry spectacle if the coalition should dissolve in bitterness over Greece , and no responsible politician wants to force a general election now when Germany is showing so much fight , ? ? ? RECENT INTERCHANGES of plain speaking on both sides of the Atlantic should have done something to clear the air between Britain and the United States and bring a greater measure of understanding for each other 's viewpoints and problems . Many dispatches from Lend ? $ inevitably give prominence to the views of critics of the British government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these views , although convincingly expressed , are generally unguarded comments of opposition spokesmen who are apt to sing a different tune when they become cabinet ministers . This particularly applies to criticisms of the British Empire which as an entity seems to rouse perpetual suspicions among American commentators . When their British counterparts make such attacks they are met , by reasoned defense from those who have lived and worked for the empire all their lives , and such attacks are placed in their , proper perspective . But when Americans make criticism of ( British policy in India , Palestine or the Middle East , often withobt the necessary understanding of the fundamentals of the ' problems involved , this is resented as unwarranted interference with domestic policy . Britons feel , regarding Empire problems and those of Europe , that Americans should not criticize without  --  beIng willing to share the responsibilities . ? ? ? BANK PROFITS for 1944 , both gross and net , show an increase , but dividends have remained unchanged . Financial tettiiliVe , : rOnderinr . whether all Or any " Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunity of banks from this burden , despite a considerable increase in profits over the standard years of 1935 to 1937 , was based on the fact that taxable profits had been reduced by certain undisclosed items , such as writing off losses like those from the remnant of German standstill credits . Bank chairmen , no doubt , will clarify this situation at forthcoming annual meetings to forestall critics who usually accuse the banks of being profiteers and tax dodgers , although Britain 's highly efficient inland t internal l revenue system makes this impossible . ? ? ? ANOTHER SUBJECT the bankers are expected to comment on is the new agencies . which will probably be announced shortly , to provide industrial capital for post-war reconstruction . It is understood that the banks , at the instigation of the Treasury , are forming two corporations  --  one for small industries , the other for larger ones  --  which will grant credits to those firms unable to raise capital cheaply in the open market . ? ? ? DETAILS OF THE DAMAGE to British railroads during the blitz of 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveal both the extent of the destruction and the speed of repair work . Those who saw viaduct tracks suspended over great craters or bridges hanging in twisted masses of metal often thought these tracks would be out of operation for months , but within two weeks or a month , at most , temporary bridges had replaced them and normal schedules were resumed . The Southern Railroad , because of its geographical position , suffered most on London tracks , within a radius of five and a half miles of Chasing Cross . The road had 237 incidents during eight months of intensive bombing . Many trains had miraculous escapes by seconds from complete disaster . Britain 's experience with how quickly railroad damage can be repaired may explain why the Germans were able to prepare their recent offensive on the Western Front in spite of much heavier bombing , of their communications last fall . It points to the necessity for continuous bombing of such targets , if Nazi traffic is to , be effectively disrupted . ? ? ? " MERCHANTMEN AT WAR " , the government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best sellers as " The Battle of Britain . " The story of the men who kept Britain 's lifelines open across the Atlantic and around South Africa and brought help to Malta and Russia in spite of the enemy and the weather , records , in the simple language that seamen appreciate , their heroic deeds . ? ? ? A SUGGESTION for maintaining the good relations established between GI 's now fighting in France and their one-time British hosts while the soldiers were training before D-Day has been made by the London Daily Express . Unlike Americans , British soldiert ' are recruited on a territorial basis which gives localities a special pride in the doings of their county battalions . The Express suggests . that when any American unit is identified in dispatches from the Western Front , reporters might tell where the soldiers trained in Britain so that local citizens could share their triumphs and trials , along with those of their own British troops . 