@@705866

txt BROAD SURVEY SET Labor , Raw Materials and Machinery Will Be Allotted in Chart ONE AUTHORITY IN CHARGE Nelson Is Empowered to Take Step Toward Solving Plant Expansion and Shortages By W. H. LAWRENCE Special to THE NEW Yolut TIMES . WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? An over-all study of the lease-lend , defense and civilian requirements from America 's productive machine was ordered today by the Supply Priorities and Allocation Board in what was regarded as one of the most important steps taken in fifteen months by a defense agency . SPAB stated that it had assigned to Donald M. Nelson , its executive director , the responsibility for compiling and organizing for the first time in history a schedule which would show the requirements in terms of labor , raw materials and machinery for producing the war materials necessary to match the nation 's pledge of all-out defense and all-out aid to the nations resisting the Axis powers , and , at the same time , keep the civilian economy functioning on an even keel . While critics and friends of the defense program-have argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time that any defense agency had admitted its urgency and taken steps to alleviate the lack of knowledge about an overall program so that realistic measures could be taken to correct apparent deficiencies . One Authority Is the Aim " In calling for this long-range , all-inclusive survey of the nation 's total needs under the defense program , SPAB followed the view that there must be one authority to develop the official requirement figures on both levels , holding that there would be confusion otherwise , because the several parts of the requirement picture must be developed by separate agencies , " said an official announcement , approved by Vice President Wallace , SPAB chairman and head of the Economic Defense Board . It was this lack of one authority and one central planning agency for total requirements which led to severe criticism of the defense program and preceded demands for one-man authority to bring order to the conflicting programs of separate defense agencies . SPAR indicated , in denying temporarily a request for expansion of the Kingsport ( Tenn. ) plastic manufacturing plant of the Tennessee Eastman Corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet purely civilian demand at a time when such expansion would require the use of // SPAR Orders Study of War and Civil Needs On Nation-Wide Scale to be Made by Nelson // large quantities of material critically needed for defense . Simple Priorities Plan Formed Mr. Nelson , as OPM priorities director , revealed a simplified and speedy plan for granting priority ratings , which , under the Vinson act , were made mandatory not only for Army and Navy contracts but for civilian orders , requisitions of foreign governments and contracts placed by other United States governmental departments . A reshuffling of OPM . division authority put upon Leon Bender ' son , director of the civilian supply branch , authority to make the first decision on the extent of curtailment in automotive production . In the past , Mr. Henderson , as head of the old office of price administration and civil supply , disputed with OPM whether the initial automobile production cut should be 20 per cent , as advoicated by William S. Knudsen , OPM 1 director general , or 50 per cent , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispute , automobile companies in August , first month of the 20 per cent reduction , actually increased production by 88 per cent . Two Problems Are Considered The SPAS statement of overall planning as far in advance as possible for civilian and military needs was regarded by defense officials as " a move which struck directly at the allied problems of shortages of essential materials and expansion of productive facilities . " In the case of steel , a battle over expansion proposals raged for twelve months . One group argued that requirements of the program dictated no expansion . Another group said that an all-out program would require an expansion of at least 10,000,000 tons . OPM at I present has persuaded the steel companies to plan a 15,000,000-ton expansion program . Mr. Nelson 's survey would visualize action on two levels , as follows : " A detailed outlining of both civilian and military needs , including procurement schedules for Army , Navy and Air Force items , and such goods as are to go abroad under the lease-lend and defense aid programs . " Both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be broken down into schedules of the raw materials , labor and machinery needed for their production . " Critical Materials Involved SPAB 's second announcement that it had denied , at least temporarily , the request of the Tennessee Eastman Corporation for priorities on materials to expand its Kingsport , Tenn. , plastics manufacturing plants was regarded as an important indication from this new over-all board that " business as usual " was out . The new plant was described in its application as It was turned down in spite of the fact that it would have provided plastics capable of replacing 8 , - 000,000 pounds of aluminum , 18 , - 000,000 pounds of chorme nickel plated steel , 6,000,000 pounds of stainless steel and 34,000,000 pounds of zinc . Despite these conservation possibilities , SPAB ruled that its immediate construction was not advisable for these reasons : " Building of the plant would have required the use of large amounts of various critical materials , including ? stainless steel , which is inadvisable in view of an expected early Winter increase in the demand for nickel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar applications are on hand , and no single one can properly be granted until it is known how much of a drain on scarce materials would be involved in granting all of them . " Mr. Nelson 's new priorities order insures the validity of interim priorities orders issued under the signature of E. R. Stettinius Jr. , former priorities ' direetor , and also applies the Vinson Act to all previous , present and future orders , which Mr. Nelson said " will be of great assistance in effecting strict enforcement of all priority rules and regulations . " He added : " Increased emphasis is to be put on enforcement of orders and compliance by all those affected . " In order to speed up the granting of applications by businessmen , Mr. Nelson gave legal effect to the stamping of preference ratings on application blanks in order to avoid delays which might result from filling out completed application blanks . Four Branches Are Set ' Up The OPM reshuffle of commodity sections , which resulted in authorizing Mr. Henderson to make initial decisions on the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections for four branches : Division of Production ? W. H. Harrison , director ( these branches will assume primary responsibility for dealing with problems in connection with the manufacture of implements of war and de-1 fense construtcion projects ) : Aircraft branch , ordnance branch , tools branch , shipbuilding branch , construction branch . Division of Purchases  --  Douglas C. , director ( these branches will assume primary responsibility for dealing with industries in which defense procurement of finished products is a major problem : Food supply branch , textiles , clothing and equipage branch , health supplies and civilian defense equipment branch , containers branch . Division of Civilian Supply  --  Leon Henderson , director . ( These branches will assume primary responsibility for dealing with those industries serving predominantly civilian needs . ) Pulp and Paper branch ; Printing and Publishing branch ; Lumber and Building Materials branch ; Plumbing and heating branch ; Automotive and transportation equipment branch ; electrical products and consumers Durable Goods branch ; Industrial Machinery Branch ; Rubber and Rubber Products branch . Division of Materials ? W. L. Batt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the manufacture and importation of industrial and raw materials and industrial services essential to defense ) : Aluminum and Magnesium branch ; Chemical branch ; Iron and Steel branch ; Power branch ; Nickel branch ; Tungstenbranch ; Copper and Zinc branch ; Manganese and Chromium branch ; Tin and Lead branch : Mica and Graphite branch ; miscellaneous minerals branch . No industrial branches are contemplated for the Division of Priorities , the Division of Labor or the newly created Division of Contract Distribution .                     