@@710322

txt The five members of the Atomic Energy Commission , charged with determining the future of atomic energy , go into a huddle in their Washington office . Left to right they are : William W. IVaymack , Des Moines , Iowa , editor ; Chairman David E. Lilienthal , former head of the Tennessee Valley Authority ; Lewis L. Strauss , New York banker ; Sumner T. Pike , former SEC Commissioner , and Robert F. Bacher , Cornell University physicist . Story : Page 15 . Senate confirmation of David Lilienthal by a 50-to-31 vote means that , for a time at least , civilian control of atomic energy is assured , experiment and production in the vital field will not be interrupted , and America 's willingness to co-operate internationally on the question of atomic bombs under the terms of the LilienthalAcheson-Baruch program will continue . " The important thing now , " said the Commission in a formal statement at the conclusion of yesterday 's vote , " is to get on with this job . " It is an urgent job . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people , of science , industry , the armed services , and the Government . " Issue Not Settled Whether the Senate vote was the last word in the matter and finally settled the great issues involved is another question . Most observers believe that the problem is so vast and extraordinary that this may be merely the first round , and that from now on the matter of atomic energy and the men handling it never wilt be very far from public scrutiny and possible controversy . Mr. Lilienthal and the five men confirmed with him are dealing with an issue so vast that their positions have been called the most important appointments ever made by a President . The party line-tip on the final vote yesterday was as follows : Republicans for confirmation 20 ; against , 26 . Democrats for confirmation 30 ; against 5 . Total 50 to 31 . The dominant Republican Party split down the middle on this issue , which developed into one of the most passionately fought in years . A majority followed the G. 0 . P. Party leadership of Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Hampshire , Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , Party Whip , and Wallace H. White , Jr. , of Maine , Majority Leader , A minority broke off and followed Senators Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan and Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa , Chair- man of the Committee which investigated charges against Mr. Lilienthal , and reported all but unanimously in his favor . The Lilienthal confirmation represents in this sense a victory for Senator Vandenberg . On the Democratic side , only five voted against confirmation but these included Senator Ken neth of Tennessee . whose ancient feud with Mr. Lilienthal over patronage in the Tennessee Valley Authority , largely precipitated the matter . It was Senator 's bitter and vituperative charges against Mr. Lilienthal , that he was " soft " to communists , if not actually a communist himself , that he believed in public ownership , was a New Dealer of foreign extraction and an incompetent adz ministrator , which formed the basis of later Republican attack . It was regarded as highly significant that Senator finally got support of only four other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennesseean , Senator Tom Stewart , Senator John L , McClellan of Arkansas , Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia , and Senator W. Lee O'Daniel of Texas , In the course of the protracted Senate hearings which began Jan. 27 and filled a volume of 951 pages , Senator Taft led a Minority movement attacking the whole proposed basis of internationalizing the atomic bomb . Another gi'oup demanded that control should go back to the military , while still another argued against public regulation of a vast potential source of commercial power . Rejection . of Mr. Lilienthal would have reopened all these questions . Despite confirmation , Congress holds the purse strings of the new body . Chairman of the Appropriations Committee is Senator Bridges , a vociferous opponent of confirmation , and in case Democrats regain control of the chain ? ber , Senator will resume the Chairmanship . ' Popular Decision The final vote was a foregone conclusion , but Washington 's crowded sightseers made the most of it . There was no question where their sympathies lay . The jammed colorful galleries laughed as Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as their hero , Senator Vandenberg , voted " aye , " and greeted the final result with noisy approval . The new Commission will own in the name of the nation all America 's atomic production plants , bombs , and fissionable material . It will control all research and development including tary . It will have power to bring to trial for his life anyone revealing atomic energy secrets . It will license for civilian use inventions and developments . Four commission members were confirmed , with the Chairman , by voice vote , as well as the General Manager , Carroll L. Wilson .                     