@@705705

txt Unconditional surrender of Syria by France probably will be demanded by Britain , military circles said tonight , following announcement that Gen. Henri Dentz , French high commissioner , had annealed for armistice terms . France 's request to end the " grievous bloodshed " was delivered to the house of commons by Prime Minister Churchill following its receipt from the United States consul at Beirut . Cornelius Van H. Engert . Fighting still was going on . with British and " Free French " forces approaching Beirut , capital of Lebanon . along the coast . The exact terms for settlement of the month old war were not disclosed , but they were reported to have been received in Vichy and telephoned to Vice Premier Admiral . Jean Darlan , who is in Paris . Welcomes Negotiations . " I need hardly say how very glad his majesty 's government will be to see an end brought to this distressing conflict in which 1,000 to 1,500 British , Australian , and Indian soldiers who volunteered or . joined the army In order to defend France have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churchill said . " We welcome these negotiations and I trust they may reach a speedy conclusion . Pending any formal arrangements being made , military operations must , of course , continue unabated . " Thru full surrender , it was believed . Britain would eliminate Vichy influences from Syria and lay the groundwork for fulfilling its pledge of inde ? pendence for the country given when the British and " Free French " forces marched Into the French mandate on June 8. - At that time Britain charged that it could not tolerate German infiltration into Syria , which , it was said , already had begun and which would " bring Syria and Lebanon under full German control " If it were not halted . A communique issued in ' Vichy , France , said the armistice was sought because the combat was getting " more unequal " daily , and it was impossible to rcenforce the French troops . " Free French " , tiny Take Over . In political and diplomatic circles it was believed Gen. Charles de Gaulle , leader of the " Free French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and establish an intermediary government during the period before independence is granted . Capt . Oliver Lyttelton , recently appointed minister of state and British war ' cabinet representative in the middle east . It was understood , will take over the armistice talks as his first task . London newspapers saw in the end of the Syrian war prestige for Britain ; some relief for Libya where German forces are being held at bay ; an avenue for aid to Russia ; a revival of confidence in a British victory among the Turks , and much valuable war equipment .                     