@@712276

txt A majority of the Latin-American countries favor holding the 1950 session of the United Nations General Assembly at Rio de Janeiro , Buenos Aires or Paris , rather than at Flushing Meadow . Although no final decision has been taken , the subject has been informally discussed with members of the United Nations Secretariat and with other delegations . The Latin-American delegates are expected to decide on the tactics they will follow at a caucus . before the General Assembly opens its fall session at Flushing Meadow on Sept. 20 . Delegates from Latin America and Western Europe were largely responsible for the decision to hold last year 's autumn session in Paris , and it is believed that the Europeans , while opposed to holding the Assembly in South America , would welcome a return to Paris . During the session last fall consid , erable sentiment developed in favor of holding this year 's Assembly at Rio de Janeiro or Buenos Aires , but neither the Brazilian nor Argentine delegations extended a formal invitation . Neither city , it is understood , could provide a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates have suggested that Mexico City or Havana , where the International Trade Organization 's conference was held in 1947 , might be more suitable . . It is generally agreed , however , that no city in Latin America can match the facilities of the Palais de Chaillot , which the French Government provided for meetings of the Assembly , or generally the comfort of Paris hotels . Delegates favoring the proposed move cite the world-wide scarcity of dollars , Which as Secretary General Trygve Lie pointed out a few days ag ? in his report to the General Assembly , has cut down the number of correspondents stationed at Lake Success . It is generally agreed that , as a result of holding the 1948 session in Paris , European newspapers gave more extensive coverage , and Europeans in general felt more closely identified with the work of the United Nations than in the past . Similar results , it is contended , can be expected if the 1950 Assembly is held in Latin America . If any other session is to be held outside the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations expects to move into its permanent headquarters in Manhattan in the spring of 1951 . One of the reasons for consideration of the proposal is the splendor of Paris restaurants and night clubs , together with the hospitality shown by the French Government and private citizens , which outdid anything the delegates have received in New York . For this reason it is believed that the Latin-American delegates might give way without too much argument if other delegates insisted on Paris . Cost $1,000,000 More It cost slightly less than $1,000 , - 000 extra to hold the 1948 session in Paris , but it would cost considerably more toy move the Assembly to Rio de Janeiro or Buenos Aires . This is because of the greater distance and the fact that many European members of the Secretariat , who had gone back on home leave , were utilized for the Paris session . The expense of converting the Palais de Chaillot was borne by the French Government , which also furnished a building for delegation offices and requisitioned I hotel space , but it could presumably be converted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French delegation said today that it would not campaign to move the 1950 Assembly to Paris but that France was traditionally hospitable to international conferences . London , where the first session of the General Assembly was held in January , 1946 , also has been suggested in the interests of relieving Britain 's dollar shortage . However , it is doubted whether London has a building that could accommodate the Assembly and its committees , now that the membership of the United Nations has increased from 51 to 59 . The austerity of the present British , diet is another deterrent .                     