@@709289

txt Nearly three decades of political exile , human suffering , and insecurity are coming to an end as Shanghai 's White Russian colony lines up almost en masse to receive Soviet citizenship and a chance to make a trek back to " Mother Russia . " Every day , long lines stand before the doors of the gray ; - stoned Soviet consulate at the north eid of the Bund , waiting to be given the one thing they never thought possible . Aged bearded patriarchs , former members of Czarist armies , stylishly dressed women in mink , and down - at - the - heel ex - doormen beat a path to Soviet offices which until a short time ago were as easy for them to enter as the inner sanctums of the Kremlin . Vivid Escape Tales Any one of the elders could tell a vivid story of escape across Siberia 's wastelands or hand-to-mouth existence in frigid Harbin or Vladivostok . Many younger ones could repeat stories from memory . Among them are many who were the most bitter foes of post-revolution Russia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to uphold not just Russia itself , but the Soviet regime as well . The background of this remarkable metamorphosis begins 22 years ago when a small group of ships carrying the remnants of escapees from Lenin 's Communist armies sailed up the Whangpoo River and sought to land their cargo of human freight . Rich foreign businessmen who ran Shanghai took pity on the emigres and let them unload . There were ex-soldiers , onetime dukes and duchesses , and a smattering of professionals and tradesmen . They were hungry , frightened , and desperate . And took any job they could get . They worked as elevator operators , policemen , dreymen , and laborers , They set up pitiful shows in the French concession , selling everything from bread to family heirlooms they had managed to carry out . Few of the men could live by their wits , and when Shanghai 's select foreign businessmen saw other white men doing work hitherto relegated to coolies , they decided it would never do . And they formed a Russian battalion to Shanghai 's volunteer Foreign Legion . Later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Harbin and Mukden , swelling the emigree population to nearly 20,000 . They became as much a part of Shanghai as the famous Bund itself . Then Came the Japanese When the Japanese occupied Shanghai , the White Russians once again lost all they had accumulated ? money , busirfess , and in many cases a good portion of their self-respect . It was against this wartime backdrop that the Soyiets entered the scene and began the job of preparing Shanghai 's White Russians for eventual Soviet citizenship . Sending out trained propagandists from Moscow , the Russians expanded the Tass news agency office and gave it an ex- pense account which made possible a major propaganda establishment . Four daily newspapers , four magazines , and two radio-casting stations were opened up . Russia 's point of view was sold or given away in several languages . Prejudices Melt Little by little , fears and prejudices melted away as Tess ground out editorials , feature stories , and radio skits  --  all flavored by the Communist Party line . When Russia entered the war against Japan , Tass agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improviked prison . The surrender , however , found them back in office , still beating away at the deep-seated prejudices and suspicions of those who thought the hammer and sickle were weapons rather than tools . Then came the big day a fortnight ago when Tass announced that Russia was ready to take back itss wandering children . The Soviet Consulate doors were thrown open . Tass papers evenprinted a picture of Soviet officials embracing one of Shanghai 's Russian Greek Orthodox Church officials  --  a symbol of religious freedom in the Soviet today . Many White Russians were frankly skeptical . The younger generation born outside Russia immediately took up the offer . The older generation , which remembered hairbreadth escapes and the shadow of Siberian concentration camp 's , hesitated . ' Slave ' Plot Seen Many figured that if they did not accept the offer of citizenship , the Soviet Government would put pressure on China to deport them to Russia . About 10 per cent regarded the offer as a plot to get what they called " slave labor " for Russia 's factories and refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the application forms as " Have you ever served in any army ? " and remembered how they fought the Communist legions until they had their backs to the sea at Okhotsk . The other 90 per cent of the White Russian colony here , however , is " signing up . " About six thousand already have applied . Many have signified a desire to return to some part of Russia . They may find Russia quite different from the picture portrayed by Intourist travel posters . But they no longer are men without a nation .                     