@@706935

txt Chile broke relations with the Axis after the Senate voted 30 to in to back President Rios . Ambassador Rodolfo Michels notified Undersecretary of State Sumner Welles in Washington , and notice was sent to other American capitals . Argentina is the only American Republic maintaining relations with Germany , Italy , and Japan . Page 8 . Washington : Twelve Indicted for Fraud in Texas ' Attorney General Biddle announced indictment 12 persons by a . r. eaeral Grand Jury at Fort Worth , Texas , on charges of false claims and conspiracy to defraud the Government in connection with construction of air training schools at Sweetwater and Lemesa , Texas . The White House announced an agreement had been reached for a " substantial restoration of functions to the appropriate civilian authorities , " in Hawaii . More than 3,200 tanks , almost 2,600 planes and 81,000 military vehicles have been shipped to Pussia , as of Jan. 1 , 1943 , Lend-Lease Administrator Edward R. Stettinius reported . ( Page 9 . The United Mine Workers served notice on striking anthracite miners that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obey President Roosevelt 's order to return to work . Explaining delays in mailing out pay allotment checks to the families of soldiers , the War Department has written to Senator Thomas ( D ) of Oklahoma that staff shortages and wrong addresses are among several reasons . The size of the task is indicated in the mailing of 3.544,690 cLecks since Sept. 1 , totalling $217,564,204 . Refusing to confirm the designation of Representative Vito Marcantonio , of the American Labor Party from New York , as a member of the Judiciary Committee , House Democrats sent his name back to the Committee on Committees . William M. Jeffers. the Rubber Conservation Director , has assumed control of all rubber import programs now exercised by the Board of Economic Warfare , the BEW announced . Authority to ration evaporated and condensed milk . jams . jellies , preserves . fruit butter : . pickles . relishes , was delegated to the OPA by Secretary of Agriculture Wickard . ( Page 16.1 Authorization for appropriation of $44,000,000 to complete the Florida barge canal was asked in a bill by Representative Hendricks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Bomb Rome If Need Arises Rome will be bombed " as heavily as possible " if it becomes militarily advisable , Britain 's Foreign Secretary told the Commons . Common postwar program for economic co-operation is being prepared by Britain in consultation with the United States , Soviet Russia , and the other United Nations , it was disclosed in London . In Moscow , a British seaman " On a convoy to Russia " radio program praised the Russian restaurants at an Arctic port where entertainment as well as food is provided for Allied seamen . Musical numbers included " Let Me Call You Sweetheart " and " Oh , Susannah . " Curfew in Brussels has been modified by the German authorities , permitting cafes and theaters to remain open until 8:30 p . Ill . The curfew was imposed because of anti-German activities . Thousands of Poles are being deported from Warsaw in sealed trains in a new Gestapo roundup , according to the British Radio which quotes " reports from Poland . " More than 1,100 schools in Britain have been destroyed or badly damaged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fnffland : Six New Number-Pool Indictments ' , Dr. Harry .1 . Sagansky . J.J. Carrigan . Jr. , and Daniel B. Paglino were named in six indictments returned today by the Middlesex County Grand . Jury , charging involvement in the number-pool prosecutions now being pushed by State and County officials . Page 2.1 First trainload of kerosene in drums arrived in Boston . Thirty-two freight cars containing about 5.000 gallons each , were today distributed around the Boston area for immediate unloading . More expected Friday . ( Page 2.1 National : Two Grocery Chains Indicted Safeway Stores , Inc. , and Kroger Grocery and Baking Company , plus 11 subsidiary companies and 18 individuals , were indicted for alleged violations of antitrust laws by a Federal Grand Jury at Kansas City . Kan . ( Page 16.1 The Kentucky Court of Appeals held that property of Municipal Housing Commissions was tax free in Kentucky . The first of a " large number " of Navy tank-landing ships being built in Pittsburgh at the new Ambridge Yard of the American Bridge Company will be launched in the Ohio River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the 64-acre shipyard . American Bridge is a U. S. Steel subsidiary . Re-armament Movement were denied by a New York Draft Appeals Board . About 1,500 workers at Bethlehem Steel Company 's Lackawanna plantfailed to report for work in sympathy with a five-day strike of 100 electrical maintenance employees , a C. I. 0 . official said . Africa : Pevrouton New Governor of Algeria Marcel Peyrouton , French Ambassador to Argentina , has been appointed Governor General of Algeria . He was formerly Minister of the Interior in Vichy , and when his relations with the collaborationists became strained he was sent to the Argentine . North African censorship received pointed criticism in the London press which demanded the question be cleared up without further delay , since " it has now become an issue threatening harmonious relations- between Britain and America . Canada : Plan to Settle Steel Strike Proposed A seven-point plan to settle the steel strike in Canada has been proposed by the Government . It is doubtful whether its terms will be acceptable to the 13.500 workers at present on strike , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ian . 19 to her third daughter . who was registered as Margriet Francisca , Princess of Orange-Nassau . President Roosevelt was named as one of the baby 's godfathers . Canada 's butter ration for the next six-week period has been cut by one-third in order to maintain butter supply during the season of low production . Instead of 8 ounces a week per person , the new ration will be 51/3 ounces Javan : Parliament Is Recessed Until Jan. 27 The Jipanese Parliament , which was to convene today , has been recessed until Jan. 27 . Premier Tojo will address the opening session . The War :                     