@@708482

txt DEWEY AIDES URGE REFORMS IN ATTACK ON JUVENILE CRIME Placing of Offenders in the Proper Institutions , Individual Treatment Are Sought RECEPTION CENTERS ASKED Supporting Legislation to Be Introduced This Week , Probably Tomorrow By ROBERT W. POTTER Drastic reforms in present methods of committing youthful offenders and juvenile delinquents to penal institutions in the State and in the treatment of offenders are recommended in a report submitted to Governor Dewey by his Interdepartmental Committee on Delinquency , it was learned last night . The placing of each offender in the proper institution and individualized treatment for each are the objectives sought . Declaring that improper commitments are frequently made and that too many courts do not make adequate study of the offender before sentence , the committee , which includes the Commissioners of the Departments of Correction , Education , Mental Hygiene and Social Welfare , the chairman of the Board of Parole , and the counsel to the Governor , urged the following for immediate action : Reception Center Sought Establishment of a reception center in the Department of Correction , preferably at Elmira Reformatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 21 years of age . Authorization of interdepartmental transfers between institutions of the Departments of Correction , Social Welfare and Mental Hygiene where the inmate involved , or other inmates , would benefit . Establishment of temporary branches of the State Training Schools to allow varying degrees of security for inmates . Extension of the power of the Social Welfare Commissioner to arrange boarding homes for selected children in all its training schools , as now done at Warwick Training School for Boys . Supervision of parolees from all institutions in the Department of Correction should be consolidated under the State Board and Division of Parole . Legislation supporting these major recommendations will be introduced this week , probably tomorrow night , according to present plans , it was learned . Other Recommendations Made Other recommendations made by the committee include establishment of a reception and treatment center by the Department of Social Welfare for girls who present serious emotional and personality problems ; giving to the Department of Correction sufficient psychiatric and psychological personnel for its institutions to strengthen and improve classification and treatment of offenders , and amending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years . Also urged was the extension of the powers of the State Division of Probation so that it can improve the operation of local probation services , and establishment of a State Youth Service Commission , previously recommended , to achieve better relationship among agencies handling offenders , and to work for uniform standards of commitment and of determining mental incompetency . The committee included the following : John A. Lyons , Commissioner of Corrections ; George D. Stoddard , Commissioner of Education ; Frederick MacCurdy , Commissioner of Mental Hygiene ; Robert T. Lansdale , Commissioner of Social Welfare ; Frederick A. Moran , chairman of the Board of Parole , and Lawrence E. Walsh , // Assistant Counsel to the Governor . It is understood that recommendations of the committee have the general support of the heads of the various criminal courts in the State , heads of institutions involved , private social welfare agencies , bar associations and other groups interested in an improved delinquency program . It is expected that judges will feel a sense of relief in not having to determine the commitment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sent . No change proposed would affect any homicide cases . In recommending a reception center for youthful male offenders , the report said regarding the Department of Correction : " Young male offenders , 16 to 21 years of age , are not sufficiently separated as to type to permit effective treatment ; responsibility for treatment is divided and uncoordinated ; and certain needed ' deleted 100 lines the Department of Mental Hygiene serious behavior cases or mentally defective juvenile delinquents . The committee found " defective delinquents are sometimes committed to prisons and reformatories for normal offenders and these must be sorted out and transferred to institutions for defective delinquents . " The Corrections Department has considerable flexibility of transfer between its own institutions , it said .                     