@@705176

txt A new day dawned for several Boston families today when they became the first families to move into the airy new apartments of the Charlestown Federal Housing Project . This marks a cardinal step toward completion of Uncle Sam 's $32,000,000 program to replace some of the worst slums in Boston with new apartment homes offering ample heat , light , playground space and modern conveniences for low-income families . About 100 families have already been accepted for the 1,089-suite Charlestown development . Many of them formerly lived in the area in dark , dilapidated structures . Most of them have from one to six children . Additional families will be accepted until the entire project is occupied about two months from now . The Charlestown project is the third public housing development to be completed in the Greater Boston area . The first two , erected by the Public Works Administration , are in South Boston and Cambridge . The Charlestown project is the first to be completed of the eight planned locally by the United States Housing Administration . Three of the others are nearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mission Hill , both in Roxbury ; the other four will be started soon . When the whole program is completed , approximately 5,400 low-income Boston families , including relief recipients , Work Projects Administration workers , laborers and others will have attractive , ultra-modern homes in place of tenement rooms . In Time for Thanksgiving Some of the families are so eager to get into their new homes that they are moving this week although they must pay rent at their former homes until Dec. 1 , William J. Johnson , Manager of the Charlestown project , said today . As one housewife told him : " It 's worth paying 10 days extra rent just to get into our new place for Thanksgiving . " Mr. Johnson expects numerous families to move in before Christi mas even though their present leases may run until Jan. 1 . ' A total of 396 apartments in 17 buildings is now available for occupancy , and the final touches , such as finishing the floors and walls and installing equipment . are being rushed in the remaining suites , he stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and early this morning . Soon the moving vans showed up . It 's a process Mr. Johnson expects to happen daily from now on . The apartments , with attractive walls in pastel shades , electric refrigerators , the last word in cooking stoves , steam heat , oak floors , casement windows , and compact but roomy arrangement appeared this morning as pleasant as anyone could wish . Contrast in Conveniences The dwellings in the area before the new project was built lacked many modern conveniences , a survey by the Housing Authority reveals , Nearly 72 per cent had no bath tubs or showers . Sixty per cent had no hot water . Ninety per cent had no central heating . Twenty per cent had no sanitary facilities . Rents in the area averaged $15.82 without heat or utilities furnished , which compares with rents in the new apartments ranging from $14to S25 , including heat , light , fuel , and hot water . The projects are financed by the United States Housing Administration , The City 's contribution CMststs mainly in the loss of the areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects become city-owned property . Bids have been opened for construction of a 420-dwelling project in the Heath Street section of Roxbury , and it is expected a contract can be let to begin construction in December , John A. Breen , Chairman of the Housing Authority , said today . For the other three projects , arrangements are now being made for . the Authority to acquire the necessary properties , Mr. Breen said . These projects are In the Orchard Park area of Roxbury , tn the South End , and in the Maverick Square section of East Boston . Only other Federal housing projects in operation in Greater Boston are the Old Harbor Village development in South Boston and the Newtowne Court project in Cambridge . These were both built by the Public Works Administration .                     