@@712153

txt after eight shots were fired across the bow , and was boarded and her documents examined . She was held overnight , the pilot was removed , and the ship was advised not to return . As she passed the anchored pilot ship , Nationalist uniforms were observed aboard the latter , and it was presumed the vessl was occupied . Later reports indicate the pilot ship , with five pilots aboard , has been removed to an unknown destination . Air Menace Continues . Continued occasional flights over Shanghai are keeping this city aware of the air menace , although there have . been no recent attacks . However , a P-51 on June 24 buzzed my apartment at rooftop height , thus avoiding fire , then zoomed to a high altitude , seemingly showing off . There has been no mention of any of these events in any newsas the few Chinese papers are Communist and the sh North China Daily News accuis cowed . The latter paper on June 25 published on the front page a four-column layout headed " An Apology , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Military Control Commission brder . The newspaper 's resultant humble crawl , signed R. T. Peyton-Griffin , editor , followed . Sensation ' Cited The commission order recounts how the North China Daily News on June 10 " started publishing reports that the Kuomitang reactionary government had laid mines at the mouth of Woosung harbor , , and since has followed up , using - alarming terms and causing a sensation , by- fabrication . " " Residents of the whole city , indignant at such absurd acts , requested Ate - teminission to give a severe pUnishMent- " The coinMitedan considers the public request entirely justifiable and the mistake ' the paper committed serious . However , in view of the fact that Mr. Peyton-Grffin , the responsible person on the paper , admitted his mistake and guaranteed no similar mistake would be repeated , the commission decided on leniency on the condition that he accepts this severe warning and publishes simultaneously its petition and an apology together with this order . " Old Law Invoked The point I believe is not unrealized , even by the paper 's editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had the Chinese text checked legally , and find the ' translation correct . Therefore , the commission ac- Apology Made The editor continues by saying : " I desire herewith to tender my sincere , humble apologies and to give my assurance that I will do everything to insure that there shall be no repetition of such a mistake in the future . " ? Such a statement seems humiliating and uncalled for save on the ground of expediency . It still does not commit the editor to a guarantee , but the usual Chinese practice is to stand on that portion of the record which suits the most powerful party . Hence I feel doubly justified in my stand that for my part I will not serve editorially in Shanghai under present conditions . For the first time , the ? orththena Daily News carried a news story revealing the partial facts of the closedown of the Evening Post and Mercury . Everything was translated from and credited to the official Liberation Daily News , which for the first time took cognizance of it . This was because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Placards Shown This is obviously a pressure medium , since they simultaneously placarded Shanghai , including the Medhurst apartments in which I live , also the affiliated American Asiatic Underwriters Corporation , and even the Hong Kong-Shanghai Bank , with English-language posters denouncing me for " shirking responsibilities " and increasing unemployment .                     