@@704727

txt For the second time in little more than a quarter of a century the field gray columna of the German Army have been set marching " Nach Paris . " Obviously aiming to flank the Maginot Line to stab the Allied armies from the rear the German troops crossed the frontiers into the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg at 5:30 o'clock this morning establishing contact with the enemy along what the General Headquarters communiqu ? terms a broad front . Even before this early hour , at the first gleam of dawn , Germany 's mighty air armadas launched assaults upon enemy territory which now also include the Low Countries . Chancellor Hitler , in an order to his troops , declared that the " fate of the German nation for the next thousand years is at stake . " l German headquarters has chosen to reveal but little of what were the results of the first day of this " major war , " upon the outcome of which hangs Europe 's destiny . But from the scanty official information so far available observers feel justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Polish campaign is once more being // carried out with massive air attacks against enemy airfields and communications systems and tanks opening the way for motorized infantry and artillery units . This was in addition to such spectacular , yet unproved , novelties of warfare as parachutists dropped far behind enemy lines to upset further military organization and defense . To what extent this method of modern super-Blitzkrieg met with success on the first day must await disclosures for German headquarters is making no extravagant claims , merely stating that " enemy resistance in proximity of the frontiers everywhere was broken by our furious attacks , sometimes In cooperation with our air force . " Military experts point out that this is neither less nor more than can be expected at the outset against adversaries well prepared or having the advantage of natural defenses such as Holland 's " waterline " dikes . From news released by unofficial sources it seems that the German Air Force had a good day , preliminary reports claiming several outstanding successes , including the alleged occupation of several Belgian and Netherland air fields , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Antwerp , where hangars and planes are said to have been set afire by incendiary bombs . A series of raids against French air bases are claimed to have caused " lasting damage " to flying fields at Metz , Saint-Omer and Vitry-leFrancois , all-important ? military centers , in addition to lesser damage elsewhere . Today 's communique significantly refers to a German " speed boat " having , during the course of operations in the North Sea , torpedoed an enemy destroyer . These so-called speed boats are torpedo carrying mosquito craft originally taken up by the Italian Navy . Going at a speed of more than fifty knots they . have been called suicide shells because the crew must get in so close to launch a torpedo that they are fairly good targets for enemy fire . Although used in the Norwegian campaign this is the first time one is reported to have destroyed a warship . Another singular occurrence in the day 's naval news occurred off the Netherland island of Terschelling where a German submarine sank a British submarine , according to the communiqu ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters suggests to some observers that both are being used to support attacks against the Low Countries by laying mines and landing small obstructive groups at strategic points along the coasts . There were rumors of such groups having been landed in the Maas delta but they were wholly unconfirmed . As the German offensive across Belgium must mainly follow the 1914 tracks with the Sambre and Maas Rivers there are bound to reappear in the day 's news some names reminiscent of the World War . A strong Belgian fort , reported one of the outer works of the Liege chain , is semi-officially alleged to have been captured by a German unit working in conjunction with the air force . According to a German news agency one Captain Koch and First Lieutenant Witzig distinguished themselves in this action , obtaining Herr Hitler 's reward of the Knight 's Insignia of the Iron Cross , equivalent to the Pour le Merite of the imperial days . Resistance Reported Broken BERLIN , May 10 ( UP ) ? Nazi leaders boasted tonight that their troops were smashing through the Netherlands and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ High Command said that enemy resistance had broken down in the frontier provinces of the Netherlands and Belgium and that Luxembourg had been completely overrun . The Germans were reported to have captured the Netherland town of Maastrich , some twenty miles inside the frontier on the Maas River and near the Belgian frontier . The fall of the Belgian city of Malmedy , south of Maastrich and fifteen miles inside Belgium , also ' was claimed . Several bridges on the Albert Canal , primary Belgian defense line , were said to be in German hands . The Maastrich fortress , a key stronghold in the Netherland defense system , had fallen to the Germans , authorized spokesmen said , and some 3,000 prisoners were taken with it . " German troops in the early afternoon reached the Yssel and the Maas was crossed at several points on Netherland territory , " the official news agency said tonight . " Maastrich and bridges over the Albert Canal west of the city are in German hands . Malmedy is taken . Farther south , German troops advancing through Luxembourg crossed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans were occupation of The Hague , capital of the Netherlands ; the total destruction of three French airdromes and damaging of many others , and the mastery of all worthwhile Netherland and Belgian airports , tog.ther with the " successful " bombing of those at Antwerp and Brussels . The official news agency said that almost 100 enemy planes had been shot down or destroyed on the ground at the raided airports . It said seven German planes were missing and two were forced to land , denying assertions elsewhere that more than seventy had been shot .                     