@@704816

txt Government officials and executives of organizations interested in child and social welfare met today to determine whether it would be possible to bring some of Europe 's . tholisands of refugee children , particularly those in England , to the United States . Among those in the conference were Mts . Franklin D. Roosevelt and Katharine Len-root , Chief of the United States Children 's Bureau . By R. Maillard Stead Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor LONDON , June ** arms from across the sea  --  outstretched in welcome from the United States , as from Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , and other parts of the British Empire  --  have offered a gratefully accepted sanctuary from the war to as many as possible of Britain 's 6,000,000 school children . Today the British Government announces details of an official scheme that will enable a portion of Britain 's child population between the ages of 5 and 16 to make a State-guided migration to greater safety until the European hostilities end . While the British Government with a lien placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 20,000 children to the shelter of the Dominions within the next fortnight or so-10,000 to Canada , 5,000 to Australia , and 2,500 each to New Zealand and South Africa  --  schemes are being completed by the authorities in the receiving countries to harness the intense desire of individual families there to ' adopt British children for " the duration . " 1 Strong Welcome From America No official scheme has as yat been received from the United States , but British parents have been profoundly touched to learn that hundreds of American citizens and several private organizations in the United States have contacted the authorities expressing a strong desire to welcome young Britishers . The American Ambassador , Mr. Joseph P. Kennedy , recently cabled the State Department at Washington explaining that he was getting an average of 1,200 requests daily for visas for British children who wanted to go to the United States . He had a reply today giving him authority to go ahead and get as many as possible ready to leave . Mr. Kennedy , who has been in consultation with Maj. A. N. Braithwaite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evacuation policy , puts a strong case before the State Department that the usual red tape , added to special restrictions imposed on June 6 , made it impossible for the Consulate here to handle this situation . It is hoped that the authorization he has now received will open the way to get on with the urgent job before it is too late . Shipping Problem Tackled The procuring of adequate shipping facilities to transport all children whose parents or other guardians wish them to go is one of the biggest problems organizers of the evacuation scheme here have to face . Mr Geoffrey Shakespeare , Undersecretary for Dominions , acting as chairman of a special board established to handle the whole thing told The Christian Science Monitor that the British authorities would be extremely grateful for any co-operation the United States can give along this line . The first public hints of the im- pending Government scheme for evacuation of children overseas chine as German aircraft began to plaster Britain 's east and southeast coast with high explosives , and the long queue ranged outside the passport office here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find out how soon they can send the youngsters away ? difficult wrench though it be to split up families at such times as these . Evacuee Areas Bombed Those who besieged the officials today had an added incentive to feel that any ordinary evacuation scheme within Britain was a poor substitute for transportation abroad , for they were discussing the morning 's radio bulletin that told of bombs falling on South Wales to which thousands of urban school children had just been re-evacuted form the original country refuge in the southeastern counties . What is envisaged here now is that the government will superintend a course of action which many parents had already undertaken on their own . Only children under 16 are eligible . If they belong to grant-aided schools their transportation will be free . Otherwise parents must pay about $60 to Canada or $80 to Australia . Once the children are in reception areas their parents would contribute on the basis of ability to pay , or pay six shillings weekly a child with no questions asked about ability . The phrase " balanced migration " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  all must pass physical examinations  --  and place them with due consid- eration of standards of living , type of schools , and climate of reception areas and so on . Each area would get a cross-section of British citizenship . Clothes will be provided . Children will be accompanied by staffs but not by any parents  --  with the pdssible exception of mothers who are soldiers ' widows . Migrants will go to individual families . There will be no direct financial transaction between households sending children and those receiving them . Contributions are to be collected under arrangements now in force in connection with the Government 's evacuation scheme within Britain 's shores , and money thus collected , plus the Government 's subsidy toward the children 's maintenance , will be remitted in lump sums at intervals to appropriate authorities overseas . One of the most disturbing influences adversely affecting the success of Britain 's first big internal evacuation ( " sabotaged " because the children drifted homeward in a steady stream when month after month passed without serious air raids ) was the mothers who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that difficulties would arise when a home contains two " mothers , " both concerned with the welfare of the same child or children , but these snags can not occur in connection with overseas evacuation since the general principle is that the children shall make the journey accompanied only by official escorts , with few special exceptions . In addition the British children , it is planned , will include some youngsters from former Allied nations now in Britain as refugees in so far as overseas countries are prepared to receive them . Application on their behalf is made through the local authority responsible for housing them to the appropriate Consuls , and thence to the Children 's Overseas Reception Board . The nationalities involved are Belgian , French , Czechoslovak , Dutch , Norwegian and Polish .                     