@@710301

txt The Board of Estimate advanced a cautious step yesterday toward solution of its airport problem by directing Corporation Counsel Charles E. Murphy to draw up a " definitive agreement " between the city and the Port ' Authority looking toward eventual Port Authority operation of . city airports . While the board members welcomed the Port Authority 's newest operating offer as a substantial improvement over its original offer of Dec. 18 , 1946 , they took no action that would commit the city to Port Authority operation . After fifteen months of discussion and negotiation the board still held the door open on two alternative operating plans  --  one by the New York City Airport Authority and lanother providing for operation by the city itself . As outlined by the board yesterday , the first step in its procedure be the drawing up of a definitive agreement embodying the points of agreement reached by the city and the Port Authority . This agreement , if mutually satisfactory , is to be followed by the drawing up of a form of lease . Should agreement prevail on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Estimate would then have to approve it . Until that point is reached , the city remains uncommitted on the choice of an I operating agency for La Guardia Field , Idlewild Airport and Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn . " Legal Obstacle " Is Cited Corporation Counsel Murphy submitted a report to the board yesterday citing " a vital legal obstacle , " which he said still existed despite efforts to resolve it in negotiation . In report , the city 's chief legal officer said : " I consider it my duty to call attention once again to vital shortcomings in the airport legislation of the Port of New York Authority which has passed the Legislature of the State of New York and is now before the Governor for consideration . These shortcomings make a legally binding agreement , which would contain the necessary // safeguards for the city , impossible to accomplish at this time . " On Feb. 25 , 1947 , I addressed a memorandum to your Honor calling attention to four proposed amendments to the said legislation which my associates and I considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protected . After you had considered these four amendments you directed me to send a copy of the proposed amendments to Port Authority officials and then to confer with them . This I did , but as already reported to you , the Port Authority officials approved two of the proposed amendments , but stated that they could not submit them to the Legislature because by so doing , in their opinion , the entire bill would be jeopardized . The other two amendments , one dealing with the city 's right to sue and the other dealing with zoning , police , fire protection , etc. , they refused to sanction at all . " As to these latter two , there has been further negotiation , and , as indicated above , substantial progress has been made relative to the city 's right to enforce remedies . While the Port Authority 's officials have conceded greater rights upon the part of the city to sue , they are still unwilling to include in such rights forfeiture , re-entry and cancellation . As to the provision relative to compliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include this in the legislation , but they are willing to make an agreement morally committing the authority to a policy of compliance . " The net result of this is : If the city enters into an agreement with the Port Authority and accepts the legal concessions to which the authority has now consented , it still will not be possible to get an enforceable agreement with the Port Authority until such time as the legislation is amended to embody the concessions the authority is now willing to give . Only the Legislatures of the States of New York and New Jersey , with the approval of the respective Governors , can correct this situation . " Delay Until 1948 Likely Since it is most unlikely that the New York or New Jersey Legislatures would hold special sessions to pass airport legislation , the effect of the objection would be to delay an enforceable agreement until 1948 . Pursuing his line of argument , the Corporation Counsel said : " In an ordinary commercial agreement such a situation could be met by making the passage of remedial legislation a condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the event the necessary legislative amendments were not adopted by a certain date . Seemingly , such a provision is impractical in the present instance because the Port Authority bonds could not be marketed with any such contingency outstanding . " An agreement between the city and the Port Authority in which both parties would agree to make every effort to have the Legislatures of New York and NecV Jersey pass the required legislation and the respective Governors approve same , would be at best a moral promise with no legally binding effect . In this connection , I should point out to you that not only is the agreement to sponsor such legislation unenforceable , but there exists a possibility that despite such sponsorship the legislation might not be adopted . I call to your attention a situation similar to this which occurred some years ago in connection with the Port Authority . In 1929 , the New York State Legislature passed a bill granting the State Controller fiscal inspection of Port Authority books . The State of New Jersey has never passed similar legislation , with the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Controller Lazarus Joseph , who signed the report with the Corporation Counsel , made it a point at yesterday 's board meeting to say he was not committed to approve the definitive agreement when it was presented to the board . He joined with other board members in praising Mayor O'Dwyer for his refusal to accept the Port Authority 's original offer . Plans to Be Pushed Viewing the board 's action yesterday as an acceptance of the Port Authority 's plan , Howard S. Cullman , Port Authority chairman , said his agency would pay the city about $72,000,000 over the fiftyyear term of the lease , reduced from the original ninety-nine-year term . He announced that the Authority would go forward at once with its plans for the improvement and completion of La Guardia , Idlewild and Floyd Bennett airfields . In a letter to Mayor O'Dwyer , Mr. Cullman said both he and the Controller deserved commendation for their approach to the airport problem . Mr. Cullman said the Port Authority would begin negotiations with the airlines to work out definite plans and agreements for actual operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Port Authority was executed . " Design plans for the airport construction program will then go forward , " he said . " The financing schedule will be spread over the five years of the agency 's proposed construction timetable . " He agreed that the Port Authority would pay the city a minimum annual rental of $350,000 as soon as the airports were transferred to the authority , and that the amount would be raised to $450,000 a year in 1957 . In addition , he said , his agency would relieve the city of $7,500,000 of its 1947 capital budget airport obligations , of which about $4,000,000 would be used to acquire certain properties at Idlewild . He added that the most conservative estimate of an annual New York airport payroll under the Port Authority plan was $100,000,000 , with about 40,000 persons employed at La Guardia and Idlewild . While the Port Authority agreed not to build any additional airports within the city without the approval of city officials , it would not extend the restriction to Westchester or other areas in the state . As to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its permit for the temporary use of that field to the authority , which would then attempt to work out a satisfactory solution for the operation ' of the ' Brooklyn field with the Federal ' Government . He opposed any provision for a city recapture clause in the lease on the ground that it would weaken the authority 's ability to finance the improvements required . Speaking for seventeen scheduled airlines affiliated with the New York Airports Committee , Juan T. Trippe , president of Pan ( American World Airways , said last night that they favored Port Authority operation . He commended ' Mayor O'Dwyer for canvassing all ' the possibilities and praised his leadership .                     