@@709812

txt In a speech ranging far beyond the statute of Trieste , his theme , Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov of the Soviet Union warned the Western Allies today against attempts at forming blocs that omitted the Soviet Union or were directed against Russia . " we now observe attempts to form another bloc directed against peace-loving countries with the aid of an aggressor , " he said . " If this goes on , it will end as the League of Nations did , in another World War . " We see attempts to renounce the right of veto . This would give a free hand to those who seek to form an Anglo-American bloc and spheres of influence in order to favor selfish interests and ignore the interests of other peace-loving nations . " S. Policy Combated His reference clearly embraced the United States policy on Germany as recently expounded by Secretary of State Byrnes and the anti-Soviet trend attacked by Secretary of Commerce Wallace in his speech Thursday . Mr. Molotov , addressing the Italian political and territorial commission of the peace confer , ence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations or repeat the error of Munich , where the Allies sought to make an agreement with aggressors and thus brought on World War II . He made violent attacks on Britain and the United States and attacked France in a lesser degree . He added a furious assault upon the Australian delegation . Mr. Molotov declared efforts were being made to form a bloc against the Soviet Union . He said the United States proposed for Trieste an undemocratic regime , reverting to ideas of the nineteenth century . He compared the proposed administration . with British regimes in India and on the West African Gold Coast . The Soviet Minister expressed the belief that the Allies proposed to establish troops in Trieste , which he said would destroy the commercial character of the port and make it a military and naval base . In comparing the Greek and Bulgarian elections he said the former were held under the pressure of foreign troops while the latter were a free expression of the popular will . Albania Accuses Italy In the other commissions of the Paris conference the outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for new aggressions and the Albanian demand for a share in Italian surplus war material . The reparations subcommittee of the economic commission for Italy completed its work tonight with an agreement on tables setting in comparative form the damage claims of various countries against Italy . The total of specific claims is $3,448,000,000 , excluding Greek claims , which have not yet been formally listed . Mr. Molotov , adcressins the Italian political and territorial commission , presented a ten-point Soviet program for the Trieste statute . He prefaced this with attacks on the British , United States , French and Australian proposals while supporting that of Yugoslavia . The Soviet plan would create a favored position for Yugoslavia in the Free Territory . It included a program to purge all fascist elements among Italian residents . It also provided for the demilitarizing and neutralizing of the territory and for the withdrawal of all troops from the territory within thirty days after the signing of the Italian treaty . Australia is Denounced Mr. Molotov used Australia 's proposal to take control over Trieste from the SecurityCouncil on account of alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against " attempts to undermine international cooperation . " He said Australia was aiming at reviving the League of Nations , which he asserted was nothing more than an instrument for French-British control of the European Continent and had " led to Munich and the catastrophe of war . " He said the veto aimed to prevent the ignoring of any power and stressed that the Paris Conference must work to make decisions unanimously or it would be on a dangerous track . While the United States and British projects for Trieste would establish a regime like Britain 's in India or the Gold Coast , Mr. Molotov said , the Soviet project would put the administration in the hands of the local population , which was already accustomed to democratic ways . He said Britain and the United States wished to return to the nineteenth century , but the press and radio in the twentieth century had enlightened peoples and made it possible for them to govern themselves . He insisted that the Russians did not intend to establish a Soviet system in Trieste . Soviet 's Experience Stressed He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peoples in the Soviet Union made Russia better qualified to give advice than Australia , with a small homogeneous population on an isolated " island . " The Soviet Minister complained that he had failed to get an answer to questions as to what sort of force the United States and Britain proposed to provide for the Governor of Trieste to maintain the free territory 's integrity and independence . If they meant an international force , the Soviet Union would oppose it , he said , for this would convert the free port into a military base . In addition to asking for Italian surplus war material , the Albanian delegate also asked the military commission further to limit the Italian armed force 's personnel . The commission took no action on either request . Col. Hysni Kapo , in presenting the claims for aggressions the Albanians had suffered at the hands of Italians in the last twenty-two years , insisted that Italy was preparing for further aggressions . " In certain instances , when Italians discuss other countries , they use the same terms as used by fascist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed forces left to Italy are far above her needs for defense . " Greeks List Damages The Greek damages as reported by the subcommittee to the economic commission were $6,276 , - 000,000 , excluding the value placed on the loss of life . The Greeks say they will let the conference decide how much reparations they should get in the settlement of thit claim . The British damage claim war reduced to $14,083,000,000 , by fail ' the biggest claim . Though tine British ' have declared they will seek no reparations above the value of Italian assets in Britain , they are keeping their claim on file to balance the claims of the Balkan states and to give Britain leverage in arguments in the full economic commission .                     