@@704655

txt President Roosevelt , in a speech today heard over the world used the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Pan American Union as the basis for a major utterance on foreign policy . Speaking at times more sternly of dictatorial aggression than at any time prior to the German invasion of Norway and Denmark , Mr. Roosevelt declared that " old dreams of universal empire are again rampant " and solemnly warned that , so far as the 21 nations of the new world go , " who= ever touches any one of us touches all of us . " He continued : " We have only asked that the world go with us in the path of peace . But we shall be able to keep that way open only if we are prepared to meet force with force if the challenge is ever made . " Radiocast in Six Languages The speech was broadcast over all major networks and re-broadcast abroad in German , French , Spanish , Portuguese , and Italian . It showed great care in preparation . It followed the week-end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Roosevelt did not mention Germany by name . But more clearly than in times past an undercurrent of moral indigation against that invasion and the Russian invasion of Finland was evident . " We did not stamp out nations , capture governments , or uproot innocent people from the homes they had built , " he declared in a typical message . " We did not invent absurd doctrines of race supremacy , or claim dictatorship through universal revolution . " Though utilizing to the utmost the dramatic contrast between peaceful new world international relationship and present war-torn Europe , Mr. Roosevelt 's speech was far more than a mere oratorical exercise . For Europe there was emphasis on a " co - operative peace " hinting at possible Roosevelt postwar recommendations to belligerents ; for Latin America there was a renewed pledge that the United States intends to settle disputes by " negotiation ? .. rather // Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . By Mallory Browne Stott Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor LONDON , April 15 ? The landing of British forces at several points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Office communique today , conies less than a week after Reichsfuhrer Hitler 's coup . It comes , too , immediately in the wake of the British Navy 's sweeping victory at Narvik Fjord April 13 , when seven German destroyers were sent to the bottom by a naval squadron led by the battleship Warspite , the laying of a huge mine barricade across the entire German Baltic coast from Kiel Bay to Lithuania , and the torpedoing of the 10,000-ton German pocket battleship Admiral Scheer by the British submarine Spearfish . The feat of transpoiting an expeditionary force without hitch to a number of ports on the Norwegian coast emphasizes the fact that , despite German claims to the contrary , and notwithstanding the efforts of Field Marshal Hermann GOring 's Air Force , the British Navy still controls the high seas . It has shown itself equally effective in coastal waters and narrow fjords . Although the " several pants " referred to in the communique are not named , there 1. - every reason to believe that despite German denials , they include Narvik , possibly Tromsoe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of Narvik . German officials , according to Associated Press dispatches , asserted that no British troops had landed anywhere at Norwegian points occupied by German forces , either at Narvik or anywhere else where Germany has established itself , but may have effected landings elsewhere . Troops Fully Equipped It is possible to state authoritatively that it is n't merely a question of a few handfuls of troops , but of fully equipped expeditions . Furthermore , these first forces to land are to be followed by others on a still bigger scale . The plan of campaign of these expeditionary forces is a strict military secret . But it is obvious from the nature of the terrain that , once domination of the sea coast is assured , control of Norway 's few railway lines will play a major part in the conflict . For this reason a British victory at Narvik is of double importance , because it gives the Allies access to the railway linking that port with Swedish iron fields . The importance of this railway in connection with Sweden would be particularly great if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be able almost immediately to send in help by this northern route . Change of Front Possible There appears to be some question as to whether the line has been cut , but if so it is thought repaiis would not be lengthy . Trondheim and Bergen , as important railheads , are undoubtedly receiving careful attention for the next stage of the campaign . The conviction is steadily growing here that the naval victory at Narvik , plus the Allied success in than by force ; ' which might come today with special significance to Mexico ; for citizens at home Mr. Roosevelt put into words some of the swelling moral indignation heard everywhere against the invasion of Norway and Denmark . Most important perhaps of all the themes running through the address was the call to all the 21 nations of the new world  --  made as Mr. Roosevelt spoke before the Governing Board of the historic Pan American Union  --  that their system of peaceful relations must be supported and , if need be , defended , to preserve the ideal " of a co-operative peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resort to force for its defense President Roosevelt added that should strong measures be necessary he was convinced the Americas would be " wholly successful " in defending their way of life , because " the inner strength of a group of free people is irresistible when they are prepared to act . " U. S. Sympatnetie By a Stall Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , April 15 ? An intensification of American sympathy for the European democracies , as well as of apprehension on the part of isolationists lest this sympathy lead the United States into the war , was noted here today . With the Allies once again bolstered by strong Presidential condemnation of German action , the consensus here is that the Allied move in coming quickly to the defence of Norway has won back for them any American sympathy which may have been lost through failure to ? halt the first rush of German invasion . At the same time outspoken isolationists have watched the upsurge of Allied sympathy with no little misgiving , fearing that the United States will become so emotionally committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did in the last war , when the average American 's desire to see Germany beaten will overcome his isolationist tendency . No ' Meddling ' Charge Isolationists point out that the President 's week-end Castigation of Germany , followed by today 's Pan-American speech , is apparently backed by a public unanimity unequalled since the wave of revulsion following Russia 's invasion of Finland . Although two days have passed since the week-end speech was made , it has not aroused the cries of " meddling in Europe " that greeted similar anti-German pronouncements Most observers here interpret the President 's moves as indicating no change in the Government 's policy of strict neutrality . It is recognized , nevertheless , that American foreign policy is made in major crises like the present , not in the White Hotte or State Department , but in the swing of public opinion in the country at large , and that officially reiterated condemnations of Germany can do much to mold this opinion While conceding that the President 's speech was directed primarily to the American nation . those in close touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a far larger audience , especially such important European neutrals as Italy and the Balkan countries . the Forthright labeling of Germany as an unjust aggressor could be viewed as designed to stiqen resistance to German economic , political and military demands in southern and southeastern Europe . Italy 's Course Watched The White House and State Department are known to be watching very carefully all reports from Italy as to her future course and , while neither are inclined to believe that Italy is on the verge of entering the war on Germany 's side , officials here are fully cognizant of the Italian sword of Damocles hanging over Great Britain and France . Therefore , the President is seen as having indirectly reminded Rome where American sympathies lie The text of the President 's statement follows : Force and military aggression are once more on the march against small nations , in this instance through the invasion of Denmark and Norway . These two nations have won and maintained during a period of many generations the respect and regard not only of the American people , but of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national and international conduct . The Government of the United States has on the occasion of recent invasions strongly expressed its disapprobation of such unlawful exercise of force . It here reiterates , with undiminished emphasis , its point of view as expressed on those occasions . If civilization is to survive , the rights of the smaller nations to independence , to their territorial integrity , and to the unimpeded opportunity for self-government must be respected by their more powerful neighbors . Berlin 's Comment BERLIN , April 15 OP ) ? Authorized German sources , commenting on President Roosevelt 's statement condemning the Nazi invasion of Denmark and Norway , declared today that " if Mr. Roosevelt is looking for an aggressor it is evident he addressed the wrong nation . " These quarters expressed the opinion that no country desired more than Germany to localize the war , adding it was in her military interest to have a short front .                     