@@710182

txt ? The Soviet Union believes that violators of a ban on atomic weapons should be punished , Andrei A. Gromyko told the Security Council today . The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister added , however , that the , Security Council should be the agency to take effective measures for atomic control and that should act within the framework ) of the United Nations Charter . Warren R. Austin , United States delegate to the Security Council , immediately hailed the " memorable statement " of the Soviet diplomat as one that in effect narrowed the problem from one of policy to one of law . There is no longer any difference over whether violators should be punished , he argued , but only over how the punishment should be imposed . The sole remaining question , Mr. Austin said , is whether the Soviet Union will collaborate with the rest of the Council and accept an effective system of international Control of atomic energy within the framework of the Charter but not depending solely on the Council for enforcement . Stand Unchanged , Russian Says Mr. Gromyko @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council had adjourned . He declared that the position of the Soviet Union had not changed . It has consistently stood for punishment , he said , but also for the view that the Security Council is the sole agency that can decide on violations and on effective measures to meet them . This statement bore out the opinion of persons familiar with developments within the Atomic Energy Commission . These observers said that while Mr. Gromyko had never before publicly discussed the question of the punishment of violators of an atomic ban , he had frequently aired before the Atomic Energy Commission the thesis he advanced today . In the course of his speech , which was in large measure a repetition of the arguments he had advanced before the Atomic Energy Commission on Dec. 30 , Mr. Gromyko hammered hard on two major points : That the use of atomic weapons should be prohibited immediately , instead of by the step-by-step procedure favored by the United States , and that the veto right should be retained in dealing with violators . Promises to Take Up Report He expressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the recommendations in the Atomic Energy Commission 's report , and he promised to present at the next meeting of the Security Council , which will be held at 3 P. M. Tuesday , the texts of appropriate amendments and counterproposals favored by his Government . It was apparent that the Soviet Union attached exceptional irni'lportance to Mr. Gromyko 's address . t ' , For one thing , the Soviet repreve read it slowly and careosentati rfifully in English , instead of speaking Russian , as is his practice . For Flanother , his aides had copies of tithe text available for the press ' When he started speaking , which Os almost without precedent for a ; Soviet statement . f. , Iost of the first half of Mr. G. : - , myko 's address was devoted to ( the imperativeness- of an internaFdtional convention to prohibit the use of atomic bombs and other 4weapons of mass destruction . This ' without waiting for the establishkment of a system of international tiinspection and control , the speaker urged . He said that the working Tout of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gromyko bluntly charged bend the continued production of I atomic bombs was being used as " a certain kind of lever for political , gpl.pressure on . some other nations . " He said that these atcapable of doing harm to the whole cause of peace and disarmament . Taking up the Atomic Energy Commission 's recommendations that the veto should not be permitted when the Security Council passed on alleged violations of the atomic control system , Mr. Gromyko said such a step would undermine the foundations of the United Nations . " The statements that the principle of unanimity , as such , may become an obstacle preventing the adoption of measures by the Council against the violators of the control are absolutely groundless , " Mr. Gromyko said . " They are obviously . calculated on the fact that there are still some naive . people capable of believing in such a kind of strange argumentation . " Mr. Austin , who followed Mr. Gromyko and was the only other speaker of the ' day , called the speech an " able address " that clearly showed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Energys Commission 's report . He repeated with evident pleasure Mr. Gromyko 's remarks about the necessity for punishing violators . " Mr. President , this- ia-a very significant statement and seems to former Senator from Vermont said . " It does not apparently raise any question of policy but raises only a question of law : that is , whether effective and enforceable safeguards against the use of atomic energy for destructive purposes can be established within the four corners of the United Nations Charter , and without depending solely on the Security Council for enforcement . " To me this seems a necessary conclusion from the very clear and emphatic statement by my distinguished friend from the Soviet Union . In other words , the question seems to be very brilliantly brought out and pointed up to be not a question of whether the other nations irr this Security Council will accept a convention which merely outlaws the bomb . That is not the question . " The question is really whether the Soviet Union will collaborate with the remainder of the Security Council by accepting an effective system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scope of enforcement by the Security Council . American Is Encouraged " The general tone of this able tempts would not bring the results narrow the field of questions at speech , I think , encourages us to believe that on the policy of enforcement we are agreed : namely , that there must be effective and enforceable safeguard against the use of atomic energy for destructive purposes . " Mr. Austin sought to answer Mr. Gromyko 's contention that the enactment of an international prohibition of the use of the bomb should not await the development of a system of international inspection and control by quoting at length from the report of the Atomic Energy Commission , which stated that outlawing the bomb without inspection and control would fail . Fernand van Langenhove of Belgium , President of the Council , announced that the delegate from Poland , Jerzy Michalowski , had promised to state that country 's position at the meeting on Tuesday . Poland and the Soviet Union were the only countries represented on the Atomic Energy Commission that , did not vote in favor of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             