@@707663

txt By a membership vote of nearly ten to one , the Progressive Edu- I cation Association , for the last ' twenty-five years the spearhead ; for the progressive movement in the American school field , has adopted a new program and changed its name to the American Education Fellowship , it was learned yesterday . At the same time , the association has dropped its monthly publication , Frontiers of Democracy , edited by Dr. Harold Rugg of Teachers College , and is now considering a substitute name for its official journal , the magazine Progressive Education . Later this month the board of directors of the fellowship will meet to decide on a substitute name for this publication , although it is known that some members wish to retain the present title . In a statement of policy sent to all members , the association outlined " a new program for new times . " The base of the organization has now been broadened , and parents , interested lay citizens and youths from 17 to 22 will be admitted to membership . Board to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will pay greater attention to the community and less to the child itself . The board of directors is to be reconstituted and at least four vacancies are to be filled at once by representative leaders of the community  --  such as a parent , business man , farmer and a member , of organized labor . ' The aim will be to build a board " as cross-sectional of American interests as possible , " but with teachers and other educators strongly represented . " Whereas the earlier period of progressive education was marked by strong concern for the interests and capacities of the individual child , and with group activities largely within the school itself , " the new program explained , " the period which we are now entering should be marked by a more intimate and fruitful relationship with parents , interested groups , adult education ? in short , with all aspects of the community which surround the child and curriculum , and which largely determine whether the schools are or are not to function as people 's schools . " Credited With Strong Influence Founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regional and national conferences , its publications and studies , has been in the forefront in trying to get " progressive " principles adopted in the classrooms of this country . Its journal has served as a sounding board for many ideas and deliberations in this area . The organization , in a sense , built its philosophy around the doctrines of John Dewey , its honorary president . Frequently attacked , the association has been credited with exerting a strong influence on American schools despite its rather small roll of active members . It has numbered around 10,000 , although since the war began the membership has dropped to 7,000 . Dr. Frank E. Baker , president of Milwaukee State Teachers College , was elected head of the organization on Feb. 25 . Dr. Vinal H. Tibbetts , formerly Superintendent of Schools at Manhasset , L. I. , was appointed director last September . Probably the greatest opposition has come from a group , organized several years ago , calling itself the " Essentialist Committee for the Advancement of American Education , " under the direction of Dr. William C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ School and Society . Dr. Bagley interpreted the change in name as a " surrender " by the progressive educators . Scores of letters have come into his office in recent - pua ; 2untann ' pres aq tuguoui ency on the part of the earlier progressives to change camps and come into the " essentialist ' ? field ? or , in other words , a return to traditional methods in education . Bagley Sees Surrender ' Beyond doubt the term ' progressive education ' has become unpopular , " Dr. Bagley said . " Yet I think it is unfortunate that the moment the wind begins to go against them they surrender . While there are many commendable tenets in the theory of progressive education , its net effect has been debilitating . The change will have a very significant effect in the field of American education . Whatever the motive , it can not help but be interpreted as surrender or retreat . It leaves no official spokesman for progressive education . " A different interpretation was made by Dr. William H. Kilpatrick , long associated with Dr. Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He felt that the change would not affect the progressive movement itself , but might have been necessary to help keep the organization alive . It had been losing members , and broadening the basis of membership might bring in more funds . " The progressive education movement must stand or fall on its own merits , " Dr. Kilpatrick said . " It 's going definitely ahead , there 's no question about that . We can hardly find a teachers college in the country that is not running its demonstration school on progressive education principles . " At its offices , 221 West Fiftyseventh Street , . it was explained that the new association would sponsor a seven-point program , with emphasis on greater service to the community . The objectives follow : ( 1 ) Establish local branches of the American Education Fellowship in every community in the country . ( 2 ) Establish a community service bureau to work with communities . It is intended to promote adult forums and discussion groups throughout America . ( 3 ) A greatly expanded publication service . Pamphlets , bulletins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field . ( 4 ) Progressive education will be somewhat revised along the lines of the whole program . An attempt will be made to emphasize both the good and , bad practices that have been going on in the communities . ( 5 ) Push vigorously for research in better educational practices in the schools . Schools will be found where the association can introduce experimental projects . ( 6 ) Enlarge the conference programs . Many small , local meetings will be sponsored . I ( 7 ) Open up the membership to young people of 17 to 22 years of age . Parents and interested lay citizens will be urged to join . Membership Drive Planned In this connection , a membership campaign is to begin , with an immediate goal of 15,000 . The association expects to finance its program through the added members and in addition it will seek foundation assistance for specific programs . " We are standing by the principles of progressive education , " Dr. Tibbetts declared . " While we are going to continue to support the gains made in progressive education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in bringing together the school and community . " Pointing out that the post-war world will " demand a revitalized , expanded and militant association , " the board of directors declare that the association must " assume the initiative in fighting for what is best in education . " It declares that often the term " progressive education " has become a " name-calling device to conceal an opposition which extends much deeper into the roots of our social crisis than might at first seem obvious . Moreover , the directors assert that the association intends to protect the constructive gains that have been made . This means , they hold , freeing the child from untenable " school-masterism " ; enriching the curriculum ; improved professional training , higher salaries and security for teachers , and cooperative planning of educational policy in every public school . Education must not only participate in community affairs , it must join with all types of citizens who wish to build " schools of the people , " the association declares . It must cope with commuity problems and help to determine what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new group pledges its support for a world order in which the United States will be an active member .                     