@@705030

txt Mr. Willkie 's speech on foreign policy at San Francisco is a reassuring one from every point of view . It indicates the soundness , candor and measured judgment of Mr. Willkie 's own views on foreign policy , and it means that there is ' no serious difference between the Democratic and Republican candidates at present concerning what the main outlines of our foreign policy should be . Mr. Willkie reiterates that " We must send , and we must keep sending , aid to Britain , our first line of defense , " and adds that we must aid her to the limit of prudence and effectiveness as determined by impartial experts in this field . In the Pacific , he maintains with clearness of insight that our best ends will be served by a free , strong and democratically progressive China , and that we should render China economic assistance 3 that end . With so much agreement between the two leading candidates , the country is spared any serious or embittered division regarding foreign policies at this critical period in world events . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain aspects of our foreign policy should not be dragged into the campaign , because of the imperative need that in these matters Americans show a united front to the world . He is thoroughly justified in rebuking Mr. Wallace for " using , the name of Adolf Hitler to get votes for the Democratic party . " He was very effective , also , in his reference to the torpedoing by the President of the World Economic Conference in 1933 . This episode of the World Economic Conference is particularly illuminating , because it points not merely to tut isolated mistake of judgment but to a disquieting defect in . Mr. Roosevelt 's temperament . If Mr. Roosevelt had merely said from the beginning that he regarded the proposed World Economic Conference as futile and its specific purposes as mistaken or even foolish , his attitude would have been wrong , but it would have been consistent and explicable . Instead , Mr. Roosevelt was one of the chief sponsors of the conference before it met . He helped to prepare its agenda . He held prior conferences with representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a joint statement issued with the Italian Minister of Finance he declared , for example : " We are in agreement that a fixed measure of exchange values must be re-established in the world and we believe that this measure must be gold . " He added that steps " must be taken to restore normal conditions in the financial and monetary field and stability in the international exchanges . " The American delegation that was sent to the conference was committed to the program that the President had outlined . But when the delegates of all the nations had met and began discussing this program , there came from the ? President , like a bombshell , a message from the cruiser on which he was ' spending a short vacation , repudiating virtually the whole effort of the conference to stabilize currencies and exchanges , and insisting instead , however strange it may seem now ( and though there was of course complete harmony between these and the stabilization policies ) ; on " reduced cost of government , " " balanced budgets " and governments " living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violent and unpredictable about-faces in Mr. Roosevelt 's policies , both foreign and domestic , that are one of the chief reasons for not - knowing how much faith can be placed in his policy at any given moment ..                     