@@710330

txt Federal District . Judge T. Alan Goldsborough today postponed for two weeks a decision on whether to refund to the AFL United Mine Workers 7:2,800,000 or the $3.500,000 fine he imposed on the union for contempt . In doing so , the Judge said , " I regret exceedingly that there has n't been good faith " on the part of the union and its President , John L. Lewis , in complying with a Supreme Court mandate . The Supreme Court had ordered the $2,800,000 refund , providing Mr. Lewis canceled a notice terminating the U. M. W. contract with the Government . Mr. Lewis has done that . Judge Goldsborough said he thought the matter of returning the $2,800,000 should be put off until . July 1 , the date on which the soft-coal mines will be back in private possession . Request Granted But he granted a Government request for the two-week delay with this comment : " This Court does n't see that good faith can be established in two weeks . U. M. W. lawyers had asked for the refund immediately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complied with Court orders . The Government , however , said it wanted time to determine whether there had been compliance in view of the current " safety shutdown " in some mines . Judge Goldsborough continued the case until April 24 , but commented that if on that date he orders the 52.800,000 returned to the union " the court does n't know what will happen April 25 . " Judge Goldsborough said Mr. Lewis , while " not actually in con tempt of court , " has made remarks which the Court has to take into consideration . The Judge added : " The United Mine Workers ' President ( he did not call John L. Lewis by name ) has spoken of the ' yellow-dog injunction ' issued by this court . " At another time he referred to the ' Krug yellow-dog injunction . ' Attitude Criticized " These remarks indicate . an utterly contemptuous ' attitude toward the Court orders and that he will go as far as he dare to disobey them . " Judge Goldsborough said the present stoppages in the coal fields threw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in letter and in spirit . " Referring to Mr. Lewis 's order closing the mines last week as a memorial to victims of the Centralia , Ill. , mine blast March 25 , Judge Goldsborough said : " The Court does n't question the sincere grief of the President of the mine union over what took place in the accident at Centralia , Ill , , of course . " But there is evidence that the situation has been taken advantage of . " Judge Goldsborough said when Mr. Lewis 's lawyers last appeared before him , on March 25 , there was no mention of the fact that the mines were considered unsafe . The $10,000 fine which Judge Goldsborough imposed on Mr. Lewis individually last December was paid in court today by certified check . The Government was represented in court by Assistant Attorney General John F. Sonnett and the union by Welly K. Hopkins . When Mr. Hopkins presented the check for Mr. Lewis ' fine , Mr. Sonnett looked it . over and remarked that , while the Government had no objection , it appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. W. To this , Judge Goldsborough laughed : " If I 've got a buddy who wants to pay my bill that 's all right , I guess . " Mr. Sonnet , in asking for the two-week postponement of the W. fine refunds , said he believes the Government can complete its investigation of the present condition of the coal industry by that time . He added that the Government is Clot satisfied that it knows of all the communications sent to the miners , either oral or written by the union 's headquarters . Right Reserved Mr. Sonnett also reserved the right to ask for another continuance on April 24 , if the investigation is not completed then . Judge Goldsborough , saying he thinks this is asituation of " utmost urgency " declared : " The defendants had better consider the advisability of having this matter to be put off until July 1 , "                     