@@705285

txt A bill to confer upon President Roosevelt practically unlimited personal power to place American war equipment , new and old , at the disposal of foreign nations in the interest of the defense of the United States was introduced in Congress today amid signs of a brewing legislative storm Presented as an Administration proposal by the majority leader in each house , and intended solely to implement the policy of " ail out " aid to the non-Axis powers now under attack , the bill carries one of the greatest grants of authority ever extended by Congress to the President , either in peace or war : As interpreted by authorities , inchiding some who helped frame the measure , the President would be empowered , under its terms , to transfer the whole or any part of the Navy or Army equipment to other countries and place new defense production at their disposal ? all upon such terms and under such conditions as he himself might determine . The sole limitation would be that the transfer of materials should be deemed by the President to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Speed Administration spokesmen scouted as " ridiculous " any suggestion that the President would use the bill 's powers to these possible limits . The whole purpose , they said , was to do the job of aid-to-the-Allies which the country seems to be demanding and " do it right . " The President himself urged the quickest possible action on the bill , saying at his press conference that speed was the most vital element in translating the Allied-aid policy into action . He had no personal desire to have the- vast powers conferred by the measure , he said , but they were needed to avoid delays . The Capitol appeared somewhat surprised by the nature and extent of the bill , although its terms had been discounted by advance publication . Administration leaders laid plans immediately for pushing it through Congress as rapidly as possible , with hearings to start next week before the Senate and House committees dealing with foreign affairs . They want to rush it through ahead of any possible reactions which might make more bitter the fight they expect . Stormy Debate Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time . Enough was seen today to indicate that the measure will have a stormy legislative course whatever the result . Signs of disapproval came not alone from the " noninterventionist " group which would have fought any Allied-aid proposal , but from some others who , although they were unwilling to speak out because of the peculiar nature of the subject and the times , were nonplused at the mag- nitude of executive authority proposed in the bill . Resistance to additional grants of executive powers has been mounting steadily over the last few years , but how much it has been softened under the urgency of the foreign situation with repeated underscorings by the President and other advocates of aid to the Allies is something yet to be seen . The bill was introduced by Senator Barkley in the Senate and Representative McCormack of Massachusetts in the House . No drama attended its presentation in either body . Shortly before introducing it the two leaders issued a joint statement explaining its terms . The major purpose was simply to translate into legislative form the policy of making this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , and to carry out President Roosevelt 's pledge to send to beleaguered democracies " in ever-increasing numbers , ships , planes , tanks , guns . " They explained the bill in. detail , which , briefly , provides the following : The President is empowered , " notwithstanding the provisions of any other law , " when he deems it . in the interest of national defense , to authorize the Secretary of War , the Secretary of the Navy , or the head of any other department or agency of the government , to manufacture in government arsenals , factories , shipyards , etc. , or otherwise procure any defense extide for the government of any country whose defense the President deems vital to the United States . He is authorized to order these officials to sell , transfer , exchange , lease , lend " or otherwise dispose of " such defense article to any such government . This means , Messrs . Barkley and McCormack explained , that the President can dispose of new material as well as equipment now in the hands of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he ( the President ) sees them . " A certificate from our Chief of Staff or the Chief of Naval Operations to the effect that transfers of materials would not impair American defense , would no longer be needed , these leaders said . The President would be authorized to instruct his defense subordinates to test , inspect , prove , repair , outfit , recondition or otherwise place in good working order any defense article for any such government . This could mean , for example , that the British battle cruiser Renown could be repaired in the Brooklyn Navy Yard if the President considered it to be in the interest of our national defense to do so . The provision is broad enough , Messrs . Barkley and McCormack said , to permit the use of any of our military , naval , or air bases to outfit and repair the weapons of countries whose defense is deemed by the President to be vital to the defense of the United States . Financing Terms Up to President The President would be authorized , moreover , to communicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article furnished by the United States . This means that the President , in his discretion , could make available to foreign governments designs , blueprints , and other information for using particular equipment . The transfer and use of the secret American bomb-sight was said to have figured in the discussions preceding the writing of this section . The bill leaves the matter of remuneration and financing strictly up to the President . Terms and conditions would be those the President deemed satisfactory and the benefits to the United States may be payment or repayment in kind or property or any other direct or " indirect " benefit the President elects . Senator George of Georgia , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said the bill would come be , fore that body next Wednesday when procedure as to its consideration would be decided . He disclosed that he had asked Senator Barkley to introduce the measure because it raised the question of jurisdiction , as three committees conceivably could have handled it . It was sent to Mr. George 's group , however . An inter-committee dispute sprang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee , headed by Representative Bloom of New York . Representative May of Kentucky , chairman of the Military Affairs Committee , insisted it should go there , and intimated he would seek to take it over . " Are you for the bill ? " Mr. May was asked . " Yes , sir and yes , ma'am , " he replied emphatically . Nonpartisan Drafting Cited The first adverse reaction came I from the Republican side immedii ately upon introduction of the bill . The complaint was not lodged against the merits of the bill necessarily , but on the ground that the Administration apparently was making it a party matter . Representative Martin of Massachusetts , minority leader , demanded to know if the measure was to be considered from a partisan standpoint . Majority Leader McCormack replied that Secretaries Stimson and Knox both participated in the drafting of the bill and that they were Republicans . The general impression in Washington tonight ' was that the bill would pass both Houses in substantially the ? form introduced , with perhaps a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based primarily upon an analysis of the practical political situation in Congress in which , to overturn the Administration , a coalition ordinarily has to develop out of a relatively solid Republican corps and dissident Democrats . The Republicans hitherto have been divided several ways on foreign issues and may be expected to be so again . Furthermore , in past antiNew Deal coalitions , much of the Democratic strength has been furnished from a conservative Southern bloc which , on the war issue , is intensely pro-Administration . Byrnes , Harrison Praise Bill The question likely will be fought out as much , if not more , on the issue of confidence in President Roosevelt as upon the merits or demerits of aid to the Allies . The Democratic stalwarts who rushed to the'defense of the bill today indicated that the Administration would not be lacking in skillful leadership . Senators Byrnes and Harrison , two of the most successful legislators in the Senate , each expressed wholehearted approver of the proposal and showed they would join Senator Barkley in helping to drive it through the Senate , where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the liberality of the rules governing debate .                     