@@706904

txt Japan staked her play for an understanding with the United States during the diplomatic negotiations in the months before Pearl Harbor primarily on the proposal which she advanced for a meeting on a warship in the Pacific of her Premier , Prince Fumimaro Ko-* noye , and President Roosevelt . It would have been on the pattern of the meeting of President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill when the Atlantic Charter was born . The plan failed because of the inability of the two governments to reach an understanding in advance on principles . Thereafter the situation deteriorated rapidly into war . These and other illuminating facts were revealed by the State Department today in the publication of its first White Book during the war . The pamphlet of 144 pages , entitled " Peace and War , United States Foreign Policy , 1931-1911 , " tells the story of American global diplomacy , with particular reference to Japan , Germany and Italy , from 1931 to 1941 . It was a decade , it is recalled . which " began and ended with acts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attack on Pearl Harbor . It was a period , the publication points out , that was marked " by the ruthless development of a determined policy of world domination " on the part of the three Axis partners . The publication , in narrative form , summarizes the factors as related to Axis aggression and the dangers flowing from them , together with actions taken by the United States as a result . It is a preliminary digest which serves as an introduction to a collection of diplomatic documents covering the period under review , which will be published soon in separate volumes . The purpose of the White Paper is to inform the American people of the policies which were followed during the critical period , so that they may be better able to understand the war and exert intelligently the force of public opinion on the peace to follow . Nothing comparable to-it has been previously published by the American Government in this war , or during the last war . In a statement issued at the same time Secretary Hull called on the United Nations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " There will be confident hope for the future , " he wrote , " provided our people and other peoples hold fast to the eternal principles of law , justice , fair dealing and morality , which we have constantly proclaimed and sought to apply . " He says that the record shows how the United States sought to promote conditions of peace and meet " the world-wide dangers resulting from Japanese , German and Italian aggression . " This govermnent , he declares , consistently stood for principles which would have meant security , confidence , and progress for all nations and accomplished much in the face of immense difficulties . " It is for the establishmenf of those principles , " he says , " that we and our associates are fighting today . " Some New Details on Japan lArhile much space in the White Paper is devoted to Germany and Italy , the record concerning them has been more ' or less completely revealed previously . In the ease of Japan several details are divulged which have heretofore been known only in a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of Prince Konoye and President Roosevelt was pressed vigorously by Japan . It was first made on Aug. 28. 1941 , after Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura , Japanese Ambassador , had been conducting his exploratory conversations for several months . The reaction here was one of caution and skepticism . It was feared that if the meeting were held and ended in failure , the effect would be disastrous . There was also doubt of the good faith of the dominating military cliques in Japan . For these reasons President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull insisted upon a continuation of conversations in an effort to reach agreements in principle , preparatory to a meeting at sea . These conversations got nowhere . The United States maintained her fundamental position and the Japanese , even when seeming to agree on some details , qualified their views ambiguously , the report says . Yet Japan continually urged as of the utmost necessity the meeting of the Premier and the President , in order , she argued , to reach a broad pacific understanding . At one time Japan had a warship ready and heads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Konoye . Even after it was apparent that the proposal would not be adopted , her spokesmen continued for weeks to urge the meeting . Kurusu Brings Nothing New It was after the collapse of the project that Saburo Kurusu was sent to collaborate with Admiral Nomura in the conversations but he brought nothing new to the discussions as a contribution from his government . Then it was that Secretary Hull began to issue his warnings to the Cabinet and the heads of the Army and Navy to be on their guard against a surprise attack by Japan . Pearl Harbor followed .. The record also shows how the United States constantly sought to prevail upon Japan to drop out of the Tripartite Pact . This went on virtually from the moment Japan entered the pact and was urged repeatedly during the final diplomatic conversations here . It was pointed out to Japan that her best interests lay in aligning herself with the United States , Great Britain and the other peaceful nations , and against Germany . When , near the very end , it was reluctantly decided that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became more perfunctory , more one of repeating her own basic attitude . Obviously , the Nomura conversations were a failure . It was then that Secretary Hull issued his warnings against a sudden attack . Indo-China Under Discussion Previously various suggestions1 had been made for accommodations which , it was thought , would ease the strain . One of the most interesting was a proposal made by President Roosevelt in July , 1 1941 , to Admiral Nomura for the 1 neutralization of French IndoChina , under the administration of French local officials . He coupled with the proposal a friendly warning to Japan . According to the record , the President said : " It was believed in the United States that such policies as Japan were pursuing were due to German pressure upon Japan ; that the Japanese government did not understand as clearly as we that Hitler was bent upon world domination ; that if Germany succeeded in defeating Russia and dominating Europe and Africa , Germany thereafter would turn her attention to the Far East and to the Western Hemisphere ; and that it was entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States would be cooperating against Hitler as a common enemy . " - This fell on deaf ears and Japan made a counter-proposal to the plan for neutralizing French IndoChina which was tantamount to rejection . Even then she was moving into that area with her troops . Subsequently Kurusu declared that Japan would not be " a cat 's paw " for Germany but she would not abrogate the Tripartite Pact , although she might do something to " outshine " it . Hull 's Warning of Cabinet Secretary Hull first warned the I Cabinet on Nov. 7 of " the imminent possibility " of a Japanese attack . He again emphasized the critical situation at meetings of " high officials " on Nov. 25 and on Nov. 28 . The next day Mr. Hull informed Viscount Halifax , British Ambassador , that " the diplomatic part of our relations with Japan was virtually over and that the matter will now go to the officials of the Army and Navy . " He warned that Japan might move suddenly and " with every possible element of surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and posts " before the peaceful countries of the Pacific were prepared to resist . Mr. Hull was supported by many warnings from Joseph C. Grew , United States Ambassador in Tokyo . As early as Jan. 27 , 1941 , the White Paper says , he reported that " one of his diplomatic colleagues had told a member of the embassy staff that there were reports from many sources , including a Japanese source , that Japanese military forces planned a surprise mass attack at Pearl Harbor in case of ' trouble ' with the United States . " Years before , as early as 1934 , he had warned in reporting on the dreams of empire of the Japanese Army and Navy that we would be " reprehensibly somnolent " if we were to trust to the security of treaty restraints or international comity to safeguard our own interests . Ambitions of Japan Noted In such reports as these in the early years of the decade under review , the record emphasizes that American diplomats were aware of the world-dominating ambitions of the Japanese military even though the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of Nazi Germany . Again , as the Nomura conversations were nearing their tragic end , Ambassador Grew , on Nov. 3 , 1941 , warned that war might be " inevitable " and that economic sanctions would not avert it . Finally , on Nov. 17 , he urged vigilance , saying it was probable that the Japanese would make use of every possible tactical advantage , including surprise and initiative . In the circumstances , Secretary Hull was sometimes blunt in his conversations with Admiral Noruu . He was blunter but no more guru . He was blunter but no more direct than President Roosevelt . At one time he said that he had heard " only bluster and bloodcurdling threats " from Japan 's military leaders . He said frankly that tin United States was not trying to bluff , that he saw no occasion for Japan 's trying to bluff , and that " there is a limit beyond which we can not go . " Although the White Paper deals with a decade , nearly two-thirds of it is devoted to the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1938 . It is about equally devoted to Germany , Italy and Japan . Diplomatic " Crises " Recounted It describes not only many diplomaticcrises as the world plunged into war , but that disarmament and other international conferences of the period , the fortunes of the neutrality legislation , the defense measuers taken by the United States as the danger deepened , and by implication argues that the Roosevelt Administration as its policy developed carefully followed American public opinion . Several pages are devoted to American policy during the Spanish , Civil War and considerable space is devoted , along familiar lines , to the fall of France and its aftermath . Extracts are given from public addresses and statements of President Roosevelt , Secretary Hull ; Under-Secretary of State Sumner ' Welles and others . These stand revealed as based in part on confidential reports from American envoys abroad . The record shows how such observers as George S. Messersmith , when he was Consul General in Berlin in the early years of the decade , and others , gave ample warning of the militaristic designs of Adolf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Hull in conversation with Hans Luther , German Ambassador , late in 1933 , said , " the outlook in Europe at this distance for disarmament or peace " did not appear very encouraging ; that " a general war during the next two to ten years seemed more probable than peace . " Two years later , Saburo Kurusu , in conversation with a member of the United States Embassy staff in Tokyo , stated that Japan was destined to be the leader of Oriental civilization and would in course of time be the " boss " of a group comprising " China , India ; the Netherlands East Indies , etc . " Hull 's Summation of Aims Three years later Secretary Hull remarked in a diplomatic conversation that since August , 1937 , he had proceeded on the theory that " Japan definitely contemplates securing domination over as many hundreds of millions of people as possible in Eastern Asia and gradually , extending her control through the Pacific islands to the Dutch East Indies and elsewhere , thereby dominating in practical effect that one-half of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , along with many vital aspects of the European war , that Mr. Hull , in conversation with the Marquess of Lothian , the British Ambassador , in September , 1940 , emphasized that the special desire of the American Government was to see Great Britain succeed in the war and that its acts and utterances with respect to the Pacific area would be more or less affected by the question what course would most effectively and legitimately aid Great Britain in winning the war . A few days earlier , in conversation with Gaston Henry Haye , French Ambassador , Mr. Hull declared that for several years the United States had pursued the fixed policy of basing all utterances and action on this assumption : " Hitler was out to become the ruthless and utterly destructive conqueror of Europe , and the Japanese military clique was bent on the same course in the Pacific area from Hawaii to Siam . " Instructions Sent in 1941 By March , 1941 , on enactment of lend-lease legislation , Secretary Hull had gone farther . Instructions were sent to American diplomatic missions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces of aggression would be defeated , that the United States intended to play her part in resistance against those forces and that the American Government had the absolute determination to " see this thing through . " Naturally the Tripartite Pact was anathema here . It had been preceded by Japan 's associating herself with the Anti-Comintern Pact , and with Germany in a secret military agreement . The Tripartite Pact of 1940 was regarded as obviously aimed in some of its provisions directly at the United States . Hence the long effort here , up to the eve of Pearl Harbor , to induce Japan to abrogate it . Similar efforts had been made to wean Russia away from Germany . This was unsuccessful , although early in 1941 Mr. Welles gave to Constantine A. Oumansky , Soviet Ambassador , reports which had been received of an impending German attack on Russia . Subsequently , in March , 1941 , additional information to the same effect was given to the Ambassador . The White Paper contains many references to President Roosevelt 's personal appeals to Premier Benito Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeals were made in the Spring of 1941 . Mussolini was cool to them all . At times he would not receive William Phillips , United States Ambassador , for the purpose of delivering them but required him to cc:insult with ' the Foreign Minister , Count Ciano . Exchanges With Italy Ended Finally , Premier Mussolini brought the exchanges to an end on June 1 , through the Foreign Minister . " Mussolini confirmed the Foreign Minister 's statement ( made a few days earlier ) that the . decision to enter the war had already been taken , " the White Paper records . " He said ii was ' of no concern to him ' that the entry of Italy into the war would mean the redoubling of American efforts to help the Allies . Finally , he said he preferred not to receive any ' further pressure ' from the President ; this would only Wien his attitude . ' " On June 10 President Roosevelt made his " stab in the back " speech at Charlottesville , Va . Incidentally , Breckinridge Long when Ambassador to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Italy would attack Ethiopia . Her preparations to that end were unmistakable to him . His first warning was given on Sept. 28 , 1934 . A year later , on Sent . 10 , 1935 , he reported that there remained no vestige of doubt ' that Italy was irrevocably determined to proceed in Africa . Italy struck Ethiopia on Oct. 3 , 1935.                     