@@709131

txt We trust that the new Anglo-American agreement which was announced simultaneously in Washington and London yesterday will have the prompt and whole-hearted approval of Congress . The need for an American loan to Britain at this time has been demonstrated clearly . The agreement itself is the product of long and careful study on both sides . The terms are fair . They are accompanied by far-reaching proposals for the lifting of barriers to trade . The advantages to be gained by prompt ratification of the proposal are mutual . Riding high above all financial and economic considerations , there is the overwhelming importance of maintaining in these critical and uncertain times the closest possible ties of friendship and cooperation between the English-speaking peoples  --  between a strong United States and a strengthened Britain . The need for the loan itself arises from the special position of the British people . Alone among all nations of the world , Britain fought against Germany and Japan from the day the great war started to the day the last shot was fired . In that long-sustained and ex : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export trade and the great bulk of their foreign assets  --  such as British holdings of American securities  --  under the immense pressure of obtaining funds with which to purchase the weapons of self-defense until Lend-Lease came to their assistance . The result is that Britain finds herself today severely and even dangerously handicapped by a shortage of foreign currencies ( principally dollars ) which are needed not for the purpose of carrying on social experiments and Labor reforms at home  --  for that purpose the British Government could use British pounds  --  but for the purpose of re-establishing Britain 's position as a great purchaser of American and other foreign goods and a strong and healthy influence in the economics of the postwar world . Surely , judged by every possible standard , it is to our own definite advantage and self-interest to have her recover that position . The loan agreement contemplates the extension of a " line of credit " to the United Kingdom amounting to $3,750 , - 000,000 , which may be drawn upon at any time between the effective date of the pact and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin in 1951 and would be paid at the annual rate of 2 per cent , which seems eminently fair from the American point of view , considering that it now costs our Government less than that , on the whole average for the national debt , to borrow money from the American public . Provision is made for a waiver of interest payment in any year in which the British Government finds itself in difficulty in the matter of obtaining the necessary foreign exchange : a wise and proper precaution , in view of the fact that the whole purpose of the agreement is to solve , and not to complicate , the foreign-exchange problem . Satisfactory provisions are included regarding " sterling-area " exchange arrangements and the relaxation of British exchange controls . At the same time a final settlement is made of the whole Lend-Lease account , which was never a commercial venture on the part of the United States but rather a sound investment , already richly rewarded , in safeguarding the freedom and independence of the American people . Finally , announcement of the loan agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American and British Governments to seek a great and necessary expansion of world trade , through the holding of a general international conference next summer , to consider the removal of many existing barriers to such trade and through the establishment of an international trade agency as part of the permanent structure of the United Nations Organization . An agreement so broad in its scope as this , so soundly conceived and so beneficial in its purposesfdeserves the support of the American people and of their representatives in Congress . The terms of the loan do not necessarily constitute a precedent to be followed in the case of other post-war American loans . They deal with a special problem posed by the special experience of the British people . But they promise to solve that problem on a realistic and honorable basis , and , in so doing , to lay the cornerstone for post-war reconstruction . , We hope that Congress ratifies the agreement by an overwhelming vote , both as a contribution to world recovery and as an unmistakable notice that the close and confident cooperation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great war continues in the days of peace .                     