@@709530

txt Foreign Secretary Ernest Sevin has offered Russia an olive branch , but on British terms . With a sincerity which can not be questioned , proceeding from a week of calm reflection while on holiday , he eloquently pleaded for a peace of " live and let live " between the great systems of the West and East , based on the United Nations . But this was possible only if Russia refrained from imposing its " exclusive attitude " beyond its own frontiers . If this seems like a paradox , the answer is that it is a paradox . Appeal to Commons After thinking the situation over carefully , Mr. Bevin is extremely anxious to arrest a trend toward an open break between Russia and the West . But on the eve of the renewed Paris conference , at a crisis of bargaining over the postwar settlement , this is not the time to hack down from Great Britain 's stated treaty demands . - Therefore , one portion of his long address to the House of Commons was an appeal for " patience , toleration. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperate but entirely firm review of various detailed treaty issues in which he declined to recede from Britain 's announced position in every important case and laid the blame for failure to agree squarely on Russia . Two points best illustrate his desire to be conciliatory : He did not use threats . He deliberately refrained from indorsing the Byrnes proposal to dump the treaty making on the lap of the United Nations if the four-power conference idea fails . He is very dubious about this proposal anyway . 2 . He was comparatively moderate in rebutting Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov 's charge that Britain was trying to extend its " practically monopolistic position " in the eastern Mediterranean . Such a charge touches a very sensitive spot here and normally would strike fire in reply . Constructive Proposals The world at large probably will pay less attention to the constructive portion of the speech , in view of Mr. Bevin 's detailed indictment of Russia 's bargaining tactics on various issues . One might assume that these were the inevitable polite phrases , designed in the best British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To draw this conclusion would be to underestimate Mr. Bevin . Mr. Bevin is aware that all the brave plans of himself and his party for the social reconstruction of Britain and Europe might well be engulfed by the aftermath of an open break between Russia and the West . He does not relish the sudden hardness of the United States point of view because Britain has no unlimited national strength to fall back upon and does not wish to become a satellite of the proudly capitalist United States . Freedom  --  Not Force Therefore he said again and again that he was not pessimistic , that he would try again , that nothing was insurmountable provided every one tried . The House seemed to sense that this was not just verbiage , but showed a man wrestling with adversity , unwilling to give in , and it listened with respect . At the same time the Foreign Secretary showed that he , felt himself confronted by a highly frustrating practical situation which also involved his convictions as a socialist . ' To him , freedom was not something which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing freedom on the eastern European states . He implied , therefore , that he could not accept the Soviet argument that the West should refrain from " imposing its will " within the Soviet sphere of influence by insisting on free economic and political systems and free trade on the great rivers . To him , these are a natural way of life and only communism seeks to impose itself by force . Therefore , he has nothing to withdraw and feels justified in insisting that the Russians should be the ones to withdraw . East Europe Issues Thus he offered no specific retreat on particular eastern European issues which Russia would call a compromise in this regard . He continued to require free ac. , cess by the British and all other ships , traders , journalists , and diplomats to this area . Several times he seemed to be pleading with Russia to listen to what he called " common sense . " He invoked former Soviet Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinov 's phrase about an indivisible peace , as much as to say that Communist Russia , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to the Byrnes 25-year-pact proposal , he eloquently packed into a few spontaneous sentences what he strongly feels about the need for both Russia and the United States to hold together against the great tendency to fly apart . Plea to Russia " I believe that if the Soviet Union again studies the draft of the treaty , and realizes what . a protection for a peace indivisible this means , they will come round and not miss this great opportunity . In fact , I state to the Soviet Government : ' If you value peace above all else , do not miss it . Do not miss it . It may never come again . " Later he said , also speaking of this treaty , " If I can make one great appeal to the United States , it is this : ' Do not be daunted by a first refusal , due in my view to unjustified suspicion ' " In sum , the speech has to be regarded in two lights . It is a prepared statement of Britain 's position on specific issues and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement in which Mr. Bevin shows his great concern at the trend of events and is bracing himself for the task of preventing a breakdown . His greatest efforts in this direction may not be exerted at Paris and may come afterward . They may or may not bridge the gulf between militant socialism and communism . But he intends . to try . Attlee Flays Soviet LONDON , June 5 ( sP )  - -  Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee charged in the House of Commons today that Russia had disregarded the spirit in which the Allies entered into the Potsdam agreement . He spoke in a foreign affairs debate shortly after Mr. Winston Churchill , wartime Prime Minister and now Opposition leader , declared that " the seeds of a new world war are being sown " in the Soviet-dominated areas of eastern Europe . Mr. Attlee said Russia had insisted on imparting to the Potsdam agreement a rigid and literal interpretation denying all flexibility to meet the changing situation . " I think , " said Mr. Attlee , " that they disregard the spirit in which we entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attlee said one of Great Britain 's greatest difficulties was " to try to get into the minds of our Russian friends some real understanding of the way we work things in western democracies . " " We have to look upon the Russian people , to some extent , as if they had been born in a dark forest ; they do not seem to understand the sunlight , the wind , and the air of the free democracies ; " he said . Mr. Attlee defended Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin in his policies , saying : " The Foreign Secretary Is showing the thing that is needed most of all at the present time  --  patience and understanding . " I do not believe that we should judge the present state of the world wholly pessimistically . I believe , in the overcoming of our difficulties , no one will play a greater part than Mr. Bevin . " Mental Iron Curtain Mr. Attlee said continued misunderstanding between Russia and the western powers " is really the iron curtain ? it is a curtain between minds . " Referring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded any Anglo-American agreement as sinister in motive , Mr. Attlee observed : " I entirely agree that friendship with neighbors is not ' ganging up ' but I also have this to say : We do n't want in any way to get exclusive friendship with the western powers . We are out to get an all-inclusive friendship . " Touching on Spain , Mr. Attlee commented that Britain must take action " best calculated to make the Spanish get rid of their present Government and get a decent government in its place . " But he added : " Because you get rid of one government , it does not necessarily follow that you get a better one . " He said Germany should be treated as an economic whole . As to western Europe , Britain believes in closest co-operation with all countries , " and above all , France . "                     