@@704751

txt This is the story of how the Netherlands fell into Hitler 's hands in five and a half days . The Tribune correspondent was there and saw it happen . The German blitzkrieg is not a joke . Holland was not caught off guard . She was expecting the attack when it came and had time to prepare for it . She was confident and unafraid . She fought with everything she had and courageously . Yet after 132 hours of war she capitulated and when I left Holland last night life there was practically normal . Confidence ' Unjustified . It is now quite clear that Dutch confidence was unjustified . , The story of how Holland was con , quered so quickly , however , is as much a study of psychology as military operations . The impact of the one upon the other was decisive . - I believe the military and naval ? Icommander in chief of Holland surrendered to the Germans because he felt he had been first deserted by his allies  --  that is the British , - and then the- queen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gen. Henri Gerard Winkelman , to stomach . I talked to him on Thursday , May 9 , at midnight . He told me that lie expected war in the morning . Phone Lines Cut Off . He was in The Hague and I was in Amsterdam . I have n't been able to see him since . Telephone communications wet-6 cut off after the first attack , which signaled the beginning of the war on the Netherlands at 3:15 a. m . Friday morning , May 10 . . The Germans immediately attacked every airport in Holland . They d r o pp e d bombs . They opened up with machine guns . There was no doubt that these attacks were responsible for crippling the Dutch air force to the extent that a few hours later bombers flew leisurely over Amsterdam without any more resistance than that furnished . by antiaircraft fire . ' I have still to see a plane brought down by antiaircraft and certainly in the Amsterdam- environs bursting shells were not even close . Sees . Airport Destroyed . From the roof of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German bombers about two hours after the war had started . Many Dutch flyers poised to engage bombers were destroyed on the ground before being able to take off . This was repeated on numerous other Dutch airfields . In fact , it was admitted that on the first day the Germans had control of every important airport . However , military developments were uncertain altho I knew from the flame and smoke coming out of the Schiphol airport and the bomb explosions I heard there and easily saw from the roof of the hotel that the airport had been destroyed and airplanes ready to take off had probably been destroyed and if not destroyed had been rendered useless . Communique Optimistic . The first official communique was optimistic . The Dutch had not even been caught unawares and the enemy had been held on every important front . German aviation had suffered tremendous losses . It looks foolish now , but it might be remembered that the Dutch communique reported more than 100 German airplanes shot down the first day . Then , too , there was the political front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the enemy , but had made new advances into enemy territory . For instance , Queen Wilhelmina announced that under no circumstances would the government surrender or even " negotiate " with the enemy . Wilhelmina even went further . She would never step off : Dutch soil as long as an inch of free territory remained in the Netherlands . Told to Identify Voices . Ten the official radio urged . the listeners to acquaint themselves with three official announcers . The Germans might broadcast false news on this wave length . Listeners were warned that any declaration that Holland had capitulated or even surrendered one city must be regarded prima facie as enemy propaganda . Disquieting news had trickled into Amsterdam . There was fighting in The Hague and half of Rotterdam was in the hands of the Germans . The police confessed to the Tribune correspondent that It was impossible for them ' to talk to The Hague . This Indicated that the German parachute troops had cut wires . Myriads of Parachutists . Parachute troops began falling all over Holland and , altho . official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed or captured , they appeared on the third day on the outskirts of Amsterdam and so effectively terrorized defense operations that certain Dutch experts threw up their hands in , horror and declared this was the secret weapon of Hitler . However , there was still no belief that Holland was ready to capitulate until it was announced officially that the queen and the government had fled to England . The . original announcement did not mention that they had left Holland but this was already known because of a previous British broadcast announcing their arrival in England . The Tribune correspondent heard the original announcement that the queen had left over I he public radio to which at least 50 Dutch people also listened . For four days we had ' heart ! sirens screech and seen bombs drop but had not seen a single tear . Faces were grim and determined , ; but neither frightened nor whining . Tears Begin to Fall , But when the announcement came over that the queen had left the country two women broke Into sobs while three others followed by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grief . If I have ever seen unanimous action from one incident , I saw it then . It was bitterness . " She has deserted us , " one woman cried . " Why , I thought she would stay by us . This is the end . " And three minutes later , as I went to my room , the maid expressed it clearer than any one else : " And I have four brothers fighting on the front and yet she leaves . They will try to conceal IL from my brothers but I know II they know what I know they would n't fight one minute longer . " The next morning smoke issued from the Shell oil plant across Mel canal back of the railroad station . A few minutes later the great gasoline storage base . was on fire . More than $50,000,000 worth of petroleum was being Purposely destroyed so It would not fall into the hands of the enemy . For two days it burned and the flames sometimes shot 1,000 feet high . Who set fire to those oil reserves was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's surrender . If the Dutch thought they could defend Amsterdam they never would have done that . But then another report started around . British Broadcasting company reports emphasized the presence in Holland of British engineers who had been , cry skillful in demolition work . They were reported in all sections aiding in the destruction of oil and supplies which would be of value to the enemy . Psychological Blow . This was the big psychological blow to all idea of defense , from the general staff down to the soldiers under the shelling and bombing . The moment it was discovered that the British were not there to fight for Holland but to see that as much of Holland . as was valuable to the enemy , was destroyed , the defense crumpled like a paper cup . They were bitter ,  - -  bitter against the queen and bitter against the British . The German hand is very thoro . That Is , there is almost no sign of the Germans . The troops have gone thru . The stores are open . The schools are Open . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occupying forces . A Hollander can not insult a German soldier . Holland is practically back to normal . Five and one-half days after the blitzkrieg started it was finished in Holland . When the queen and government lied the cows- ' try  --  and when the British did not ' come to light at their side ? the Dutch soldiers lost their hearts and their determination and their coun- ' try . Turkish Army Commander Confers with Allies ' Chiefs ANKARA , May 19 ( 41 . ? Marshal Fejzi Tchakmak , commander in chief of 1.116 Turkish army , left last night for Beirut to confer with lenders of the allies ' military forces In the near east , Marshal Tehaltmalc was accommmled by high-ranking officers of the Turkish general staff .                     