@@709407

txt The Government launched two new attacks on the meat " black market " today . 1 . The Office of Price Administration announced it will restore another wartime slaughter control ? a quota system to get a better distiibution of supplies ; 2 . The Federal Bureau of Investigation was ordered to look into reported false claims for Government subsidies by many packers buying at " black market " prices contrary to subsidy regulations . OPA and the Department of Agriculture , in a joint statement , said a slaughter quota system will be put into effect to provide " bet ter distribution of the country 's present meat supply through established channels and at ceiling prices . " OPA said the program will reduce operations " of cftainslaughterers who have increased their slaughter greatly du4ing recent months . " This , the agency added , will make it possible for established packers to obtain more livestock , and thereby increase their pro duction to more nearly normal levels . " The announcement followed a ' Justice Department disclosure that the FBI has been directed to investigate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " black market " prices , " thus making it impossible for other packers to secure cattle ' lawfully . " At the same time , the Senate Agricultural Committee was told by an official of one of the " Big Four " packers that his company can not buy enough cattle within OPA price ranges and that the situation can not be corrected by price control . The witness , R. H. Haynie , Vice-President of Wilson &; Company , said " if nothing is done to correct it , the position of all legitimate slaughterers will be completely destroyed . " The Committee was told by Mr. Haynie that plants of his firm with slaughter capacity of 31,000 cattle a week killed only 2,823 last we7k . It will sell New York and Brooklyn customers next week only 2 per cent of what beef they bought . the same week five years ago , he 4eclared . Better Distribution Stating that the quota system will not reduce the total amount of livestock slaughtered , OPA added : " Its sole purpose is to direct and divide livestock more equitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and legitimate channels . " The program will cover all commercial slaughter of cattle , calves , and hogs . No effective date was set , but OPA said " appro priate operating orders will be announced within the next few days . " The impending order will be the OPA 's third in the past few weeks designed to curb " black market " meat sales . Previous regulations restored wartime controls on so-called custom slaughtering and provided for reduction of subsidies in cases where packers violate ceiling prices . The new program will restore a livestock channeling system which was withdrawn last September . OPA said it will provide " each legitimate slaughterer with an opportunity to slaughter the same proportibn of the available supply of cattle , calves , and hogs as he slaughtered in 1944 . " Porter Backs Controls Commenting on the new program , Price Administrator Paul A. Porter said : ' The answer to equitable distribution of meat supplies is not the abandonment of price control , as suggested by some . We are not going to ask the American people to pay tribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in a system of controls at the source of supply which will give established slaughterers more nearly their customary volume of livestock and provide for better distribution of meat supplies at ceiling prices to retail stores . " Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P. Anderson termed the quota plan " in reality a share-thelivestock program . " He stressed that no restrictions will be placed on total production of meat , but the purpose will be " to get meat operations back into normal channels . " Mr. Anderson said some packers have had difficulty getting normal supplies of livestock at ceiling prices . 