@@705581

txt CHECK-UP OF ALIENS TO GO ON ; 200 HEED But Care Will Be Taken to Protect Those Legally Here ? 123 at Ellis Island With 200 aliens in custody as a result of the round-ups staged late Saturday night and early yesterday morning in important cities on the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts by immigration authorities , aided by local police forces , spokesmen for the Immigration Service said definitely yesterday that the check-up on individuals who , were here illegally would continue . There were 123 men , largely German or Italian nationals , but with scatterings of representatives of many other nationalities , held on Ellis Island yesterday as the result of the latest series of arrests in New York City and its environs . Twenty-eight arrests were reported from Florida , fifteen in San Francisco and Oakland , fourteen in Camden , N. J. , while in other cities immigration officials declined to disclose the totals . Another arrest was added to the total . last night when detectives of the Elizabeth Street Precinct locked up at Police Headquarters Ludovico De Vivo of 135 Chrystie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1925 and had worked here as a painter ever since . They said his arrest was the only one made after questioning a large number of suspects . Jackson Tells of Need for Care Attorney General Robert H. Jackson , speaking from Washington over a national radio hook-up , declared that " what has happened abroad teaches us to scrutinize with care ' tourists ' and recent arrivals of uncertain antecedents . " He said a " substantial " number of aliens had been arrested recently , most of whom had been either " visitors of uncertain purpose , who have overstayed permits , or seamen . " " Such action is not a forerunner of a general round-up of aliens , " Mr. Jackson continued . " On the contrary , it has been our established policy to act vigorously against those who are in violation of the law , the better to protect those who remain loyal and who are here lawfully . " The care taken to avoid arresting any aliens who were here legally was stressed in New York by William M. Marshall , assistant director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the government men to eliminate from the groups that were questioned all aliens whose papers were in proper order . 500 Raiders Act Here Two hundred and fifty immigration inspectors and border patrolmen and an equal number of New York City detectives took part in the questioning here . They went out in small groups to various bar rooms and other centers frequented by aliens , equipped with lists of names of suspects . If the suspects , on questioning , were unable to satisfy the immigration men of their right to be in this country they were arrested on " John Doe " warrants . In all , ninety-two men were seized in the course of the night in New York City , including twenty-six in Brooklyn , six in Queens , four . in Staten Island , and the rest in Manhattan and the Bronx . These represented only a small part of the total questioned during the night , it was said . Most of those questioned were released after they presented data that satisfied the immiigration men . Thirty-one men were arrested in waterfront hangouts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raiding group of twenty-five immigration inspectors , assisted by twenty Hoboken policemen and a detachment from the Union City Police Department . Of those taken into custody in Northern New Jersey twenty were Germans , five Dutch , three Belgian and three Yugoslays . They were taken in a chartered bus to the Barge Office , where with the ninety-two men seized in New York City , they were transferred on Coast Guard vessels to Ellis Island . It was noted that the authorities did not take the elaborate precautions to guard these prisoners that were in evidence at the time of the round-up of Nazi seamen here ten days ago . Fifty of the immigration inspectors who took part in the round-up returned to the Barge Office at 10 A. M. yesterday after they had snatched a few hours of sleep . At that time Mr. Marshall disclosed that the check on aliens would continue . It was explained by another of the immigration men , however , that arrests would be made only on the basis of definite information that a suspect was here illegally . Just before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as he knew no more arrests had been made here yesterday . He said there were still a few immigration officials at work in the office , checking on the backgrounds of the men arrested Saturday night . Deportation Hearings Due Deportation hearings against the arrested men probably will begin today , Mr. Marshall said and he predicted that because of the care with which the advance lists had been made up and the thoroughness of the questioning of suspects Saturday night , only one or two of the men seized here would be able to evade deportation orders . When he was asked about the activities of the immigration inspectors who had set out from the Barge Office during the day , Mr. Marshall said that " perhaps " some of them were on active assignments , but declined to be more specific . There was no indication last night , however , of preparations for receiving another group of aliens at the Barge Office in the immediate future . One of the men arrested here was John Heyen , 30 years old , a counterman in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1928 . His brother-in-law , Mounted Patrolman Albert De Beauchamp , a World War veteran who fought with the 105th Field Artillery in France , went to the Barge Office with Heyen 's wife , Katherine , and their 5-year-old boy , Gerard , yesterday , but was not permitted to see Heyen . He said Heyen had been eager to become an American citizen , but had been deterred by the fact of his illegal entry into this country . Besides Germans and Italians , the men arrested here included Greeks , Swedes , Portuguese , Spaniards , Turks , and at least one Englishman . Department of Justice officials said in Washington that the search was being concentrated in the larger seacoast cities , principally New York , Boston , Baltimore , New Orleans , Miami , Seattle , San Francisco , Los Angeles and Portland .                     