@@704951

txt With the explanation that he was responding to a series of complaints of major and minor law violations in and about night clubs and cabarets , Police Commissioner Valentine yesterday laid down drastic new regulations to cover such establishments . One of the new rules requires that virtually everybody connected with night clubs ? in a business way  --  must be fingerprinted . If the regulations are strictly enforced , the police headquarters files will contain fingerprints of such familiars of cafe society as Sherman Billingsley of the Stork Club , Felix Ferry of the Cafe Pierre and Monte Carlo , and John Perona of El Morocco , now summering in Westchester . The law always has required that the applicant for a night club license deposit his fingerprints , but the applicant has not in each case been the executive in actual charge . The new rules also demand that any entertainer who stays in an establishment for more than thirty days must be fingerprinted . This phase of the innovation angered officials . of the variety artists ' union and they will fight it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the public or are " likely to come in contact with the public " are likewise subject to the fingerprint rule . Corporations Are Affected The regulations also cover owners , seen and unseen . If a cabaret or night club is owned by a corporation , all its officers and directors must be fingerprinted . ( This will not affect John D. Rockefeller , as the Rainbow Room and the Rainbow Grill are operated by a corporation that , an official explained , is officered by members of the legal department . ) If the owners are a partnership , all partners must register their prints . In the event of a change in ownership , the person who made the original application for the license must file with the department an affidavit giving the names and addresses of all individuals with a financial interest in the enterprise . It is stipulated that this interest must be set forth no matter how acquired ? by loan , investment or gift . The regulations provide that all fingerprints be recorded in duplicate . They will be referred to three divisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bureau of information , and the Old Records Room . The Old Records Room contains records that go back very far . The commanding officer of each of these divisions is charged with the duty of seeing that careful search is made , and the results are to be noted on forms printed for the purpose . The division of licenses of the department will keep one copy when this process is completed ; the other will go to the bureau of identification . Identification Cards Required The police reserve the right to prevent the employment of any person whose record is deemed unsatisfactory ; and they require that each employe carry an identification card , which must be kept during all working hours in his or her physical possession . Around Broadway last night it was being said that this last requirement might be difficult for some entertainers to meet . The regulations affect some 1,200 cabarets and night clubs , most of them in the Broadway area and in the late Forties and early Fifties around Fifth and Park Avenues . They are based , it was said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 , adopted in 1926 , which stipulates that licenses must be obtained to operate cabarets and that they may be denied to persons who fail to comply with all pertinent regulations . The strongest opposition to the new rules was expressed by Phil Irving of the American Guild of Variety Artists . He said : " The guild is unalterably opposed to these regulations and will fight them to the utmost . We will not permit them to be foisted on us on the pretext that entertainers are in contact with the public . Under previous regulations of the Police Department performers are not permitted to come into contact with the public , and even if they were we would not permit them to be insulted and regimented to the extent of being required to produce a passport on demand . What the ulterior motive is in all this I do n't know . But our organizers will go out to instruct our members not to submit to such treatment  --  and if that means jail we 'll get them out . " John Roy , manager of the Rainbow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rules . " Of course , " he added , " our entertainers do not mix with the guests . As for some of our other employes , perhaps the regulations will provide good protection ; we do n't always know where they come from . " Mr. Ferry of the Pierre and Monte Carlo said his fingerprints had been on file ever since he came to the United States . " I 'm all for it , " he added . " There is so much fifth-column work going on . Perhaps night club people are sn iggling in artists , of low standing , of course , who are here for a double purpose . It would be well to have a check . " Mr. Billingsley of the Stork explained that he had already had all of his waiters fingerprinted and photographed and collected data on their pasts . " Men change so often , " he said , " that it is necessary to keep a check on them . The new rules strike me as a very good idea . " Billy Rose , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast , but his office said in his name that he would be delighted to comply with the rules . His sentiments , it was said , would go something like this : " In the days when night clubs were run by burglars and secondstory men there were no such regulations , and now that they 're run by such honest business men as John D. Rockefeller the authorities clamp down on us. "                     