@@704542

txt Ending rumors prevalent since war broke out in Europe that there would be a disastrous " blackout " in the international area of the 1940 New York World 's Fair , the Fair Corporation issued yesterday an official " factual review , " disclosing that the impressive array of foreign exhibits adjoining the Court of Peace would be virtually intact . At a press conference called yesterday morning at the Fair 's administrative offices in the Empire State Building to discuss the future of the foreign zone , recognized as one of the exposition 's most important areas , Grover A. Whalen , president of the corporation , and Julius C. Holmes , vice president in charge of foreign relations , revealed the following facts : Thirty-three governments represented at the 1939 Fair already have officially accepted invitations to return ( this includes nations , colonies , dominions , territorial possessions and mandates and international organizations , and also unofficial representation of two nations that officially have withdrawn ) . Fourteen other countries , which have not accepted officially yet , have given the Fair unofficial notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented last year , are expected to exhibit . On the other hand , eleven foreign exhibitors  --  nine nation3 , including the two that are to be unofficially represented , and two colonies  --  have withdrawn , and two other exhibitors are likely to leave . 49 Plan to Return This means that if the present situation remains unchanged , fortynine foreign exhibitors will be represented at the 1940 Fair , while thirteen will have withdrawn . In 1939 the Fair claimed nearly sixty foreign exhibits , but this included a large bloc of South American countries that were represented only nominally . The 1940 plans call for a larger degree of participation by these small South American exhibitors , so if present plans materialize the international area will not be impaired greatly this year . Mr. Whalen and Mr. Holmes also revealed that the 1940 foreign area would have many new features through reshuffling and expansion of some of the exhibits . One of the most dramatic of the new features , Mr. Whalen said , will be an exhibition of Arctic fighting by Finnish soldiers on leave , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned for the amusement area . Further details of the Finnish demonstration and of other features bearing on the European war will be announced later , Mr. Whalen said . The Fair president , in discussing the foreign situation , made the first definite announcement that the ! Fair was not contributing any money toward the plan under which 1Great Britain is returning this year . Great Britain will spend about $220 , - 000 on its pavilion this year , according to a dispatch received from London yesterday , but the Fair will not help foot the bill . Mr. Whalen also expressed his opinion that Soviet Russia had withdrawn from the Fair because it realized it had corn1 paratively few friends in the United States . Russia , however , phrased its withdrawal in more " diplomatic language , " he declared . Included in yesterday 's " factual review " were announcements that at least seven foreign exhibitors , whose plans hitherto had been unknown , had accepted invitations officially . Foreign " Roll Call " The foreign " roll call , " as disclosed yesterday , follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo , Belgium , Bolivia , Brazil , British Colonial Empire , Canada , CzechoSlovakia , Finland , France , Great Britain , Haiti , Honduras , Hungary , Iraq , Italy , Japan , League of Nations , Luxembourg , Mexico , Morocco , Norway ( government has withdrawn but pavilion will be operated by Norwegian-American interests ) , Palestine , Panama , Pan American Union , Paraguay , Peru , Poland , Rumania , Sweden ( government has withdrawn but pavilion to be operated by Swedish-American interests ) , Switzerland , Uruguay and Venezuela . Exhibitors of 1939 expected to return  --  Colombia , Costa Rica , Cuba , Dominican Republic , Ecuador , Greece , Guatemala , Iceland , Ireland , Lebanon , New Zealand , Nicaragua , Portugal and Turkey . New exhibitors expected to participate  --  Spain and El Salvador . Exhibitors of 1939 officially withdrawing ? Albania , Argentina , Chile , Denmark , the Netherlands , Netherland India , Norway , Southern Rhodesia , Soviet Russia , Sweden and Yugoslavia . Exhibitors of 1939 expected to withdraw ? Lithuania and Thailand ( Siam ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain , officials said . ) Some of the additional details that Fair officials added about prospects for the 1940 foreign area include the following : Belgium will install a lace-making exhibit . Canada will take 2,500 additional square feet in the Hall of Nations for a motion-picture exhibit . Cuba will enlarge its exhibit , possibly moving into the abandoned Argentina Pavilion . Czecho-Slovakia will enlarge its Old Prague Restaurant . Ecuador and Turkey , despite recent announcements indicating their withdrawal , are expected to return . Both France and Great Britain will add new features . Hungary will add a dining terrace and balcony facing the Lagoon of Nations to its pavilion . Iraq will move into the abandoned Danish Pavilion and open a " typical Arabian restaurant . " Switzerland , Mexico and Peru each are taking 5,000 additional square feet of exhibit space in the Hall of Nations . Portugal , though it may abandon its pavilion , will continue its Hall of Nations exhibit . The Rumanian Restaurant , closed during the latter part of the 1939 Fair . will be reopened , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffee garden . Spain , if it decides to take over one of the abandoned pavilions , will exhibit rare art treasures . Reception for Dr. Weizmann Fair officials gave late yesterday afternoon a reception for Dr. Chaim Weizmann , head of the Jewish Agency for Palestine , who signed the agreement for renewed participation by Jewish Palestine in the 1940 exposition . Dr. Weizmann and other Jewish leaders were present at the ceremony , which assured the operation of the $400,000 Palestinian Pavilion this year . The pavilion is jointly sponsored by the Jewish Agency and the World Zionist Organization . Palestine Day at the Fair last year drew one of the largest crowds of the early part of the season . Meyer W. Weisgal again will be director-genertil of the pavilion . Another landmark in the foreign area passed yesterday when the huge Soviet Pavilion , which is being razed , was reduced to only three steel uprights and a few girders . Cleaning up of the foundation and filling in of the excavation will be completed by tomorrow , wrecking company officials announced . The Soviet Arctic Pavilion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Fair a crew of more than sixty workmen began the remodeling of the Chrysler exhibit at a ? cost of several hundred thousand dollars . Harvey D. Gibson , board chairman of the Fair , will give a luncheon today for civic leaders of Queens to formulate plans for Queens activities at the Fair this year . The West Side Association of Hotels , comprising nearly 100 residential hotels west of Central Park , announced yesterday that it would re-establish its housing bureau for accommodation of Fair visitors this Summer . DEMANDS FAIR ACCOUNTING Albany Bill Seeks to Put Off the Opening Until Report Is Filed ALBANY , Feb. 26 ( UP ) ? Legislation that would restrain the World 's Fair from reopening this year unless a report of its 1939 expenditures is filed will be introduced in the Legislature . Senator Peter Farrell and Assemblyman Mario Cariella , Queens Democrats , sponsored the measure providing that the World 's Fair of 1939 , Inc. , should file a verified report with the New York State Commission on the World 's Fair on or before May 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1940 unless the report is filed , " they said in a joint statement . They explained that the Fair had received outright grants of millions of dollars from the national , State and city governments , and added : " Unless an accounting is had , the cost of improving the site for park purposes will have to be paid out of the budget of the City of New York , thereby resulting in increased taxes for the subsequent years . " The legislators asserted that the Fair Corporation so far had failed to advise any one as to the financial record of its operations during 1939 . Denies Handling " Millions " On receipt of news of the demand from Albany for an accounting of Fair finances the Fair Corporation issued an official statement yesterday in which it took exception to implications that the Fair has handled " millions of dollars " of city , State and Federal funds . While the statement said that detailed comment would be withheld " pending study of the measure , " Fair officials pointed out the following facts : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the law regarding membership corporations , have filed with the board of directors a financial statement at the annual meeting held early in February " and " the board of directors includes in its membership representatives of the Federal , State and city governments . " " The corporation itself has not received or expended any national , State or city funds . " " Funds representing city expenditures , " the Fair 's statement pointed out , " were disbursed by the Park Department and the New York City Commission . State money was expended by the State Commission or the Department of Public Works , while Federal funds were disbursed by the United States New York World 's Fair Commission . " Duffield to Direct Fireworks Special to THE Nsw TORTS TIMES . CHICAGO , Feb. ** Duffield , vice president of Thearle-Duffield Fireworks , Inc. , Chicago , has closed a contract with the New York World 's Fair management to become director of fireworks displays and exhibitions , it was revealed here today . Mr. Duffield , also president of the Showmen 's League of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including those at Chicago 's two Century of Progress Expositions , at the Great Lakes Exposition in Cleveland , and the Texas Centennial at Dallas .                     