@@704823

txt prime Minister Winston Churchill told the House of Commons today that the French had broken their promises not to let their fleet fall into enemy hands , bill in the Ifouse of Lords , Viscount Caldecote , Dominions Secretary , said Mr. Churchill would not relax his efforts to retain French naval help , Mr. Churchill , making his sixth war report to the Commons , made no reference to the whereabouts of the French fleet , but said it was " clear that French war vessels under this armistice pass into German or Italian control fully armed . " Lord Caldecote summed up the situation thus briefly : " The Prime Minister will relax no effort to secure that French ships will continue to serve the cause for which they have been employed so many months . " Conditions Still unfulfilled Mr. Churchill said he had made it clear to the French that the British would go on fighting . and that he had made it plain to the Petain Government that the conditions indispensable to their release from their agreement with the British had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release the Reynaud Government from its written pledge not to negotiate a separate peace if the French fleet were sent to British ports and remained there while the negotiations were being conducted . This offer was made , he explained , after an earlier refusal and when it was clearly seett that French resistance was crumbling . On the evening of Sunday , June 16 , Mr. Churchill said , he was on a train preparing to go to Bordeaux when he was informed of the overthrow of the Reynaud Government and the formation of the Petain Government for the purpose of seeking an armistice with Germany . Britain , the Prime Minister continued , informed the Petain Government of Britain 's indispensable conditions to negotiations , and that " most solemn assurances were given that the fleet would never fall into German handi . " The next news received was of the terms of the armistice , Mr. Churchill said , and this bad the effect of handing over the fleet to the Germans , - A dispitch from Alexandria , Egypt , said that units , of the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their flags at half mast today in compliance with a French Government order for a day of mourning . This dispatch indicated that thus far these French ships have not obeyed the reported stipulation of the French-German armistice that all French naval vessel ( return to home ports for disarming or internment . The Prime Minister said " we hope to rescue France from the ruins of bondage into which she has been cast . " " We hope that the French Empire , stretching all over the world , will continue the struggle on the side of its allies , " he declared . Partial text of the Prime Minister 's statement : Page 4 . Britain First BERLIN , June 25 ( IP ) ? Actual peace negotiations between France and Germany as distinguished from the armistice can not begin until Germany has disposed of Britain , the usually well informed news agency Dienst aus Deutschland said today . The armistice terms were still being withheld . The news agency 's view that final peace negotiations are still some distance in the future was in contrast with recent opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be followed quickly by a continental peace conference . The Armistice Commission , said Dienst aus Deutschland , " is not concerned in any way with the questions of future German peace . " It added : " The actual peace negotiations are to be sharply detached from all negotiations conducted in the course of the armistice and , moreover , are likely to be ushered in only when the still open German-English conflict is concluded . " The armistice with France , an authorized economic source says , has given Germany a direct land connection with Spain and its ore deposits , at least for the duration of the war . Extensive economic agreements between Spain and Germany , signed before the outbreak of hostilities , he said , can now be made effective for the war on England . 