@@710227

txt Czechoslovakia , invented by World War I. victors who sought to make " the world safe for democracy , " has become a land of police terrorism , compulsor7 labor , sup , pressed civil rights , sovietized Industries and agriculture , and forced mass migrations . It has done this with the support of World War II . victors , who promised the " four freedoms " to the world . A Russian type of burocracy , while prosecuting a " two year plan " for reorganization of Czechoslovakia , secretly is prosecuting a foreign policy militant toward all neighbors except soviet Russia , and hostile toward England , France , and the United States . One reason for this secrecy , it was learned , is that the administration has made overtures , preliminary to the Moscow foreign ministers conference , for additional territory from Hungary , Austria , . and Germany . Only a Few Happy Folk Among the 12,000,000 heterogeneous population within Czechoslovakia 's present borders , the only happy folk are those with financial gains from the government 's redistribution of wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because retention of these gains depends on the whims of Red bureaus . These conclusions were gained on a two weeks ' survey by this Tribune correspondent . Calls at formal news sources , embassies , add the foreign department and other government agencies were followed by a canvass of public opinion on the farms and in villages and cities , from the **25;440;TOOLONG border on the Danube to the Moravian-Bohemian border with Silesia . Sentiments of the People From women with callouses en ' their hands and from men with soil or grease under their fingernails were heard many warm words of friendliness toward the United States . They were not just the diplomatic banalities of President Benes , former University of Chicago professor , who returned to Prague after the war by way of Moscow . They were the sentiments of Sloyaks , Bohemians , Moravians , Hungarians , and Sudeten Germans toward the America adopted by their kinsmen in Chicago and other parts of the land . The Benes government . altho on the end of strings from the Kremlin , has been in silk gloves and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waist toward the western democracies . However , It was . learned from authoritative sources that the Czech armament industry , tool of the French between World Wars , Is now the tool of the soviet , and that 80 per cent of Benes ' expenditures for foreign espionage is directed against America and Britain . The Czech army , swollen by compulsory two years ' service , is trained by Russian officers and patterned to mesh with the soviet army . The Communists control the police and the army , and the " national defense . " The Czech government last year facilitated the movement of scores of thousands of Jews from Poland to Austria and Germany where they became a burden upon Americanil charity and an embarrassment to the British-Palestine policy . It was learned that soviet secret agents were in these movements . The ouster of 2,000,000 Germans from their hereditary homesteads in the Sudetenland , part of the Truman-Attlee-Stalin scheme devised at Potsdam , was ruthless . Preparations for the ouster of 750,000 more this spring have the area in a terror . Hungarians Affected Partial repopulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discolored by political patronage and individual cupidity . The communist machine has doled the plums ? farms , factories , and shops  --  to those surrendering individualism to the burocracy . In the Danube valley , Where the , homes of 500,000 Hungarians were incorporated into the new nation when Czechoslovakia was created a generation ago , the Prague government is driving peasants from the land of their forefathers into compulsory servitude . The families were ousted from their homes into box cars and transported to the interior of Czechoslovakia in zero weather . More compulsory migrations are planned for this spring and the populace is cringing . Want No Friendly Neighbors A responsible Prague official , a Communist , said the removal of Hungarians and Germans from the border was a military necessity , that Czechoslovakia needed loyal citizens on its frontiers . Hungarians told the interviewer that the British did not want friendly hands across the Danube  --  part of the historic British policy of keeping her European neighbors separated and unfriendly toward each other . Claims for more territory , on the south bank of the Danube , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are also based on a plea of military necessity . The new lines are needed to conform with Frederick the Great 's description of territory as a natural fortress . T h e French and English in the 1920s and ' 30s armed Czechoslovakia as a bombing and staging area near the heart of Germany and Austria . Now Moscow is the power with private doors to this fortress . Crops Not Harvested On the outlook for Czechoslovakia 's planned economy , indications point toward failure . Common laborers now have farms but have no experience in tilling . There are unharvested crops under the winter 's snow . The nationalized Industries lack the profit motive . I met a buyer from a Chicago State street department store who bought nothing after three weeks of shopping . He said prices were excessive and the quality poor . A buyer for a Chicago mall order house came here with ' $5,000,000 to spend . He spent $50,000 . He was disappointed in the offer-1 ings . This report is based on pursuit of facts , but the subjects are so controversial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute , particularly by those with prejudices or special interests . Contradiction is to be expected . In subsequent articles , evidence will be displayed for readers to judge themselves .                     