@@704665

txt A strong warning that Italy probably will enter the war soon came from the authoritative lips of Giovanni Ansaldo , editor of the Telegrafo and close associate of Count Ciano , Italian Foreign Minister , in a broadcast to the armed forces this morning . The speech was not announced publicly and Signor Ansaldo and the Rome radio refused to give it out tonight . However , from several private listeners and other sources there is no question that Signor Ansaldo said , in ? effect , that in his opinion it would not be a matter of months , but of weeks or even days . " Most persons thought Italy would stay out of the war indefinitely , " he went on , according to these versions , " but they were mistaken in thinking so . The bugles will soon sound . " Balkan diplomats in London reported last night that the Italian fleet was concentrated at the Dodecanese Islands near the entrance to the Dardanelles , presumably as a part of Rome-Berlin Axis strategy agreed upon by Premier Mussolini and Chancellor Hitler , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Eastern Mediterranean , simultaneous with reported preparations to call up 1,250,000 reservists , would be intended to cripple the Anglo-French-Turkish mutual-aid pact . Allies Pictured as Losers The first week of the Scandinavian struggle ended tonight with the danger signals still flying for the Allies in this part of Europe . One needs cite nothing more than the Italian press to demonstrate that . Today 's task , assigned to the editorial writers by the Ministry of Popular Culture , was to draw up the first week 's balance of the conflict in the north . They were ordered to explain how everything had gone badly for the Allies and well for ' the Germans and the great things Germany has won and all that France and Britain have lost , politically , militarily and economically . In some cases it is done with skill and persuasiveness and , in any event , it is the only view Italian readers can get from any of their publications . The German effort is glorified as courageous , bold and brave , and no word of sympathy or human feeling is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigidly excluded for a cold realism that is aimed at a certain effect , to convince Italians that their interests lie in supporting Germany . The press campaign may seem crudely done to foreigners , but it has a skillful motive . The object is not the vain one of winning sympathy for Germany , but solely of making the public believe that the Allies are beaten . This is why the whole front page of each newspaper is given to the Germans , and the stories from London and Paris are " buried " in the back pages . The average reader has only a limited amount of time , and he may get no further than the front page .. Others will turn to the back pages to glance at the headlines of the British and French stories , but those headlines invariably emphasize the worst aspects of the situation or ignore the important news . Roosevelt Statement Buried Even more striking is the treatment given President Roosevelt 's statement condemning the German aggression . In every case it is presented in a brief dispatch from New York starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the headline . All newspapers place it as inconspicuously as possible , and the heading says that the American press demands the annexation of Greenland . Only a persistent searcher for news , who would read every word , could come across Mr. Roosevelt 's statement . It has been this way all week and , as a result , Italy is convinced  --  or at least willing to believe  --  that the Allies are beaten . From that to the belief that perhaps now is the time for Italy to throw her weight into the scales and reap the harvests of victory is an obvious jump , and that is exactly what the Fascist leaders want the public to do . What Premier Mussolini is doing is merely to sharpen the instrument he would use in case of war , but that is no proof he is going to use it . He is tempering the public spirit in the most realistic way that could be used . Whatever Italians feel about the Germans , their first concern is their own country . If they feel the Allies have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conflict , then the argument of the Fascist regime would be a powerful and persuasive one . From the first day of the Scandinavian conflict your correspondent emphasized the danger to the Allies of a defeat in this venture and that danger still exists . The only moderation in it lies in the fact that the Allied reply  --  weak though the Italians consider it  --  has prevented that incident in itself from being decisive to the war . For the Germans to reap the benefits gained here they will have to make another move . The Italians expect them to do so , because it is realized they can not permit the Allies to throw greatly superior forces against their limited forces in Norway . Therefore it is believed the Germans must create a diversion soon in Sweden . Then there would presumably have to be a great German offensive in the West or a move into the Balkans , which would bring Italy in . Reich Broadcasts Ansaldo 's Talk An English translation of part of the Rome broadcast by Giovanni Ansaldo , warning that Italy might enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio yesterday . As recorded by THE NEW YORK TIMES , Signor Ansaldo was reported as saying : " After the events of the past week there is no people which can isolate itself from conflict . It is a terrible war that in a certain moment automatically strikes those who believe they are standing aloof . " All Italians who believe that our country can stay out of the conflict until it is finished are mistaken and indulging in illusions , just as those are mistaken and indulging in illusions who believe that our country - should - only seek to earn some foreign exchange profits . In other words , all those are deceiving themselves who Believe that Italy could isolate herself and not think about anything else . " If a little country like Norway did not succeed in carrying through such a program , how could we , as neighbors of belligerents and with our Mediterranean interests , succeed in doing so ? Just as war came over Norway unexpectedly , it can come also to Italy . " You are all of you too proud of your uniforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken by surprise in this war . Italy is preparing and waiting for the moment that will be most favorable for Italy . This opportunity and this moment , which a month ago might have seemed a long way off , may now be much nearer than it is generally assumed . " Thus not only must we be prepared for war in a material sense , but ( we must ) accustom our thoughts to the possibility that war may break out from one week to the other . " When going to bed or when we stretch out on a couch we should recall the experience that Foreign Minister Koht of Norway had , who awoke one morning to learn that foreign troops had entered his country . " We are not Norwegians , but Italians and citizens of a great empire and must never allow ourselves to be . awakened first by an alarm clock or trumpet signals . The trumpet signal we shall give ourselves , and for those for whom it is intended . " Italian Naval Manoeuvres On ROME . April 14 ( UP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the usual Spring schedule off the naval bases of Gaeta near Naples , Spada near Genoa , Taranto inside the heel of the Italian boot and other ports off the mainland and off Sicily . U. S. Intervention Is Seen LONDON , April 14 ( UP ) ? A warning to Premier Mussolini that " the United States will turn the scales " if Italy or Russia , or both , join Germany in the war was issued by J. L. Garvin writing in the Observer .                     