@@705359

txt If the United States is going to help Britain .. in the war , is the United States going to Thin with Britain in shaping the Peace ? That is the biggest issue confronting the American people today and in the wake of the lend-lease bill it is beginning to come to the forefront of Washington discussion . The most significant speech delivered from the floor of the Senate this week concerned , not America 's role in the present war , but America 's role in the future peace and looked forward to an Anglo-American - unity " which would establish something new in the world , a new and different sanction for peace hereafter . " The speech was delivered by Senator Warren R. Austin of Vermont . the assistant Republican leader , and undoubtedly marked the beginning of a mounting and momentous debate concerning the shape of things to come after the war and what part the United States will play in the shaping . Peace Aims Sought Senator Austin , for himself , had no doubt whatsoever that America should prepare to exercise a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the peace table and he felt it was important that both the United States and Great Britain , begin to formulate their peace aims . President Roosevelt had this role in mind when , in his message to Congress of Jan. 6 , he offered the " four essential freedoms " on which peace ultimately must be founded , freedom of speech , freedom of religion , freedom from want , and freedom from fear , The President saw such a peace attainable in " our time . " Wendell L. Willkie had this role in mind when he testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that if the United States enables Britain to prevail , the United States ? will have both the right and the influence to determine decisively the kind of peace that shall follow . Will America be ready and willing to exercise that influence , to share in that responsibility ? No one can yet discern the answer to that question but it is to prepare the Nation to make that decision that this discussion already is assuming large proportions . Called " Historic " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that humility and honesty of purpose which marks all of his utterances , the search for the answer to this question in a brief address of a few hundred words , Senator Claude Pepper ( D ) of Florida rose to the floor and quietly remarked : " The able Senator from Vermont , being the first to utter the sentiments which he has expressed . has made the most historic statement made on this floor in many a year . " The brief speech by Senator Austin which may , indeed , prove " historic . " is as follows : " Mr. President . tily opinion is that House Bill 1776. as it is now said to be constructed . expresses a public policy for this country which envisages as mutual the benefits mentioned in the bill , flowing in both directions , to Britain and to America from Britain : and . of course , it expresses a community of interest in the grand objective of freedom and in the common opposition to slavery . " I think that while tee are virtually writing a public policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department as well as creating a law , we should mention in passing , although we can not write such thoughts into a statute , our belief that although America may not be a party at the peace table . whatever may happen , whether there shall come a cessation of hostilities without victory on any side or whether there shall be a triumph of one belligerent over another , America 's interest and views regarding the plan for peace ought to have thorough consideration . Asks for Peace . Aims " Therefore , I would have , if possible , the benefit of the views of my colleagues with reference to the position of America on the subject of peace . Before the negotiations. ? the preliminary incidents with reference to aid , mutual benefit , and so forth , in the future conduct of the war are over , would it not be well for senators of the United States to express their views upon what are our peace aims , and to ask Britain what are her peace aims " ! " We have not embarrassed Britain by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely proper for us , it seems to me. to ascertain whether , in consideration of the effective aid withbut which Britain could not survive . in consideration of the indispensable aid which this country is about to give to Britinn in the cause of freedom . Britain will not now make some sort of a commitment to us that she will present our views at the peace table . " Will she not make some commitments to us now assuring us that hereafter in the Orient we will not he left there holding the bag , and that if we turn to Britain in the future , as we once did in the past , and ask her to stand firmly shoulder to shoulder with us to maintain doctrines in which we assert that we mutually believe , she will stand actively with us in the future , and not abandon us , as in the case of Manchukuo ? " There are other specific things to which I might advert , but I do not care to take the time of the Senate this morning . I hope I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The other points have reference to the Atlantic side of our continent , to the 8,000-mile coast line affected by the Monroe Doctrine , along which we should have the co-operation of Britain to maintain the principles of free government . and to expel the intruder and the aggressor who would impenetrate that line with totalitarian principles of politics and collectivist economy . Time to Start Now " Shoidd we not now . in other words . before the incident is say to our Chief Executive , that Wc. as a legislature , wish to ha% e the policy of ours given proper consideration in the negotiations about to take place under the authority of H. H. 1776 ' . ' In other words . should we not start early to look after the interests and the great concern of this country that the principle of safety in as large an area of the earth as possible may be established for British-American economy , British-American spirituality ? " Further . Mr. President . should we not ask Britain now to join us in that great endeavor which we hope to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely difficult of establishment in the world , and that is a new and different sanction for pem. ? e hereafter . " This is not pure idealism . This is not a mere dream . I sincerely believe that we look forward to one of those great movements of civilization following a dip . As we scan hurriedly the historic set-trig of the present world revolution we know that i  --  iir story of progress is one of steps . upward steps . alWays upward , though in between there is a dip where civilization seems to slide backward and downward to an ancient level from which it had climbed once before . Sanction for Peace " I sincerely believe we are going through such a dip and that we shall arouse the people of the earth to such an acute spiritual activity that they will rise above the standard upon which they live today ; that they will establish a new sanction for peace founded more . upon the principles of Christianity and sustained by ? vell-known processes in our system of government of determining disputes without force and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not advocate an alliance between Great Britain and the United States : he advocated a clear understanding of their community of interests , interests which extend to the maintenance of peace even more than to winning a war . His appeal was as much to the country as it was to the Congress as the essential and urgent means of creating an informed public opinion behind a foreign policy which will look to the future as as to the present .                     