@@709406

txt Dr. Adolph Zech , 48 , a professor of German at the University of Missouri , was found shot to death in the basement of his home here late today after he had written letters protesting his innocence of the arsenic poisoning of his  --  wife , Marie , 44 , who died April 5 . A .22 caliber rifle was beside the body and Coroner E. J. Ward pronounced the professor 's death " a clear case of suicide . " Ho said there would be no inquest . State police disclosed Dr. Zech had been questioned by Prosecutor George A. Spencer for 12 hours yesterday in connection with his wife 's death and had been subjected to a no detector test . The professor had been told results of the test wore " unfavorable " to him and that ho Would be questioned again today . Trooper Finds Body State Trooper Fred Wells said he took Dr. Zech home at 12:30 a. m. today and got no response when he returned to the home at 4 p. m . He found the body after getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Spencer ; to officials of the'univerSitY , , to friends and to his wife 's two children by a previous marriage . In all of them he stated vehemently that he had not poisoned his wife . His letter to the prosecutor asked that if necessary proceeds of his estate be used for an investigation to clear his name . In another letter he asked that his body and that of his wife be cremated and their ashes mingled . ' Strong Case ' Against Him Wells said that " a strong case " had been built up against the professor . He said police had been called upon to investigate more than a week before Mrs. Zech died because of suspicions on the part of her physician , Dr ; Dan G. Stine , that she was being poisoned . This investigation revealed arsenic was being given to ner in an unaeterminea manner while she was in the hospital , he said . Mrs. Zech became ill early this year and spent five weeks in Noyes hospital here . She showed no improvement and went home at her own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was taken to Boone hospital by Dr. Stine . He then made tests which indicated the presence of arsenic in her body and called in police . Brought in Soft Drink Wells said police inquiry showed Dr. Zech had been bringing her glasses of coca-cola . Asked about this yesterday under the lie detecto ? , Wells said , the professor at first denied it but finally said he had clone so with the permission of her nurses . Nurses denied this . Col. Hugh Waggoner , head of the Missouri highway patrol , who was active in the investigation , said associates of Dr. Zech have recalled that the professor recently complained his wife had developed a " whining disposition which was interfering with his school work : Married in 1941 The Zechs were married in 1041 after a campus romance . She had been an Instructor in French at Stephens college here . He was a naturalized citizen who had been born in East Prussia and had fought in the German army in the first World war . She was a native of France and became a World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their $8,000 home here . Text of Dr. Zech 's letter to Prosecutor Spencer follows in part : " Dear Mr. Spencer : In face of the step I am taking , I want to assure you for the last time that I had nothing whatsoever to do with my wife 's death . The thought of giving arsenic to her never entered my mind and I ' had no knowledge of her being poisoned until the inquest was held . I appeal to you in the name of our Maker , in the name Of the Supreme Judge , not to stop the investigation and to do all you can to clear my name of this vile accusation . If the proceeds of my estate would aid in further investigation and thus lead to tracing of the cause that brought about my wife 's death , let it be done so , "                     