@@712431

txt Special to Tax NEW Yon/it TIMES . WASHINGTON , Oct. ** of the issues in the Army-Navy-Air Force controversy , as revealed in the hearings before the House Armed Services Committee , revolve around sea power . Since Soviet Russia , the enemy that everyone is talking about , has no large surface navy , the question arises : What is the Navy 's concept of its role in a war with Russia ? What follows is an attempt to answer that question . The Navy sees its job in a future war , as ' the numerous Navy witnesses testified , as more than merely defeating an enemy power . Admiral Louis E. Denfeld , Chief of Naval Operations , Admiral Chester W. Nimitz and other witnesses tried to answer the question : " Why do we need a strong Navy when any potential enemy has no navy ? " Estimates of Strength This is a key question . Rough estimates of the naval strength of the three principal powers emphasize its importance : Active and Reserve Fleet U. S. Britain Banta Battleships 15 5 Carriers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Destroyers 353 118 60-70 Submarines 197 65 150-250 In the present active fleet , the United States has been operating some nineteen carriers  --  eight large and eleven small ; one battleship , the Missouri ; eighteen cruisers ; 170 destroyers , and eighty submarines ? in addition to a vast miscellany of amphibious craft , service vessels and other types . A planned cut for next year is severe , but even so , this leaves the United States indisputably far ahead ( ex.cept in submarines ) of the navies of both Britain and Russia combined . Why then , the Army and Air Force have asked , should we maintain all these ships ? The Navy 's answer is perhape best expressed in the words of Admiral Denfeld : " Fleets never in history met opposing fleets for any other purpose than to gain control of the sea ? not as an end in itself but so that national power could be exerted against the enemy . Naval forces throughout history , were they Roman galleys or modern task forces , have existed to carry the fight to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arthur W. Radford , Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet , who led off the Navy 's attack against majority concepts , declared in an answer to a question from a member of the House committee , that with the advent of air power the time had passed when fleets existed merely to fight or to contain other fleets . Naval air power , flown from carrier decks , he pointed out , meant the extension of ' naval gun range well beyond enemy coasts . To control the seas today or to blockade an enemy 's coastline means control of the air over those seas and coasts , and this can only be done , witnesses held , by naval air power , unless near-by land bases were available . Offensive naval power today means , therefore , offensive naval air power ; but it also means , in accordance with the new concepts of sea power , offensive amphibious power , or the ability of the fleet , covered by its own air arm , to establish a beachhead nearly anywhere in the world . In short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without large aircraft carriers ; that large part : of the coasts of the world adjacent to a possible enemy ? such as northern Norway , the Murmansk-Spitzbergen region , the Aleutians , Kamchatka and Siberia , and the Mediterranean  --  can not be ' controlled in the foreseeable future I from any land air bases that we are likely to be able to use . It holds further that the Marines , specially trained in amphibious techniques , add another offensive weapon to the nation 's armament , since most of the world 's surface is water and it has been shown that amphibious attacks can be mounted nearly anywhere . To the answer of why a navy when there is a negligible surface navy to oppose it , the Navy points to Okinawa , when the greatest fleet in history  --  with no other fleet to oppose it ? stood offshore for ' ninety days and fought off enemy air attacks to enable the fighting troops ashore to be supplied and an advanced base to be seized . No Quick Victory In other words , the Navy 's concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be won quickly by intercontinental bombing or the " atomic blitz , " that advanced bases and ground power will be needed . In the words of Admiral Denfeld to the House Committee : " You have heard that the bomber does not dominate its element ; that it can not control the air ; that control ? of the air is the mission of the fighter Likewise , the bomber does not control the terrain ; that is the mission of the ground forces . Finally , neither the fighters nor the ground forces can reach overseas battlefields in decisive numbers without adequate naval forces . " In brief , the Navy 's concept of its mission in a future war does not differ materially from its actual functions in the last war . It gives priority ( and there is no argument here ) to anti-submarine warfare ; Russia today has many more submarines than Germany had when the last war started , and the modern submarine is far more effective . Some of the instruments of this concept of sea power are : Hunterkiller groups of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at sea ; large carrier task forces to attack enemy submarine bases , communications and oil supplies , and to furnish cover for the amphibious seizure of advanced bases ; carriers , surface ships and submarines to blockade the enemy 's coasts and to lay mines off his harbors ; amphibious service and transport craft to keep men and supplies moving to our friends and advanced bases ; defensive convoy escort vessels , and radar picket vessels for a mid-ocean picket line to give warning of possible enemy air attacks on this country . It should be added that numerous naval aviators feel that carrier planes could be utilized to provide fighter protection for Air Force long-range bombers flying ' from land bases , and , under certain circumstances  --  like the Doolittle raid on Tokyo  --  for the launching of atomic bombers against the enemy . Navy Needs Cited Precise definition of what the Navy feels it needs to do the job it contemplates is not possible , except in terms of ' strategic plans , budgetary limitations and the world situation  --  all of which are flexible , factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change strategic plans . There has been much debate in the Pentagon , for instance , though none in the committee hearings , about carrier task force operations in the Mediterranean . The Navy has not talked of its needs in terms of a precise number of vessels , but it has charged : ( 1 ) That there is a definite plan I to eliminate large carrier task forces and Marine forces larger than regiments , which , if accomplished , would eliminate the Navy 's offensive power and reduce it to an anti-submarine and transport force . ( 2 ) That the budget cuts planned for this and next year are considerably more severe , in terms of reduction of combat effectiveness , for the Navy than for the other services , and if accomplished would about halve the strength of Marine and naval aviation and of Marine infantry battalions . In terms of its needs , the Navy had again made a strong plea for the U.S.S. United States , the 65 , - 000-ton , flush-deck carrier which Secretary of Defense Loak Johnson canceled soon after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraged , naval aviation will wither on the vine , its proponents allege . The Navy also believes that it must be allowed to procure more naval planes than present tentative budget cuts allow . If procurement is not increased beyond the approximately forty-eight a month now projected , there will be , by 1952 , only enough modern planes to man one or two carriers . Unified Command Criticized What finally is the Navy 's position on the functions of the unified command ? The Navy feels that the prevailing concept of how the Joint Chiefs of Staff should function is wrong . The Navy holds that grand strategy can be worked out soundly only on a coordinated and cooperative basis , not by a General Staff concept , nor by a single Chief of Staff in command of all the services . The Navy believes that strategic planning should be a process of give-and-take , that each service should have its roles and missions defined , as has been done in the unification law and in the Key West and Newport agreements , and that each task should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then be reasonably free to work out the means of fulfilling the responsibilities assigned to it , within the limitations of the service budget and within the general framework of the strategic plan . The Navy recognizes that there are bound to be many conflicts and overlapping areas in war planning and budget making where service interests impinge ; it holds that in the field of grand strategy these conflicts should be resolved by cooperation and coordination .                     