@@708611

txt The day of victory in Europe is dawning with an Allied military triumph that is complete and overwhelming . A few formalities of Germany 's surrender remain to be completed ; a few doomed fanatics bent on selling their evil lives as dearly as possible must still be rooted out . But with the surrender of most of their armies , the Germans themselves have acknowledged defeat , and the American capture of the Skoda Works at Pilsen deprives even the die-hards of their last means to continue the struggle . Barring a few last-minute mopping-up operations , the European war is over , and formal announcement of V-E Day may be expected at any time . The day of victory marks the end of a struggle which at one time threatened to overwhelm our civilization , and which in any case must leave deep moral ' and material scars for generations . But it also marks new beginnings . It marks the beginning of a new effort , now being made at San Francisco , to shape a better world in which such conflicts shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Germany 's inevitable attempt to prepare for her comeback , as she did after the last war , and second , of Japan 's equally inevitable political maneuvers to escape defeat . All these efforts depend upon each other . If San Francisco succeeds , the hopes of our enemies will be greatly dimmed . If San Francisco fails , our enemies still have a chance to rob us of the fruits of victory . And the key to the success or failure of these efforts is unity among the United Nations , and especially among Russia , Britain and the United States . For the efforts of both Germany and Japan are now determined wholly by the hope that they may still succeed in what they failed to accomplish during the war in Europe  --  namely , in driving a wedge between the western Allies on the one hand and Russia on the other . Hitler , who as late as April 19 still predicted a break between the Allies " within two months , " and on that basis urged continuation of the war to gain time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me first  --  it makes no difference which , " did not live to see his prophecy come true . But his successors are obviously following the same tactics  --  and the same hope . They still proclaim that " resistance against the Soviets continues to save as many Germans as possible from Bolshevik terror " ; they still seek to surrender to the western Allies alone , excluding Russia ; and they have begun to falsify the unconditional surrender of their armies in the field into an " armistice " motivated , not by their defeat , but by the pretense that " the war against the western Powers has become senseless . " In other words , faced with complete collapse , they still seek to propagate the legend that they fought to the last " to save Europe from Bolshevism , " and that they went down only because once again they were " stabbed in the back " ? this time not by " democratic traitors " at home , but by the " treachery " of the western democracies as a whole . Seeking the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Togo declares from Tokyo that in asking for a separate peace with the western Allies , while continuing the war against Russia , Germany has violated the German-Japanese alliance , and that her action does not comport with the avowed war aims of Japan , which " is at war with the AngloAmerican nations , but is strictly bound in neutrality with the Soviet Union . " For that reason , Togo says , Japan reserves to herself the right " to act freely , " which in itself is not only tantamount to an abrogation of the alliance with Germany , and the even older Anti-Comintern pact , both of which have lost their meaning , but also represents a first overture to Russia , which may soon be followed by others . All these maneuvers have heretofore been defeated by the unbreakable military solidarity of the United Nations , demonstrated anew by the refusal of the British and American Governments and their field commanders to accept a German surrender that did not include Russia . But the end of military operations is bringing to the fore political problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russia must still find a common language  --  as demonstrated in the crucial case of Poland . Until they do , their common enemies will continue their efforts to split them , to the detriment of that new world which they are trying to create .                     