@@706570

txt Senator Charles L. is a longtime friend of the farmer . He is also the Republican leader of the Senate . When he supports the President 's demand that Congress permit the Government to sell some of its surplus wheat for livestock feeding at prices below " parity " it is clearly because he believes that the national interests demand this permission . Senator is right . In this matter he is showing the kind of leadership that does credit to the opposition party in a time of national emergency . The question upon which he has thrown his backing behind the President is one of two critical tests now pending which will decide whether we are to have a chance at controlling inflation or to give up the struggle right now . One of these tests is the " Little Steel " case before the National War Labor Board in which the workers in four steel companies , who are already receiving pay far above the national average , are asking for an increase of $1 a day to meet increased living costs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a flood of wage demands which will expand the already large excess of consumer purchasing power and make still more difficult , if not impossible , the attempt to hold a ceiling on the cost of living . The other major test involves the use of government-held surplus stocks of wheat , accumulated under the " evernormal granary " plan , to hold down the price of feed and thus stimulate increased production of dairy products , meat , poultry and eggs , all of which are vitally needed by ourselves and our Allies . A true adherence to the idea of the " ever-normal granary " would leave the Government free , as it now is , to utilize in this national emergency some of the hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat acquired in supporting farm prices in the past . But the Congressional farm bloc is bitterly opposed to that and is holding up the $680,000,000 Agriculture Department Appropriations Bill in a deadlock over a provision to restrict such sales . The Senate has approved a mild compromise which would restrict the Commodity Credit Corporation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 85 per cent of the parity price of corn , or about 83 cents a bushel . But the House has rejected even this . It would forbid all sales at less than parity , which in the case of wheat is now about $1.34 , or well above the current market levels . In plain words , the Congressional farm bloc is prepared to sacrifice the national effort to hold down the cost of living in order to buy farm votes at the next election . The President has turned the spotlight of public attention on this performance and Senator has backed him up . If Congress does not want another blot upon its spotty record the sensible members of the House will heed the rumblings of a storm of public disapproval and rally that body to a prompt reversal of its stand . This is a test case . It calls for a record vote .                     