@@710448

txt HOOVER DEMANDS EARLY PEACE PACTS WITH FORMER FOES Says U. S. Should Proceed Now on Japan , Ignore Russia on Germany if Big 4 Fail SEES POTSDAM NULLIFIED Former President Emphasizes Production Everywhere ? Backs Bill for Relief The text of Mr. Hoover 's letter will be found on Page 6. - By C. BROOKS PETERS Charging Russian obstructionism with delaying world economic recovery , former  --  President Herbert Hoover yesterday urged the immediate negotiation of a peace treaty with Japan " by as many nations as wish to adhere . " Should the next meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers fail , Mr. Hoover recommended that ' the United States and Britain conclude a peace settlement with their merged zones in Germany . " There has been announced an American policy of defending the frontiers of western civilization , " the President wrote to Representative John Taber , Republican , of New York , chairman of the House Appropriations Committee . " The most vital of these frontiers are Germany and Japan . If they are lost , all Europe and the Far East are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international economic recovery , Mr. Hoover declared : " The reasons for continuous obstruction by Russia to every effort which would restore production have at least some expression in the Russian press as a method by which the United States can be bled white by relief measures . We should wait no longer . Russia will not make war about it " Answers caber 's Request Mr. Hoover 's letter replied to a request from Mr. Taber for a memorandum on the War Department 's recommendation for an appropriation for $725,000,000 for food and collateral relief requirements for Germany , Japan and Korea for the next fiscal year . Mr. Taber had also requested , and Mr. Hoover furnished , " a memorandum upon the causes of these continuing demands upon ' us , measures which might ameliorate these demands upon our taxpayers and generally upon our foreign relief and reconstruction policies . " Mr. Hoover informed Mr. Taber that he would appear before the committee today " to give any further information they desire . ' Pointing out that the British were also to contribute their share to bi-zonal relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this appropriation of $725,000,000 should be made " unless " millions of people under our flags are to die of starvation . " But , he went on , steps must be taken " to bring these burdens upon our taxpayers to an end , " since we are now providing relief for the third year after the war . " The delay by Russia in making peace with Germany and Japan , " Mr. Hoover wrote , " together with the Allied policies of reparations ? and industrial demilitarization , have paralyzed the industrial productivity of these countries . They are unable to make substantial exports and are not contributing , as they otherwise could , to their own support " Sees Potsdam Pact Vitiated The intransigence of Russia and France in not implementing the Potsdam agreement , he declared , has led to a situation in which " we are surely no longer bound by that agreement as to reparations and industrial policies . " Unless there are revolutionary changes in our policies toward Germany and Japan , Mr. Hoover declared , the burdens on our taxpayers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added : first , " to wash our hands of the whole business and then let the conquered countries drag the whole world to final chaos ; or , for humanitarian reasons , merely to carry these people on a food subsistence level , hoping for improvement in the attitudes of other nations ; or to act at once to free ourselves from their hindrances as far as possible . " We should now issue a final call r to Russia and France to comply with the I'otsdam agreement , Mr. Hoover said , and if they do not ' immediately respond we and the British should set up the economy of the bi-zonal areas so as to restore their industrial production and export . An effort , he added , should be made to consolidate the French zone , except the Saar , into the IA-zonal. area " We should assess by independent engineers the actual value to any proposed recipient of peacetime plants , deducting the cost of dismantling , and then call upon Germany or Japan to pay such a sum over the years and to retain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now paralyze German and Japanese industry then would be removed and funds would be obtained to pay for their food , he added . Asks Immediate Peace Parley Denying the necessity for the large-scale reduction of German and Japanese industrial potential to assure the permanent demilitarization of those countries , Mr. Hoover said that , since we occupy all of Japan and pay all the food bill , we should summon the peace conference with Japan immediately . " The whole world is suffering from delay in restoration of productivity , " he asserted . " The whole world is an interlocked economy and paralysis in two great centers of production is a world disaster . There is greater opportunity to speed recovery in the world by such action as I outline than by any amount of gifts and loans from the United States . " 