@@707035

txt Boston University today announced plans to establish exchange scholarships with universities of Latin America , conferred honorary degrees on eight citizens of the Americas , and became the forum for wide-ranging proposals , including immediate formation of an American Association of Nations to play its part in the coming world order . The emphasis over the week end and today at sessions of the New England Inter-American Institute sponsored by Boston University gravitated to measures that would reach the masses of people in the Americas with unifying knowledge . pr . Samuel Guy Inman of Yale University , in offering his proposal for an American Association of Nations , coupled it with one for an Inter-American Institute and Center of Studies in the United States . In both organizations he favors a more realistic approach than has so far been applied . He wants the romanticized " afternoon tea and native costume " era to end in one of recognition that Latin Americans are hard-working people faced with hard but promising environments . Need Urgent The necessity ' for this kind of understanding and reassurance among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because they already are wondering whether " the good-neighbor policy will be the first casualty " of the postwar period . " The fascist elements in Latin America , " Dr. Inman said in a panel discussion , " are declaring that the United States is only interested in using the southern republics to win the war . When that is accomplished , they say , we will return to the old policy of dominating the continent . " Unfortunately ? some of the discussions in Congress and in other United States circles seem to bear out the same idea . But we in this Institute , joined by the great majority of the people of the United States , who have every desire to live as friends with our southern neighbors , protest any change in the good-neighbor policy . " Dr. Daniel L. Marsh , President of Boston University , struck the same note in his address at the colorful academic ceremony in Trinity Church commemorating the seventieth anniversary of the Boston University College of Liberal Arts . The traditional Founders ' Day Convocation became an integral part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Americas selected for recognition with honorary degrees as listed with this article , but Dr. Marsh stressed the awakened interest of all New England in advancing friendship with the other Americas . Trustees of Boston University , he said , have authorized him to announce that the exchange of students and profeisors will be worked out on as large a scale as possible with Latin-American universities . Details of the plans remain to be negotiated . Dr. Marsh made a plea for even more religious tolerance in the Americas on the part of the Protestant majority in the United States and the Roman Catholic majority in Latin America . Into the common hopper of other practical measures advanced at the Institute for furthering Inter-American understanding these were poured : Jose Padin , former Commissioner of Education in Puerto Rico , said the United States in its dealings with Latin America " must promote the exchange of cultural goods and cultural services with the same zeal and industry that we have applied to the exchange of commercial goods and services . " He offered nine specific means , including exchanges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language study . Fernando ' Carbajal , Peruvian President of Rotary International , recommends the increase of understanding through the press by naming of talented and specialized news correspondents to write interpretive articles . He also asks the translation of many more books on the Americas for popular circulation at reasonable prices . Dean George Henry Chase of Harvard College , in his address last night at a session on " Education in the Americas , " commented wryly that it is unusual for Harvard to appear as the youngest member at an academic gathering . He bowed tothe University of San Marcos , Lima , Peru , represented by Sefior Carbajal , and the University of Mexico , represented by its Rector , Licenciado Rodulfo Brito Foucher . Both universities date from the early 1550 's , and Harvard from 1636 . Dr. Foucher and Dr. Marsh replied to a mimeographed circular placed in the hands of the 1,500 people in the audience by the Boston University Chapter , of the Young Communist League . The circular protested Dr. Foucher 's presence , citing his record as one of leaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said he stands behind the United States in this world struggle . Acting Secretary of State Sumner Welles , held in Washington by the arrival of British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , has had to cancel his scheduled address at the Statler dinner tonight . Instead , he is sending Charles A. Thomson , head of the Division of Cultural Relations in the State Department . 