@@710282

txt The Japanese home islands  --  covering 147,492 square miles  --  support a population of 78,000,000 . Prior to 1941 Japan drew on her colonies and sphere of influence in East Asia for sustenance . Japan has always imported 30 per cent of her food . Now her imports are . cut off and there is a general food shortage . Economically her position is poor  --  perhaps as poor as Germany 's . There are 8,000,000 persons on relief ; 5,000,000 are jobless . In this impoverished land there have been made long strides toward de jure democratization . The autocratic authority of the Emperor has been abolished ; the monopolistic Zaibatsu ( family trusts ) have been broken up ; a democratic Constitution has been adopted , and a Government by the Japanese ( headed by the conservative Premier Shigeru Yoshida ) has been established . But the Government relies greatly for its authority on Gen. Douglas , Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers ( SCAP ) , who commands an occupation force of 125,000 the debate . President Truman 's declaration of policy on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Imperils democracy , aroused the resentment of French party members . They alleged that the program of military conquest in Indo-China coincided with " the worldwide reactionary offensive " stemming from the White House . In the circumstances , M. Ramadier again felt obliged to pose the question of confidence . The vote was set for yesterday . On Friday the Socialists ( to which party M. Ramadier belongs ) put themselves on record as desiring the quickest possible end of fighting and beginning of peace negotiations in Indo-China . Yesterday the vote of confidence was passed . Again Communist Ministers voted for the Premier , again the Communist rank-andfile abstained . The crisis was temporarily over . American troops and 38,000 British , and administers a budget of $612,000 , - 000 for troop maintenance , government and relief . General works and lives quietly . He divides his time between his downtown Tokyo office and his home in the American Embassy : He seldom appears at social functions or in public . Correspondents generally meet with his subordinates ( only once in five years ? in Sydney in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . - Japan 's Future Last Monday General had another meeting with the press . He accepted an invitation to speak before the Tokyo Correspondents Club . Forty-four American , British , French and Chinese reporters were on hand . The General was at ease . Through the luncheon he smoked his familiar corncob pipe , lighting it frequently and piling the used matches neatly in an ashtray . He spoke briefly , sat down and said : " I am now on record for your questions . " The correspondents fired away and received in reply an important statement on Japan 's future . These were the highlights : The General recommended a peace treaty with Japan " as soon as possible , " the early end of military occupation and the substitution of nonmilitary conttol by the United Nations . He praised Japan 's " real renunciation of war " and said he believed the people had sincerely adopted democracy . The interview drew varied reactions . In Washington it was felt that the General 's statements were directly at odds with American policy in Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain " Russia ; General appeared to be advocating a withdrawal in the Pacific . The State Department seemed surprised by the statement . At Lake Success Warren R. Austin , United States representative on the Security Council , said , " Fine , " but then ' added quickly that he was not certain how the U. N. could assume jurisdiction . It was pointed out , Fall of Yenan Yenan , situated in a mountain valley of remote Shansi Province in northwestern China , used to be a " backwoods " town of no strategic or commercial note . Physically it is still not of much importance . Early in the war Japanese bombers reduced it to a ghost city of cave dwellers , and there has been little reconstruction . But as a political symbol Yenan has been important . Since 1934 , when the Chinese Communists led by Chou Teh and Mao Tze-tung ended their " Long March " from the south at Yenan , the city has " seen the citadel and capital of Red China . From it the Communist regime has controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headquarters of the Communist struggle against Japan and , since 1945 , against the Nationalist Government of Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek . Last week this spiritual center of Chinese communism fell to the Nationalist army . The Communists , apparently following their tactics of avoiding a major stand in favor of attrition through guerrilla war , gave up their capital without a fight . The Nationalists , however , found little of value there ; the Communists have been removing equipment and personnel for the last three months . But in a psychological sense the capture was considered an important Nationalist victory . The event focused attention on the relative strengths of the two forces . Generalissimo Chiang , who eight days ago announced his determination to crush the Communists , has 4,500 , - 000 men under arms and an estimated 2,000,000 in the combat zones from Manchuria to Shantung . The Communists have claimed to have 1,500,000 regular troops and several million guerrillas . These figures are disputed by the Nationalist Government Chief of Staff , General Chen Chang , who last week estimated the Communist regular army at 700,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipped ; most of the Communists are believed to be armed only with captured Japanese weapons . Yesterday there came an indication that the Nationalists were not completely committed to a " war of extermination " against the Communists . Nanking announced that the Government was willing to resume peace negotiations  --  provided that the Communists first agreed to help restore Chinese communications anti to meet other conditions . Bloody Peleliu United States Marines on Sept. 15 , 1944 , invaded Peleliu , a little island ( seven miles long , two miles wide ) in the western Carolines . The island was declared " secured " on Sept. 22 , but large-scale fighting went on . It was almost impossible to root Japanese defenders out of ' Bloody Nose Ridge " ? a scraggy height honeycombed with caves well provided with arms and food . Total marine casualties were 6,172 . Last Tuesday Marine Headquarters at Pearl Harbor announced that reinforcements were being sent to bolster the small marine garrison on Peleliu . A group of holdout Japanese had attacked a Leatherneck patrol with hand grenades . Spring in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britons last Friday might well have sighed , " Come , gentle Spring ! ethereal Mildness ! come . " They had passed through the hardest winter in living memory . Britons could look back on deprivations as strict as during wartime . They had to fight , an American observer reported , " as grimly as in the dark days of the 1940 blitz . " The excessive cold started in December . In January gales raged , fishing fleets could not leave ports , electric power cuts began because heavy snow blocked fuel transport . In February and early this month , the worst blizzards in fifty years battered the British Isles . Electric power was further slashed  --  to 33 per cent of normal  --  because coal could not get through . Industry came to a standstill , with consequent mass unemployment . A million sheep died of cold and starvation  --  a twentieth of Britain 's entire herd  --  and many cattle , hogs and horses had to be destroyed . Last week , thawing snow unleashed heavy floods , polluted the water supply , turned life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the climax , a smashing hurricane hit the land . At week 's end , and despite the arrival of spring , Britons expected more gales , feared the floods would be more disastrous than the blizzards . Tests for Ramadier Premier Paul Ramadier of France , since he took office last Jan. 22 , has been dealing with a greatly divided National Assembly . The largest bloc of Deputies in the 31d Palais Bourbon is Communist . Closest numerically is the representation of the centrist Catholic Popular Republican Movement . The third largest group is composed of Socialists . Two further groups are Radical Socialist adherents and Deputies of the extreme Right . M. Ramadier 's Cabinet is similarly divided . Last week the Ramadier Government faced a crisis . It rose over France 's course in dealing with the Viet Nam Nationalists in Indo-China on the present state of war there . The Premier declined to treat with Viet Nam representatives because , in his opinion , they were not " responsible leaders . " Communists in the National Assembly opposed the policy , desired an immediate start on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Communist opposition would split the Cabinet , cause its downfall . On Wednesday the confidence vote was taken . The Communist Deputies abstained from voting , but the Communist Ministers supported M. Ramadier , thus technically maintaining Cabinet unity . M. Ramadier was sustained 421-0 . On Thursday the Premier asked the passage of a special appropriation of $285,000,000 for conducting the military campaign in Indo-China . Communists objected to full-dress colonial war , sought to save the funds for domestic needs in France 's present economic crisis . Proponents of a hard policy in Indo-China contended that loss of power in the Orient would react fatally on other French colonial possessions , thus resulting In the elimination of France as a world power . Meanwhile , another issue entered Palestine Tally Sheet For fifteen days  --  beginning on March 2  --  the all-Jewish city of Tel Aviv and a large section of Jerusalem were under martial law . Barbed-wire enclosures and armed British soldiers severely restricted 300,000 Jews ? about half the Jewish population of Palestine . Last week ? on Monday ? the restrictions were lifted . Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what Britain had accomplished by the martial-law episode remained . Martial law was imposed by the British after Jewish terrorists had bombed an officers ' club in Jerusalem , killing sixteen persons , wounding thirteen . Britain had asked the Jewish community to help in rounding up those responsible for the attack . The semi-official Jewish organizations refused ; their leaders said privately that Britain herself had brought on the " direct action " because of her refusal to open Palestine to large-scale immigration from Europe . The British authorities then imposed the severe restrictions in an attempt to appeal to the Jewish people over the heads of their official spokesmen . The theory was that the people , pinched by the restrictions of martial law , would " inform " against the terrorists . Results Listed Last week British circles in Palestine said the stratagem had worked . They said martial law had ( 1 ) led to the capture of seventy-eight known terrorists and turned up a large amount of information about the terrorists not known before ; ( 2 ) demonstrated the Government 's willingness to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish community the serious economic consequences of martial law . ( The fifteenday economic loss was put at $7,000,000 . ) The British view was not shared by either the Jewish or Arab communities in Palestine . The Jewish leaders , while admitting that there had been some minor " cooperation " with the British authorities , argued that it had not been great . The principal leaders of the terrorists were not arrested ; more than 10,000 members of terrorists ' organizations  --  the Irgun Zvai Leumi and the Stern Group  --  remained at large . The terrorists , themselves , were defiant . On Tuesday the Stern Group tried and executed a young Jew who was accused of having turned informer . The Arabs regarded lifting of martial law as a British " capitulation " to the terrorists . And the Arabs ' disapproval became more general when on Wednesday there came reports from London that Britain was preparing to ' increase the immigration quota from 1,500 to 2,500 a month . This was regarded as a conciliatory gesture toward the Jews . Patriots Cayenne ( pop . 12,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) French colony on the northeast coast of South America , has produced in recent times two distinguished figures , both Negroes , in France 's public life . Felix Eboue , Governor of French Equatorial Africa , in World War II delivered the entire colony to the Fighting French , lent invaluable aid to the Allies , died in 1944 . Last Tuesday Gaston Monnerville , 50 , former Radical Socialist Deputy from Guiana , volunteer soldier in 1939 , Maquis leader , 1940-44 , was elected President of the Fourth French Republic 's Council of the Republic , which corresponds to the Senate of the Third Republic .                     