@@708904

txt The 16,000-word message which President Truman sent to Congress yesterday , embodying the first formal statement of the peacetime program of his Administration , covers some twenty different topics of national and international interest . A good copy editor could have made it a more readable document ; for in spots it seems to have grown like Topsy , and matters such as a proposed increase in the salaries of Congressmen have a way of turning up incongruously between foreign loans and the sale of ships . But if the message is long and many-sided , it is because the unexpectedly sudden end of the war against Japan has changed the whole legislative situation overnight and created a variety of new problems that must be dealt with . Mr. Truman does his best to provide acceptable solutions for most of them , and promises to make further recommendations in other messages to follow . The domestic half of the program includes two groups of measures , not always clearly distinguished in the President 's recommendations : those designed to meet the immediately pressing problems created automatically by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program of social legislation initiated by Mr. Roosevelt and interrupted by the war . In the first group the President gives precedence to the immediate problem of taking care of those workers temporarily thrown out of employment by the sudden change-over from war production to peace production . Here he renews his proposal for supplementing State unemployment compensation systems with Federal funds . But the legal and economic difficulties in the way of this plan are increasing , and a more direct method of relief , outside of the unemployment insurance system itself , apnears clearly to be a more practicable brocedure . Searing also on the immediate situation is the President 's discussion of the relaxation of wartime control of prices and supplies of goods . Here a good start toward reconversion has been made , and the President promises further progress toward the re-establishment of a free market . But in the interest of what he insists must be " an orderly transition to a peacetime economy , " he urges the extension of the Second War Powers Act , under which these controls have been exercised . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present minimum wage established by the Fair Labor Standards Act . He renews his support of a " Full Employment " measure which would involve the use of Government credit to create jobs " if all other measures should fail to prevent prolonged unemployment . " He goes beyond the platform of the Democratic party to urge permanent status for the Fair Employment Practices Committee . He has some timely suggestions to make in the matter of the care and relief of veterans . He recommends the prompt enactment of a transitional tax bill , to provide limited reductions for 1946 . He believes in general that the action of Congress on the question of taxes " will play a vital role in attaining a prosperous peace . " But at the same time he favors the policy ( which has now become bipartisan , with the endorsement of both political parties ) of large new Government expenditures for the support of farm prices , large new expenditures for the development of vast public works , for Federal subsidies to housing , for the expansion of Social Security and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : are for all Americans "  --  the latter two tibjects to be dealt with in separate messages to follow this one . In the field of foreign policy the President 's recommendations are thoroughly consistent with the strong policy of international cooperation which he has done so much to encourage and to translate into action during his five eventful months as head of the 3overnment . He urges that the cri ; erion for the settlement of Lend-Lease accounts be the establishment of col ditions which " will permit generally sound world-wide economy and col tribute to international peace and of own national economy . " He recognize " the need for additional interim lendin power to insure a rapid and successfi transition to peacetime world trade , and promises further specific recoil : mendations in this matter . He advise ( as did President Roosevelt , the promr repeal of the antediluvian Johnson Aci which still puts a ban on private foi eign loans . He urgewfull and generou American support of UNRRA . He bid us recognize the responsibilities whicl we have assumed as a member of th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which now begin with the military oc cupation of the defeated nations whic made war upon us . That we may can. : out these responsibilities adequately to renews his sound recommendation tha Selective Service be continued as means of making certain that th ( armed forces will not suffer , nor th ( veterans overseas be penalized by fur ther long absence from their homes through lack of volunteers . Finally , he recognizes that " the ful needs of our national security run fai beyond this interim period of transition , " and  --  here he leads the way in. deed ? he promises to submit to Congress at this session " a comprehensive and continuous program of national security , including a universal training program , unification of the armed services , and the use and control of atomic energy . "                     