@@708470

txt Crowning their present offensive with its greatest triumph , American forces have captured Cologne , metropolis of the Rhineland and the largest German city to fall into Allied hands on any front thus far . In a comparatively light battle of only two days , American tanks and troops fought their way for more than three miles through rubble-strewn streets , including those of the cluttered " Old Town , " where the Germans were expected to make their last stand , and , racing past the towering Dom cathedral , reached the Rhine . That sealed the fate of the city . The swift capture of this great traffic and industrial center surpassed even the highest hopes . It was almost a case of " we came , we saw , we conquered . " But , contrary to their performance in Aachen and Budapest and many cities on the Russian front , the Germans were apparently incapable of putting up a real resistance . The best they could do was to attempt to delay our advancing troops by a desultory defense of key positions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retreated through a narrow corridor toward Bonn . Perhaps the German Command was satisfied with the ruin it had already brought to this ancient town . For a preliminary survey reveals a scene of appalling wreckage . Nearly 85 per cent of the whole city , and nearly 95 per cent of its most picturesque medieval section , are destroyed . Despite this quick surrender , which the Germans will probably represent as a more or less voluntary evacuation , the lessons of the fall of Cologne will not be lost upon the German public . For the surrender means that not only Cologne , but the whole Rhineland has been lost ; and it means further that the vaunted Westwall , which was to be the impregnable shield behind which Hitler planned to wage his wars with impunity , has collapsed . All the sweat and labor , all the money and all the cunning that went into the construction of this strongest defense system in the world have proved vain , and neither its dragon 's teeth nor its tank traps , neither its pillboxes nor its underground forts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to halt the Allied armies . Once again it has been proved that no defense system is stronger than the defenders manning it , and the strength of the defenders can be measured only in relation to the attacking forces . The results of the last twelve days have demonstrated how vastly superior the latter are . And the final proof of that has been furnished not merely by the concentrated Allied forces in the north , but also by the American Third Army farther south , which has broken through difficult terrain for an advance of thirty-two miles to within twenty miles of the Rhine near Coblenz , headquarters of the American occupying forces after the last war . Whatever the early intentions of the German Command may have been , it is now rapidly withdrawing across the Rhine all the forces it can save . For all practical purposes , the battle of the Rhineland is coming to a close ; what remains is now merely a mopping-up operation . All this lends special significance to Prime Minister Churchill 's visit yesterday to conquered German territory , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler personally . " Nearly seven years ago another British Prime Minister thrice visited Germany in a desperate effort to avert this war and save " peace in our time . " But Hitler and his Nazis merely laughed at the " man with the umbrella , " and ** his pleas for peace as another demonstration of the decadence of the democracies . Now the forces of democracy are mounting their own " Watch on the Rhine . " And though the Rhine itself must still be crossed before final victory becomes possible , Mr. Churchill rightly declares that no river has ever proved to be an insurmountable obstacle . " One good strong heave all together will end the war in Europe , " Mr. Churchill told the assembled Arne ( officers . The fact that he made this announcement immediately after at tending a conference of Allied corn manders under General Eisenhower suggests that the beginning of this las great " heave " is not far off .                     