@@707156

txt Five weeks ' experience shows that the job freeze has chilled workers ' enthusiasm to change employers . However , it has n't quickfrozen essential workers in their wgrtime tasks . Labor turnover has slowed down . But men who really want to quit find ways to by-pass the Government 's " economic stabilization " order . These are the highlights brought out by a survey of half a dozen big industrial cities . Personnel men in war plants and local representatives of the War Manpower Commission agree that there is less pirating of labor by employers . This check-rip shows more than anything else . however , that there still is a tremendous amount of confusion  --  not only about results of the order but how to operate under it . Experience In Philadelphia Area In the Philadelphia area , for instance , the War Manpower Commission says that a limited survey shows the job freeze order has cut down the labor turnover from a previous 6.7 ; ( of the total number of workers ) per month . to about 2% now . But a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that turnover is 7.6% a month . Radio Corp . of America , at its Camden plant near Philadelphia . has a turnover rate of 3% to 6% , about what it used to be before the order . In Cleveland . where a voluntary job stabilization plan was in operation for months before the job freeze . both management and labor leaders wanted the W.M.C. order and are cooperating with it . But even these people point out that a man in one plant who wants to take a better-paying job in another plant may " soldier " at his task until he becomes worthless to his present employer who practically is forced to issue the necessary certificate of availability which permits him to take the other job . - . These and other evasive tactics help the workers to get around the order . There is the " 30-day cheater " who quits one job and takes a " vacation " for 30 days or more , after which he does n't need a certificate . To atop this practice all local W.M C. offices now require that even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement from the United States Employment Service even before he can take another essential industry job . Los Angeles Employers Skeptical Los Angeles employers , more frankly skeptical about the order , say workers will use every excuse to change jobs , and get away with it : or they will lay down on the job , drink , or otherwise do something to get fired . Personnel men hold that they can not get around the old American custom whereby a man can leave a job if he wants to They say the freeze order ca n't be policed. and " if you ca n't police it you ca n't enforce it . " An R.C.A. personnel man agrees that a worker only has to make himself disagreeable enough and he will get his release order . Here are the " outs " for a man who wants to change jobs : A certificate from U.S.E S. cities surveyed reported that apparently these are easy to get Seven-day idleness . Anyone can qualify under this and many do . Failure to be employed up to full 40 hours . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to recognize Geographical clause ( worker has to go too far to his present job ) . The worker 's claim that he is not being employed at his full skill . The claim he will be aiding the war effort more elsewhere . Workers who want to change jobs are trying all these loopholes . Philadelphia war plants had been working under their own general agreement against pirating , and the net effect of the W.NI C order , for them , has been that job releases are handled by the W M.C. rather than between the companies themselves Lets Government Decide Ca ? . f ... Thus the E G. Budd Manufacturing Co has taken from the personnel men the responsibility of refusing men on job releases , and put it into the hands of the Government The company expects a decrease in requests for release . since the employe now will realize that his request must be based on proof that it will aid the war program , and nothing else One big utility holding company . operat- ing in New Jersey , Pennsylvania and Delaware . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan 's terms and have not granted departing employes the statement of availability unless for a specific statement such as use of higher skill ; moving solely for higher pay is out . Some generating station men working for the utility have tried to switch jobs to a war plant where the pay was higher . They could not be replaced , so the statement of availability was refused . But the result has been a dissatisfied employe . Many of them go to the C.I.O. representative who puts on the heat to get the man permission to leave , on the grounds that the new job requires ' . ' higher skill and a maximum use of that skill "  --  a pretty difficult thing to prove . Yet instances have been cited whereby the C.I.O. representative has enabled the man to switch jobs within 10 days . compared with the 30 days which he normally has to stay idle to prove he was without work when seeking a transfer . One large Chicago war plant says piracy and the rate Of severance have dropped since the freeze order went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strict interpretation because it needs workers so badly . Most Chicago war plants are so short of manpower they will put up a fight to hold any worker they regard as essential . May Mean Fewer Aircraft Workers The aircraft industry is reported worried that the freeze order may stop the transfer of workers from less essential to their industry . especially if the draft creates new gaps in their ranks . Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp. , says new applicants for jobs have fallen off somewhat since the freeze order went in . In Philadelphia the Government itself is accused of drawing the men from other employers , by the higher pay offered in shipyards . arsenals , and the Navy Yard On the other hand the San Francisco Bay area reports a generally favorable reaction to the job-freeze , and one shipyard says the order has cut changes 50r ? , - and stopped workers from shopping around . But around Los Angeles . where the order is regarded as unsuccessful figures on job changes for the period May ** 15. as compiled by the W M C showJob certificates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked before . 10.582 : in-migrant unemployed those who have come from other areas ) . 7.127 , less essential Industry workers , 8.609 : essential job workers changes 7.450 : total changes . 33.668. total denied changes . 5 2S9 . For the preceding period . April 15-April 30 the figures arc Resident unemployed 8,039 . Im-migrants. 6,721 , less essential . 9,820 : essential . 6.533 : total changes . 31,113 : denied , 3,551 . W.M.C. officials at Boston said pirating of labor had been j retty effectively eliminated , with employers realizing they are following a policy of enlightened selfishness . if nothing else , in shunning such practices . Employers are learning . according to the W.M.O. , that it is frequently more important to keep good men in their own plants than to take a chance on hiring away from other plants men who may . or may not . turn out to be good workers .                     