@@710905

txt W. Averell Harriman , Secretary of Commerce , told Congress today that the Administration would limit application of the proposed allocation , priority and inventory control powers over bade industrial commodities to steel for the present and to " a very few ma= terials " in the future . Such controls would be extended to other scarce items as the need arose only after public hearings and consultation with the industries affected , he said . Mr. Harriman testified before the Joint Committee on the Economic Report in support of President Truman 's recommendations for revival of consumer credit controls , allocation of railroad equipment and facilities , extension of export controls and the priority and allocation powers over basic industrial commodities . These items in the President 's ten-point anti-inflation program , he explained , were of primary% interest to the Department of Commerce . While Clinton P. Anderson , secretary of Agriculture , gave his unqualified endorsement to Mr. rruman 's request for stand-by price control and rationing powers n testifying before the House 3anking and Currency Committee , 1:r . Harriman touched on those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee 's leciSion to exclude them from its study for the present . In. requesting extension - and strengthening of export control authority , however , Mr. Harriman indicated that the Administration vould soon ask for the power to , set price ceilings on items sold for export . " There is a tendency for inflated world prices to infiltrate into the domestic economy , " he stated . " Foreign purchasers are often willing to pay prices substantially above the domestic price of scarce materials . " The effect is for exporters to bid up prices in this country , draining supplies and depleting more rapidly the dollar-exchange reserves of recipient countries , he testified . Asserting that it would be " the better part of prudence " to take precautionary measures now in the event rationing and price and wage control should prove to be necessary , Mr. Harriman said the Administration was now preparing for presentation of those proposals to the appropriate Congressional committees . " In certain areas price controls are needed now , as indicated in the export field , " he said . Under sustained attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Republican , of Ohio , Mr. Harriman vigorously defended the Administration 's failure to exercise its export control powers more broadly . He also defended the Administration 's policies with respect to credit for housing , and criticized by Mr. Taft as a much greater inflationary factor than consumer credit . Mr. Taft contended that many items , such as automobiles , should be under export control ; that the power to reject export license applications should be used to discourage black markets of United States products in foreign countries , and that the amount of exports to non-European countries might be reduced substantially . " Unless you can carry this thing through to the consumer , I do n't see what you accomplish by your controls , " Mr. Taft said . t " Why should n't American automobile manufacturers get the extra profits rather than black marketers in Mexico and Cuba ? " Mr. Harriman said all possible influence would be exercised to eliminate foreign black markets , along with effecting stabilization of foreign currencies , " but we must go to them with clean hands . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars that are actually new . As for blanketing more articles under export control , Mr. Harriman said Congress had not appropriated sufficient funds to do the job effectively . He said an additional $3,450,000 would be needed this year to add 690 employes . Asked by Mr. Taft if " we should n't ration those foreign countries before we ration ourselves , " Mr. Harriman said that reciprocal trade with many nonEuropean nations was necessary to provide materials needed in the United States . He cited manganese and coffee from Brazil . " I certainly do n't think we should scrap the good-neighbor policy , " he said . Nor would he favor " a policy of economic isolation , " he added in reply to a question by Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney , Democrat , of Wyoming . Mr. Taft noted that Chairman Marriner S. Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board , in testimony yesterday , had criticized as dangerously inflationary the Government 's policy of making credit easily available to purchasers of housing . " Consumer credit is peanuts as compared to housing credit . " Mr. Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in view of its recent expansion at the rate of $5,000,000,000 annually , or five times that of consumer credit . He asked why one should be curbed and the other permitted to expand . " I do n't quite see the difference , " he remarked . " The difference , " Mr. Harriman replied , " is between veterans and others not having a decent place to live and any one of us having to wait for a period to turn in a second-hand car on a new one . " Mr. Harriman informed the committee that John W. Snyder , Secretary of the Treasury , would present the Administration 's plan for curbing inflationary bank credit . He will appear before the economic committee on Friday .                     