@@711589

txt President Truman and Governor Dewey are so one-sidedly juggling their claims , and each is trying to preempt such exclusive . partisan credit for creating the bipartisan foreign policy that it is imperative to look at the record objectively and with no purpose other than to get at the facts . J. A A Mr. Truman has said in Saint Paul and in Mankato , Minn. , that the Republican candidates are " risky , recent converts " to international bipartisanship and that " they seek to curry favor by putting on the mantle of such principles in order to further their own political ambitions . " That is campaign oratory . It is not supported by the facts . There is no significant evidence that the principal Republican leaders have not been giving and are not giving today solid , sincere , and secure support to the two-party waging of the peace . Mr. Dewey has said in Louisville , " I first proposed to Secretary Hull during the election campaign four years ago that we have cooperation between our two parties to win the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a result , both parties began to work together . " That , too , is campaign oratory . It is not supported by the facts . The objective evidence does not back up the statement that foreign-policy bipartisanship began with Mr. Dewey  --  though he contributed usefully to it ; nor does it back up any claim that Mr. Truman himself has- done more than contribute faithfully to a bipartisanship which already was well advanced when he took office . Washington correspondents have watched the evolution of bipartisanship in foreign pol icy intimately , continuously , and at first hand for eight years , and , for the record at least , here is a frank and detached account of the events : The beginnings of bipartisan foreign policy go back signally to Wendell L. Willkie , the first internationalist Republican presidential nominee , who virtually picked up the Republican Party by its bootstraps , tore it from its previous isolationist moorings , and headed it face on toward the direction of world leadership . Mr. Willkie took the controversial peacetime draft out of the 1940 campaign . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Allied cause . His vigorous backing of the Lend-Lease Act was indispensable to its enactment . By 1942 American opinion was pressing its leaders to bring the United Nations into a permanent peacetime organization . President Roosevelt appeared.to . be holding back , disposed to wait until the fighting was over , the war was won . It was through the energy and the initiative of two Republican and two Democratic senators  --  the famous team of Senators Joseph H. Ball , Harold H. Burton , Carl A. Hatch , and Lister Hill  --  that Congress passed a resolution , in which both parties joined almost unanimously , urging the President to act at once . Shbrtly thereafter Mr. Roosevelt sent Cordell Hull to a Big Four conference in Moscow , at ' which the decision to create the UN was first made . Next came the 1944 presidential campaign and the Hull-Dewey cooperation . The origin of that cooperation stemmed from a State Department press conference . It was in ' early September , and representatives of Russia , Britain , France , and the United States were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first draft of the UN- Charter . Mr. Hull was relating these plans to the Washington reporters . When nothing was said about two-party , participation , a representative of The Christian Science Monitor asked the Secretary of State if he planned or would welcome consultation with Governor Dewey . He said he would . That was the sum of his answer . The next day Governor Dewey announced that he was accepting Mr. Hull 's offer of two-party cooperation , and within 24 hours John Foster Dulles was calling on Mr. Hull as Governor Dewey 's spokesman and representative . Thus far , bipartisanship was limited to Mr. Willkie 's actions in 1940 and after and to the writing of the first draft of the UN Charter . It has grown and prospered by the force of many events and by the hands of many collaborators . President Roosevelt appointed a completely bipartisan American delegation to the San Francisco Conference , and Governor Dewey is completely right in giving credit for greatly strengthening the United Nations constitution to Republicans , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Harold E. Stassen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , Secretary Byrnes and Secretary Marshall , Senator Vandenberg , and Mr. Dulles have been the main leaders in shaping and in implementing the two-party approach to world policy which has enabled the Milted States to speak and act with a strong , unified voice . Campaign oratory aside , the biggest political fact about the nation 's . bipartisan foreign policy is that if either party repudiated it , that party would be repudiated at the polls . 