@@706252

txt Dr. H. V. van Mook , Lieutenant lands Indies , said here today upon his return from the United States that the policy of constantly retiring to prepared positions could lead to the United Nations loss of the war . Urging the democracies to assume the offensive , to seek the enemy and fight him , Dr. van Mook said the Indies would fight as long as humanly possible . Java could be held for a time without assistance , he added , and the Indies had faced the prospect of having to fight alone for so long that if they had to do so it would not be a great shock . But defeat might mean more than the defeat of the Indies and although the Japanese might not immediately attack Australia , they would help the Axis to win the war by moving against the Middle East or Russia . Dr. van Mook thought that if the Indies fell , the Japanese would just blockade Australia , confining themselves to nuisance raids on the larger cities . The immediate capture of Australia , he suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief aim was conquest of the Indies , which was essential to Jap-anese economy , and then there would be an attempt to consolidate gains by helping Adolf Hitler , or otherwise Japan could not hold what she had won . But there was nothing more certain than that the Japanese would deal with Australia afterward . Planes Needed First " North of Australia is. the place to contact the enemy , " Dr. van Mook said . " We should pour in planes to get air parity , then send ships . The Japanese are using ships recklessly and we could imitate their example instead of sitting down wondering how they did things . If Japan did not attack Russia , Russia would attack Japan . " Dr. van Mook also said , according to The United Press , that , while " there may have been a failure " in the United States at first to understand the elements involved in the war , American attention is now " turning more toward the Pacific than toward Europe . " He added that the American people and their President are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about things in a very American way in the next few months , swinging over entirely to war production . " The Cabinet War Council reviewed Australia 's defensive plans in light of the fall of Singapore , with Dr. van Mook participating . 1 The plans are based on recognition that if the last remaining external defense line  --  in the Indies  --  is breached , Australia must adopt a continental defense strategy wherein it is assumed that it would have all possible help from others of the United Nations . Prime Minister John Curtin is expected to give a secret session of Parliament in Canberra Friday an outline of the plans . If an invasion could be resisted or even kept within narrow limits until next midwinter , the expansion of Australia 's defensive strength is expected to be so increased that the country would be able to deal confidently with an enemy operating over long and tenuous lines of communication . All discussions assume that Java can not long resist the powerful Japanese amphibian forces . Mr. Curtin is now in the hospital with gastritis arising from nervous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to Canberra tomorrow . The government has not explained details of the complete mobilization of national resources announced yesterday , not wishing to give opportunities for forestalling regulations not yet gazetted . Meanwhile the government already is announcing measures to implement the new economic policy . The Minister of War Organization for Industry , J. J. Dedman , has proclaimed total prohibition to extend from February on the manufacture of a wide range of nonessentials in Victoria and South Australia , where labor for war industries is most urgently needed . Prohibited articles that are manufactured in other States can not be exported to these States . The prohibited list includes certain types of furniture , jewelry other than wedding rings , lawn mowers , men 's evening wear , trailers , musical instruments , billiard tables , carpet sweepers , confetti , deck chairs , electric dish-washing machines and fur coats . The prices for all these articles have been pegged at rates prevailing on Feb. 10 . Commercial radiophone service between Australia and the United States and the Netherlands Indies has been halted effective Saturday , The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday morning declaring that Australia 's one chance of survival was to do the utmost to save Java .                     