@@705246

txt In our issue of yesterday were reports from a score of cities testifying to the tremendous housing shortage that is developing in the industrial towns where airplane and armament factories and shipyards are located . To relieve this housing shortage , to prevent its growth , is a vital part of the defense program itself . Workmen and their families must be housed in healthy and reasonably comfortable conditions if for no other reason than to prevent huge labor turnovers and make it possible for the workers to give their maximum efforts for production . What is the solution of this problem ? The details are complicated , but the central principles that should guide us are not . It is obvious that , though private industry must be enlisted to the fullest extent possible , much of the task must be done by governmental agency . As C. F. Palmer , the housing coordinator of the National Defense Advisory Commission , has pointed out , private industry can not meet the entire need , because in most of the towns and localities where the housing is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment may last more than a few years . We must recognize , on the other hand , that though there are a few points in common , the program needed now is essentially different from that which the United States Housing Authority has been carrying on in recent years . It is not an orthodox " slum clearance " program ; and the present emergency can not and must not be used as an excuse for an indiscriminate extension of " slum clearance " projects . On the contrary , projects of this sort should be temporarily abandoned or deferred , unless they are a direct aid to defense , for it is on projects ix the latter sort that all efforts must now be concentrated . The Federal housing coordinator estimates that $700,000,000 worth of defense housing is needed over the country . While presumably the greater part of this work will be left to private industry , there is available for housing $290,000,000 in Federal funds . How should these funds be spent , at , what points , and in what sort of housing ? The nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should go where there has been or threatens to be the greatest overcrowding of workers , the greatest industrial expansion . But we should recognize that the emergency housing shortage is not general ; it is localized . There has not been a sudden increase in the country 's population requiring a sudden net addition to our shelter . What has happened is merely that workers and their families have been called from one place to another . Overcrowding around defense plants means , indeed , less crowding elsewhere . Part of the solution of the present problem , therefore , is clearly the erection of movable housing . It is important that this should be properly understood . It is foolish to erect great numbers of fixed dwellings near a defense factory or a shipyard which might , a few years from now , be left without orders and forced to drop the new workers it had employed , who would then go , to other towns or return to those from which they had come . This would be wasteful , not merely from the standpoint of local real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be socially wasteful in the broadest sense . For it would leave a series of those depressing " ghost towns " which have so often flourished and died in our history . Movable housing need not mean makeshift or jerry-built housing . Government and industry should build workers ' houses that are comfortable , durable and sound . These houses in many cases should be " temporary , " but temporary not with regard to their durability but their location . They should be transportable from one town to another . This can be done by prefabrication , by the Manufacture of standardized houses or standardized sections and parts capable , for example , of being bolted together or unbolted and put on freight cars for shipment elsewhere . One of the chief reasons why the dreams of pre-fabricated housing have so far failed of realization is that an assured market has not existed for any individual private firm on a sufficiently great scale to make mass production profitable or possible . But the need now exists on a huge scale ; governmental funds are available commensurate with the need . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in housing once the preliminary work was done . Houses could be literally " mobilized " in our defense effort at the points where they were most needed . And they could be " demobilized " also after the war  --  salvaged and redistributed to the points where they were most needed at Ulf time . This is a need and a possible pr ( gram to challenge the enterprise an enlist the cooperation of America Government and industry in a gref effort .                     