@@706610

txt Last week the War Labor Board , passing on a steel workers ' wage demand , adopted a " formula " which if followed would open wide the door to an incalculable price inflation . Yet both commodity and stock markets closed Saturday at lower levels than at the previous week 's end . This looks like a paradox , particularly if one recalls how the markets generally had responded to inflation talk during the preceding fortnight . But the explanation is fairly obvious . Investors and traders promptly realized that the stupidity of the Labor Board could not be allowed to prevail . Their judgment Was confirmed by President Roosevelt on Friday , when in a press conference lie as good as said that his anti-inflation program of the April 27 message had been run into the ditch . He added that he was considering sending a wrecking car to pull it out upon the road ' again . After greeting the W.L.B. award in language which savored of a strike threat , officials of the steel workers ' union discreetly voted to accept it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and particularly the cost of living . ? ? ? Actually . therefore , the week 's events pointed in the direction of n new and more resolute attempt at price control . As to that , we shall see what we shall see , Meanwhile , second-hand Information on the Administration 's attitude toward the tax hill  --  such as Senator George 's guarded remarks after his consultation with the President  --  offer no sign that the real connection between taxes and the inflation danger is understood , if it is understood , that the will to act accordingly exists , In Congress or higher up . For if individual income tax rates In the income areas already heavily taxed were raised to any height , the so-called inflationary gap ? which some government statisticians estimated at $30 billion for next year as against perhaps $15 billion or more for 1992 ? would not be reduced to any considerable extent , the reason being that the inflationary gap is not open in that tax area . Higher tax rates on corporation incomes than those proposed by the ' House committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced supply of civilian goods ; they might eivn increase it by rendering some employers the more complaisant to wage increase demands . Chairman Houghton of the House ways and means committee says that as between a tax hill more than $2 billion short of the Treasury 's irreducible minimum of additional revenue and a general sales tax , the Treasur ? shares with the farm bloc and the %Var . Labor Board the guilt of sabotaging the President 's anti-inflation program . ? ? ? Despite last week 's rise in steel production , due in part to better supply of scrap and in part to completion of furnace repairs . shortages of critical materials are a matter of increasing concern . One important producer of war goods announced the closing of two plants for that reason . Reported labor shortages at copper . lead and zinc mines are symptomatic of a generally tightening labor supply situation . But weekly carloadings reports so far continue to show overyear gains in coal , lumber . ore and miscellaneous traffic ; the decrease of in total loadings of the week to July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was due to severe declines in i.e. ' . merchandise , reflecting curtailed output of many civilian goods , and in movement of grain , for which terminal storage is lacking just as the harvest of small grains is getting full tinder way . ? ? ? So far this month the people 's war bond subscriptions have about measured up to the July quota . The Treasury presumably fixed the monthly quota for this fiscal year at $1 billion with reference to budget estimates as they were . several months ago ? and its own tax revenue expectations , More recently the idea of government subsidies to maintain price ceilings against rising costs has been pressed by the O.P.A. and has already conic into practice on a limited scale . So far , subsidies have been " arranged " through a division of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Comments on this departure by Senators Byrd and Clark , to the effect that the B.F.C. was created " to lend money , not to give it away " are almost painfully appropriate . They touch upon the great difficulty which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subsidized and the unsubsidized . Advocates of such a method of " controlling " prices have asserted that it would he used to rescue war-submerged businesses whose existence after the war was plainly desirable , but not to perpetuate any that were inefficient or superfluous . The suggestion of U.P.A. or any other government agency attempting to determine which among producing and distributing units were inefficient now , or which are to be superfluous after the war , should be enough to bury the scheme before it renders present budget calculations ana war financing plans useless .                     