@@707858

txt Eric Johnnf tha rilnrnhan Commerce of the United States , In an address made to.so v iet trade leaders yesterday and released today , urged that Russians and Americans reconcile themselves to different economic systems and carry on a flourishing business . The speech , probably the frankest and most provocative ever made in Moscow by a private individual , was at a luncheon &given; by Anastas I. Mikoyan , soviet trade commissar , and issued by Johnston today at a press conference . Johnston prefaced his speech by warning the Russians , " I am going to tell you direct , harsh busin , ss facts . No Outlook for Change . " In economic Ideology , the practice of my country is different from yours , " he said . " You are state minded , collective minded . We are most private minded , most individual minded and , gentlemen , make no mistake , we are determined to remain so or even to become more so . " He told the Russians to " realize I how completely our American Communists have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , most organized workers answering a question as to their social class replied , : rdeldie elast " " So perhaps in a way you can not blame our American Commun .. fists for their failure , " he said . " If I may put it frankly , how can they make a proletarian revolution among workers who do not even know they are proletarians ? A Sympathetic Sneeze . " Our American Communists have n't caught onto this fact . They lack originality and realism . They still follow and imitate what they think is your current policy . If you take pepper , they sneeze . If you have indigestion , they belch . They annoy our trade unions much more than they annoy our employers . " I think each of our two countries should be allowed to pursue its own economic experiment , unimpeded by the other . " Speaking of a " gulf " between the nations , he said three " bridges of practical cooperation can be thrown across it : Our common determination to bring Hitler and fascism to an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . " The bridge of export and import trade . " Elaborating on the second point Johnstoh said : " Some of you , I know , thought our private enterprise system which you think too chaotic , could not produce the necessary goods for this war . Some of us , I know , thought your state enterprise system would utterly fail to produce the necessary volume . We were both mistaken . " He suggested that Russian raw material and American machines " have no ideologies . " " They could be mediators and interpreters between us humans , " he added . While the speech was read in Russian nearly 100 Russians listened first in silence , then in laughter , and finally in applause .                     