@@708976

txt Government-incited student riots in Argentina that may usher in a national strike against the Farrell Fascist Regime . are further evidence that this Government 's rebuke of the Buenos Aires Government 's reneging on its promises of civil liberty was justified . There are ; however , elements both in Congress and among State Department officials here who are sharply critical of the unilateral methods both domestically as well as internationally that were used by the American Government to blackball Argentina and call off the Rio de Janeiro Conference scheduled for Oct. 20 that was to draft a treaty for the collective defense of this hemisphere . This criticism has temporarily held up the Senate 's approval of Spruille Braden , new Assistant Secretary of State in charge of Latin American Affairs who has just returned from a period as American Ambassador to Argentina . His blunt and outspoken criticisms of the undemocratic actions of the Farrell-Perim Regime there is credited with inflaming much of the latent local opposition that culminated in the march of constitution and freedom last month in which several hundred thousand Argentines staged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highly influential members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee are aimed at the methods the State Department followed to call off the Rio Conference . Senator Tom Connally ( D ) of Texas , Chairman , and Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg ( R ) of Michigan have both . complained that the Government 's decision to ask Brazil , the host nation , to postpone the Conference was taken without any warning to the Committee , members of which were scheduled to attend the parley as delegates and which would have had to approtre any Conference conclusions . They have also advised Dean Acheson , acting Secretary of State , that failure to consult with the other American Republics before asking postponement of the parley may harm inter-American relations by reviving the always latent fear of the Latin Americans of Washington domination . While technically the State Department has a perfect right to act thusly , the complaints of these Senators , who also reflected the thoughts of a number of their colleagues , point up the increased interest of the Senate in having its opinions sought before action by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken . Where Dispute Enters The large part the Senate played ; through having its members as delegates both at Mexico City and at San Francisco in drawing up the agreements written there was considered wise strategy and statesmanship . What these Senators now criticize is not so much the decision to postpone the Rio Conference , though some question its wisdom , as the unilateral manner in which the decision was taken .. Senator Connally is understood to have argued with Mr. Acheson that actually American disapproval of the Farrell-PerOn regime in Argentina could have been more effectively demonstrated by letting the issue come to a head at Rio than by calling off the meeting and using indirect means to exclude Argentina from treaty negotiations . There are also those in the State Department , including top ranking members fo the Latin American - Division of the Department , who have felt that the turn of events in Argentina provided an added incentive for holding the Conference rather than calling it off . Argentina either would lifive refrained from attending the meeting , rather than be publicly rebuked by its sister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its failure to live up to its Mexico city agreements . Union to Study Situation As matters now stand , the United States , still anxious to negotiate a mutual assistance treaty with its neighbors to the South  --  excepting Argentina  --  is now moving through regular diplomatic channels to attain the same end , while at the same time a Pan American Union meeting has been called to consider the Argentine situation . Events in Buenos Aires appear to be following the pattern outlined in these columns when President Farrell first reimposed a state of siege on his country . The universities have defied the President 's injunction to quit political action and the students have barricaded themselves in all six Argentine universities , in some instances eqgaging ' in fierce clashes with Nationalist groups that eyewitness reports describe as Government-incited . One student has been killed , according to reports .                     