@@706895

txt Asserting that three critical situations resulting from policies of the Office of Price Administration threatened the destruction of independent small business and with it " a breakdown on the home front , " the House Committee on Small Business filed a special report today with Speaker Rayburn and promised another which would reveal " many startling facts . " In Congressional circles the resignation of Leon Henderson as Administrator of the OPA was hailed by many as " a victory for Congress . " The committee in its report assailed the Smaller War Plants Corporation as having failed to function during the six months of its existence and blamed its management and attacked administrative agencies in general for requiring unnecessary reports and issuing a multiplicity of complex regulations . Filing of the interim report lol1 lowed an investigation made by the committee of the effect of the war effort on small business in the Southern and Southwestern sections of the country . Hearings were held in nine major cities and testimony was taken , the report stated , from some 200 witnesses , including representatives of eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Need of Relief " The inquiry had uncovered some conditions , the report stated , which were so urgently in need of relief that they should be called immediately to the attention of the Congress , the administrative agencies involved , and the country . " Our existing system of distribution of consumer goods has been seriously undermined and weakened , " the committee reported , " as a result of the policies thus far pursued by the Office of Price Administration and a collapse which might greatly imperil the entire war effort appeared inevitable unless these policies are speedily corrected . " Two of the conditions , the committee held , could be adjusted by the OPA and the War Production Board under existing law . Price squeezes , so numerous as to constitute " an insuperable " obstacle to thousands of distributors remaining in business , were forcing the transaction of business at a loss , the committee stated . Current replacement costs in some instances , it asserted , were actually higher than the ceiling prices . The outlook for the supplying of adequate dairy products to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the report , unless the OPA revised ceiling prices so as to halt an impending " wholesale slaughter " of milk cows . Urgent appeals either had been " completely ignored , " it added , or were handled with so much red tape and " beaureaucratic buckpassing " as to leave the complainants " bewildered . " Pleas for Distributors As a remedy the committee recommended passing on cost increases , plus reasonable operating mark-ups , to protect distributors from actual loss . Besides the price squeezes , it was asserted , the distributor faces an acute problem in obtaining his fair share of available consumer goods . In its attack on the War Plants Corporation , which was created June 6 to assist smaller manufacturers in getting war contracts , the committee asserted that the fate of " thousands " of manufacturers depended to large extent upon effective functioning of this agency . " Negligible " Results " The committee was shocked , " it reported , " to find that though the corporation has been in existence for nearly six months , its results in the important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically ' negligible . " In all of the localities visited , the report added , the committee found many unused facilities , though distressed small manufacturers'had been trying " desperately " to obtain contracts to produce necessary war materials . Recalling that the Senate and House Small Business Committees jointly took testimony earlier this week from Lou E. Holland , chairman of the War Plants Corporation , the report stated : " It is the considered opinion of the House committee that the failure of the program of the Smaller War Plants Corporation as evidenced in our hearings , can be attributed to the management of the corporation . " The report was signed by Representative Patman of Texas , the chairman of the committee , which also includes Representatives Bulwinkle of North Carolina , Kelley of Illinois , Fitzgerald of Connecticut , Halleck of Indiana , Leonard W. Hall of New York and Ploeser of Missouri .                     