@@705000

txt Preliminary official estimates for this year 's grain harvest indicated today that the German Government looks for a crop of 24,600,000 tons . This is said to be only 2 per cent under the average for the years 1934 to 1939 . Informed sources said Germany would have a bumper crop of potatoes , beets and other root crops . PARIS , Sept. 6 ( via Berlin , Delayed ) ( ? P ) ? A shortage of the agricultural section of the German Military Administration . They said the prospective shortage resulted directly from military operations . Reports received in Washingington stated that the Berlin Government had lodged with the French Government in /Vichy demand for a large amount of food and raw materials in unoccupied France . It was stated that more than halt of France 's available stocks of these materials were included in the demand . The German officials stated that German forces were not sending large quantities of food from France into Germany . Wheat flour is being exported into the Reich from France , they svid , but only in return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Primary Reason The primary reason for the prospective shortage , these officials said , was the removal by the French Government of between 8,000,000 and 10,000,000 inhabitants from Departments of Northern France when the war started . Included in this number were between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000 agricultural workers . This exodus , they pointed out , had two effects . First , the crops which would have been planted in early May were forgotten after the first German offensive began ' May 10 . Second , crops which , like the first cutting of hay , would have been harvested in the same period , were left standing in the fields . Authoritative Get man sources said the crop of sugar beets would be only between 20 and 25 per cent of normal in the northern region , where 95 ' per cent of all French sugar beet growing is concentrated . Sufficient Grain The grain harvest in the occupied zone , they predicted , would be about 70 per cent of normal , but , they said , it would be sufficient with existing stocks to carry over for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of normal at the end of May when removal of the population was at its height . There still was possible two additional cuttings , after the meager first one , for clover , hay and alfalfa . The most urgent rationing needs concern meat and fat , German sources said . One reason given was that cattle herds in Northern France were abandoned by fleeing populations , resulting in considerable losses of livestock . Steps already have been taken to boost wheat production in 19,41 through an increase in the planted acreage . An inevitable answer to these prospective shortages , German officials said , is a strict rationing system such as Germany has undergone for several years and which now have been instituted in the Netherlands and Belgium                     