@@706882

txt CENSORSHIP BARED NAZI U-BOAT RING , SENATORS ARE TOLD Capt . Zacharias of Navy Says at Hearing Atlantic Sinkings Then Fell Off Sharply LEGISLATION NOW LIKELY Biddle and Hoover Testify on How Foe Was Blocked in Many Alaska Communications By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , Dec. 14 ? Credit in breaking up a ring which was aiding Axis agents to refuel Nazi submarines off the Atlantic Coast , and in the sharp reduction in sinkings of American and Allied ships , was given today to the censoring of communications passing between the United States and one of its territories by Captain Ellis M. Zacharias , acting director of Naval Intelligence . " All of you gentlemen recall the extensive submarine activities off the Atlantic Coast , " Captain Zacharias suggested almost casually to the Senate Judiciary Committee . " Well , through information coming to us we were able to identify certain individuals we believed were engaged in refueling submarines . The number coming to our attention in the beginning was very limited . Through communications passing between them we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It became obvious that action had to be taken . It was , and it resulted in the incarceration of certain individuals . Following this atton the refueling suddenly subsided and the submarine activities off the coast suddenly disappeared . " Biddle Urges Legislation Captain Zacharias made this disclosure as he joined Attorney General Biddle , J. Edgar Hoover , director of the F. B. I. , and Brig . Gen. Hayes . A. Kroner , Deputy Army Chief of Staff , G-2 , to urge the committee to Sponsor legislation giving statutory authority for operations of the censorship between this country and all of its territories and possessions . Such a censorship has been in effect nearly a year , under general powers assumed by the President as Commander in Chief . The authorizing legislation now under consideration once passed both the House and Senate , but the Senate recalled it after Dr. Ernest Cruening , Governor of Alaska , complained of alleged abuses of censorship of mail going into that territory . The bill appeared tonight to be // CENSORSHIP BARED NAZI U-BOAT RING // on safe ground , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned . Committee members voiced satisfaction over the testimony of the official witnesses . A new draft of the measure setting up safeguards against abuses of civilian rights , is likely to be reported early in the coming session , Senator Van Nuys , the chairman , predicted . Committee complaint that the Office of Censorship , under Byron Price , was functioning beyond the limits of existing censorship law , and therefore illegally , in passing upon communications between the continental United States and its possessions , was met vigorously by the Attorney General 's repeated assertions that the powers of the Commander in Chief made legislation unnecessary . Legislation was desirable , however , he held , so that penalties for violations could be imposed by law . Vital News for Enemy Is Blocked While acting under Presidential authority . Mr. Biddle said , the censorship of communications between this country and territorial outposts , which he held were combat zones in themselves , had disclosed that information of vital military importance was being slipped deliberately or unwittingly into letters and other forms of interchange . The arrival of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements of convoys , disclosures of locations of bases for fighting aircraft and reports on the condition of planes , plans of air fields in Alaska and even the number , types and disposition of troops in that territory had been put into mails and discovered through censorship . Some communications , Mr. Biddle added , contained boasts of avoiding censorship . " That is the sort of thing we must prevent , " the committee was told . The censoring of domestic mail , the Attorney General said , as Senator Danaher of Connecticut asked whether a line should not be drawn somewhere in the granting of authorizations , was " neither asked for nor desired . " Some of the censoring against which complaint had been raised , Mr. Danaher held , was little less than " snooping , " and the passing of excerpts from personal mail on to various agencies of the government . In such a large establishment as the Office of Censorship , Mr. Biddle said , there would be found examples of mistakes and blunders . He did not condone any of the abuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be drawn . " It must be based upon the reasonableness of it , " he said . Follows British System In setting up the censorship between this country and the territories . Mr. Hoover told the committee , the F. B. I. , to which the task was assigned by the President immediately after Pearl Harbor and before the office headed by Mr. Price was set up , followed the British system of censorship between the United Kingdom and the Dominions . As a result , Mr. Hoover said , the F. B. I. had received important information concerning espionage . sabotage and general subversive activities . This information , he related , concerned Army bases , railroad and convoy movements , the deployment of troops and selective draft evasions . Important captures had been made , he said . The witnesses told in detail how the Office of Censorship , the F. B 1 . and the Army and Navy Intelligence Services cooperated in investigations to block the transmission of information that would give aid to the enemy . A merging of the activities under a single head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn it all over to a single civilian agency already experienced in investigative work ? " suggested Senator McCarran of Nevada . " Because the activities extended to Alaska , to Guadalcanal and to other battle fronts , and we do not have civilian offices there , Mr. Hoover replied .                     