@@707710

txt Declaring that the " hour of our greatest effort and action is approaching , " Prime Minister Churchill called on the British people tonight to face the coming trials , which , he said , might include new forms of attack by the enemy , with the " same cool , strong nerves , the same toughness of fiber " they showed in the days when their country stood up alone to the Nazi blitz . It was the Prime Minister 's first broadcast since his recent illness . Those who had looked to it with the hope that it would illumine some of the darker patches of British and Allied diplomacy were disappointed . It was a combination survey of the war as it is being fought on many fronts and defense of his administration from critics who have been complaining that it has been dilatory in meeting the demands for domestic reforms . Warns of Invasion Feints The fifty-minute address contained many expressions of confidence in an Allied victory both in Europe and in the Pacific , but it was in no sense a call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister 's closing words taken alone might have sounded so . But he qualified them with a warning that before the moments when " the whole circle of avenging nations will hurl themselves upon the foe and batter out the life of the cruellest tyranny Which has ever sought to bar the progress of mankind " there would be " many false alarms , many feints and many dress rehearsals " to baffle the enemy . Significantly perhaps also the Prime Minister dwelt upon the difficulties of amphibious operations with considerable stress upon how difficult it was for a land power like Russia always to understand them . In another part of his speech Mr. Churchill spoke of what the vast concentration of Allied air power in this country and in Italy might be expected to do to the enemy in the " months to come . " He declared that the British now had a larger air force than they possessed a year ago but said that " our American ally has now definitely overtaken and outnumbered us in the mighty air force they have established here . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Stalingrad constituted the greatest cause of Hitler 's undoing . " The British and American people are filled with genuine admiration for the military triumphs of the Russian Army , " he said . " I have paid repeated tributes to their splendid deeds , and now I must tell you that the advance of their armies from Stalingrad to the Dniester River , with vanguards reaching out toward the Prut  --  a distance of 900 miles accomplished in a single year  --  constitutes the I greatest cause of Hitler 's undoing . " Since I spoke to you last , not only have the Hun invaders been driven from the land they had ravaged , but the guts of the German Army have been largely torn out , by Russian valor and generalship . The peoples of all the Russias have been fortunate in finding in their j supreme ordeal of agony a warrior ' leader , Marshal Stalin , whose authority enables him to combine and control the movements of armies numbered by many millionsl upon a front of nearly 2,000 miles , and to impart a unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been very good for Soviet Russia , and very good for all her Allies . " In discussing the distance from Stalingrad to the Prut River , Mr. Churchill apparently was referring to the overland distance . The direct airline distance is about 800 miles . The Prime Minister repeated his pledge that Britain would fight as an ally of the United States until Japan had been defeated but said that events were moving so fast in the Pacific now that the " interval " between Hitler 's downfall and victory in the Far Eastern War might not be as great as he feared , when he spoke a year ago . He added that the Japanese were showing " signs of great weakness " that he attributed to the " attrition of their shipping , especially their oil tankers and their air forces . " A large part of his speech was intended solely for domestic consumption . The gist of it was that his Administration had been doing pretty well in waging the war abroad and solving the urgent problems at home . Although he was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , educational reform , a national health service bill and extensions of the national insurance program were pretty well advanced already . He added that if the housing problem had not been tackled as energetically it was because neither manpower nor materials could be spared from the war effort .                     