@@705919

txt The State , County and Municipal Workers of America , C. I. 0 . union of civil service employes , revised its constitution today to establish machinery for strikes in government departments and public and private hospitals . By unanimous vote the union 's biennial convention rejected the argument advanced by President Roosevelt , Mayor La Guardia and scores of other government officials that civil servants could not legally strike against the government , but the organization gave assurance that it would aot invoke the strike weapon until it had exhausted " all other methods to attain its collective bargaining objectives . " Officials of the union insisted that the amendment approved today represented no change in the philosophy of a clause in the old constitution declaring that " it shall I not be a policy of this organization to engage in strikes as a means of achieving its objectives . " The nostrike clause was retained in the constitution , but it was " clarified " through the insertion of a section authorizing the national executive board to establish rules and regulations governing strike procedure for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avert strikes in public agencies , the union declared , lies in amendment of the National Labor Relations Act and the labor laws of the States to guarantee to government employes the collective bargaining rights now enjoyed by workers in private industry . The C. I. 0 . group is pressing in many parts of the country for signed agreements and exclusive bargaining recognition in departments in which it can demonstrate that it represents a majority of the employes . The National Institute of Municipal Law Officers and the National Civil Service Reform League have held that public officials can not lawfully grant either demand , but the union maintains that this is a " false thesis " and that no insuperable legal obstacles stand in the way of collective bargaining for government workers . Eight strikes were called by the union last year and there are strike threats now in four communities , but union leaders expressed hope that the pending disputes could be settled without walkouts . A committee from the union will confer with Welfare Commissioner William Hodson in New York City next week in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city relief agency . Mr. Hodson rejected an earlier demand by the union for sole recogni- tion , but no consideration is being given to strike action . When John L. Lewis granted the original charter to the S. C. M. W. A. in 1937 he emphasized that the organization would rely.on education , negotiation and legislation to gain its ends and that strikes or picketing would be in violation of the union 's policy . However , all those who spoke on the subject today , including several of the founders of the union , argued that there had never been any intention to close the door to strikes altogether , but simply to indicate that the union would turn to strikes cs a last resort only . The report of the constitution conlinittee , which was unanimously at proved by the e : legates , declared that all the strikes called by the organization had been caused by " willful and irresponsible refusal on the part of labor-hating public officials to enter into collective bargaining . " " Our desire to defend our rights is proper and should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we consider it important to assert again that we have the right to strike . There is rit , law nor any legal precedent denying us this right and we will fight with determination against any abridgement of this right . " At the same time we also assert that it will continue to be our purpose to achieve our objectives without recourse to strike action . On the contrary , we believe that the problems confronting our membership lend themselves to solution through collective bargaining negotiations and legislation . It shall be our policy in the future as it - has been in the past to seek to obtain our objectives by these means . " Delegates from New York , New Jersey , California and Indiana declared that they had been unable to " get to first base " in the negotiations with the heads of their departments so long as it was taken for granted that they would not strike . The situation changed as soon as the union took a strike vote or hinted that it was planning to take one , they added . Mary Luciel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , supported the proposal , but said that the nurses in her organization would never avail themselves of the strike'weapon because of the danger such action would entail for the patients under their care . Other speakers , including Bessie Hanan , organizer of the New York City Private Hospital local , declared that the same considerations would not apply to hospital orderlies and maintenance workers . Miss Hanan added that the strike declaration would make it possible for workers in the voluntary hospitals to tell the directors of their institutions that they were not going to " keep taking it on the chin " with respect t3 wages and working conditions . Irving Oblas , president of the Correction Department local in New York , said that the prison guards would not walk out and leave the prisoners unguarded , but C. V. Blough , head of the focal at the Michigan State Penitentiary in Jackson , asserted that a jail was the best place to strike 3ecause you could be certain the prisoners would still be there when you came back to work . Abram Flaxer , president ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested change in the constitution represented no departure from the old policy , but that it would be seized upon by the press , " reactionary employers " and legislators to " malign and slander " the union .                     