@@706877

txt Japan 's stock traders are growing pessimistic . Share prices have been moving down since June ( Battle of Midway ) , markedly since mid-November ( 2nd Battle of the Solomons ) . These declines have been In the face of official announcements of Japanese " victories " in the Pacific and heavy-handed government attempts at forcing securities prices up . All news reports In Japan are heavily censored . Pessimistic reports are impossible . Only the stock markets tell a limited version of the true situation . And stock markets are going down , according to quotations broadcast by the Tokyo radio , and picked up by American listening posts . The situation last week on the Tokyo market can be expressed best by a translation of the December 4 ( Tokyo time ) radio announcement in Japanese : " Due to yesterday 's market condition , which was completely . demoralized by a stock-exchange drop , the Japanese communique of yesterday telling of Japanese successes at Guadalcanal on November 30 failed to make any impression . The market tone this morning was exceedingly dull and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales Sooded the market and shares suffered all-around drops . Shipping and spinning shares suffered most . " Four Sources of Pessimism Seen Analysis of the declines indicates that the pessimism is due to : 1 . Rumors of Japanese defeats in the Pacific . 2 . Heavy shipping losses . 3 . The fact that government bureaucrats and the army are taking over private business right and left , forced by the need to bolster war production at any cost . 4 . Slip-ups in the Greater East Asia development program . Despite the war boom , spinning and shipping shares are lower than before the outbreek of the war , - indicating that big- business sees little chance of commercial prosperity in the Southeastern Asia " co-prosperity sphere . " Key Share Is Barometer The general course of the market is reflected In the movement of a key share  --  the bourse issue , " Tokyo Stock Exchange , new issue " ? which declined 11 points in three days last week . 34 points in the past three months , according to figures from U. S. Government sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my four-year study of the stock . 2Iy notes were lost in Japan at the outbreak of the war . ) In the past two years , since government control of the market became rigid , a drop of 10 points in three months could be considered large , 15 points extraordinary . Thirty points indicates something really serious . A drop of two to four points in three days is important : although last week 's 11-yen drop may have been due largely to expectations of new government measures controlling share prices and reorganization of the stock exchanges . " Tokyo Stock Exchange , new , " is a purely speculative share . It is bought and sold largely on rumor , speculation . " inside dope . " The earnings of the Stock Exchange have little effect on it . It is , in short , a barometer of what Japanese stock traders think of Japan 's economic situation , the political outlook or international or war prospects . Tokyo Stock Exchange . new , moved up after Japanese victories in China . It jumped at the outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan 's political and economic pos. - tion . It moved down as Tokyo tightened its system of economic control and declined regularly as America-Japan relations worsened . It moved up on reports of the damage done by Japanese planes at Pearl Harbor , continued at a high level as Japanese troops advanced in Malaya , the Philippines and the Dutch East Indies . The share hit 138 5 last June when Japanese expansion reached its peak around the time of the Battle of Midway . Delayed Midway Story Brought Drop Then came the period of Japanese reverses The true story of Midway began to leak out . American forces landed in the Solomons . The share moved down slowly . News reports crept in , by gossip and rumor under the censorship . By August 26 , the share had moved down only to 134.20 from its June peak of 138.50 . The decline grew sharper in October as American marines consolidated their positions in the Solomons , as 's men pushed the Japanese back in New Guinea By November 17 , the share was down to 115.20 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the hands of Halsey 's men in the Second Battle of the Solomons , November 18 to 15. of the quick Anglo-American victories in Africa were slow in seeping in . It was not until more than a week afterwards that the pivotal share began to move down sharply  --  to 113.80 on the Tokyo Exchange the last week in November . 107 on December 1 . 100 on December 3 . On the Osaka Exchange on December 3. the stock dropped to 99.7 . ( This is as low as the share has ever dropped ? as I recall  --  since the financial panic of the late twenties . ) News of Japanese setbacks in the Pacific apparently are reaching the stock market despite government attempts at secrecy . That is clear from the downaweeps of the markets following American successes in the Pacific . Japanese official announcements of naval " victories " are being received with cynicism by the markets . Tokyo reports heard and passed on by American official listening posts indicate that " victory " announcements fail to stop , or even check , dumping of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declines must be considered in the face of government controls : 1 . A semi-official stock concern buys key stocks which are declining . 2 . Officials constantly warn against speculation . 3 . Police grill traders who dump shares on the market . Market declines during the past few months likewise indicate growing nervousness over the future of private business in Japan . The army and the bureaucracy have had super war powers . Now there are indications that they actually are taking over the major war industries . forcing big business out of the East Asia development picture , leaving industrialists as super office boys for the bureaucrats . Declines Follow War News ? Take some exsmples : On November 20 , Tokyo announced that the aircraft industry was being amalgamated for the sake of greater war production , and that the army would have a strong hand in guiding this new set-up . The chief firm affected would be Mitsubishi Heavy Industry , Japan 's greatest war plane manufacturer ( producer of the famous Zero ) . That very day some Mitsubishi firms cut their dividends and helped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On November 24 , Tokyo announced that all Japanese " marine products organizations " would be put under central control . The same day Russo-Japanese Fisheries stock declined 3.70 yen , described in Tokyo as a " big margin . " This decline likewise disturbed the market generally . ( These two new controls are'aeemingly important chiefly as indicating that Premier Tojo meant business when he outlined his November I " Simplification of Government " program calling for the organizing of Japan 's industry under official control associations on the fascist model ) About November 16 , Tokyo announced that the government was considering practical plans to stamp out share speculation and to further control the sale of new shares . The result was that sacrifice sales flooded the market and all shares moved down by large margins . Shipbuilding issues declined 71/2 yen on the average , armaments 5 yen . 