@@707314

txt China is neither jealous nor apprehensive nor suspicious that the prospect of a close postwar association among the United States , Britain , and Russia will be harmful to its interests . It welcomes such a development as the beginning of a wider alliance of the United Nations in which Chungking would play a responsible and respected role . the defeat of Japan as definitely visible . Dr. Soong told Washington correspondents that it was confidence in victory which encouraged Chungking to announce its new // This is the authoritative answer given today by Dr. T. V. Soong , China 's Foreign IlIinistei who makes his working headquarters in Washington , to the repeated suggestion that the drawing together of Washington . London . and Moscow in an accord on postwar purposes would cause suspicion and concern on the part of their Far Eastern ally . At the same time , the Foreign Minister disclosed that his ' Government is being perpetually battered with appeasement offers from Tokyo and that they are being perpetually and peremptorily rejected . Dr. Soong holds that the objective of a three-power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that these first steps to cement the postwar unity of the United Nations must be followed by an early broadening of its base to embrace all the Allies in a worldwide system of collective security . Confidence In Victory Such a United Nations organization needs to be developed , in Dr. Soong 's view , before the war ends , and must have sufficient teeth in it to enforce just decisions . These observations from Dr. Soong stemmed from one of his rare press conferences rendered the more significant because it marked the first occasion a high Chinese ' authority in the capital has viewed , plans for liberalizing the demo ; : cratic institutions in China . The Minister issued the following statement in interpretation . of his government 's latest action : " The announcement from Chungking that , within a year after the war , a national assembly will be convened to adopt a new constitution means that China is implementing its political course . That course is in the direction of broadening and deeping democracy . The period of so-called political tutelage by the Kuomintang Party will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reins of power , and a government elected by the people will take office . " The revered leader of the Chinese revolution , Dr. Sun Yat-sen. set forth three great principles or ideals : national unity , economic security and democracy . The attainment of these principles has been delayed by repeated Japanese aggression culminating in the war that has already lasted more than six years . But , the Chinese people have never lost sight of these principles . Vindicates Sun Vat-sen " Victory is now ensured , and the time has come to make it clear that the pledge of Dr. Sun Yat-sen will be redeemed . That is why the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang , or People 's Party , has resolved that within a year after the war a democratic constiution will be solemnly adopted , and that a few months later a general election will be held , after which China will be governed by a National Congress and a government responsible to it . " All political currents will thus have equal opportunity in going before the people to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his answers to a w ide range of questions Dr. Soong revealed that China is constantly receiving peace overtures from Japan in an effort to unite Asia against the Western World . He stated that there was no prospect of their acceptance , that they appeared " liberal " only to Tokyo , and that in his judgment there is " no conscious political group " in China which would tolerate any response to such feeler . Dr. Soong expressed the opinion that the forthcoming Chinese Constitution would be fashioned principally after the American pattern of government rather than after European parliamentary systems . He said that the postwar Chinese president would be elected for a specified number of years , as in the United States , and that the President and Legislature would be independent of each other . ' All political parties will be on an equal footing , the Kuomintang no longer to occuy a favored legal position which has enabled it to exercise one-party control over the Government . The Minister was confident that complete national ' unity has now been achieved in China under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He felt that the numbers and influence of the so-called Communists was greatly exaggerated . He anticipated a great uplift of China 's economic strength and resources after the war . Dr. Soong pointed to the 16-point resolution which the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang adopted this week as providing the framework of a giant postwar industrial reconstruction program that aims to " emphasize a simultaneous development of slate and private industry " and to utilize China 's vast natural wealth and manpower . Cover FAterisive Areas The resolution covers such phase : of " planned industrial reconstruenon " as the establishment of inI du : trial areas based on the nation 's economic needs , the standardization of products , the encouragement of inventions , and the " encouragement and protection " of private industry , including governmental financial aid . As adopted by the Committee and referred to the Government " for detailed planning and execution , " the resolution also said tnat " foreign capital and technical cooperation " would be welcomed and indicated that both state and private industries of the future would be carefully supervised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second resolution adopted by the Kuomintang elaborated on the " welcoming " of foreign capital by explaining that " hereafter no restriction shall be placed on the ratio of foreign capital investment in joint enterprises " and that " aliens , in accordance with the provisions of Chinese law and ' regulations , and having received the sanction of the Chinese Gov- ' ernment , may finance their own enterprifes in China . ' ' " The Government , " the second resolution added , " shall determine at an early date which category of state enterprises may accept foreign investments and which categories may seek foreign loans . " Dr. Soong called for complete eradication of Japanese influence in strategic Korea and Formosa . Formosa , an island between , Japan and the Philippines , was ceded by China after the Sino-Japanese conflict in 1895 . Dr. Soong says this area , equal to about Massachusetts and Connecticut , is essentially Chinese . Dr. Soong said Korea should be made independent and Formosa should become a part of the Republic of China . " We do n't want to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by anyone but the Thais , " Dr. Soong aded. and China mOre1 over has no desire to control IndoChina . He said he was n't prepared to I discuss the future of Hong Kong I and Mongolia at this time .                     