@@709658

txt Britain will begin bread rationing on Sunday only half convinced that it is necessary and not at all sure that it will work but cheered by a Government statement today that the wheat crop outlook has improved so greatly that rationing may not last long anyway . After a bitter and , at times , uproarious debate , during which Winston Churchill , with much of his old vigor , led a spirited attack on the Labor Cabinet , the House of Commons rejected by 305 votes to 182 the Opposition " prayer " to annul the bread rationing order . And late tonight it looked as if most of Britain 's bakers , who yesterday threw down a direct challenge to the Government by refusing to try to make the rationing scheme work , will probably take the advice given . to them by Mr. Churchill in today 's debate as well as by John Strachey , Minister of Food , and make an effort to put the plan into effect . The stir in the country has by no means completely subsided , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' revolt came from a number of provincial towns as well as from Northern Ireland , where the Government was asked to request the exclusion of Ulster from the rationing scheme . Case Held Unconvincing In voting against the scheme the Conservatives made it plain that they were not opposed to the principle of rationing but wanted to indicate thereby Viat they did not believe the Government had made a convincing case for putting into effect what Mr. Churchill called a scheme " panic-stricken in motive and futile in action . " Mr. Strachey , who handled himself well in the difficult debate and adopted throughout a persuasive and fatherly tone , conceded that the outlook had improved since rationing was decided upon but maintained that it was essential as " an insurance against the factors of uncertainty . " Moving annulment , Mr. Churchill said that the Opposition , after full consideration , was not convinced that it was necessary to impose " this heavy , awkward , galling burden " on the people of Britain . He insisted that the latest figures for wheat-crop estimates were very greatly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread rationing was being prepared . He claimed that a bumper crop in Britain as well as in Canada , the United States , Argentina and Australia meant that there would be an abundance of wheat beginning in September . Why , therefore , he asked , was it necessary to introduce bread-rationing now when only five or six weeks remained before the new harvest would begin to come in ? He maintained that it would mean importing 150,000 tons of wheat in September to tide over until the British harvest was fully collected , and Britain had brought in 292,000 tons in September , 1944 , with the U-boat blockade still on . Mr. Strachey , in answering , declared that although the prospects had greatly improved and had given hopes of removing bread rationing fairly soon , they were still only prospects and did not permit of a postponement of rationing . He argued that July 21 was the last date at which it would be safe to start rationing because wheat in the pipeline was declining and would get lower until the end of August . Rationing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the danger point of the turn of the crop year . " He revealed that in Canada there was " no carryover of last year 's wheat at all " and said that about a week ago the great Montreal wheat elevators had actually run dry . In the general debate that followed Mr. Strachey pledged that the Government would remove bread rationing the moment it was safe . Robert S. Hudson , former Minister of Agriculture , winding up for the opposition , asked why Russia had been left out of the calculations . " Should we need a bread ration on July 21 if Russia were prepared to treat Germany as a single economic unit ? " he demanded , or " is there any reason why this country and other countries in the United Nations should be asked to pool their resources for distribution by the Combined Food Board and Russia be the only country left out ? " Declaring that there was already a lot of new wheat in the grain elevators of southern United States , Mr. Hudson declared that it would be brought here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the job . On the whole the size of the opposition vote was taken as indicative of the success of Mr. Churchill 's political attack on the Government over the bread rationing issue . Vote field Significant Although too much should . not be made of the debate one way or the other , the impression of many observers in Parliament was that the Opposition had put up its most vigorous battle since the elections last summer . Outside Parliament , too , public feeling seems to be , on the whole , hostile to the Government on the rationing issue . In fact some per , sons are saying that the revolt by the bakers , even if it proves unsuccessful , may mark a turning point in the tide of public opinion in Britain away from sympathy with Socialist - planned economy . Such a speculation may prove wrong , but it is , nevertheless , significant as a political symptom . The vote in the House , after a five-hour debate , came as a climax to a day of considerable political tension both inside and outside Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to M. P.s when the House of Commons opened its session this afternoon . Labor members protested noisily against the pet , tions , but the Speaker upheld the ancient right of subjects to petition Parliament . Poster Causes Uproar A second uproar broke out a little later when a Labor M. P. displayed a poster stating that " the names of M. P. 's voting for bread rationing in Commons on Thursday will be published here as public enemies and dictators . " The poster bore the signature of " Face the Facts Association . " The Speaker declared that the poster was a prima facie breach of privilege , and Herbert Morrison , Leader of the House , moved that the Committee on Privileges of the House should inquire into the authors , printers and distributers of the poster . Mr. Churchill then rose and for twenty minutes entertained a packed House by his jibes at Labor members and the Government , whom he accused of being frightened and of having " got into a dither . " When Labor M. P. 's tried to drown him out Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech . You are going farther and farther ' on the road to destroying it . " He suggested it was lowering the dignity of the House to take notice of " vulgar chatter and clamor which arises in the streets " In the end , after Willie . Gallacher , Communist , had accused the Opposition front bench of inciting such threats against Parliament , and after Mr. Churchill had emphatically denounced this as an " absolutely false and lying assertion , " the poster was referred to the Privileges Committee .                     