@@707428

txt The Council of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration ( UNRRA ) is working on a plan whereby the costs of the entire post-war relief and rehabilitation program , for which funds will have to be raised , may be kept down to $2,500,000,000 , it was learned today . Through a flexible formula whereby quotas are to be assigned to the non-invaded countries , it has been estimated that the United States share of the bill- may run ' between $1,000,000,000 and $1,500 , - 1000,000 and that of the United Kingdom about $625,000,000 . Being an invaded nation , Russia is not to pay anything for the relief of other peoples , according to this program , but she is expected to pay for the relief goods she herself receives . This became known after an informal meeting in the Claridge Hotel by a group of advisers of Director General Herbert H. Lehman of UNRRA . Dr. Harry D. White , special assistant to Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr. , attended the meeting . Seen Aid to Congress Action Although those at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other quarters that the plan has been designed to solve the relief problem in such a way as to smooth its way through Congress . The first appropriation to be asked for is expected to be not more than $500 , - 000,000 and possibly much less . It was pointed out that the total cost of the entire world relief job to this country , if this plan prevails , would be only 40 to 60 per cent of the $2,500,000,000 that the United States spent on foreign relief after the last war through Herbert Hoover and the American Relief Administration , which he headed . The United States would pay from 40 to 60 per cent of total monetary cost of relief this time , against about 25 per cent for the British , but it was pointed out that contribution from the Dominions would increase the amount for the British Empire or Commonwealth of Nations . Several Quota Suggestions A subcommittee headed by Dean Acheson , Assistant Secretary of State , United States member of the Council , and chairman of the present session , is to discuss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council as a whole later on . If the Council accepts the plan , it will assign the quotas in the " community chest " manner , but it has no power to make assessments against any nation . The ' UNRRA agreement gives the Congress or legislative body of every country the right to accept or reject the quota assigned to it . Several possible formulas have been suggested for determining the quota of each nation . One , which Mr. Lehman is said to favor , would take 1 per cent of the national income . This would vary according to the basic year selected . Another would fix a per cent of per capita income , and still another would be based on foreign trade . It was explained that the needs of the people in the occupied areas , are so great that it was felt impossible to approach the problem from the angle of what it would cost to fill them all . So it was decided to fix the amount of a fund that could be raised as a practical matter and then cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs possible within its limitations . This decision was made after conferences in Washington between Mr. Acheson and leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives . Congress naturally wants to know what the project will cost , and the implication has been received here that the program under discussion is expected by ' UNRRA leaders to win Congressional approval . The plan limits UNRRA to strictly relief and rehabilitation work , such as providing food , clothing , shelter and medical supplies for the needy in the immediate post-war period , returning the millions of refugees and other " displaced " persons to their homes , and shipping in seeds , equipment and machinery to get agricultural and industrial production going again . This task is expected to be over in eighteen months or two years after the end of hostilities in any ' area . The longer and more expensive project of complete economic reconstruction of devastated territories has been left out of consideration in the present plan . Other United Nations agencies are expected to handle that . It is understood that Congressional leaders would like to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last war or no higher at any rate . That time , other nations signed notes that they were unable to pay . This time it is planned to avoid that and work on a sort of lend-lease and reverse lend-lease basis with those countries that can not pay , and to look to the others for some sort of proportionate sharing of the monetary costs . The territories and populations to be helped this time are much larger , but it is now an international and not a national responsibility . The present plan is said to have been devised with the cautionary idea in mind that unforeseen developments might prolong the relief period or increase the amount of emergency costs , so that considerable leeway was left between its I estimated demand on the United States Treasury and the relief costs after 1918 . Under the plan , invaded and occupied countries that have uninvaded colonies are expected to contribute substantial amounts of goods to the general pool . Others are expected to do all they can to take care of their own relief needs . Some occupied countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to purchase their relief goods with foreign exchange , so that the $2 , - 500,000,000 fund will not have to pay the costs of the entire relief job . Others may be able to pay in local currency , which will help defray the costs of local administrative work . Still others will need outright gifts . Messages have been sent to all the governments of all the fortyfour United and Associated Nations that are members of UNRRA asking them to guarantee payment of preliminary costs for establishing UNRRA headquarters in Washington . An appeal was submitted to the conference today from Adolph Held , chairman of the Jewish Labor Committee of New York , asking that a special UNRRA body be formed to handle the special problem of Jewish relief in Europe , and requesting a hearing on this question . 