@@711804

txt Eleven members of the Communist party national board were ordered yesterday to stand trial without the presence of William Z. Foster , national chairman . All twelve have been indicted for conspiracy to teach and advocate the overthrow of the Government by force and violence and to organize the Communist party to that end . The order severing the Foster case from the others was issued by Federal Judge Harold R. Medina . He also overruled defense motions to dismiss the Foster indictment and to postpone the trial of the others to see whether Mr. Foster , who is ill , would recover enough to take part . Defense counsel then blocked immediate opening of the trial itself by starting an attack on the entire jury system of this Federal district . They asked Senior Judge John C. Knox to supersede Judge Medina in hearing this motion , but Judge Knox referred them back to Judge Medina . Then they asked Judge Medina to disqualify himself and all the judges in this district from hearing the motion . Judge Medina indicated after long argument that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further time to argue the case this morning . Jury Discrimination Charged Defense counsel announced they would demand the voiding of the indictment and the quashing of the trial-jury panel on the ground that the jury system in this district excluded Negroes and other racial and social minority groups . The panel of 525 talesmen from which the jury is to be selected was excused yesterday until Thursday morning , except for eighty-six persons directed to appear today in case preliminary argument proceed more rapidly ' than yesterday and the day before . Judge Medina denied a defense motion to exclude armed policemen from the court room . He also denied renewed defense motions to remove all police from the court house and its vicinity . There were fewer police in evidence about the court house yesterday and smaller crowds than on Monday , but the police said they had about as many men in the vicinity . No picketing was attempted yesterday . Spectators in the court room were quiet and orderly . Louis F. McCabe , counsel for Mr. Foster , protested against the severance of the Foster case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foster was suffering from heart trouble that would make it dangerous to his life to stand trial at this time . But if Mr. Foster is to be tried at all , his lawyer said , he should be tried with his fellow-defendants . Mr. McCabe is also counsel for Eugene amnia , general secretary of the Communist party , and Hen- ry Winston , its organizational secretary . He said their interests would be prejudiced if they had to go to trial when Mr. Foster , as national chairman of their party , was too ill to confer with them at length and help them with their defense . Attorneys for all the other defendants made similar arguments . Harry Sacher , attorney for City Councilman Benjamin J. Davis Jr. , John Gates , editor of The Daily Worker , and Irving Potash , vice president of the Fur and Leather Workers Union , CIO , contended that Mr. Foster 's testimony was " absolutely essential " to the defense , This was particularly true , Mr. Sacher said , because the Communist party was on trial , not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " should not be required to lay down the flag at this critical time . " Judge Mediia said the case might have wide repercussions , but that he was concerned with the guilt or innocence of the defendants as individuals , not as members of a party . Abraham J. Isserman , attorney , for John Williamson , labor secrefi tary , and Gilbert Green , Illinois , state chairman of the party , cited newspaper editorials that he saki laid stress on the broader issues . " I 'm not going to be influenced by what any newspaper tells me the issues are or are not , " replied Judge Medina . " I 'm the one to decide what the issues are and I 'm going to do it with every bit of fairness that 's in me . " Mr. Isserman asserted that the indictment itself showed that the Communist party ' was on trial in the case . The one common characteristic of all the defendants , he added , is that they are members of the party 's national board . " To make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , " amounts to decapitation . This is a crippling blow . to the defense . " " I still say . " Judge Medina declared , " that the issue before- me concerns the guilt or innocence of these individuals in the crime of which they are charged . " Foster Evidence Unlikely Soon United States Attorney John F. X. , who had moved the severance of the Foster case , said the physicians ' reports indicated that Mr. Foster would not be able to come into court eith : . as a defendant or as a witness for a long time . If the trial of the eleven was postponed , he said , at the end of the waiting period another defense application for delay could be expected . Denying the case was being " rushed to trial , " as charged by the defense , he pointed out that six months had elasped since the indictment . He said the defense had had plenty of time to make motions and prepare for the trial . It also had had warning since November , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if illness llness prevented his standing trial . Mr. heatedly denied defense charges that he planned to use liars and stool pigeons " as witnesses , and that Mr. Foster 's aid was needed to combat such tactics . He said he had made careful investigation of the credibility of all prosecution witnesses . Holding that Mr. had made an " impressive " argument , Judge Medina ruled in favor of the prosecution on the severance-motion . Richard Gladstein , attorney for Robert G. Thompson , New York State chairman , and Gus Hall , Ohio chairman , of the Communist party , then asked for thirty days or even fifteen days ' postponement . Judge Medina flatly refused to grant any continuance . Mr. Glad stein then began his attack on the jury system . Judge Medina gave him a ten-minute recess to present his motion to Judge Knox . This was done through a clerk of the court , who reported back that Judge Knox had refused to have anything to do with it . Defense counsel then argued before Judge Medina that the jury system in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair trial . He said that it resulted in both grand and petit juries that were the " tools " of the rich and propertied classes and that excluded the poor , the workers , members of certain racial and social groups , and members of minority parties like the Communist party . Mr. Gladstein also argued that neither Judge Medina nor any other judge sitting in this district could give an unbiased decision on a motion attacking the jury system , since they were all responsible for it . Judge Medina denied this . He himself , he declared , bore no responsibility for the jury system , for it was already in existence when he was appointed to the bench in 1947 . In denying the defense motion to remove the police from the court house , Judge Medina said he had seen no evidence of the " armed camp " alleged by the defense . On the contrary , he said , the police precautions seemed to him to be " entirely reasonable and proper . " He said he had been grateful for police help in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday When going to lunch . " I do n't intend to push my way through a crowd of booing , hissing people without some kind of protection , " he added . Judge Medina gave permission for Councilman Davis and Mr. Potash to absent themselves from the afternoon session . In the case of Mr. Davis this was done so that he could attend a meeting of the City Council . In the course of the session Judge Medina repeatedly urged defense counsel to accelerate proceedings with injunctions to " get down to business . " " be brief and to the point . " " do n't lay it on too thick , " " we 've reached a point where we 've got to get going with the trial , " and the like . At the same time he assured defense counsel that he would see to it that the rights of their clients would be fully protected in every way .                     