@@706266

txt No bombs were dropped and no planes were shot down during the antiaircraft firing in the Los Angeles area early today , the Western Defense Command announced . " Cities in the Los Angeles area were blacked out at 2:25 a. m. today on orders from the Fourth Interceptor Command when unidentified aircraft were reported in the area , " the Command said . " Although reports are conflicting and every effort is being made to ascertain the facts , it is clear that no bombs were dropped and no planes were shot down . " SANTA BARBARA , Calif. , Feb. 25 ? The shelling of the California coast by a Japanese submarine Monday night  --  ineffective as it was ' ? followed by antiaircraft shooting early this morning in the Los Angeles region directed against an unidentified object , possibly an enemy blimp , has brought the war to Californians ' front door . However , what happened at Los Angeles ( and reports are vague , the antiaircraft 's target apparently remaining a military secret ) and what happened at Ellwood does n't prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the home front , but thank you . Japan , for breaking the news to Actual damage consists of several severed wooden girders on an overhead runway leading to a " pumper " oil derrick , some severed power lines , replacement estimate $300 , some twisted and punctured sheets of corrugated galvanized iron on the pump shed under the runway , and some historic nicks in the big internal combustion engine housed in the shed ; plus.a dented steel oil pipeline . The shell that struck the oil main passed by a mammoth steel storage tank . If the Japanese of . ficers and gunners on that submarine could see by what a slight margin they missed that tank , and how nearly a shell came to puncturing the oil main it struck , they might suppose that the fortunes of war have begun to shift away from their banners . " Atrocious gunnery " fairly describes the work of their expedition . Like Big Skyrockets The " battle of Ellwood " is not taken too lightly along the Pacific Coast . Residents of this area said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some were " scared , " but there was no attempt to run away . No hysteria , or panic . Wheeler 's Inn , a roadside eating spot , was the center of population while the shelling was in progress , and it surely was the center of interest all through the following morning , when enough newspaper reporters and cameramen to cover a small war ate sandwiches and said impatient things because pleasantly-firm Army guards could n't let them into the shelled oil field until someone with high authority arrived to give the word . It was nearly noon before this word came . Best eyewitness account of the first war action on continental United States territory in this World War undoubtedly was given by Mrs. A. C. Bush , wife of the Superintendent of Pacific Western Oil Company . The whole pageant took place almost literally in her front yard . Mrs. Bush and her husband were listening to the address of President Roosevelt on the radio when the first blast of cannon fire wai heard . Going outside , they could see the submarine , riding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Banndall oil derricks which stand on piers jutting out into the ocean . Redrew Whole Picture " It was the most brazen performance you ever saw , " Mrs. Bush told a Christian Science Monitor reporter . She was indignant about the whole thing , and although she was late in starting for a luncheon engagement , she graciously stood on her porch and redrew the whole picture . " My husband and I think there were about 15 to 18 shots , " she said , " but we ca n't be sure . We did not count them . My husband was in the Navy in the last World War , and he said the submarine was an unusually large one . " We watched the ship in the gathering dusk as it moved toward us down the edge of that kelp bed about a mile offshore , firing as it came . We could see the flashes and hear some of the shells burst as they struck the cliffs or farther inshore . " Because we seemed to be coming into the line of fire , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be behind a hill from the submarine . By the time we reached the highway , people were trying to enter the refinery grounds so they could see the ship better . We stayed there at the gate . because my husband could n't have the grounds filling up with strangers at night . " Others in the community heard the gun blasts and shell explosions . Lawrence Wheeler , proprietor of the inn , said he , his family , and guests in the inn could hear bits of shells falling near them occasionally . They went outside to hear better , saw the gun flashes , turned out lights . . Reports of Flares There is something of mystery in reports of sky flares seen near Ventura , south of Santa Barbara , and near Ellwood , which is 12 miles north of here . Those who saw the flares speculate that they may have been shot up by the submarine , or sent aloft by accomplices on shore . There is the less dramatic possibility that United States planes combing the area in darkness might have dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army and Navy are both silent on this subject , so it remains a mystery . Japanese oil tankers used to stop at Ellwood Wharf two years ago for gasoline to take  --  o their homeland . Some of the ships ' officers used to eat occasionally at Wheeler 's Inn , " Maybe they paid us this visit because they thought we overcharged them when they stopped before , " suggested a waitress , Miss Jo Thompson . Capt . Barney Hagen and Sergeant Walter Newman of the Army piloted the news corps around the scene of the shelling . They put their jeep into and through the largest shell crater , graciously posing their amazing vehicle in various positions that , proved not only its merits but the small dimensions of the shell hole . The hole was about eight feet across and 312 feet deep , in soaked , muddy soil , Soldiers with cannon which could have sunk the submarine easily from shove were moved out of the Ellwood area , as a routine maneuver , about three weeks ago . It is suspected the submarine commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the submarine comes back . Also , and this is not divulging any military information , other points where the oil fields meet the sea undoubtedly will be ticklish spot for enemy submarines from now on . No one has suggested any such slogan as " Remember Ellwood " ; it would be too funny . 13ut the little Japanese fireworks show staged there Monday night is not going unheeded anywhere on this coast , , And it will not be forgotten soon .                     