@@710884

txt While efforts to strengthen the Government through an alliance of former Premiers L6on Blum and Paul Reynaud stalled today , the Communist strike campaign gathered force in the form of walkouts that spread so far and so fast as to cause high officials to suggest that the longawaited general strike might be near . In Italy , troops were rushed to a town near Bari to put down a riot after strikers had attempted to storm the police barracks . The carabinieri fired on the mob and two persons were killed . Strikes continued to spread and clashes flared in many areas . MM . Blum and Ramadier met hurriedly tonight with Jules Moch , Minister of Economic Affairs , to discuss the strike menace . It was understood that a proposal would be made at the Cabinet meeting to- , morrow to offer immediately a // cost-of-living bonus of 1,500 francs $12.68 a month to all wage earners , although Robert Schuman , Minister of Finance , was reported to have objected that this would mean printing a new mass of paper money . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic is in a state of legitimate defense , " said Edouard Depreux , Minister of the Interior , in the National Assembly as he linked the Communist riot in Marseille with those in Italy and asserted that France would not permit " foreigners to stage violent political betties on her territory . " In the Departments du Nord and Pas de Calais , a coal strike spread from pit to pit until some 80,000 miners were out . Metal workers voted to strike at the Renault works in Paris and did strike in two Citroen plants . The secretary of the Metal Workers Union in the Paris region called tonight for a " total strike " of the seventy unions he represented . The seamen , Government employes and others meanwhile threatened to walk out . Many Miners Balk But for the first time there was marked resistance among the workers in many places to what they have come increasingly to consider " political strikes " engineered by the Communists without the considered votes of the unions involved . Reports from Lille tonight said that in many places in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the call of the Communists . ' the Socialist opposition movement within the Confederation of Labor , which is called the Force Ouvridre , circulated leaflets reading : " Miners , do not be dupes of the political strike ! " and demanding " democratic " meetings to vote on strikes . In some places the miners had struck before even formulating demands , votes by acclamation or no votes at all being taken instead of the secret ballot urged by the Socialists . The Catholic unions , not in the Confederation , took the same position as the Socialist insurgents by insisting upon a secret ballot before any strike . One section of the Metal Workers affiliated with the Confederation protested against " the exploitation of our claims by a political party for purposes that are not trade union purposes . " In one motor car factory , workers who walked out this morning went back to work this afternoon . But those resisting the mass strikes proclaimed by the ' Communist majority in the national committee of the Confederation last Wednesday were handicapped by the fact  --  conceded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far faster than had wages . Communists Find Limitations Thus , while the Government appeared weak and hesitant , and conscious of its weakness , since it sought strength in new leadership , the industrial power upon which the Communists had counted seemed to reveal possible limitations . In official circles it was asserted that the Cabinet could not be reshaped while under the menace of Communist strikes . Other observers thought the strikes might drive the Government from office unless it showed sterner stuff than it had displayed under previous similar tests . Guy Mollet , secretary general of the Socialist party , said late tonight that if a new Government was formed , ii : could be assumed that it would represent " the third force , " which was opposed to the Communists on the Left and the de Gaullists on the Right . The executive of the Socialists discussed tonight the formation of this centrist force on a national scale , and M. Mollet said that that this would occur soon and that a declaration of principles would be issued . The Assembly debate on the Marseille @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organization . The Communists were isolated and booed once again in the chamber while the Government announced that it would punish all concerned and requested suspension of the Parliamentary immunity of Jean Cristofol , Communist former Mayor of Marseille and a Communist Councilor of the Republic . But the Government did not explain what its police had been doing as the demonstration continued a whole day , ending in an attack on the city hall . There is general agreement that wages in France must rise so long as prices rise , and that no government can spike the Communists ' guns while the workers ' living standards are as low as they are today . On the other hand , some eminent leaders contend that there can be no stable economic life until the Communist grip on the trade unions is broken , even if this involves a general strike . Some believe that the Communists Want to force Charles de Gaulle to take power now against his will , since he then would face the ungrateful task of steering France through what is expected to be a hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will meet tomorrow to pass on wage demands that the national committee of the Confederation urged all French workers to adopt by acclamation before Dec. 19 . The marine workers struck a month ago and received a pay increase . Numerous bakeries in Paris and its suburbs closed today for lack of flour because of a flour mill strike in this region .                     