@@707326

txt Declaring that the court had no power to change the provisions of the election law , Supreme Court Justice Benedict D. Dineen upheld yesterday the right of Magistrate Thomas A. Aurelio to the Democratic and Republican nominations for justice of the Supreme 4ourt in the First Judicial District . By his decision Justice Dineen overruled the action of the Board of Elections in accepting the substitution of Matthew M. Levy for Mr. Aurelio as the Democratic candidate and the substitution of George Frankenthaler for Mr. Aurelio as the Republican candidate . He also denied the application of the leaders of the Manhattan and Bronx organizations to order their judicial conventions reconvened under Section 330 of the election law to validate the substitutions . Justice Dineen held that the question of Mr. Aurelio 's fitness for a judgeship resulting from disclosure that he had pledged " undying loyalty " to Frank Costello , reputed racketeer , to whom he owed the Democratic nomination , was a matter to be passed upon by the electorate rather than by the court . He declared that the single question before him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders was authorized by the election law . Court Can not Change Law " The court may not add to , or change , the provisions of the statute and may not consider arguments based solely upon ethical grounds or upon supposed considerations of public policy , " Justice Dineen asserted in his decision . " If any change in the law is thought desirable , it must be sought from the Legislature . " Louis J. Lefkowitz , chairman of the law committee of the New York County Republican Committee , said steps would be taken for immediate appeal from the decision to the Appellate Division . If Justice Dineen 's decision is sustained by the higher courts ? and the preponderance of legal opinion is that it will be  --  the chance of Mr. Aurelio 's election through the drawing power of the major party labels , to which the heads of the bar associations have called attention , will have become a reality . Both Mr. Levy and Mr. Frankenthaler will continue as candidates , Mr. Levy as the nominee of the American Labor party and the independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the independent Judiciary party . If the higher courts continue Mr. Aurelio as the Democratic and Republican candidate , political opinion is that the magistrate might possibly lead in Manhattan and that Mr. Levy would have a substantial plurality in the Bronx . Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia , when asked to comment on Justice Dineen 's decision , declined to discuss the legal questions involved . " The matter will have to take its course to a final ruling in the courts , " he said . In accepting Mr. Levy and Mr. Frankenthaler as the major party candidates , the Board of Elections held that their substitution by the committees on vacancies of the two parties was valid on its face . No Vacancies Held to Exist " It is claimed that the action of the committees to fill vacancies was wholly unauthorized by law , " Justice Dineen said in discussing this phase of ' the litigation . " There were no vacancies , because Aurelio , the nominee of the conventions , was not disqualified within the meaning of the law . " It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether or not he is unfit for the office , he is not disqualified . The question of his fitness is one for the- electorate to pass upon . It was not within the power of the committee appointed to fill vacancies to create va- cancies because in their opinion ' the candidate was unfit to fill the office for which he had been duly nominated by the conventions . " Justice Dineen also held that it was not within the power of the reconvened Democratic and Republican judicial conventions to revoke the original nominations of Mr. Aurelio and make substitutions . " When the conventions made their nominations and adjourned sine die , they became functus officio , " his decision read . " They could exercise no further power unless ordered by the court to reassemble , pursuant to Section 330 of the election law . The court is not authorized to direct a reassembling of the conventions in the present case . No Fraud in Conventions " The court may order a reassembling of a convention only where a convention * * * has been characterized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to who rightfully was nominated . Hera so far as appears , there were no frauds or irregularities in the conventions and , there is no difficulty in determining who was nominated . The relief sought by the petitioner , Aurelio , is granted . The other petitions are denied . " Meanwhile , Stanley H. Fuld , Assistant District Attorney , and chairman of the criminal courts committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , announced that a report and recommendation resulting from the hearings into the fitness of Mr. Aurelio , is granted . The other magistrate had been filed with the association 's executive committee . Mr. Fuld said he was not author . ized to make public the report and recommendation and that final decision on his committee 's recommendations rested with the execu ? tive committee .                     