@@712491

txt Charging that the Israeli Government was not cooperating with the United Nations Conciliation Commission in its efforts to solve the Palestine problem , the representatives of seven Arab states asked the United States today to join them in calling on the Tel Aviv Government to do so . " Prospects for peace ar " e ' dim " in Palestine , the Egyptian Ambassador , Mohamed Kamil Abdul Rahim , told reporters after having delivered a note to Acting Secretary of State James E. Webb on behalf of the Arab League states . It was impossible to tell at the moment whether war would break out again in the Holy Land , the Egyptian Ambassador added . This comment was denounced latei.in the day at the State Department by the Israeli Ambassador , Eliahu Elath , ' who characterized it as " provocative " and open to " all sorts of comments and in- terpfetations in the Middle East . " In what was regarded as the preliminaries of the Palestine debate in the United Nations , the Egyptian Ambassador went to the State Department this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabia , Lebanon , Syria , Jordan and Yemen . He protested against what they regard as the " noncompliance " of the Israeli Government with the efforts of the United Nations to bring peace to the Holy Land . The text of the Arab League note was not published , but it is understood to have asked the United States to consider the following assertions : 1 . The Arab states had collaborated with the United States and the United Nations in recent months in trying to bring peace to Palestine , but there had been no corresponding record of good faith on the part of the Israeli Government . 2 . The Arab states had complied with the conditions of the truce in Palestine , with the armistice conditions and with the United Nations Conciliation Commission , but no comparable re'cora of cooperation could be shown by Israel . 3 . Similarly , the Arab states had complied with the formal agreement on procedure for trying to bring about peace in Palestine , arranged last May , though this agreement had been broken by Israel . 4 . Though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations resolution of 1948 , the Israeli Government had transferred several of its administrative departments to that city . 5 . Likewise , the Israeli Government decided to incorporate into Tel Aviv the city of Jaffa , which was declared by the United Nations resolution to be an Arab city . After the Arab note had been delivered to Mr. Webb , the Israeli Ambassador spent half an hour at the department with Burton Y. Berry of the Middle Eastern Division . Mr. Elath then told reporters that he had denied emphatically the Arab charges that Israel had stopped cooperating with the United Nations Conciliation Commission . Mentions " Aggressive War " He observed that it was " rather amusing " that the Arabs should accuse the Israeli Government of having violated United , Nations resolutions when they themselves " instead of obeying them , launched an aggressive war which caused all our troubles and their troubles in the Middle East . " The State Department is still insisting that Jerusalem should be internationalized , though there still seems to be a possibility that , it might eventually agree to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israeli and Jordanian authorities . United States officials are now talking about the necessity of 250 , - 000 Arab refugees returning to Israel . This figure is 150,000 more than the Israeli Government ' has agreed to accept . Meanwhile , there is reason for believing that responsible officials at the State Department are now agreeable ' to concessions under which Israel would have a measure of control over the administration of Jerusalem , though not of the Holy Places in that city . 