@@704972

txt Hitler waited for two months after the French capitulation before launching his first intensive air assaults against Great Britain . Whatever his reason for delay may have been ( and we can be sure that he had a reason , as for everything else he has done in the war ) the British believe that he has given them a priceless gift of time . If he had begun his air offensive in June and had followed it swiftly by an invasion he might well have won the war then and there , for the British had none but untrained or partly trained troops on their island , and had lost vast quantities of supplies , weapons and airplanes in France . Today Great Britain is not only a veritable fortress but her defenders know that only five weeks remain before the equinoctial gales begin to whip the Channel , before the rains and mists of Autumn begin to shroud the island . ( : A.many 's change of tactics yesterday , adding use of coastal gun fire over the Channel to continued aerial bombing ' hat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over approaching weather conditions as well as recognition of Britain 's recent success in air defense . Every Autumn traveler knows the fury of the Channel and the North Sea in late September ; every one who has lived in England remembers the driving rains , the swift alternation of sun and storm , the clammy grip of fogs from October and November , the weather that makes an English Winter something of a purgatory . These are poor conditions for an invasion , especially for an invasion of thousands of troops and weapons transported in small boats . The Germans must land more than one or two divisions to succeed , and they must keep their invading troops continuously supplied , regardless of winds or waves . As for a persistent air offensive , this , too , will depend partly upon continuity of attack if it is to be successful . There will be many days throughout the Winter when German bombers can smash a t British military targets ; but there will also be many days when flying over Britain will be impossible . Already ice is forming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombing German oil centers Wednesday night encountered snow , and ice accumulated at a few thousand feet , forcing descent to lower altitude . German pilots will be meeting the same handicap , with the resultant delays favoring Britain . As the British look ahead into a murky future they can not assume that the weather in the Autumn or Winter will be an impregnable defense or a wholly dependable ally . They know too much about the Maginot Line to comfort themselves with any such mental obsessions now . They simply know that the odds have risen in their favor in the past two months of delay , and that the odds will rise still further when the bad weather begins . A Winter campaign will bring new trials and new dangers , but anything can be faced if British air power survives the five or six weeks immediately ahead .                     