@@711474

txt Got an interesting old Glider or aircraft engine around your plant ? The National Air Museum is ready to take it oft your hands . ants am-item collecting institution . created by Congress in 1P46. is about to take two steps toward becoming the outstanding repository of air odds and ends that Congress envisioned . It has lust acquired a storage depot where it can keep new items contributed for showing to posterity . This is part of the surplus Douglas plant at Park Ridge . Ill . There the museum will store what it can beg and borrow from industry , flying groups , private citizens , and other museums until the day its own building is ready . That day is still a long way off . As the second step toward the goal . museum officials are just now drawing up a request for funds to pay for drafting plans of a brand new museum here . It will be a building large enough to house 300 full-sized planes from World War II 's famous 3-29 's on down , along with engines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other paraphernalia of the industry . " Biggest and Best " " It 'll be five years before we open our doors , even if everything goes along beautifully . " says museum curator Paul E. Garber . But two things are already set  --  the Air Exhibit Museum will be in Washington . and It will be the biggest and best in the world . Since Its birth in 1946. the Air Museum has been concerned mainly with keeping up the aeronautical collection it inherited from the Smithsonian Institute . This is still housed in the Smithsonian buildings . Until now there has been little effort to add new items because of lack of space . But the drive to make the National Air Museum the " biggest and best " ' of its kind is now gaining momentum . Leading plane makers , airlines , universities , trade associations and other groups are being asked to contribute pieces of historic sigruficance in the aviation past and present . About two thirds of the firms and groups have promised cooperation . Eastern Airlines is saving the museum a DC-3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wartime transport fleet . Panagra has promised the Fairchild Transport with which it opened its commercial service . Bell Aircraft has already given its first helicopter and its first let aircraft . Northrop . Grumman . North American , Lockheed , and other planemakers are working up scale models of all their craft . Engines , Propellers , Parachutes , Instruments Engine makers are coming through with cutaway models . The Hamilton Standard Propellor Co. is letting the museum pick and choose from its propeller collection . Parachute makers , instrument manufacturers , universities are all contributing . Standard Oil of New Jersey is arranging an exhibit on how aircraft fuel is produced , and Columbia Pictures has turned over a group of early glider scale models used in its " Gallant Journey " film . Most of these will go to Park Ridge to await the museum 's opening . A few will be put on display soon in the Smithsonian building , joining such famous exhibits as Lindbergh 's Spirit of St. Louis ; the Navy 's NC-4 , first plane to cross the Atlantic ; this country 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May ; and the Wright Brothers ' famous Kitty Hawk Plane , being returned from England for exhibit at the Smithsonian late this year . The present Smithsonian-Air Museum collection includes 30 full scale aircraft , 100 propellers , several hundred scale models , flight clothing , instruments , and bombs and ammunition . About two million people go through it yearly . Government agencies are cooperating just as much as private industry . The museum will probably get the presidential " Sacred Cow . " The Army , Navy , Air Force , and Civil Aeronautics Board are under orders to save outstanding items for the museum . Already in mothballs are the Enola Gay , the 11-29 which dropped the Hiroshima atomic bomb ; the B-26 Marauder , Flak Bait ; a B-25 similar to the one used in the Jimmy Doolittle raid on Tokyo ; Navy fighters ; captured planes like the Jap Zero and German Messersehmidt ; and Allied planes like the British Spitfire .                     