@@705902

txt No shortage of cotton goods is in sight and in general the public is going to get what it wants with a minimum amount of substitution of one kind of cotton for another . Russell T. Fisher , President of the National Association of Cotton Manufacturers , reported here today . There may , however , be extreme difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of long staple cotton of the kind necessary in normal times for the better type of shirtings and dress materials , Mr. Fisher added . Defense requirements are taking this grade of cotton for balloon cloth , airplane wing fabric , etc .. while some is going into Army uniforms . " With the Government holding some 6,000,000 bales of cotton and a new crop now being picked that will add an estimated 10,000,000 bales , with domestic consumption running at approximately 10,000. - 000 bales a year , and with practically no export trade , there would not appear to be any danger of a shortage of cotton going into the coarse and medium grades of yarns and fabric , " Mr. Fisher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton mills will be able to operate at high production indefinitely . " Similarly an official of one of the best known cotton mills in the country said today that there was no genuine shortage of cotton cloth , but that some stores might have to wait for delivery . " If a store did not buy ahead , it is likely to be short indefinitely , because of consumers rushing in to buy , " continued this cotton man . " But if a housewife can not get the sheets or the other cotton goods she needs in one store , she can in another , because there will be plenty of other retailers who covered themselves far ahead . " There is plenty of raw material available and a reasonable supply of workers , though the mills are losing a lot of their mechanical help to shipyards and other defense industries . " Many mills are working three shifts and some are using three shifts six days a week . " Production of cotton textiles has reached its greatest volume in history . Cotton mills are running at practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and local dislocations in the trade , there is no aggregate shortage . " Sheets have had to be provided for the Army , but sheets are not going to be scarce . " The record production of today is due largely to defense demand , plus buying in anticipation of shortages , and pent-up buying released by the larger income now going to many workers . The purchasing of many homes has been sub-normal since the depression , but is now filling out normal needs . "                     