@@711017

txt India has told the United Nations Security Council that a full-scale war with Pakistan may develop unless the UN takes measures to halt fighting in Kashmir . Delivering the opening speech in support of India 's charges against Pakistan . the Moslem Dominion , Minister Gopalaswami Ayyangar contended that " there is at this very moment a small war going on in Kashmir . " He declared that the situation was growing " graver with every day " and then added : " It is of the highest importance that action for the stoppage of fighting . . . should be taken with specific expedition , not only for saving life , property , and honor , but also for the purpose of avoiding the risk of war between India and Pakistan , which the compelling necessities of military action might any day precipitate and make inevitable . " Mr. Ayyangar specifically asked the Council to persuade Pakistan to : 1 . Prevent . Pakistan Government personnel , military and civil , from participating in or assisting the invasion of Kashmir ; 2 . Call upon other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting : 3 . Deny to the invaders access to and use of its territory for operations against Kashmir , military and other supplies , and all other kinds of aid that might tend to prolong the present struggle . He also complained about " the atmosphere of hostility and enmity which the press in Pakistan stirred up against India . " , Mr. Ayyangar closed his 27-page speech with a reference to the fast by Mohandas K. Gandhi , declaring " we can make no greater contribution to the saving of his life " than by notifying the Hindu leader of a settlement of the Kashmir problem . Council Line Set . Pt , the Associated Preps Lake Success Scoop of its discussions on the Indian complaint is one of the first things the Security Council must decide in handling the Kashmir case . The Dominion of India , which brought the Kashmir crisis before the world security agency , has demanded that-the Security Council confine its discussions to the fighting in Kashmir . Pakistan , however , insists the Council should take up the whole broad question of political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case to the Council by charging Pakistan was aiding the invaders of the princely state of Kashmir and held that discussions must be limited to that point alone . The first major clash thus loomed over the scope of the debate . Peshawar , Pakistan Pakistan 's current withdrawal of troops from the tribal territory of the North-West Frontier Province may be pointedly questioned during discussion of the Kashmir crisis by the United Nations Security Council . This troop withdrawal  --  which I have just been watching in remote areas between Peshawar and the Afghanistan frontier ? gives freer rein to the tribesmen . And Pathan Moslem tribesmen invading Kashmir from this same general area have played a leading role in the hostilities of that princely date ? in which Hindu troops of the Dominion of India also have become involved . The assumption thus is understandable that Pakistan , by withdrawing its troops , is deliberately giving encouragement to ' he raiding tribesmen . But it is not so simple as that . Pre-Pakistan Polio y The withdrawal policy was formulated long before the tribesmen began pouring into Kashmir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take shape before Pakistan itself diddy-and was one clamored for by Hindus of the Indian Congress Party as well as Moslem Leaguers . Maintenance of military garrisons in the tribal territories was assailed as a characteristic illustration of British imperialistic oppression . Incidentally , however , withdrawal was a policy that had many ardent advocates among the British themselves , who favored abandonment of " forward " establishments and withdrawal of troops for defense from " settled eistricts " into areas they were required to protect . Such a move actually came under discussion in 1945 , before I World War II ended , and the reants put forward to justify it were economic , strategic , geographic , and ethnographic . : Hostile ' No Man 's Land ' What was known as the Durand Line  --  the frontier agreed upon between Britain and Afghanistan in 1893 ? left a legacy of perpetual trouble . It was merely a line drawn on the map , undemarcated on the ground in some areas . It ' , cut the Pathan community in two and furnished a hostile " no man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by punitive military operations , by payment of " good conduct " money , or by withholding of subsidies or imposing of fines  --  usually in terms of surrendered rifles . Such subsidies , I am told . amounted to 9,000.000 rupees yearly , and in return tribal chieftains gave pledges in regard to such matters as not closing roads or molesting caravans . The Razmak fortress stands as a very expensive monument to the policy of maintaining regular troops to keep order within the tribal territory . That task now has reverted to local militia and tribal ' evies known as Khassidars . The latter do not wear a military uniform or furnish their own rifles . Extensive Garrison Pakistan has now withdrawn all regular troops and equipment from Razmak , and the tribesmen have fallen heir to the complete garrison and a township there which is nearly half the size of the City of London  --  complete with church , movie theater , and residential quarters looking like rows of stone-built British suburban ? dwellings . It Nkr &s; a major operation to remove 5,000 tons of stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the troop withdrawal . Each of the 17 convoys had to run the gantlet of tribal snipers as it wound its way along 70 miles of road through the mountain passes of North Waziristan . Moslem 's Good Will Now that Pakistan has abandoned the policy of military domination over tribes of the northwest frontier , it proposes to attempt to solve the problem that has caused so much bloodshed and trouble in the'past by demonstrating a Moslem 's good will toward the fight-loving fellow Moslems of the tribes in the hope this will be reciprocated and advantage will be taken of such facilities for social and economic advancement a , - ; Pakistan can progressively provide . It has been the tribesmen 's wish to embroil themselves in fighting in Kashmir that held out promise of loot and revenge for Moslems killed in the communal strife of India , The sympathies of Pakistan 's Moslems have gone with them , since the dominion of India 's military operations in Kashmir have caused deep resentment on this side of the border . Aid to Tribesmen Although the Government of Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly attitude toward the tribesmen has enabled the latter to become very active participants indeed  --  with transport , gasoline , weapons , rations , training facilities , and administrative centers available from Pakistan sources . But Pakistan 's alternative , it appears here , would have been to incur the tribesmen 's hostility  --  which is the last thing Pakistan desires either now or in the future .                     