@@710914

txt The most important of the anti-inflation controls on credit proposed by the Federal Reserve Board , a requirement that the commercial banks set aside big new " special reserves " of untouched money , came under powerful attack today before Congress . The effect was to leave the sponsor of the program , Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , isolated from all twelve members of his advisory Federal Reserve Council , and still lacking the support of John W. Snyder , the Secretary of the Treasury . Before the Senate Banking Committee , three members of the advisory council testified that its opposition to the Eccles plan was unanimous . They declared also that the council of twelve stood as one against a companion Eccles proposal for renewing restrictions on installment buying , the first item on the agenda against inflation presented to Congress by President Truman . Secretary Snyder for his part appeared before the committee in closed session . Its chairman , Senator Charles W. Tobey , Republican , of New Hampshire , reported afterward that Mr. Snyder had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eccles . ? Payroll Bond Drive Planned It was learned , however , that in passing the Secretary made it plain that he still was not prepared to go along on the proposed special reserve requirement , a position he had taken publicly last week , but intended to try to make some sort of compromise with the Federal Reserve chairman . As to the question of curbs on installment buying , which Secretary Snyder is wholly supporting , it developed that he plans to meet with the country 's leading industrialists on Dec. 3.0 to lay out a national plan for greatly stimulating the payroll deduction method of selling Government bonds to salaried people . This was disclosed parenthetically and without elaboration by Robert V. Fleming , president of the Riggs National Bank of Washington , the first of the three members of the Federal Reserve Advisory Council who testified before the committee . Mr. Fleming declared that bank credits and bank operations in general were not responsible for the present inflationary movement . He ' contended that the Eccles plan for new bank reserves , running to a maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent on time deposits , " might well " operate as an inflationary , rather than a deflationary , influence . Cashing in of Bonds Pictured If some of the smaller banks were confronted with the necessity of setting aside such reserves , apart from those maintained , he said , the result probably would be that they would feel compelled to restrict loans even for productive enterprises . Moreover , Mr. Fleming argued , a parallel result might be a compulsion upon such banks to cash in their long-term Government bonds , in order to have at hand more liquid money to meet the necessities of the new reserves . His testimony and that of his colleagues on the advisory council raised the strong impression that on the point of requiring new bank reserves the Federal Reserve Board and the council had arrived at a disagreement so fundamental and deeply felt as to be most extraordinary . Mr. Fleming told the committee that the Advisory , Council had " most strongly objected " to a pro-I cess of reasoning " singling out " ' bank loans as the cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council the trouble lay almost altogether , in Government policies . Of these he mentioned half a dozen , apart from " Government spending " in general , which included the following : foreign aid program , " cycles " of wage increases , shorter work weeks , the agricultural subsidies , the housing subsidies and the short corn crop . Warns of Production Curb E  --  ank loans had been for the most part for productive forces , Mr. Fleming asserted , and restrictions upon such loans would tend to discourage production itself . As to consumer credit controls limiting installment buying , the witness declared that he joined all his colleagues on the Council in opposing these , on two counts : first , he contended , there had been " too little experience " as yet to determine the actual effect of free installment buying since the war ' time controls were dropped . Second , he said , was a basic opposition to granting the Federal Reserve new regulatory powers . David E : Williams , president of the Corn Exchange rational Bank and Trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the City National Bank and Trust ' Company of Columbus , Ohio , followed Mr. Fleming on the stand to concur in what he had said , as fellow members of the Advisory Council . Mr. McCoy declared that there was " no occasion for one group in Washington to sit here and dictate to 15,000 banks . " " I do n't think , " he added , " that we need any of these controls . " " Then , " asked Senator Tobey , " what should Congress do about this price situation ? " " Nothing , " Mr. McCoy responded . " You have got to let nature take its course . " " I do n't see any indication , " he added , " that we are going to have another 1929 . " There would be some difficulties ahead , however , Mr. McCoy said in substance , " because you ca n't change the laws of nature . "                     