@@706563

txt The round-up of twenty persons suspectdd of subversive activities , including supplying fuel and information to Nazi submarines in the Caribbean , was disclosed today by the Caribbean Defense Command . Among those arrested were Colon cabaret girls , Panama Canal laborers and " the King of Belize , " a prominent business man of British Honduras . One arrest of a Canal employe was made here and nineteen arrests were made in British Honduras , sixteen of which were reported briefly a fortnight ago . Army authorities expressed belief that George Gough , merchant and coastwise shipper known as " the King of Belize , " might be the head of the ring . He fled suddenly to Honduras when the first arrests were made in Belize . Later he was captured aboard one of his own ships , La Laguna , in the Caribbean by Navy patrol planes . This was believed to be the first instance where a crew of aviators was placed aboard a ship captured by planes . The theory was advanced by officials here that Gough hoped to get aboard a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diverse bits of information and close cooperation of Army , Navy and British Intelligence services , United States Army observers in Central America and Canal Zone police and civil Intelligence officers produced the final picture , according to Army authorities . To an unnamed junior military officer acting as observer special credit was given by Army officers . While this ring probably was broken , indication that the story was unfinished was given in a statement by Lieut . Gen. Frank M. Andrews , commanding the Caribbean defense , who directed the investigation which led to the arrests . " We must understand , " he said , " that the enemy expected us to smash this ring sooner or later , and most likely nas preconceived plans to place another echelon into operation . Our intelligence agencies will leave no stone unturned in ferreting out evidence of any such act . We will destroy the enemy agencies before their activities cad be used to their further advantage . " The ' trmy received first information of the ring 's operations months ago . In March an Army patrol plane , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unidentified boat running at full speed with a large number of oil drums aboard . When it was learned that the boat was La Plata , owned by Gough , he was put under surveillance . April found La Plata at Cristobal , Atlantic port of the Canal , about to sail for Honduras , return- , ing contract laborers , and it was learned that the ship might not return . This indicated the possibility that the ship might be headed for submarine assistance operaations or that the owner had become aware he was being watched . So La Plata was searched by Army intelligence officers and the Canal police . Thirty-seven on the ship were detained on a charge of attempting to evade postal censorship . Although a majority of the cases were dismissed in court , it was revealed today that one person possessed drawings of vital installations of the Naval Air Station at Coco Solo . Information from this search was added to the picture presented to the young military observer . Going to British Honduras he lost no time in communicating with the British Intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were astonished when the name of Gough was mentioned in connection with the spy ring . However , American Intelligence , it was explained , had concrete evidence of connection between " the King of Belize " and a Colon night club , where , it is related , night club hostesses entertained contract laborers from the Canal zone and obtained information for Gough . The activities of the hostesses and laborers were discovered through communications they sent to friends . Honduras and United States Army authorities expressed the belief that the hostesses and laborers were used as cats-paws . However , proprietors of the club were under suspicion and the club had been declared " off limits " for military naval personnel several months previously by General Andrews . Nazi U-Boats Take Heavy Toll The story now enters June , when Nazi submarines sank thirteen ships in twelve days with a bag of five in a single day in waters in which Gough 's boats had been operating . A man described by the Army as a trusted government employe engaged in recruiting labor for the Canal Zone was arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name , nationality and activities were withheld by Army authorities pending further investigations . About the same time the young Army observer in Honduras reported that a room occupied by him and a British colleague in Belize had been broken into and searched , indicating their activities were suspected and even their lives were in danger . That the latter was true was shown by the poisoning of a bottle of whisky in the room . This was discovered when the young American officer gave a drink to his friend , who , as a result , was paralyzed from his hips down for twenty-four hours . Next General Andrews , piloting his own plane and . accompanied by Major Gen. William E. Shedd , made an inspection of the Caribbean area , flying along the Central American coast to Cozumel , Cuba , and Jamaica . Thence General Andrews went to Guatemala , where he conferred with British intelligence officers and young Army observer . Army authorities said that General Andrews was convinced that time had come to act . He joined with the British authorities and the round-up began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies believed to have been delivered to submarines or the means of communication . They emphasized that only the closest cooperation between British and American authorities made it possible to round up the suspects . Special credit was given to the young Army observer in British Honduras , who was described as having the appearance of an undergraduate in some American university .                     