@@710835

txt CITY REPORT SCORES ' LAXITY ' IN RELIEF ; INQUIRY IS ORDERED Mayor Directs Murtagh to Find Whether Law Was Violated in Methods Used Here CONTROL BY STATE URGED I Committee Asks Albany to Take Sole Jurisdiction and Pay All Public Assistance Costs By PAUL CROWELL Mayor O'Dwyer made public yesterday a report by his Executive Committee on Administration . crammed with sharp criticism of the administrative and operating 1procedures of the Department of Welfare . The department chief , Edward E. Rhatigan , resigned sud= denly last Friday at the Mayor 's request . A copy of the document was sent by order of the Mayor to Investigation Commissioner John M. Murtagh with instructions to " begin an investigation immediately of the Department of Welfare to discover any instances of improper conduct or violations of law by employes or any other persons . " This action was taken in line with a recommendation in the report itself . The report recommended that the state assume sole jurisdiction over and responsibility for the ad : - ministration of public assistance in this city and foot the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Department of Welfare if that agency is to continue to ' share jurisdiction and responsibility with the State Department f Social Welfare . State Hearings Ordered Nowhere in its forty-four pages did the report criticize former Welfare Commissioner Rhatigan personally or suggest that he be replaced . It was learned on excellent authority that the Mayor requested Mr. Rhatigan 's resignation on Friday after being informed that the State Board of Social Welfare had voted last Tuesday to begin public hearings in its pending investigation of public assistance administration by the Department of Welfare . It was also learned that the Mayor and his close advisers had taken cognizance of reports that Governor Dewey was planning to name a special prosecutor to begin . a grand jury investigation of public welfare administration in the city . Mr. Rhatigan , in a formal statement declaring that he had " no apologies nor regrets " in connec ; tion with his administration of the Department of Welfare since he became its head on Jan. 1 , 1946 , disclosed that the Mayor had demanded his resignation and that he had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Hall on Friday to confer with the Mayor and the Executive Committee on Administration . Says Mayor Changed Mind ; Declaring that he was no politician and lacked interest in the political implications involved in " the present series of investigations and threatened investigations " of the Welfare ! Department , , Mr. Rhatigan said that he had resigned to relieve the Mayor of possible embarrassment . i , He would have preferred to fight the issue through , he said . He declared that the Mayor formerly had the same desire " but precipitately changed his mind . " In official circles the consensus was that Mr. Rhatigan had been caught in a " squeeze " of conflicting state and local political forces . It was noted that the report tend. ; ed to offset the announced public hearings before the State Board of Social Welfare , while the reference of the report to Investigation Commissioner Murtagh tended to discount a possible investigation by a grand jury or some other group by direction ' of Governor Dewey-It was recalled that Mr. Rhatigen , in a recent report and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some of the unsound ? administrative procedures listed in the report and rec .. - ommended some of the basic changes suggested in that document . The report is dated last Friday , the day of Mr. Rhatigan 's resignation , and its substance was , presumably , on the Mayor 's desk when he asked Mr. Rhatigan to step out and swore in License Commissioner Benjamin Fielding // as the new Welfare Commissioner . Before it was released for publication , however , all three members of the Executive Committee on Administration , in consultation with Deputy Mayor John J. Bennett , worked for several hours on a final draft . Mr. Fielding is a member of the Mayor 's committee , the others being Budget Director Thomas J. Patterson and William Reid , chairman of the Board of Transportation , who heads the committee . It is expected that Mr. Rhatigan will be called to testify at the hearings before the State Board of Social Welfare . Mr. Reid , who will turn over to Mr. Murtagh this week supporting data for that official 's inquiry , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state agency . Welfare Commissioner Fielding has already indicated his intention to make sweeping changes in the methods and , if necessary , the personnel of his department . Presumably he will attempt to carry out the recommendations contained in the report he helped to draft as a member of the Executive Committee on Administration . The committee said in its report that it was directed by the Mayor on May 21 to investigate the organization , policies and methods of operation of the Department of Welfare , particularly in relation to the administration of public assistance . In fact , that task was originally assigned to Mr. Reid and taken over by the committee some time later . The announcement that the State Department of Social Welfare was looking into the local relief set-up was also made on May 21 . At the time the Mayor directed Mr. Reid to begin his survey he said that there was no implied or direct criticism of Mr. Rhatigan 's administration . Conditions of Long Standing At the beginning of its report the committee declared that " the deficiencies in the organization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of long standing , originating in the main during prior executive regimes in the department . " Declaring that its assignment had been limited to study of administrative procedures and controls , the report recommended that a copy of the document be submitted to Mr. Murtagh for study " and to make further investigation , if such appears necessary , as to whether there is any evidence of practices which may have occurred in the administration or acceptance of public assistance warranting legal action . " This language left the implication that civil or criminal proceedings , or both , might result if Mr. Murtagh 's investigation- uncovered evidence to support such action . Mr. Murtagh was married on Saturday and will be absent for several weeks on a honeymoon in Bermuda . His investigation presumably will get into full swing upon his return . The report , after a detailed analysis of the administrative set-up of the Department of Welfare and a description of the functions of various individual officials and employes , sets out ten general findings and an equal number of recommendations for changes . Each finding and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special field covered by it . First , the committee found an over-all lack of proper administrative control within the department with regard to public assistance processed through local welfare centers . It found this lack due to absence of fixed responsibility at each level of personnel . It also round lack of uniform interpretation of regulations contained in departmental manuals . As to many operations it found " ignorance , confusion and uncertainty not only among subordinates but also among supervising officials . " Lack of proper records was also disclosed , according to the report , and in some instances the central office was unaware of policies and practices being followed by subordinates . The committee also found that throughout various ranks of personnel administering public assistance through local welfare centers there was " a general lack of adequate supervision , including amounts to be paid relief clients and the granting of additional payments . " " It was found , " the report declares , " that recommendations of special allowances by social investigators in the field were approved perfunctorily by their immediate supervisors , who made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? special allowances . It appears that the governing factor in the expenditure of special allowance money is the availability of funds . " Investigators Termed Lax A second finding was that administration of public aid through local welfare centers was in many cases " inefficient and wasteful " with investigators in numerous instances doing their work in a ' lax " manner . Improper planning of work and bugeting of time were found as further causes of nefficiency . Forms were found to 3e obsolete and case records unnecessarily long . It was found also that investigators were not raking the legally required nu.m3er of visits and that time was wasted by improper geographical trouping of cases . In a third finding the committee criticized " laxity and poor judgnent " in appraising the necessity or special ? and extraordinary grants through local relief centers . Absence of proper controls in this field , the report found , was responsible for the placing of relief climts in expensive hotels last Sumner for extended periods of time at excessively high costs " without the knowledge of high-ranking officials of the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated to prevent these prolonged stays , according to the report . Fourth , the report found the procedure for finding housing for homeless relief recipients to be inefficient because of lack of a central clearing house to supply information on vacancies . A fifth finding was that the ofrice of State Controller Frank C. Moore , in its most recent audit , made in 1946 , did not extend its check beyond the files of the city agency . There was no indication that a field audit was made , the report declared . Reports on state audits made in the past , the report said , disclosed that action of the city agency on virtually all cases was found " unobjectionable . " In a sixth finding the report said that the Department of Welfare did not make adequate checks on the income and financial requirements of relief recipients . A seventh finding was that the department did not check effectively to determine to what extent relief clients were employ-1 able . As an eighth finding the report declared that the state exercised complete control over activities ofl the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ninth finding stressed the additional burden placed on the local relief machinery by the influx of indigent non-residents . The tenth finding was that the total cost of relief in the city was steadily increasing . The ten recommendations made by the Mayor 's committee were aimed at the deficiencies found by its survey . It was urged that responsibility be fixed for each level of personnel through establishment of specifications and revision of manuals . A system of checks for proper coordination of functions was recommended and a program . of procedure for field workers , supervisors and other personnel dealing with relief cases was suggested in detail . The report recommended that in the field of medical service more extensive use be made of available institutional and clinical services provided by the city , so that costs of relief might be materially reduced . The report also recommended establishment of a central housing unit to work in close liaison with the New York City Housing Authority and the real estate bureau of the Board of Estimate . It was recommended that hotel accommodations be provided only in cases where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available or that hotel housing would be cheaper , considering all factors . The report recommended the establishment of a new unit in the office of Controller Lazarus Joseph the sole function of Which would be continuous scrutiny and examination of relief payments . It was recommended that at least two examiners be assigned to each of the sixteen local welfare centers on a rotation basis . Their duties would be to make periodic checks on the activities of social investigators by auditing special allowances and new applications and determining whether all allowances were made in accordance with approved procedures . The presence of such an outside supervisory group , the report declared , would cause more diligence on the part of the field force of about 1,600 social investigators in the Department of Welfare . The report also recommended enlargement of the staff of Budget Director Thomas J. Patterson to cover all aspects of relief grants . The staff now reviews all requests of the Department of Welfare for appropriations but the proposed enlargement would enable it to follow cost-of-living 4- " ends , unemployment and labor i a.rket conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recommended that the state pay the same share of the cost of the new units in the office of the Controller and Budget Director as it now does in the case of Welfare Department personnel . In recommending that the state take over the entire responsibility for public assistance the report said : " A state department supervising a city department , as is the case with the State Department of Social Welfare and the City Department of Welfare , tends to bring about divided responsibility . There should be no question as to where responsibility rests . Such division must inevitably bring about complete dominance by one over the other or create confusion and friction . Tne state exercises paramount authority in welfare matters by virtue of legislative authorization and because it is empowered to withhold at will the state 's share of public assistance costs if the city fails to carry out its dictates . " For these reasons the committee believes that the administration and supervision of public assistance should be under the sole jurisdiction of the state . The state should assume full responsibility because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The state , together with the money it receives from the Federal government , now pays 80 per cent of all relief costs in the City of New York and should , we believe , assume the entire . cost . " If the present status of statecity relations is to continue , the report declared , there should be changes in the law and the rules and regulations of the State Department of Social Welfare to give the city greater control in the administration of its relief program . Such increased control , together with improved budgeting , would enable the city to do a more efficient job , the committee contended . As a final recommendation the report urged that the problem of dealing with indigent non-residents who come to New York solely because of attractive relief allowances receive immediate attention by the State Board of Social Welfare . The report contended that the problem was one over which the city could exercise no control , despite the fact that it was considered an important factor affecting the cost of public assistance .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      