@@704790

txt Although some slowing in the rate of upturn in steel operations is evident . continued active buying for domestic and foreign accounts Is expected to push steel operations still higher in coming weeks This week 's schedules show Pittsburgh unchanged from last week 's rate of Si ' 2 ' c of ingot capacity . This is said to be entirely due to a routine shift in operating schedules and a further rise during the week is expected At Chicago . meanwhile . a new 1940 high of 90 6 , : c of theoretical capacity is scheduled , up 5.3 points from a week ago The Chicago district is being aided materially by Allied Purchasing Commission orders , not - bnly directly but also because domestic business is being passed on by eastern mills in order that they might meet pressure for Allied deliveries . Bookings in May were substantial . Some companies actually took on twice as much tonnage as they received in April , and all the leading producing units recorded big gains in most products . Indications are that the business to be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because subs-snt1.1 ? nluines are in the market , which should result in actual contracts shortly . Export demand continues to attract most attention because of the large individual tonnages involved in the inquiries . Both England and France are placing substantial orders and are inquiring for more steel . Many neutral countries also are placing contracts here , but the quantities in these orders are much smaller than those which are to be used for war purposes . It is no longer necessary for steel producers to urge domestic customers to specifiy against contracts already placed . This is particularly true in the flat rolled products which were sold at concessions about two months ago . Users are giving instructions for shipments , but it is doubtful that the makers will be able to complete deliveries by the end of this month , as they had planned . There is a heavy demand for semi-finished material . In addition to the export business in this branch , non-integrated companies which turn out the finished articles ? replacing good sized contracts and have arranged for their future requirements wherever possible This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big companies as compared with other units with most of their capacity in the flat rolled finished lines . The scrap market continues strong . Sentiment in this market is influenced by improved mill buying . There have peen some good sized purchases in the middle west , and other districts report that steel companies are showing greater interest in the market . Export demand is not as large as heretofore , due probably to the difficulty in arranging transportation . Dealers and brokers are taking offerings whenever they come on the market .                     