@@704870

txt WASHINGTON , July 10 ? Great Britain has suggested to the United States the pooling of British resources involving war materials and other commodities essential for prosecuting the war with the resources of the Americas . Under the plan the materials would be allocated to various countries , but none would find their way to Germany , Italy , Japan or countries regarded as friendly to the Axis or likely to allow the materials to fall under the control of the dictators . This , in outline , is a plan which has been advanced , apparently with the coming meeting of Pan-American Foreign Ministers in Havana in mind . It has been put forward only in general terms , but officials familiar with it said today that their understanding of it was that it would mean extension of the British blockade to the Western Hemisphere , with all the countries of this hemisphere participating in the blockade . Put in another way , they said , it would mean extension of total war to this continent with the consent and assistance of the Americas . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be gathered today the reception of the proposal has been lukewarm . A promise was made to Great Britain to give the suggestion consideration , but that was all , and officials said today that they knew of no further development concerning it . Will Consult Other Governments It is understood that Great Britain intends to approach the other governments in this hemisphere separately and urge a favorable response . Whether this has been done is not known here . The British plan would furthermore contemplate extension of trading arrangements into the postwar period , so that the end of the war would not see the termination of the trading associations of the participating nations . Great Britain would pay with cash for the materials she bought from the pool as long as the cash held out . After that , presumably , the plan would be effective only if credit arrangements were made for Britain . So far as the United States was concerned , that would mean the scrapping of the Johnson act , something that would require Congressional action . It is thought significant that the // BRITAIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when the American nations are perfecting plans for the Havana Conference . It is assumed , therefore , that Britain will not only be observing the conference closely but encouraging a friendly attitude toward the pooling arrangement . Diplomatic observers here think that the suggestion may be considered in more or less definite ways in Hanava , on the fringes if not actually in the conference itself , but may have parallel manifestations in considerations of whether the American republics should change their technical status of neutrality to one of non-belligerency . There have been persistent reports that the subject of non-belligerency would find its way into the Havana Conference , but officials here insist that there are no plans in that connection and that the subject has not even been discussed here . Observers suggest that the British pooling plan may find a basis of discussion in the cartel the United States is proposing for disposing of surplus exports of the Americas . The cartel will be discussed at the conference , although there is no unanimity of opinion here on the question of how definite progress will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject . Germans Pressing Latin Nations By The Associated Preis . WASHINGTON ** United States matched increased German activity in Latin-American countries tonight in a struggle involving hemisphere defense and economic unity . Central American countries were reported to have come under strong German pressure to oppose proposals for welding the twenty-one American republics into a common defensive front at the Pan-American conference opening at Havana on July 20 . Countering the German drive , which was believed here to have the support of Italy and possibly Japan , United States diplomats were said to have stepped up their own efforts to convince Latin-American countries that their future security depended on full cooperation in this hemisphere . President Roosevelt himself , giving weight to assurances of United States support , declared in his defense message to Congress today : " We will repel aggression against the United States or the Western Hemisph ere . " Without making formal representations , German diplomats in the Latin-American countries are reported to be " explaining the German viewpoint " in such a way as to try to raise doubts about the ability and intentions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to bring effective solutions to their economic problems . United States diplomats were understood to be countering these arguments with contentions such as those voiced publicly at Havana Monday by George S. Messersmith , Ambassador to Cuba . He warned against accepting assurances of some European nations that they had no interest in the Americas and declared in a radio address that " the Western Hemisphere , with its great natural wealth , is considered by these States as their ultimate conquest . "                     