@@707495

txt A protracted dry spell persisted on the mldwestern prairies yester ? day while farmers hoped a long overdue carpet of snow would cover their land . A survey indicated the aridity was causing some concern , but that copious spring rains could get planters off to a good start on the job of raising the food needed to win the wan There has been no measurable precipitation in the Minneapolis region since Nov. 8 , and December was the driest since 1837 . The weather bureau Ihere reported a heavy kill of winter rya and winter wheat may ensue . Wisconsin Legumes IIIL In Wisconsin , where precipitation of five inches during the last three months contrasted with twice that amount In a similar 1942 period , snow was needed because winter kill threatened 31/2 million acres of alfalfa , clover , and other legumes . The southern half of the state was bare , Much of Nebraska was extremely short of subsoil moisture , The monthly rainfall average in the state had been below normal every month since September , 1942 , with the exception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 30,250,000 bushels compared with 60,165,000 last year . Winter wheat has been retarded In Illinois , but wet weather henceforward would prevent loss . A heavy deficiency was noted in the northern halt of the state from September thru December , while precipitation was spotty in the central sector and scattered in the southern area . Indiana an Inch Below . Indiana rainfall has averaged proximately an inch a month below normal since September . December precipitation in tile Detroit , Mich. , region was .9 of an Inch  --  far under the normal 2.35 inches , December moisture was near the lowest on record in South Dakota , but tile crop outlook was favorable because the ground had been soaked in the early fall . The autumn and early winter were dryer than usual In Iowa , but tile planting fortunes there will depend largely on rains between March and June . Rain and snow eased the situation in Ohio , antic ) there was a shortage of water in some wells and ditches , and some farmers in the south have been carrying water for their stock from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for winter wheat are very poor in western Oklahoma , central and western Kansas , most of Nebraska , and eastern Wyoming . Authorities said unless considerable moisture Is received before spring , production in this important wheat producing area will be below 1943 and far short of a war food administration goal for at least 25 per cent increase over the last her-vest , Drouths which seriously affected production In Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma last year had been broken . Moisture conditions In eastern Kansas and Missouri  --  areas also affected last year by dry weather  --  are much better .                     