@@710329

txt House Republican strategists today approved the labor committee 's bill outlawing the closed shop and industry wide bargaining and restricting strikes in essential industries . The group , composed of the Republican steering committee and Republican members of the labor committee , also sanctioned plans to bring the measure to the floor of the house Tuesday with a final vote scheduled for Thursday or Friday next week . Major provisions of the bill Approved today include : 1 . An outright ban on closed shop contracts , under which all workers in a plant must be union members and the employer can hire only union members . Union Shop Contracts 2 . A restriction on union shop contracts which would permit such agreements only when a majority of the workers in a plant vote for it by secret ballot . Under a union shop contract , an employer may hire any one he pleases , but the worker must join the union in a specified time . 3 . A ban on Industry wide bargaining , such as practiced by unions in the coal mining and steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make demands dictated by the International , Penalties for violation would be the same as those imposed under anti-trust laws  --  a year in jail or a $5,000 fine , or both  --  and would be imposed on individuals found guilty of such conspiracy . Provision for Injunctions 4 . Authority for the attorney general to seek injunctions against strikes which threaten national health , safety , and welfare . This provision is aimed at shutdowns such as the current telephone strike and strikes by coal miners . The injunction provision was changed today on the suggestion of steering committee members to limit injunctions to a period of 75 days , during which government mediation and conciliation machinery would be put in motion , As originally drafted , the bill would have permitted permanent injunctions . Other sections of the bill would abolish the national labor relations board and set up a managementlabor relations hoard which would function in a judicial capacity only . An administrator of the labor relations act would take over . the investigation and prosecution functions now exercised by the NLRB . The new " judicial " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be empowered to rule on complaints of unfair labor practices brought by the administrator or other parties . Before Committee Today At the conclusion of today 's meeting , Speaker Martin R. , Mass ? . I. chairman of the steering committee . told reporters there had been a " high degree of unanimity " in the meeting and that he expected the measure to be approved by the house Thursday , April 17 , or the next day . Chairman Hartley fit , N. 3.1 of the labor committee said he would take the measure before the full committee tomorrow and that he expected it to be reported Friday or Saturday . The next step would be scheduling of debate by the rules committee . Hartley said that group probably would act Monday , with debate starting Tuesday . A Simple Procedure A labor bill is before the senate labor committee , but that group is expected to bring a much milder version to the senate floor , probably next week . However , Republican leaders in the senate expect to muster enough votes to amend the measure on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill . A simple procedure for the senate would be to put the house bill on the calendar ? after the hous ? passes it  --  and ignore the action of the senate labor committee , which is stacked with w-called liberals who are expected to take the teeth out of the bill now before the group . But this procedure is seldom followed and the senate is expected to work on its own bill , regardless of the shape In welch it comes from committee .                     