@@709813

txt AIRLINER MISSING WITH 44 AFTER HOP OVER THE ATLANTIC 19 From New York Area Among Those Aboard Belgian DC-4 Lost in Newfoundland MR-LAND SEARCH FAILS Navy and Civilian Craft , Join in Hunt  --  Pilot Says Here He Sighted Wreckage By C. L. SULZBERGER Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES GANDER , Nfld. , Sept. 18 ? A Douglas DC-4 transatlantic airliner operated by the Belgian airlines and bearing forty-four persons is missing somewhere in the fog-ridden forests of Newfoundland . It can almost certainly be presumed to have crashed or made a forced landing in the hinterland behind this international ' aerial function . The plane , which is owned and operated by Sabena , Belgian national airline Societe Anoynme Belgique d'Exploitation Nationale Aeronautique carried thirty-seven passengers and a crew of seven . Among the passengers were nineteen who resided in or near New York , including six American citizens . After an all-day aerial search by United States Coast Guard and private planes and a ground hunt by organized parties beating through wet Newfoundland forests and swamps little hope was held out tonight for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Search The air search was suspended in the early evening when a low cloud and fog closed in over the airport and surrounding area . One Coast Guard PBY crew reported that it had sighted three wrecks , one of which appeared to Otte new , ? The Associated Press said . The crew saik , however ; that poor visibility had prevented positive identification . It added that the wreckage was scattered over 300 yards and there . had appeared to be no sign of life in the vicinity . A further- check will be made as early Thursday as possible . Meanwhile , the Gander airport 's faCilities were overstrained with hundreds of passengers from many grounded planes swarming about the bar and filling the dormitories . Most of the passengers were unaware of the near-by presumed disaster . If , as is now presumed here , the // plane and all aboard were lost , it would be the worst accident in the history of commercial airplane passenger transport . The airliner left Brussels yesterday and landed at Shannon airport in Ireland . It left Shannon last evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newfoundland time . At 4:57 the pilot checked in with Gander by radio and presumably started his turn for an instrument approach to the field , functioning under borderline weather conditions . That was the last heard of the plane . Emergency procedure was immediately instituted by Newfoundland Government officials , who supervise this international airport . The Newfoundland Government and Pan American Airwayst which handles Sabena 's ground services at Gander , sent out ground I parties before dawn . Pan American itself scraped together four I parties of ten men each and dispatched them along the bumpy roads and on marches through thickly scrubbed forests and swamps . Airliner Joins in Search The air search proved impossible in foggy weather until midafternoon . At that time , with all airlines pitching in together in the desperate search , an American Overseas Airliner westbound , which had been held over here , voluntarily postponed its flight and started an aerial search . United States Navy Catalinas from Argentia Base in Newfoundland also helped . The ground parties , one of which covered twenty-five square miles aiDne , still are scouring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the missing plane must have come to earth within approximately twenty-five miles of Gander . It is not yet known what could have happened to the airliner , except that it is obvious that it is out of fuel and on the ground , not at any airport . When it checked in to Gander there was a fortyknot wind blowing and gusts made landing dangerous . The area is extremely difficult to accomplish a forced landing in , because of the thick forests , even if visibility had been good  --  which ' it was not . Loss of the Belgian plane would be the first fatal accident at the Gander Airport since civilian operations started here last March . The field is now utilized by nine airlines . Sabena has excellent operating ' reputation in Africa and Europe . It started transatlantic flights only a few weeks ago on a temporary basis , preparatory to regular service next spring with new Douglas DC-6 's . N. Y. Office Reports Mishap The first definite admission in New York that something was wrong came from Fernand Martens , New York representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At first he expressed hope that the plane . had avoided Gander and had landed at Goose Bay , Labrador , but this hope was soon dispelled . Capt . Budlong Merrill , pilot of a Trans World Airliner that landed at La Guardia Field at 9:53 A. M. , said that his plane had been held on the runway at Gander for forty minutes while the Gander control tower had been in radio contact with the Belgian liner . He said that after contact had been lost his plane had been released at 4:34 A. M. New York time . The crew of a KLM air liner from Amsterdam that arrived at La Guardia Field at 10:10 A. M. reported that the weather had been so bad at Gander ? that the plane had by-passed that field and had re-fueled instead at Stephensville , Nfld. , 160 miles farther on . Shortly after noon the New York headquarters of the Coast Guard announced that it had been advised by the North Atlantic Patrol that an outward bound C-54 had sighted the , wreckage of a plane on the northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated would place the crash about fifteen miles from the airport . The Coast Guard added that bad weather and poor visibility were hampering the search for the missing plane . There was no further information for a number of hours . Wreck Reported Sighted Late in the afternoon Sabena officials issued a statement in which they asserted that they had been informed by officials at Gander that the wreckage sighted by the Coast Guard plane was that of a military aircraft , and not the missing liner . However , at 4:30 P. M. , an American Overseas Airliner landed at La Guardia Field . Its crew advised the Coast Guard that after having taken off from Gander at 11 A. M. New York time they had sighted the wreckage of a plane that they were sure was a DC-4 , the type of the missing liner , at a point fifteen miles northeast of Gander . Wright Gillies , purser of the plane , told reporters that the wreck had been sighted through heavy rain . It was in a heavily forested area , he said . He estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to traverse the dense forests and reach the site of the crash . Capt . Freeman Rickets , pilot of the American Overseas Airlines flagship America , arrived at La Guardia Field last evening and said he had been at Gander when the wreckage sighted by the Coast Guard plane had been identified as that of a military plane . He said that searching parties in trucks and amphibious jeeps were searching the area , which is about sixty miles inland from the coast . Captain Ricketts declared that the Sabena pilot had informed the Gander control tower that he was about to make a procedural turn to approach the airport . Under normal practice , this turn is made at 2,000 feet , with the plane leveling to 1,500 feet as it nears the field . He said that the Belgian plane had not been heard from again , however . Captain Ricketts flew over the route that would normally be followed by the Sabena plane , but saw no wreckage . Sabena officials still clung late last night to the hope that the plane had made an emergency landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They pointed out that radio communications with Newfoundland had been handicapped yesterday by magnetic conditions . The plane 's fuel supply would have been exhausted , they estimated , at 10:57 A. M. , New York time . They said that the plane was piloted by Capt . Jean Ester , who flew during the war with a Belgian unit of the Royal Air Force . If all those aboard were killed , the crash was the worst in commercial airplane history . It was also the first crash causing passenger fatalities on a transatlantic flight since a Pan-American Clipper crashed in the Tagus River at Lisbon on Feb. 22 , 1943 , causing twenty-four deaths . Sabena was established in 1923 and had a long record of successful operations in Europe before the war . This was only its fifth flight across the Atlantic , however . A flight had been made in each of the , last four weeks , but they were still listed as special flights rather than as regular , scheduled operations . 