@@706073

txt District Attorney William O'Dwyer of Brooklyn , who began his public career as a uniformed patrolman on beat and was defeated last month as the Democratic candidate for Mayor against Fiorello H. La Guardia , split completely with the city administration last night and flatly refused to permit his confidential records to be made the subject of a report demanded by the Police Department Mr. O'Dwyer became so enraged when the demand for the report was disclosed to him that he ordered all his office records placed under lock and key at once and told the commander of the detectives assigned to his office , Acting Captain Frank C. Bids , a close friend since the prosecutor 's days as a rookie policeman , to notify the Police Department that he had been denied access to the records . Virtually all the records are the product of the combined work of Mr. O'Dwyer and Captain Bals . Day-by-Day Report Asked The request for the report , received by Captain Bals yesterday afternoon , calls upon him to account for the activities of his squad every hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Although it provides that in pending cases or cases not yet broken that witnesses might be designated by symbol , letter or number , and the nature of the evidence expressed in general terms , Mr. O'Dwyer took the position that it still called for the " framework " of such cases and was tantamount to absolute disclosure . It was learned that Mr. O'Dwyer feels that the requested report would have an effect on a pending investigation that is alleged to involve a high city official , a labor official nationally prominent and a former police official . It is known that Mr. O'Dwyer has asserted privately that he " expects to O'Dwyer and explained that he could not meet the demands without access and scrutiny of the office records . Mr. O'Dwyer read the request through , it was learned , and then turned to his old friend , with whom he had spent the last two years " breaking " the Brooklyn murder ring case , and declared : " Frank , you tell them they ca n't have this information . This calls for the disclosure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants this information tell them to come and see me . And I 'll disclose it if it 's in the public interest to do so , and only in the public interest . And I do n't care who wants the records . " Request Made by Ryan The request for the report was dated Nov. 15 , although it was not received by Captain Bals until yesterday . Mr. O'Dwyer said he regarded this as significant . The request was signed by John J. Ryan , assistant chief inspector in charge of all detectives throughout the city . Inspector Ryan and Mr. O'Dwyer have been intimate friends , dating to the years that Mr. Ryan was a ranking police officer in Brooklyn and Mr. O'Dwyer was successively a subordinate patrolman , a magistrate , Kings County judge and then District Attorney of Kings County . It has been an open secret in Mr. O'Dwyer 's office in recent weeks that the prosecutor and Captain Bals have feared a move by the city administration that would affect the police personnel assigned to the office and the members of which frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Brooklyn murder syndicate case that culminated Sunday in the conviction of Louis ( Lepke ) Buchalter , one of the most powerful racketeers in the country . It was known that shortly after the recent election Captain Bals received a telephone call from a superior . officer and was asked about his duties . Captain Bals discussed the matter with Mr. O'Dwyer and it was reported then Ithat Captain Bals was angered and I talked of retiring . After the incident last night it was reported by an official source that Captain Bals left Mr. O'Dwyer and went immediately to Police Headquarters and obtained the ipapers necessary for filing an application for retirement . It was reported by the same source that 1 Captain Bals was busy filling out the papers last night and was of al ' mind to file the application today . ' 1 Bitterness between Mr. O'Dwyer , 1Mayor La Guardia and Police Cornmissioner Valentine has been rumored ever since the election campaign in which Mr. O'Dwyer blamed Mayor La Guardia as being largely responsible for the spread of the Brooklyn murder ring before it was exposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expose of the ring was essentially a police job and charged that failure to cope with the series of murders rested with Mayor La Guardia as " commander in chief of the city 's 18,000 policemen . " He added that he " knew there was something wrong " and that it rested with the Mayor 's lack of leadership , Commissioner Valentine , an appointee of Mayor La Guardia , then retaliated that Mr. O'Dwyer was in error in taking credit for the breaking of the murder ring , and asserted that it had been done by efficient police work , pointing out that Mr. O'Dwyer himself had praised the police for their aid in the case and had recommended a number of detectives for commendation . The requested report received by Captain Bals is as follows : " You will forward the report as soon as possible to this office on the activities of your squad . This report will show the number of hours spent by each man , each day during the year since April 1 : the nature of the work , giving every detail ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty was performed or the services rendered . It is understood that names of witnesses and the details of evidence in pending cases or cases which are not yet broken are not to be given . In that event witnesses might be designated by symbol , letter or number , and the nature of the evidence only in general terms and in no way revealing the facts of the case ; the nature of evidence or the real persons involved . " The report should also indicate in detail traveling outside of New York as well as within the city , and the reason and necessity for time spent in each assignment . Also indicate all disbursements and totals for each man . " The report must also contain each and every place visited with witnesses under custody either kept as material witnesses or as guests by the District Attorney or by any other person , In cases where witnesses have not yet testified , real names and places need not be given : for example -- at a hotel ' or ' in his home . ' Where police officers have lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it . In pending cases the identity of the witnesses and the description of the place need not be given so as to be recognized . "                     