@@711851

txt Massachusetts ' Legislature today ground out its first major measure ? 52.000,000 for flood relief and control  --  amid A pattern-setting debate between Republicans and Democrat : . The western Massachusetts relief bill was enacted today by the Legislature under suspension of the rules and sent immediately to Governor Dever for his signature . It had the backing of leaders of both parties . However , from the outset there were differences of opinion over the financing of the project  --  the source of the appropriations , possible restrictions on expenditures , and a bond issue later to cover the cost . Governor Dever and the Democrats  --  being in control of the legislative processes  --  took the initiative in advocating state aid for western Massachusetts , covered by flood waters in early January . Emergency Bali= The proposed legislation was placed on an emergency basis to afford all possible protection to the stricken area in the event of further floods this spring . Governor Dever recommended the Legislature appropriate " without retarding restrictions and restraints " $2,000,000 from the general fund , to be reimbursed later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would " require funds to be dispersed in accordance with statutory requirements . " At the same time , the Republicans suggested that 51.500.000 be appropriated from the highway fund for bridge and road repair and 5500.000 from the general fund for stream work . The Democratic - controlled Ways and Means Committee then took over , The resultant bill hears the imprint , of both minority Republicans ; , nd majority Democrats . It would appropriate $1.100,000 from the highway fund for bridges and roads and $500.000 from the general fund for stream clearance , It contained checks on expenditures by the Department of Public Works ? viewed as desirable by the Republicans although perhaps not as strong as they would like . It made no mention of reimbursing the general fund through a later bond issue . Some Moves Balked At this stage , the bill was brought out into the open in debate on the House floor . The Republicans under the leadership of Representative Charles Gibbons of Stoneham put through a minor clarifying amendment . But the next move of the Republicans  --  to place a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in flood work ? was repulsed by the Democrats 94 to 101 . A Republican-sponsored 15 per cent amendment also failed , the vote being 99 to 101 . Representative Thomas E. Key ( R ) of Winthrop successfully sponsored an amendment to give veterans preference in employment for flood relief work . It v4in by 195 to 2 . Neither Charge Upheld During the debate , the Democrats were charged with being against veterans ' preference and the Republicans were accused of delaying the bill . However , the recorded votes of the two parties substantiated neither charge . Under the terms of the bill , the Department of Public Works will be authorized to maintain , construct , reconstruct , and repair state highways and town and county ways and bridges in Berkshire , Franklin , Hampshire , and Hampden counties .                     