@@707263

txt General 's announcement that " Munda is now in our hands " comes appropriately in this week of far-scattered United Nations victories . It belongs in the big story with Orel , Belgorod and Catania . In numbers engaged the Munda operation was amen compared with those on Sicily , as those on Sicily were small beside those in Russia . Five thousand Japanese held the Munda airfield . There would have been more if the enemy could have brought them there and kept them supplied , and the actual number is no measure of the importance of the engagement . The Pacific front is vast and it is critical . Our activities since the Guadalcanal landing , precisely a year ago today , have not carried us far on the South Seas map but they have carried us into positions that the Japanese did not wish to relinquish . On Guadalcanal alone , according to this week 's War Department estimate , the enemy lost more than 40,000 men . Most of these men fought to the death , as did those at Munda . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around these islands with seemingly reckless disregard of danger and with consequent heavy losses . We can not believe that with all their fatalism the Japanese organized these expeditions merely to lose ships , planes and men . We must conclude that they intended to hold or regain positions that they considered valuable . In spite of their sacrifices , they have failed . Each advance has expanded , in geometrical proportion , the range of our flying artillery . The field at Munda will bring our fighters within range of the Japanese base at Rabaul . ? The taking of Rabaul would enable our bombers to concentrate on the base at Truk , to the north . At the other end of the big arc American light bombers were working on the island of Timor , northwest of Port Darwin , Australia , on Thursday night . Over an area of many thousands of square miles of sea and land we now threaten the enemy from the air , from the sea and in possible combined landing operations . Progress would naturally have been faster and the present threat greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front . But Germany was clearly the better enemy against which to concentrate our efforts in the first stage of the war , since we can bring to bear against Germany not only British and American strength but Russia 's great strength as well . For this reason it seemed wiser , and the results prove the case , to feed the European front and ration the Pacific front . One can understand the feelings of the brave men in the Pacific who have been given so little with which to do so much . The South Sea fighters have been through a hell such as American soldiers and sailors have rarely been called on to endure . Yet in the end they may realize , and the hardpressed Chinese may realize with them , that every victory in Europe has been their victory , too . American supplies sent to Russia weakened the Germans in the West . Italy is falling because of the ships , planes , guns and men that were not sent to the South Seas . The time is that much nearer when an overwhelming force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan . This le the world-wide strategy , neo essary because this is a single war . It has added to the terrible burdens of the men who have had to cross perilous seas , carry out raids in bombers without fighter protection , and battle their way , yard by yard , through jungles held by a fanatical enemy . We can hardly imagine the inferno that Munda has been these past five weeks . But there will be less hell in the long run because we took our enemies in the order of our ability to strike .                     