@@706585

txt The contest for the Democratic nomination for Governor between Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr . and United States Senator James M. Mead has developed into a fight between President Roosevelt and State Chairman James A. Farley for control of the Democratic organization in the President 's home State . This was the view expressed yesterday by local Democratic leaders on both sides of the controversy , which , unless checked , jeopardizes Democratic victory in the November election and increases the chances of the election of Thomas E. Dewey , prospective Republican nominer for Governor . Although President Roosevelt has made no public declaration of his choice of a candidate , he has told a number of Democratic leaders , including Representative Michael J. Kennedy , leader of Tammany , Edward J. Flynn , National Chairman and Bronx leader , and Senator Robert F. Wagner that he prefers Senator Mead and word of his position has spread throughout the State . Reasons Behind Stand President Roosevelt 's opposition to the nomination of Mr. Bennett is understood to be due to the belief that he would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Mead , if made the Democratic nominee , would also obtain the American Labor party nomination and have no difficulty in defeating Mr. Dewey . Assured now that they have the approval of the White House , New Deal supporters of the President are going ahead with an attempt to get State Convention delegate support for Senator Mead . They admitted that the task is a difficult one with Mr. Bennett having the promised support of more than a majority and possibly two-thirds of those who will be delegates to the convention . What these supporters of the President can not understand is why he did not indicate his choice of a candidate for Governor earlier , before Mr. Farley had obtained pledges of support for Mr. Bennett from the chairmen or party organizations of fifty-one of the sixtytwo counties of the State . With the time for filing designating petitions past , nearly all the convention delegates are as good as elected . Contests for only three delegates in Suffolk County have been reported to the State Committee . Expects Settlement Soon Representative Kennedy , who has made no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the choice of the President , said he expected " the situation would be straightened out very shortly . " This was taken to indicate that the leader of Tammany expected that the President would declare openly for Senator Mead . Supporters of the movement to nominate Senator Mead said this would be necessary if the Senator was to be named . Mr. Farley and Attorney General Bennett decided to stand pat with the latter 's present lead . A checkup of prospective delegates by Mr. Farley and his aide , Vincent Dailey , showed very few likely defections from Mr. Bennett 's support upState , even if the President should declare openly for the nomination of the Buffalo Senator . Up-State , the contest was regarded not only as a fight for present control of the State organization but as a preliminary to control of a majority of the New York State delegates to the Democratic National Convention in 1944 . The best chance of breaking into Mr. Bennett 's support appeared to I be in Brooklyn , where Frank V. Kelly , the county leader , is supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferring Senator Mead because they regard the Senator as stronger than Mr. Bennett in their districts . The chance of getting Brooklyn support for the Senator would be better if the President had not supported Mayor La Guardia against Williairn O'Dwyer , Democratic nominee for Mayor last year . Memory of that still rankles among many in Mr. O'Dwyer 's home borough . The Affiliated Young Democrats , a 100 per cent pro-Roosevelt organization , will hold its State convention a few days before the Democratic State Convention , and it is expected that this convention will endorse a candidate for Governor . Some members expressed hope that a compromise candidate might be chosen , but Mr. Farley is insisting that there can be no compromise and that Mr. Bennett 's name will be presented to the State Convention in any event .                     