@@708900

txt The army tonight sharply reduced age , limits and point requirements for exemption from overseas service , freeing an estimated 665.000 enlisted men ow in this country from impending redeployment to the Pacific . The new orders are that nc enlisted , men 37 or older or with 45 or more discharge points shall be sent overseas , and In addition that soldiers between 34 and 37 who have a year of military service shall also be excused from overseas duty . Previously the army required 75 points for exemption from overseas service . Ti ? army said that screening will be begun immediately of units scheduled for Pacific duty In order to eliminate men covered by the new ruling . The screening will be begun on a basis of points acquired up to May 12 , the German Surren ? der date , the army said , but a recomputation of points taking into account service up to Sept. 2 will be made as soon as possible , and screenings revised accordingly . No More WACs to Go No WACs will henceforth be sent overseas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will affect an estimated 1,000 men , were listed by the army . These are enlisted men in civil affairs units scheduled for early departure to the Pacific and men in the headquarters companies of the 8th and 18th corps . Such men will need 60 instead of 45 points to be excused from overseas service if they are under 37 or over 34 with less than a year 's service . The new regulations were regarded as the army 's answer to criticism from congressional and other sources of the redeployment of troops to the Pacific who had engaged in combat in the European theater . The army said the revision was made possible because the occupation of Japan was " proceeding according to schedule . " 86th Already on Way Divisions whose orders for Pacific duty brought protests from soldiers involved included the 86th , the 95th , and the 97th . The 86th Is already at sea , en route to the Pacific , it was said , and all but one battalion of the 97th has embarked . This battalion and the entire 95th division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Any soldier now 38 or who has 80 points under the Sept. 2 re-figuring can get a discharge now upon application , the army said , estimating thi ; includes about 1,100,000 men In addition to 400,000 who qualified for discharge before the point total was cut from 85 . WACs may now be discharged ff they have 41 points , are 38 or over , are between 35 and 38 and have two years service , or are married to a discarged member of the military forces . Moving to make an army career more attractive to volunteers in order to accelerate enlistments , the house military committee today tentatively voted to give enlisted men the option of retirement at half pay after 20 years service . Other Plans Before Group The present law permits retirement after 20 years only if a soldier is disabled . Automatic retirement comes after 30 years at three quarters pay ; Other proposals before the committee are to revise the reenlistment bonus program , continue the 20 per cent pay bonus for overseas service , extend the privileges of the GI bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furloughs home to men now in service desiring to reenlist . Demands for an immediate end to the draft were heard in congressional circles , with Sen. Ferguson ER. , Mich. suggesting a 60 or 90 day moratorium on inductions " to see what we can do with volunteers . "                     