@@712338

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 14-A former Communist said today ( that a direct order from Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and former Secretary of State Cordell Hull allowed Mrs. Earl Browder to re-enter the United States despite deportation proceedings . Howard Rushmore , now a reporter for The New York JournalAmerican , said the move in 1944 paved the way for Mrs. Browder to obtain United States citizenship . But Justice Department records show that Mrs. Browder never became a. citizen . They show she applied for citizenship in 1946 and an official investigation of the application is still pending . Mr. Rushmore testified before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee which is studying the immigration laws with a view to tightening them to prevent infiltration of Communists . Mrs. Browder , Russian-born wife of the one-time top American Communist , was arrested for illegal entry in 1940 . Four years later she went to Canada , where she sought a re-entry permit to return to the United States . " The Department of State and the Immigration 1. nd Naturalization Service told me that , though they objected , they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-entry permit , " Mr. Rushmore testified . He quoted Benjamin Gitlow , former Communist party secretary , as saying that while Mrs. Browder was having her deportation troubles , her husband was " meeting secretly with President Roosevelt at the White House . " Mr. Rushmore also testified that : 1 . Three to four hundred New York City school teachers are Communists and teach the party // TELLS OF AID GIVEN TO MRS . BROWDER // line , besides controlling perhaps 4,000 others in the city 's teacher force of 33,000. 2 . Jerre Mangione , former Justice Department public relations officer , , was either a Communist or fellow-traveler. 3 . Davis Karr , former aide for Drew Pearson , columnist , and now vice president of a , New York advertising agency , was a Communist . 4 . Lowell Wakefield , former employe of The New York Daily Worker , runs a fishing fleet off Alaska , " where he could contact Russian ships and submarines . " Calls Real Chiefs Aliens Mr. Rushmore told the committee that effective use of the immigration laws would cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least 75 per cent because all its real leaders are aliens and its main financial help comes from overseas . Mrs. Browder , he said , was one of those designated as a representative of the Moscow Central Committee who gave detailed orders to the American Communist party . He said others slipped through the border or were smuggled in with help of " Communistdominated maritime unions . " Mr. Rushmore said the New ' York teachers who were Communists simply ignored their New York State oaths . He designated the Jefferson School in New York as the " university of revolution of the Communist party . " Mr. Pearson told a reporter he knew Mr. Karr ? " intimately " and was convinced he was never a Communist . Mr. Pearson said the House Committee on Un-American Activities gave Mr. Karr a clean bill of health .                     