@@711065

txt Winter-weary New York had its third day of respite yesterday from freezing temperatures but a new cold wave was due to strike the city early today . Highest temperatures today were expected to be in the mid-twenties . The thermome ' ter registered 53 degrees at 6:30 A. M. yesterday , the highest it has been since Dec. 16 , when the high was 55 . Although the temperature was still above freezing before midnight last night , a strong northwest wind gave pedestrians the impression of colder weather . The mercury was expected to drop to 15 or 20 degrees by dawn . It was 28 at 2 A. M. Continued moderate weather yesterday accomplished two things ? it cleared away much of the ice and snow still remaining on the streets in suburban areas and it gave the harassed fuel oil dealers a chance to catch up on their backlog of orders . The fuel oil emergency is not ended but three : days of moderate weather greatly reduced consumption and enabled dealers to replenish tanks of many more consumers . The Health Department received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emergency Fuel Committee received 2,821 requests for heating oil . It received confirmation of 2,311 deliveries and issued authorization for the withdrawal of 25,000 gallons of No. 6 oil , exhausting the emergency pool of that grade that had been lent by the Navy ; 33,000 gallons of kerosene , leaving 134,000 gallons in the pool , and 213,000 gallons of No. 2 oil , leaving a balance of 440,000 gallons . New Delivery Plan Started The city started a new plan yesterday for distributing kerosene to the low-income areas where this type of fuel is in most demand and where the consumers must buy from hand to mouth because they usually have only a five-gallon can as their total storage reserve . Some dealers have taken advantage of this fact to , charge exorbitant prices . Six trucks were sent to terminals to be filled with kerosene and then , with a policeman on watch , were sent to lower Manhattan , three areas in Brooklyn and Jamaica , Queens . The trucks bore a large sign " Mayor 's Emergency Fuel Committee . Kerosene sold from this truck . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will be , continued while the emergency lasts , the trucks roam the neighborhoods and fill the cans of consumers while the police see that the price limit is observed . While this plan was being put into effect a group of pickets paraded outside City Hall urging fuel priorities for veterans and de ' mending that the city absorb part of the price in the form of a rent subsidy for veterans ' housing projects . A committee of the pickets was admitted to the hall , where they conferred with Detective Charles Stoffers in the absence of other officials . He said he would present their complaints to the Mayor . The pickets said they represented the New York Veterans Tenant Council . The cold wave was expected to be general throughout the northeast section of the country . In upper New York temperatures are expected to hover near the zero mark and there may be snow flurries to accompany the cold outside the coast region . The cold snap may begin to moderate in this vicinity tomorrow but the temperature will not approach yesterday 's high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wave yesterday . Below zero temperatures extended through the Dakotas , Minnesota , Wisconsin , Nebraska , Iowa . and Illinois and slightly higher in Ohio . It is this cold mass that will strike New York and the other sections of the east today . Auto Association Gives Warning The Automobile Association of America warned motorists not to drive outside the city unless the trip was necessary , because melting snow had covered the roadways with water that will freeze during the night to cover the highways with a coating of ice . Yesterday 's warmer weather was accompanied by fog in some sections and flying conditions at La Guardia Field were unfavorable . There were 93 flights can- , celed and delays in arrivals were experienced . Train service was not affected but the New York Central canceled 21 trains yesterday and will cancel 15 today in a move to conserve fuel . Regional Fuel Oil Coordinators from seven New York state districts met at Rochester yesterday to discuss methods of alleviating the fuel oil shortage up-state . The coordinators were interested primarily in obtaining an accurate state-wide estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. , Rochester ; William Robinson , Syracuse ; Charles R. Waters , Buffalo ; H. F. Brumm , Hornell ; Roy Hall , Watertown ; John Larsen , Utica , and James H. Thomas , Binghamton . They made arrangements for the distribution of the oil allotted by the Navy . Renewed cold weather up-state , as well as in the city , will again make acute the shortage in available supplies of heating oil . How stringent the situation becomes will depend on the length of time the current cold spell lasts . The Preferred Oil Company at Brooklyn yesterday declared that an oil truck driver arrested on Friday for receiving stolen property was not an employe of the company . Two radio patrolmen caught a Sanitation Department driver transferring oil from a city truck to another tank truck and arrested both men . At the time of the arrest the police said the oil company was unaware of the transfer .                     