@@707171

txt The Argentine revolution has been completed . A new Government has assumed control of the country 's destiny . The revolution lasted only twenty-four hours and was virtually unopposed . After a show of resistance , President Ramon Castillo and his Government surrendered and resigned . The new regime seems to have been accepted by the entire nation , including the originally doubtful navy . This in itself proves that Castillo 's rule had become a personal dictatorship without support from any substantial element within the nation . The quick termination of the upheaval and the restoration of peace and order will be welcomed by all countries in the Western Hemisphere and by all the United Nations . Castillo 's pro-Axis policy was a thorn in their side , but a civil war in Argentina , opening up the possibility of Axis intervention , would have been worse . Inevitably , the new regime is composed of the successful revolutionaries . Most of them are military men as ultraconservative as Castillo himself . Including the new President , General Arturo Rawson , the new regime consists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one of the civilians , Finance Minister Jose Maria Rosa , is a pronounced 1Inti-liberal . There is little doubt that the revolution was brought about by a split within the conservative camp , and that this split was not on domestic issues but on foreign policy . Castillo stubbornly clung to an extreme isolationism . He acted in the name of a neutrality that completely isolated Argentina in the Western World and endangered her most vital national interests . While other American nations grew in both economic and military strength by virtue of their own war effort and with the aid of lend-lease from the United States , Argentina saw herself slipping in both respects because she had excluded herself from a like development . And this , together with the natural sympathies of the Argentine people for the cause of the United Nations , undermined whatever standing the Castillo regime may have had . It may be expected therefore , that the new Government will abandon this policy . It is moving cautiously , however . It has let it be known that for the present it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared that it will work for " absolute PanAmerican solidarity " in conformity with the country 's international obligations . At the very least , this would mean a neutrality friendly not to the Axis , as heretofore , but friendly to the United Nations . It should signify the end of Axis efforts to use Argentina as a spy base and possibly even a submarine base . As such it is welcome . But once a change in policy is put into effect , it is doubtful whether it could stop short of going all the way . The new Government has already left the door open for this by announcing that the new policy will be in conformity with Argentina 's international obligations . And these call for a break with the Axis . In bringing Argentina into the camp of the United Nations the new Government will be acting in conformity with what are undoubtedly the desires of the overwhelming majority of its people .                     