@@712019

txt ' We shall enact comprehensive housing legislation , including provisions for slum clearance and low-rent housing projects initiated by local agencies . This nation is shamed by the failure of the Republican Eightieth Congress to pass the vitally needed general housing legislation as recommended by the President . " This was the promise of the platform adopted by the Democratic National Convention on July 14 , 1948 . That promise has now been redeemed in the Senate , with passage of the national housing bill by a healthy margin of 57 to 13 . It now remains to be seen whether the Democrats in the House will also join in redeeming the party platform promise . The membership in the House stands as 260 Democrats , 171 Republicans and one American Labor party member , so that much depends on how well the majority party holds its lines . This does not by any means absolve the House Republicans from taking a liberal and realistic position on the bill , for their party has repeatedly written , in the House , an unpleasant record on housing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This record was reflected in the weaselwording of the Republican campaign platform , saying : " We recommend federal aid to the states for local slum clearance and low-rental housing only where there is a need that can not be met either by private enterprise or by the states and localities . " We invite House members regardless of party to search their conscience for the honest answer as to whether the need for low-cost or low-rent housing has been met by private enterprise . It was the opinion of 33 out of 35 Democratic Senators ? voting this week that it had not been , and that was likewise the opinion of 24 out of 35 Republican Senators . It is a sound opinion . The lobbying opponents of this legislation have made every effort to frighten Congressmen , and their rallying cry has been the bogyman of " socialism . " To this we reply that if anything could be counted on to assure a change of our political complexion in the - United States for the worse it would be the continued failure of government to see that average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . Our Government , at one level or another , and at one period or another , has seen to it that railroads , shipping , and the airlines were subsidized so as to survive and expand , for the general welfare ; it has steadily subsidized the postal service ; it has helped the farmer , to the extent of billions of dollars ; it has protected American business against foreign competition ; it has provided public education for the nation 's children ; it has aided religious worship through tax exemption ; it has assisted the war veteran with educational grants and with pensions . Against this long record of subsidy , we are willing to face the horrendous " dangers " in a measure that attempts to assure , both through private enterprise and public subsidy , the wholesome and democratic aim that the American family shall have a decent home .                     