@@707773

txt LONDON , April ** day an Anglo-American Army from Britain is going to descend on the Continent , which for four years has been under German domination . That much is known to Hitler and his general staff . It has been shouted from the nousetops of all Allied capitals since Teheran . Strategic surprise , therefore , is impossible , but the success or failure of the expedition might well depend upon that slight advantage which always goes to the army which , enjoys tactical surprise . That is just another way of saying that , while Hitler and his generals have been told what they probably had figured out for themselves , they still do n't know - , hen or where the blow will fall . That they do not find out that vital secret of war is one of General Eisenhower 's chief concerns . It is n't easy to keep such a secret these days when huge masses of supplies and equipment , such great armadas of ships must be assembled almost under the eyes of enemy observers in reconnaissance craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there are others which when seen may merely serve to confuse the enema ' unless he has agents working for ' - im here to interpret the meaning of the preparations and tell him sum important secrets as what kind of weapons and how many of them are being gathered for use against him . Greatest in History The invasion , when it comes , will be the greatest expedition of its kind in history . Upon its outcome the fate of the world for generathins may well depend . Not since Wellington landed his army in Portugal has anything comparable been attempted from this island and even then the British General was assured of landing on friendly soil . This time the Anglo-American armies must batter a hole in the wall of Hitler 's fortress against the greatest defensive armament ever known and they must take with them not only food and ammunition but gasoline and every other conceivable thing they may need , down to locomotives , rolling stock and track for railroads . In his undertaking General Eisenhower will be attempting in reverse a feat which Julius Caesar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Napoleon and Hitler at the crucial moment found beyond their power . All the hazards and difficulties which caused these two would-be rulers of the world to hesitate ? twenty miles of salt water , the fog and swell of the Channel , and the peril of landing on a hostile shore  --  have been considered and as far as can be told in advance , surmounted . Even if all the statesmen who have proclaimed Allied intentions of invading Europe had held their peace , the Germans would still have known the assault was coming . It is the only way the Nazi hold on Europe can be completely and finally broken . Nor could the approximate time be kept entirely secret , for it is impossible to gather an army big enough for the job in hand without knowledge of the enemy . But while German reconnaissance pilots can probably see themselves when British harbors are glutted with ships , and huge stockpiles disclose themselves in spite of elaborate camouflage , only ' ' a mind reader can tell when those supplies have reached the point which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , however , there are weather conditions , the state of the moon , the tides and the season , which any prudent military man would have to consider . The Germans know that as well as we do , and so they probably know when it is safe to relax and when it is advisable to stand on guard . But it is a large coast line that they are defending and unless they are told they can not tell just where we will strike . In a general way , of course , they know that a large port , or ports , must be taken if the invasion is to be a success . But there are ports all the way from Narvik to Marseilles , all of which are threatened . No matter how observant they are nor how skillful their general staff may be in deductive reasoning , there are vital links in the chain of evidence they need for defense which they can get only from observers of this base with access either to secret radio or reasonably fast mail . Unprecedented Precautions The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprecedented action to insure that no leak from here imperils the safety of the expedition . These precautions begin at supreme headquarters and affect every individual on this island . Only a handful of men close to General Eisenhower know just what is being planned . Everyone in the services has been impressed with the necessity for keeping his lips buttoned up and not even making guesses aloud for the sake of his own safety . The garrulous soul who might be tempted to so much as mention anything to do with military matters in a public place is restrained by the knowledge that he is likely to have an anonymous note passed to him by the bartender , waiter or tram conductor , reading something like this : " Do go on with your story . We 're all listening . So is Hitler . " Not to emphasize the seamy side of life but for the sake of the record it is true that among those ladies of the evening with whom soldiers , sailors and airmen sometimes spend their leisure there are many who came to this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland Yard has not overlooked them and those whose loyalty , regardless of virtue , is doubted have been placed beyond temptation . There has been a general checking up all over the country until officials now are reasonably sure that all those who might want to help the enemy are either under surveillance or where they can not do any damage . Much that has happened on this island in the past few weeks must be regarded as part of the general campaign to make this country spy-proof . The recent round-up of labor agitators was not undertaken solely in the interest of industrial peace and harmony but was partly dictated by security considerations . Of course , at the time when the crucial battle begins , strikes and other stoppages can not be tolerated and the Government has taken strong action to discourage them . But a good deal of the fanfare about agitators was designed to make the public even more security-mind &I; than they were . Keeps Enemy Guessing Many of the things that have been done were of the nature that Germany in the past has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But for the British to adopt the same policy and wait for zero hour would be a sure way of notifying the enemy that now at last the hour had struck . So , in accordance with Prime Minister Churchill 's policy of keeping the enemy guessing with many feints and false alarms , the necessary steps have been taken one by one and nobody on either side of the Channel knows from day to day whether the event that the whole world is waiting for so anxiously is near or far away . In this category falls the ban on travel to coastal areas by any but those who have good reason for being there . So , too , does the warning to the public that if they embark on long rail journeys they may find themselves cut off from the rest of the country for days and weeks . The repeated warnings to the people of the Continent to prepare for invasion helps keep the Germans guessing . The recent American note to Eire calling on that country to close German and Japanese legations provided the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication with that neighboring neutral member of the British Commonwealth of Nations after President de Valera had rejected this demand . Now it is almost impossible for anyone to travel between the two countries ; telephonic communication is cut off and the mails are slow . It is true the border between northern and southern Ireland is open but it is about as well controlled as it would be if it were closed . The most drastic action this country has taken to insure against leakage of military secrets was the order restricting movements of foreign diplomats , making diplomatic bags subject to censorship , and directing that all cables and messages to their Governments be sent in plain English or in British code . Only those dominions fighting at Britain 's side and the United States and Russia are exempt from the order abrogating the privileges diplomats have enjoyed since earliest times . Not even those other foreign Governments which are members of the United Nations were exempt from the order which is designed to prevent secret information from reaching Germany by accident or design . It will cause some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much is at stake the British are confident their action will be understood and accepted with protests . British Feel Assured These measures together with normal censorship are counted on to prevent leaks from here . The British are pretty confident that in the four and a half years they have been at war they have isolated and , identified most if not all of the enemy 's effective secret agents . The diplomatic corps was regarded as the last remaining danger to our plans . What is going on here and has been going on for some time is material of major interest to military and naval attaches of every neutral country . Even those innocent of any desire or design to help the enemy could hardly be blamed if they reported in detail to their Governments what they had observed . The new British order is designed to prevent distillates of such reports reaching the enemy . That secrecy can be maintained until the information is too late to help the enemy was believed to have been demonstrated by the North African expedition of November , 1942 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morocco and Algeria . As it happened , Malta was in dire straits and they appear to have jumped to the conclusion that it was intended for the relief of that sorely beset island stronghold . Maybe they thought it was aimed at Spain 's Balearic Islands , for it swerved toward them . Then under cover of night the ships changed course for Oran and Al , giers and the Germans were caught flat-footed . General Eisenhower with the help of Anglo-American diplomacy and police work hopes to duplicate that feat . Drastic Measures May Conceal Time And Place but Not Allied Purpose                     