@@711985

txt The St. Mary 's Catholic Church was wrecked by an explosion today while it was partly filled with Palm Sunday worshipers . Six elderly persons were killed and at least fifty persons were injured when . the roof awl brick walls came tumbling down upon them as they knelt in their pews . Many more escaped injury because they were in front of the church enjoying the sunshine , waiting for the church bell to call them to worship . About seventyfive persons were in their seats . It was just before the 9 A. M. mass was to begin . Father Joseph Zimmerman , 73 , pastor for the parish of Marion and Monroe , waited in the sacristy to enter the altar , banked with palm leaves . Some of the parishioners complained it was cold in the church . Philip Wachendorf , a car dealer , who had helped arrange to get the church a bottle fuel furnace some time ago , volunteered to go to the basement and turn it on . The janitor had gone outside to ring the bell . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , saidl he threw the furnace 's switch and " everything blew up . " The whole building shook , and then bricks and timbers showered down upon the congregation . Mr. Wachendorf , badly hurt and his hands burned , managed to crawl out of the basement through a hole in the wreckage . The force of the blast caved in the roof and blew out the walls . There was a small fire , but it was extinguished quickly . The sound of the explosion and fee screams of injured and trapped persons attracted the attention ofi nearly every person in this farm town of 775 people . They rushed to the crumbled church and began to dig in the rubble . The only parts of the building that remained standing were some of the wall around the altar and the choir space and the churchl tower . Father Zimmerman had been , trapped by debris falling into the sacristy . Helped out , he escaped ' with a broken rib and cuts . Then ihe assisted rescue operations . Found were the bodies of Mr. // and Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mrs. Philip Luke , all of Marion and Charles of Monroe . All were in their sixties or seventies . Mercy Train Aids Injured Ambulances and doctors rushed in from all surrounding communities . Private cars were commandeered to take injured to Sioux Falls and Mitchell , the closest cities with good hospital facilities . Each is about forty miles from Marion . The Chicago , Milwaukee , St. Paul and Pacific Railroad set up a special mercy train to carry the injured to Mitchell . The injured arrived at hospitals so fast there was no accurate count of the number . Father John Costello left his congregation at Parker to come here to give absolution to those dying . He also took over supervision of rescue work , sending the injured Father Zimmerman to bed . Monsignor L. A. Hoch of Sioux Falls also arrived to give assistance . He made a careful exploration of the debris and reported that no one else was in the ruins . Mrs. R. F. Kratz , a member of the congregation , gave the following account of the disaster : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the St. Mary 's choir . There are about a dozen in the choir . " We had taken our places this morning . The altar boys were getting ready to light the candles and Father ( Joseph ) Zimmerman was in the sacristy putting on his robes . The sacristy is at the north end of the church , next to the altar and directly over the furnace . Walls Collapse After Flash " Suddenly there was a blinding flash , but not too much noise . It was sort of a soft , whistling whoof . The walls appeared to bulge out and then in , and then they collapsed inward . It 's a brick building with a wooden roof . It was built in about 1912 . " The roof settled down with a soft swish and then began to splinter apart as it came down . After a few seconds people began to scream . " The choir loft is at the south end , away from the altar . The roof over our section sort of folded over , not coming clear down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The air just seemed to be full of powder . " My husband , who is a painter , was at home , about a block and a half away . He heard quite a noise there so he looked out . Being a member of the volunteer fire department , he rushed right over . " On the stairs out in front of the church he found John Marso dead under some debris . The brick gable had fallen on him . Mrs. Marso , who had entered the church , was also killed . The three other women who were killed were sitting in about the middle , close together . " I can remember that after the explosion Father Zimmerman kept saying over and over not to mind him , but to look after the people . He was pinned in the wreckage . "                     