@@708915

txt Gen. Charles de Gaulle now faces trouble with the powerful Confederation General du Travail in the coming election . Following his refusal to meet with Confederation leaders to discuss election on the ground that the Confederation is not a political organization General de Gaulle made a speech asking a " yes " vote on two questions : Argument for Control First , that the Assembly peing elected should be a constituent assembly , and , second , that the Provisional Government to serve seven months during the drawing up of a constitution be given full interim powers . Labor favored a " yes " vote on the first , but a " no " vote on the second . Its resolution said : " In taking a firm position on questions of referendum the head of the Government has confirmed the plebiscitary character of the refei endum . " Supporters of General de Gaulle point out that unless the Provisional Government be pi ovided with full powers during the pet iod in which the Assembly is drawing up a new constitution the country would face hopelessly loose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working on a constitution which it must finish in seven months or go out of office is not likely to be able to work on and pass much useful legislation . Therefore , it is contended , the seven-month Provisional Government which follows the present government would need sufficient powers to keep the country progressing toward recovery . Further , it is pointed out that while the C. G. T. calls it a pei - sonal plebiscite by General do Gaulle , actually the present government will resign alter the election and a new one be set up and theoretically General de Gaulle might not head the new one France appears to be weak in promising political leadership at the moment , and the C. G. T. knows that only General De Gaulle would be likely to be asked to head the new Provisional Government and it is for this reason they call it a plebiscite . The C. G. T. does not represent a united bloc of voters any more than do American labor unions represent a single bloc . Divisions run through it and with the individualistic Frenchman this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time hecause they represent the desired Left Swing , but do not go so far as the Comunists . Split in Confederation Further within the Confederation this difference has caused a new and important internal split . Leon Jouhaux has long been Secretary General of the organization . He is an old-line Socialist . The Communists with their organizing power wanted leadership , but could not displace M. Jouhaux . So they " put on the heat " and turned up with a weird solution  --  two Secretary Generals . The new and added man is Benoit Franchon , a Communist . Pushing M. Franchon into power by such extreme pressure resulting in two persons holding the same office has stirred up strong resentment within the C. G. T. The Socialists and Resistance elements as a result aie stronger than ever in opposition to Communism and therefore may be expected to back General de Gaulle . So while the C. G. T. is officially on record as opposing General de Gaulle it means much less in total the increasing hostility of the French Communists toward the De Gaulle regime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irritated the French , who consider the Tito Government a dependency of Russia . They fear the complete loss of their large investments in eastern and southeastern Europe . But the French will stick to their Russian alliance , nevertheless , as they consider the Franco-Russian pact the best safeguard against any i enaissance of German militarism . They continue to have doubts about America and British willingness to continue the occupation of Germany for a long period . Boundary Proposals It is this disbelief in the consistency of Anglo-Saxon policy toward defeated Germany which has induced France to propose to the Foreign Ministers meeting a new delimitation of Germany 's western boundaries . General de Gaulle in Washington declared that Fiance did not want any German territory . But the French are persistent in their demand to separate the Rhineland from Germany definitively and to put the rich Ruhr region under a permanent international regime . The French hope to convince the Western powers that reorganization of western Germany would not only liquidate the German menace once and for all but , at the same time , would balance Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see immediate advantages from a new settlement in western Germany  --  the extension of their own occupation zone and the shipment of large quantities of Ruhr coal to France . How far General de Gaulle succeeded in convincing President Truman that the French blueprint for Germany would bring peace and security to Europe is still a matter of speculation . However , it appears today that the United States considers strengthening the French position in Europe as greatly desirable in the interest of world peace . The United States is less interested in any specific territorial division of Europe than in the elimination of the continent as a hotbed of constant international troubles . An international Ruhr and Rhineland regime well may be in the line with American policy on Europe . British View However , the British so far have been openly hostile to the French demands and it is doubtful whether the new Labor Government in London will show a more conciliatory attitude . Keeping their present occupation zone in Germany , which comprises the greatest part of Germany 's key industries , is a matter of long-range economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British of being so much afraid of Russian power in Europe and of a possible Communist trend in Germany that they want to rebuild German industry quickly and re-establish German sovereignty eventually . Franco-British disagreement on the future of Germany was the stumbling block to a conclusion of a Franco-British treaty last year . The gap has been widened by the Levant crisis . Today , the results of the British elections have raised hopes in France that a new start in FrancoBritisn relations can be made . The attitude of the new British Foreign Minister toward France 's proposals at the London meeting will have a decisive effect on future treaty negotiations between the two countries . A new Franco-British alliance would be a decisive step toward lining up France with the Western powers . What France Wants France wants also to have its say in the preparation of the peace treaty with Italy , although General de Gaulle has announced that France will present no territorial claims against its defeated neighbor . Temporary occupation of the valley of Aosta has been a rather unsuccessful attempt to bolster France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is eager to speed Italy 's recovery , and French statesmen have increasingly found friendly words for their Latin neighbor . As to the final organization of southeastern Europe , France is expected to line up with the Western powers in opposing Russia 's attempts to consider the Balkans as an exclusively Russian zone of i interest and in claiming compensations for confiscated or destroyed French investments in this region . France already has associated itself with the United States and Great Britain in supervising the forthcoming Greek elections . By Egon Kasketirie Wrstten for The Christian Science Manitcr Georges Bidault , Fiench Foreign Minister , goes to London for tomorrow 's meeting of the Foreign Ministers with his bag full of urgent requests . But he will , at the same time , offer to the Western Powers France 's wholehearted collaboration in the reconstruction of the European Continent . French public opinion has been considerably more interested in France 's participation in the forthcoming meeting of Foreign Ministers than in the United Nations Security Council , of which France is also a member . The French believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics than one of international leagues . Experience with the Geneva League has mAde the French skeptical toward world organizations but their resentment at not having played a major role in San Francisco may have contributed to their present aloofness from the new world organization . Gen. Charles de Gaulle may well talk of France as having already become a first-class power in the                     