@@709211

txt The largest budget in the history . of the New York City public school system , calling for an expenditure during the 1946-47 fiscal year of $159,316,056 , will be presented to the Board of Education for its con-1 consideration at a special meeting on Jan. 22 at the board 's headquarters , 110 Livingston Street , Brooklyn . Made public yesterday , the budget is a tentative estimate of needs for the efficient administration of the school system . When it comes before the board , the members may approve it , add extra items or make other alterations . After the board 's action the budget will be submitted by Feb. 1 to the Mayor , after which , according to a spokesman for the school system , " our fate is in the laps of the gods . " A final public hearing on the proposed budget will be held by the board on Jan. 21 at 4 P. M. Drop of 20,000 Pupils Expected Predicated on an expected decrease of 20,000 pupils  --  principally in the elementary division ? the budget estimate was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the criticisms that have been leveled at the school administration in recent months . These criticisms have included charges that the system had too many uncovered and oversize classes ; that it lacked remedial programs for handicapped children and for " problem areas , " and that it had no workable intercultural relations program . The budget was prepared after a series of public hearings by the board 's Committee on Finance and Budget , consisting of George H. Chatfield , member from Queens , chairman ; Andrew G. Clauson Jr. , member from Richmond , and Miss Mary E. Dillon , president of the board . At an interview yesterday attended by Dr. John E. Wade , Superintendent of Schools : Charles Gilman , auditor for the board , and Eugene A. Nifenecker , director of the Bureau of Reference and Statistics , Mr. Chatfield pointed out that the estimated budget not only ' was the system 's largest but that it also provided for the largest increase for special services to the children . Many Increases Sought Representing a rise of $14,840 , - 625 over this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the salaries of teachers , attendance officers and supervisors , maintenance and equipment workers and for the custodial service ; for the payment of teachers who coach athletics , the reopening of summer vacation high schools , expansion of adult education programs , increases in supplies and construction , the extension of probationary and " shelter " schools and the employment of 335 teachers for children with special problems . Mr. Chatfield emphasized that all teachers now in the system would be retained and that this would contribute to the further reduction of the teacher-pupil ratio . Other items in the tentative budget include a proposal that the board make the retirement fund payments of teachers and members of the school system for time spent in the armed forces , and an entry of $100,000 for the preparation and publication under board supervision of new reading matter which Mr. Chatfield said " the elementary schools sorely need . " Because of the drop in school enrollment , the forthcoming budget calls for an estimated $47,013,405 in State and Federal funds , or a decrease of $1,929,728 from last year . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1,000 teachers to cover classes of teachers absent on sabbatical leaves and leaves of absence . Increased pay for substitute teachers would be provided from a fund of $1,250,000 , while $300,000 has been included for more liberal vacation pay . Meanwhile , Frank E. Karelsen Jr. , whose resignation last October as chairman of the board 's Advisory Committee on Human Relations precipitated a storm of charges and counter-charges by critics and defenders of the school administration , held a three-hour private conference with Commissioner of Investigation John M. Murtagh . After the talks . Mr. Murtagh said Mr. Karelsen had appeared " at his own request , " had " offered to supply the department with pertinent data " and had " offered to make himself available at any time . " Mr. Karelsen , who had previously refused to appear before Mr. Murtagh 's predecessor , Louis E. Yavner , described the meeting as " very pleasant , " and said Mr. Murtagh 's " approach to the problem is constructive and his interest genuine . " 