@@706834

txt Reischfilbrer Hitler , Premier Mussolini , and French Chief of Government Pierre Laval were reported in a Reuters dispatch " from the French frontier " to be meeting in Rome . German broadcasts said M. Laval had left Vichy for " an unannounced destination " and it was stressed that he had not gone to Paris . Prime Minister Churchill told the House of Commons that he would make three speeches in the near future , one of which would be a complete and detailed war review in the House of Commons . First British Parliamentary mission ever to visit China arrived at Chungking . The party included Lord Ailwyn and Lord Teviot and Mr. J. J. Lawson , member of Parliament . Postwar building in Malta would be provided for by a proposal submitted to the British House of Commons that a sum of L10,000,000 be given the Mediterranean bland for that purpose . Another Nazi puppet , former Danish Foreign Minister Eric Scavenius , has assumed the premiership of Denmark , and has assembled about him a presumably pro-Nazi government , it was reported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the German occupation authorities . Three were reported executed for blackout offenses , and the other two , who were post office employees , for stealing parcels . Washington : Gas Rationing May Be Deferred Delay in the delivery of ration books and forms is causing the Office of Price Administration to " consider seriously " the postponement of gasoline rationing in all presently unrationed areas , an OPA spokesman said . A joint Senate-House committe agreed on a ' teeen-age draft bill eliminating a Senate provision requiring a year 's military training before 18- and 19-year-old selectees could be sent to foreign combat . To safeguard motorists against misuse of their gasoline books when nation-wide rationing starts Nov. 22 , each book holder will be required to write his car 's license number on each coupon before they can be accepted by dealers . No immediate enactment of manpower conscription , but rather a tightening of controls over the co-ordination of governmental agencies dealing with labor , is the program outlined by the War Manpower Commission . President Roosevelt made public a report by the commission 's Management-Labor Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a budget , swelled this time to unprecedented proportions by the war . He called in Budget Director Harold Smith and Assistant Director Wayne Coy for a report on the preliminary budget studies which they already had made . Democratic congressional leaders met with President Roosevelt at the White House for one of their periodic surveys of the legislative situation , but with the emphasis apparently on the problems of manpower and the ' teen-age draft issues . Ten , per cent less beef for civilians has been ordered by the Office of Price Administration , effective immediately . The aim is to assure that men on fighting fronts will have " all the meat they require . " Shortening of furloughs for draft inductees to one week will become effective with those reporting to induction stations on and after Nov. 17 on account of the serious shortage of available men for the ' armed forces . The War Production Board acted to provide more coal and wood-burning domestic heating stoves by authorizing increased output between now and Jan. 1 . New England : East Warned to Cut Oil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East that civilian consumption of fuel oil and gasoline must be cut to an " irreducible minimum " to provide for mounting military transportation needs . Page 3 . Parade and induction of a group of " Birthday Recruits " are features of Boston 's celebration of the United States Marine Corps ' 167th anniversary . Page 3 . ) Plea for higher salaries for teachers to solve teacher shortage problem and Federal financial support of schools to prevent collapse of education in many states made at conference of New England educational and industrial leaders . Page 2 . National : Army 's Railroad Operation Ends The Army 's three-day operation of the Fairport , Painesville &; Eastern Railroad ended under a truce arranged in Painesville , Ohio , in the strike called by District 50 of the United Mine Workers in protest against employment of non-union operating men as the parties ? agreed to resumption of operations by non-union train crews pending mediation . Diplomacy : Canada and Mexico Break With Vichy Canada , Mexico and Cuba severed relations with vicny in quick succession after announcement of United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e6 . U. S. Embassy Staff and a number of American newspapermen in France are to be moved to Chateau-Guyon , about 25 miles southwest of Vichy , to await exchange with diplomatic officials in the United States , it was announced from the French capital . Vichy Consuls in the U. S. were held incommunicado by the F. B. I. following announcement that all Vichy Consulates would be closed , and Vichy funds available to the consuls would be subject to individual decision of the Department of the Treasury . Americas : Brett Takes Over Caribbean Command Lieut . Gen. George H. Brett arrived in the Panama Canal Zone to take over the Caribbean Defense Command , as successor to Lieut . Gen. Frank M. Andrews , who has been named commander of United States Forces in the Middle East . The State Department at Washington announced that President Arroyo del Rio of Ecuador would arrive Nov. 23 for a state visit as the guest of President Roosevelt . Heinz August Luning , described at the time of his arrest in Havana last September as one of the most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and code letter reports on the movement of Allied ships .                     