@@707405

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 ? What promised at first to be a quiet and little-noticed off-year election , except in the seven States and a few hundred municipalities where contests were held , turned out last Tuesday to be a political event of first-rate national importance . This was because Republican candidates , members of the minority in national councils , swept through to victories and otherwise impressive showings in four key spots  --  winning the Governorships of New Jersey and Kentucky , both formerly held by Democrats , and the Lieutenant - Governorship in New York and the Mayoralty in the city of Philadelphia , hitherto occupied by Republicans . A Continuing Trend The results , when brought together into national perspective , revealed definitely in the minds of Political leaders and observers that the anti-Administration trend which showed itself in the State and Congressional elections in 1942 was still running  --  that the forces which turned over more than twoscore seats in the House , nine in the Senate and four State administrations in favor of the Republicans a year ago , were still operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to finding what they might indicate for the Presidential sweepstakes in 1944 . What they discovered in that respect was highly inconclusive , to say the least . They were convinced of one thing , however , and that was that a reaction against the Administration 's handling of home ( ' , front affairs was one of the chief factors in the outcome , accounting greatly for the unpredicted majorities in New York and New Jersey , and for the surprising turnover in ordinarily Democratic Kentucky . Vote in Kentucky There was abundant evidence , both in the elections and the campaigns which preceded them , to support this finding . Kentucky , because of its diversity of voter groups , furnished perhaps the best illustration of what took place . Figures showed that the greatest dwindling of former Democratic strength  --  or of increasing strength of the Republicans ? was among certain factions of labor , the farmers and Negroes , and in the larger consuming areas of the State . On the day the election was held Kentucky coal miners were out on strike , giving them a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grievances behind their walk-out  --  grievances which were directed largely toward the handling of their case in Washington . The farmers of Kentucky apparently confirmed what had been told this correspondent about farmers generally out in the agricultural sections of the Middle West . Contacts with governmental regulations and what they considered the red tape and conflicts of policy in administering them ran into a wellnigh irreconcilable conflict with the farmers ' native conservatism : and the Democratic losses in the farm vote in Kentucky were the I almost natural political result . Other Factors The upsurge of Republican ' strength in the large consuming areas  --  take the case of Louisville , which the Democrats figured to carry by 10,000 to 15,000 and actually came near to losing  --  indicated to numerous observers that many consumers , particularly women , voted their resentment to the handling of rationing and price control , though not necessarily to the programs of control . A return of an appreciable part of the Negro vote to the Republican fold was noted in some places , and this may be attributed in a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among Negroes as to the purpose or ability of the New Deal Administration to guarantee them the place which they seek in the nation 's economic life , and particularly in the war effort . Apathy and actual division in the ' Democratic leadership was noted in a number of places , both during the campaign and on election day . The attitude of the formerly highspeed party organization reflected a degree of weariness in certain spots , symptomatic , sore observers thought , of a general tiring of regimes long in power . The Democrats had been in control in Kentucky for nearly twelve years , and New Jersey had had a succession of two Democratic Governors . Hartford , the largest%city in Connecticut , elected a Republican city administration for the first time since 1933 , and Plattsburg , N. Y. , turned out the Democrats who had ' held on for fourteen years . Evaluating the Trend AU of these things can be fitted together into a picture of a national trend . But only the most optimistic and unrealistic of Republicans would go any farther at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , the results can not be attributed wholly to a general condition . There were many local considerations in every election . In New York the choice by the voters of Joe R. Hanley , Republican , for Lieutenant Governor , over his Democratic opponent , Lieut . Gen. William N. Haskell , retired , had been predicted from the start because of the strength within the State of Hanley 's backer , Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , and his State administration . The election of former Republican Senator Walter E. Edge as Governor of New Jersey had been considered a foregone fact for weeks , in large part because of a basic division among the forces backing his opponent , Mayor Vincent Murphy of Newark . In Philadelphia , where the White House favorite , former Ambassador William C. Bullitt , was trounced for Mayor by Bernard Samuel , Republican , the city had had a line of Republican mayors since the Eighteen Eighties . National Aspects The scattered elections emphasized their national aspects through size of the majorities turned in for Republican candidates , and the distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which a Democratic majority of 106,000 four years ago was wiped completely out . When considering Tuesday 's outcome against the Presidential election in 1944 , it becomes doubly dangerous for anyone to draw a hasty conclusion . There was not a single major , national or international issue openly involved in any of the contests unless you consider as such the lasthour appeal of Democrats in Kentucky for votes as a demonstraI tion of backing for the President . Where matters at stake were not trictly within the local voting I areas they were almost wholly of a ( home-front nature and included no part or the most overpowering questions facing the country today  --  the winning of the war and the conclusion of the peace . Change in Fundamentals This is no attempt to rationalize this recent result , for it unquestionably had national significance . It is only to point out the possibility that next year the fundaments may be entirely different , and issues and peeves which , operating silently , accounted for tens of thousands of votes last Tuesday may be shoved far into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces of this nation are engaged in all-out invasions of Europe . Suppose the casualty lists are mounting and the picture of battle is in everyone 's mind . Even say that we have just gone through such an invasion , with whatever the consequences might be . The state of affairs by that time might be such as to make people at home glad to be inconvenienced , even by bureaucratic " bungling . " Then , too , it is well to point out , as the more down-to-earth Republicans tell themselves , that President Roosevelt , who likely will be involved personally in 1944 , was not directly an issue in the off-year contests except to the limited extent desperate Democrats were able to drag his name into the Kentucky campaign . It can be argued from the record that the President has always furnished the extra quantity of votes needed by the Democrats to win . It may be recalled in this connection that the Republicans had a spirit-lifting experience hi . 1938 , when they recaptured a host of seats in the House , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of the third-term candidacy of Mr. Roosevelt . If Roosevelt Runs If Mr. Roosevelt is a candidate next year , as is generally assumed , he can be counted upon to stick largely to the issues growing out of the war and prospects for peace . The Democrats undoubtedly will seek to make the Commander in Chief the personification of our whole war effort . Indications of that strategy are already to be seen . In past elections the President has been the powerful cohesive influence which has held the various economic groups ? labor , farmers , Negroes and the economically dispossessed  --  together under the Democratic banner . Perhaps the most important augury for the future to be gained from Tuesday 's election is that the New Deal is highly vulnerable on the war is over by early 1944 Mr. Roosevelt , or any other Democratic candidate , might well lose to a Republican , and , conversely , if the war is still on its a major phase the President would be hard to dislodge from the White House . Lift for Republicans One of the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a quickening of interest in the Republican candidate possibilities for 1944 . However much the results may be rationalized or explained , the fact remains that the Republicans got a great lift out of them and are inspired with the hope of winning in 1944 , whatever the odds . Up until Tuesday Wendell L. Willkie and former Gov . Harold E. Stassen , whose name has been filed for the Nebraska preferential primary , were the only open candidates for the nomination . Eyes and ears were trained immediately on New York to see what Governor Dewey , a favorite among many party organization leaders , would do and say . He rewarded their attention by reiterating previous statements to the effect that he was not and would not be a candidate for the nomination . More attention will likely be given these next few weeks to the intention of Gen. Douglas A. and , perhaps , of Gov . John Bricker and others . The increased possibilities of winning in 1944 , however ' ' outside " some may regard them , are bound to heighten interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political attention . Perhaps the first definite movement will be a drive in the Middle West to draft Mr. Dewey . It will likely be encouraged by Dewey adherents in New York . He is the particular choice of some leaders who are cool to Mr. Willkie . Regardless of what the New York Governor has said in the past many politicians will press him to " accept " a " draft . " They do not regard the disavowals of his candidacy as in any way reflecting a disinclination on his part to be President . They look upon his actions , instead , as part of the strategy by which he hopes eventually to be President . Mr. Dewey unquestionably has shown a reluctance , however , to get into the race at this time . Whether he is holdMg himself in readiness in anticipation of a propitious moment m 1944 or , is awaiting another year are questions on which you will hear argument wherever politicians gather these days . the home front . There is a definite feeling , amounting almost to a conviction , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continental United States the Democrats are in for trouble . A sort of rule of thumb has grown out of this feeling , which holds that if                     