@@704995

txt walked for two and a half hours this morning around three areas in central London where the screeching bombs I heard falling had blasted buildings and started fires . For 10 blocks before reaching one of the roped off areas , where a heavy bomb had lifted one building into the air before it was shattered , the destruction caused by this one blast was apparent . In block after block leading up to the section there was not a window left in any of the stores or apartments . The wares of jewelry stores , groceries , and other shops were exposed within arm 's length of pedes ? trians . Some shopkeepers already were sweeping up the glass and , instead ' of complaining , seemed happy that the damage was not worse . Around a large area where hundreds of firemen were getting a blaze under control I counted 30 engines pumping water thru one , two , and three hoses each . Near another place where a bomb had dropped I saw a fallen wall from which salvage squads were frantically clearing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underneath . Fires Rage in District . In the garment center another fire raged and behind this , in the working class district , I saw more firemen and salvage workers tearing down walls in an effort to rescue imprisoned victims . Crowds stood outsidb the ropes watching . Here and there sobbing women and others with tear stained faces bespoke personal tragedy . In this district three story brick houses predominate . A b o rn b had thrown bricks thru windows and even walls several blocks away . I contemplated with a shudder the tiny brick air raid shelters erected In the streets of this area . It ap ? peared that if a heavy bomb were dropped on these streets the shelters would be blasted apart . In one market basement more than 2,000 persons were in a shelter when a bomb hit the ventilator shaft . The casualty list here in dead , wounded , and those suffering shell shock ad. mittedly was high " Carry On , " Says Sign . " Tea and toast ready to serve ? carry on London . " That sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blasted pub expressed the spirit of the people In the East End area . And tea was ready . too , brewed on an oil stove because the gas for cooking had been cut off by a bomb blast . Here , the people looked tired . Many carried their most precious belongings in crude bundles , ' tut they accepted their situation more as an adventure than as a catastrophe . Trucks rumbled about with loads of bricks and wreckage among the fire engines , ambulances , and comman ? deered buses . Women leading children asked directions of uniformed air raid precautions workers . Dock Area Burning , At another roped off area no one was allowed to pass , but it was not necessary to go farther  --  the destruction was plain to see . Bombs that had hit houses generally wrecked at least two dwellings beyond repair and shattered windows in a radius of a hundred yards . In some places fires had consumed entire blocks of buildings and many still were burning . In the dock area railway junctions , wharves , and ware ? houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombs had fallen wide . Destruction in the dock section was scattered . Some of the buildings still were burning . From afar there seemed to be gigantic fires raging , but actually there were perhaps a hundred small blazes , some of which had consumed large warehouses . 