@@705032

txt One of the heaviest and most damaging air bombardments of Central London which occurred last night has strengthened the growing realization here that the care of those made homeless by bombings is a national and not a local Problem . Damage in last night 's raid was felt for the most part in the business districts and in areas devoted largely to public buildings . Incendiary bombs and heavy demolition bombs shook many parts of the city , hitting four hospitals and causing an undetermined number of casualties . Like each new raid on the city , it presented further distressing evidence that the present system of local machinery for aiding victims in what is now the front line in the battle for Britain , is inadequate , no matter how gallantly local authorities may strive to take the strain thrust upon their resources . The need for caring for these victims of bombings was amply sounded by Lord Beaverbrook , Minister of Aircraft Production , who , in an editorial yesterday , demanded a " dictator for the homeless " of London to protect them against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and possible epidemics . " Mobile Canteens Urged ' Homelessness , hunger , and cold are going to strike in this war " against the " essential soldier , the worker at the lathe , " the editorial in the Evening Standard warned ' It said that the worker 's " home is ravaged and he is worried about his family . His gas works is bombed and for days he may have to go without a hot meal . " Powers for a " dictator " which would enable him to dispatch mobile canteens to stricken areas , institute community cooking , collect transports and commandeer new accommodations " inside or outside London " for the workers , was called for . Other London newspapers picked up the cry , and put forward suggestions for caring for bomb victims in the poorer parts of the capital The Star recommended the serving of hot drinks in air-raid shelters , adding that the " full effects of repeated bombings in the lower . poorer . parts of London " would require the imagination of a Charles Dickens and the sympathy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the race between Britain 's new protective measures and Germany 's intensified air attacks entered a new phase today with the start of an evacuation plan geared to move mothers and children from London at the rate of 14,000 a week . Already half of the Metropolitan youngsters have been taken to areas of greater safety , and in the case of those about to go , the understandable reluctance of mothers to be parted from their children at this period of stress has been countered by a decision to send both away together . This is the first time such a policy has been generally applied . All the mothers have to do to ensure being evacuated is to rcgister with their children at food and rest centers established for the benefit of necessitous sufferers from air raids , and the Government undertakes to do the rest . From London proper , Greater London , and Thames-side towns , 1 further down the river and towns along the Medway River 464,000 children already have been sent away under the Government 's previous schemes , and it is estimated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OP ) ? Unconfirmed and conflicins reports that Dakar , capital of French Vest Africa , had surrendered to the " Free French " and British expedition circulated here today . It could not be learned with certainty whether the city still was holding out or whether the expeditionary troops had gained a foothold on the African coastline , London reports said the headquarters of Gen. Charles de Gaulle had given out this afternoon that " operations at Dakar are continuing , " while Berlin reports said British siege guns had shelled Dakar twice today after making new attempts to land troops during the night . By Capt . Frederick L. Oliver U. S. Nary Retired Patten for The Christian Science Monitor r no news of the British- " Free French " attack on Dakar , is perhaps the opening move in a new strategical offensive in what promises to be a long-drawn-out war . Unpreparedness for war , and the disasters inflicted by an enemy who possessed the most perfect military machine on land that the world has ever known , forced Britain into a last-ditch defensive position . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no defense , however successful it may be , ever of itself won a war . So strategists in other countries have pondered Britain 's possible offensive moves to extricate itself from a perplexing predicament . Paramount was Britain 's need of contriving a defense that would make an invasion of the homeland impossible , and until this objective was attained and tested , British operations in other spheres of action partook more or less of the nature of side-shows . It is becoming more and more apparent that Hitler really intended to attempt an invasion of Britain . The story has not yet been told , but by piecing together the bits of news that have come to light , it appears that the attempt was timed to take place during the recent lull moon Failed to Foresee However , the Reichsfuhrer failed to foresee that the Royal Air Force and a gale in the Channel would completely wreck the result of months of meticulous preparation for achieving his most cherished desire . Now that it has been proved that any attempt to invade Britain will entail perfectly stupendous losses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it can be expected that a British offensive will be undertaken . Britain has no more chance of putting an expeditionary force ashore across the Channel than Germany has of landing in Great Britain . Command of the sea stops very close to tide-water , and , as yet , command of the air is a fluctuating quantity . So it is only to be expected that Britain 's offensive Will strike elsewhere . But where , why , and how ? Is Italy Germany 's Achilles heel ? Was Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop 's recent personal visit to Mussolini made in an effort to provide protection for this unprotected heel ? The blockade of Italy must be lifted , or Mussolini 's plans will fail . He can not long continue to hold a destitute , unwilling people in line . Italy is attempting to fend for itself in a move toward the Suez Canal , but the route is diffiqult and the progress is slow . So it is bruited that the reduction of Gibraltar is to be attempted by way of Spain . The Germans have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not enter into its calculations when an objective is to be attained . Spain 's prolestations of remaining neutral are of no value whatever in the face of German legions at its border . Gibraltar itself will be a tough nut to crack , but its usefulness as a base from which control of the Straits can be exercised , is comparatively easy to impair . The thrust at Dakar may have several implications . British and " Free French " agents have been busy for months endeavoring to foment disaffection throughout colonial possessions in Africa . In some cases , support for the " Free " government has been obtained , in others no decision has been reached . Apparently methods of peaceful infiltration failed in so far as Sen egal is concerned , and the reported presence of General de Gaulle , the head of the " Free French " movement , with the British naval forces at Dakar , implies that the supreme effort to obtain peaceful submission of the French Colony was made , failing which resort was made to force . Dakar occupies a strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capital of the largest colonial possession of France in Africa . It is the nearest African port of any importance ? to South America , and recently was the subject of attention by a party of German officials who were reported to have been interested in re-establishing communications by air with South America . The harbor is commodious , and capable of taking deep draft vessels . The Vichy government , within the past few days , is said to have acknowledged that it could not predict what effect the de Gaulle propaganda will have in its African colonies . So it is safe to assume that Britain considers that the time , to strike has come . The precise reason for the presence of six French men-of-war at Dakar has not been revealed . The Vichy government certainly entertained no belief that they could assist in defending the port . A week or more ago the British permitted these ships to pass Gibraltar unchallenged , but doubtless there was never any intention of ever letting them retrace their route , and probably they , ever since , have never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses of Dakar are inadequate to hold off a determined assault , even if a real desire to do so exists . The British communiqu ? states that General de Gaulle is accompanied by an expeditionary force of his followers , but leaves it uncertain whether British troops are also included . A Vichy statement indicates that troops of both nationalities are present , and that the British naval force include : . battleships . If the latter fact Jr true , the British mean business , and it will be only a matter of days before Dakar falls . Then it the British strategy is made good , all of French Northwest Africa will flock to General de Gaulle 's standard , forces inimical to the Axis will occupy the Mediterranean ports in Africa that are under the French flag , and Libya will have two fronts to defend . And Britain , if pushed out of Gibraltar , will have a naval bas. , far removed from enemy threats , from which it can continue to maintain a blockade of the western entrance to the Mediterranean . The opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are not to be construed as reflecting the rietts of the Nary Department or of the naval . eiv.ee at iri4e.                     