@@707034

txt Formation of a Labor party in Philadelphia in preparation for the 1944 Presidential campaign was urged tonight by Dean Alfange , who was the candidate of the American Labor party for Governor of New York at the last election . Mr. Alfange , who received about 400,000 votes as a candidate for Governor , spoke at a symposium on " Labor and the Threat of Reaction " at a dinner at the Labor Educational Centre . He warned of the danger of the election of an isolationist President , loss of labor 's gains and the establishment of a post-war fascist State in America unless the labor and liberal forces organized politieally . Other speakers at the dinner meeting , which was held in appreciation of the services to labor of The New Leader , New York City publication , and in honor of the seventieth birthday of Algernon Lee , a leader of the old Socialist party , were James , president of the Pennsylvania State Federation of Labor ; John A. Phillips , president of the State Industrial Union Council , and Mr. Lee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calls for Unity on New Deal After Mr. Alfange 's speech the meeting unanimously adopted a resolution calling upon " all liberal , New Deal and labor groups of the State of Pennsylvania to unite politically to counteract the current political reaction and to help bring about in 1944 the election of a progressive and liberal national administration , committed to the continuance of the domestic and foreign policies of the New Deal . " The resolution was offered by August Claessens , toastmaster , after it had been submitted to Mr. and Mr. Phillips and had met no objection from them . Mr. Phillips in his speech said that he was heartily in accord with the purpose of the meeting . I " We have got to combine politically in self-defense or make up our minds to go back to the law of the jungle in industry , " he said . Mr. said that many workers in Pennsylvania waited for the day for the organization of a labor party in the State , but added that he thought the day was not yet . He said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elections was due to the fact that some labor leaders were more interested in political jobs than in the interests of labor , as a whole . He declared that not until men in responsible positions in labor unions were bound by the constitutions of their organizations to support candidates favored by labor , could labor exert its full force politically , but added that it would continue to fight to preserve its gains . The name of President Roosevelt , mentioned frequently as a liberal and progressive leader , was applauded enthusiastically . Many at the meeting regarded adoption of the resolution as the first step in organizing a labor party in Pennsylvania and the beginning of a drive to organize labor parties in other industrial States . Labor organizations here have already made a start toward organization for political action by the formation of a United Labor Committee , which , however , has not reached the status of a political party . Mr. Alfange declared that the trend in both Democratic and Republican parties was away from post-war international cooperation and the idealism of the RooseveltChurchill Atlantic Charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many parts of the country indicated ignorance of why the United States was fighting this war and a renewal of the pre-Pearl Harbor isolationism . " Powerful individuals , associations and groups , people who hate Roosevelt 's idealism and who want to crack the whip across the back of labor , are contriving to rob the Ipeople of the kind of victory that is justly theirs , " Mr. Alfange said in an appeal to members of labor unions and liberals to organize politically . " Hits " Conservative Tendency " 1 " They have organization , money and plans . They have the most articulate and best-organized political sponsorship . They operate on a sound , psychological premise , the inveterate tendency of the American people to become conservative with returning prosperity . " The simple over-all plan is to destroy the power of labor , of the common people , and to restore the normalcy and isolationism of the era of Warren G. Harding . The persistent exertion of the National Association of Manufacturers to enlist teachers and clergymen in its war against the New Deal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the returning soldiers as a conservative antilabor force is in the calculation of the Tories . " Mr. Alfange warned his hearers of the possibility of the establishment of a Fascist state in America , if the " reactionaries should succeed in wrecking the peace " and in sending another Harding to the White House . In urging the necessity of establishing liberal and labor political organizations in Pennsylvania and other industrial States , as had been done in New York , he said : " I appeal to the liberal and labor people to organize politically and I am confident that with your high type of leadership you can succeed in launching in this strategic Keystone State a labor party comparable in beneficent influence to the American Labor party of New York . " I can not urge too strongly the pressing need for creating now a strong political organization of liberal and labor forces in Pennsylvania . " We must build similar political units in every industrial State as the only means of averting a catastrophic political reaction that will wreck the peace . We must create now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , whose united voice and organized exertions shall insure the attainment of our minimal objective , the nomination by at least one of the two old parties of a candidate in whose domestic and world outlook we , the people , can place our confidence . " The only other alternative Is a third party , and we must prepare ourselves for that contingency . "                     