@@706863

txt After a silence of several months Premier Benito Mussolini today addressed the Chamber of Fasces and Corporations in person and the world generally by radio for an hour and a half . He gave what he termed " a military report on thirty months of war . " For the first ten minutes his delivery recalled his old verve and wit . As he proceeded , ' how- , ever , he interrupted himself frequently with coughing spells or to repeat . His immediate reason for speaking , he said , was " the impression that the Italian people wished to hear my voice . " Signor Mussolini patently exerted a maximum effort to persuade the Italian people to continue their resistance . He bade officials " act with the utmost energy against those who would appease the spirit of the Italians . Remarking that " no people continues to be enthusiastic from morning until night , " he nevertheless emphatically denied there had been sabotage or anti-war demonstrations anywhere in Italy . Since June 1 , 1941 , the date of his last public address , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course of Italian history . First , the war in Russia had become a reality ; second , Japan had entered the war on the Axis side and , third , American forces had landed in North Africa . Regarding the first point he declared it to be his opinion that the Axis had chosen a good moment to guarantee its rear , for had there been further delay , " events could have taken an entirely different turn . " In the gigantic battle at present under way to determine the future frontiers of Asia and Europe , however , victory can only fall to the arms of the Axis , he asserted . The stubborn Russian resistance , he went on , had not surprised him at all . The only element of surprise he had found in that campaign was the quality of the weapons the Russians had used . The great Battle of Russia , however , has not yet been unleashed , he added , but when it is " there can be no doubt as to the final outcome . " Introducing the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few moments to attack President Roosevelt amid the catcalls and whistles of the assembled legislators . He accused the President of being primarily responsible for the war and subsequently for its spreading to the entire world . Naturally Japan could not wait until the United States fired the first shot , he went on . But now that Japan had made her decision and had entered the war with all the resources at her disposal , " there can be no further doubts of an Axis victory . " Coming to the third of his " historic " events  --  the American landing in North Africa  --  Premier Mussolini charged that the connivance of American officers in civilian clothes , virtual spies , and French officers in uniform had been known to the Axis for a long time . All Frenchmen , he said , were " of the opinion there was but one policy : Wait and see . " When the blow fell , he implied , he had given Berlin forewarning of the event . His advice not having been acted on , apparently on Nov. 8 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for us to do : occupy the remainder of France ? and Corsica . " Gives Air Raid Figures After a brief reference to Toulon and the scuttling of the French fleet , " which was no heroic gesture  --  there were only two killed and seventeen injured " ? Premier Mussolini came to the question of the bombardment of Italian towns . In four cities of Northern Italy ? Genoa , Turin , Milan and Savona  --  the number of houses hit and totally or partly destroyed was 18,547 , he reported , of which 11,883 were in Genoa and the immediate neighborhood . Civilian casualties during the same period were 1,876 killed and 3,321 injured , of whom 830 had died subsequently of their wounds , he stated . Signor Mussolini credited British raids in thirty months of war over Milan with having destroyed thirty houses completely and damaged 414 seriously and 1,973 slightly . For Turin he " gave the figures as 161 , 874 and 2,185 , respectively . Italian Army , Navy and Air Force losses during the same thirty months he gave as 397,196 men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 88,470 wounded and 33,713 missing . The Premier stated that the major part of the missing should be considered killed . He said that naval losses had amounted to 162 warships , totaling 227,182 tons sunk . He said nothing of merchant marine tonnage . Bids Italians Hate Foe Enjoining Italians everywhere to " hate the enemy , " Premier Mussolini cited instances of treatment reported accorded Italian prisoners of war . Officers , he said , had been beaten , even though sick or wounded , and such officers as were physically able were forced to carry baggage for colored enemy troops . " We must hate the British , and even more so any Italian who treats a British prisoner well , " he added . At this point the Premier introduced Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's latest speech , reading copious extracts from the passages referring to Italy , " Churchill in those words wished to impress the Italian people , " he said . " But until I have proof to the contrary , you will not get me to believe that our people are inferior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Four years ago , " he went on , " I began inviting the Italian people to go out into our beautiful countryside away from danger * We must carry out total evacuation from towns so that at night cities no longer shelter any but combatants , " He admitted there was room for improvement of defense measures , adding that the Reich was sending more anti-aircraft artillery to bolster that of the Italians . Referring to the " stab in the back " against France , mentioned by Prime Minister Churchill , Sig , nor Mussolini asserted that " France has stabbed Italy in the back a hundred times . " He revealed that Italian intervention in the war in June , 1940 , had been delayed five days " for technical reasons , " at the request of the German High Command . " Last Word " Not Spoken Regarding the fate of the Italian empire , the last word has not yet been spoken , he continued . Given adequate armament and good leadership he asserted , the Italian soldier had no peer anywhere . Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Never before have the Italian and German people been so united in their collaboration , " he went on . " The two peoples , which are very different one from the other , do not entirely agree on everything yet . But they are rapidly learning to understand each other and sympathize with each other . " Concluding amid applause aroused by this last remark , the Premier warned that if Italy were defeated the Fascist revolution , the Ethiopian war , the civil war in Spain and the present war would have been in vain . " Our dead and our living order us to resist unto victory , " he concluded . The Premier looked tired and thin when he rose to speak , but he maintained his delivery without too much trouble , right up to the end , manifesting no particular signs of fatigue .                     