@@705374

txt An important liberalization of the excess profits tax law is under serious consideration by the House ways and means committee . The change would be designed to : ( 1 ) benefit companies with widely fluctuating earnings : ( 2 ) aid corporations to recover the losses of one year from the profits of the next . This would be accomplished by permitting companies , no matter what their size , to carry , over into the next year any unused portion of their excess profits tax credit . The present law restricts this privilege to companies with taxable year income of not more than $25,000 . For example , if a corporation has an excerpt profits credit of $5,000,000 and during the 1940 tax year had earnings of only $4,000,000. it would have an unused credit of $1,000,000 . , Under the proposed change this excess credit would be added to its credit for the 1941 taxable year . New Formula for " Growth " Firms , It was indicates yesterday that the new tax " relief " amendment now being drafted into legislative form probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received tentative approval of the drafting group of Treasury and Congressional tax experts include a new credit formula to aid " growth " corporations and the more general provisions for excess profits tax adjustments because of abnormalities in either income or capital . Unlimited application of the carryover of unused excess profits credits was considered last year when the excess profits tax law was pending before Congress . It was decided , however , to restrict it to the small earnings companies . however , since no estimates as to the probable revenue loss which would result - as available . The . joint House-Scnate conference committee , after ' the restrictive provision had latert adopted , asked the staff of the joint Congressional committee on taxation and Treasury experts to study this provision with the idea of reporting back on the question of general application , Eliminates Serious Hardships The Congressional and Treasury experts are said to have agreed that a revision of the present section will prevent the excess profits tax law from working serious hardqhip upon many companies who must rely upon high profits in one year to recoup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of putting the carryover provision on a two-year basis , so that unused credits of , say the 1940 taxable year , could be used to increase the credit in 1943 , if it was not absorbed completely by 1942 earnings . This question , however , will not be determined finally until the ways and means committee acts , probably the fore part of next week . If adopted , this carryover proposal , along with the new credit formula for " growth " corporations , probably will constitute the most important of the specific relief provisions in the amendments . Ways and Means Committee Chairman Doughton had planned to introduce the new relief amendments in the House on Monday , but was forced to hold them up when the experts encountered difficulties in drafting the various proposals into legislative form . Now it is expected that the legislation will be put forward early next week .                     