@@712102

txt Difficulties in the way of settlement of the nine-day strike on the Eastern Massachusetts Street Railway Company deepened today , and the prospect of Governor Dever asking emergency legislatioh drew closer . At the governor 's request , both sides began all over again to try to find a wad out , when previously they had exhausted all the possibilities they saw . Both the House and the Senate prepared for an emergency session tomorrow by adopting orders to meet then . Earlier in the day Governor Dever told union latd company leaders that if the strike was not settled by tonight , the state would seize control of the lines and operate them with the present contract continuing in effect , Just how the Governor would seize and operate the lines he did not indicate , but he let it be known that this would not be done through an extension of the recent Slichter law . This statute authorizes the state to take over a property when its tie-up would endanger the public health and safety . Organized labor opposed its passage , has ineffectually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governor Dever also placed the responsibility for continuance of the strike on A. L. Spradling of Detroit , international president of the Amalgamated Association of Street , Electric Railway and Motor Coach Employees AFL. " 1 have talked on the telephone twice today with President Abe L. Spradling of the international . " he said in a statement given the press . " I told him that in my opinion his telegram of yesterday was the factor which caused the rejection of the proposal voted upon . That as a result of that rejection , there was confusion in the minds of the union membership and that any further protracted delay will do injury to the public interest . " Unexpected Move The proposal voted down yesterday by the union membership was renewal of the old contract plus straight time pay for men not working on Thanksgiving and - Christmas . This means of settlement was worked out and recommended for a vote by John J. Del Monte , commissioner of labor and industries . It lost by a small margin . In awholly unexpected move , Mr. Spradling wired just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He termed the settlement " entirely inadequate " and a " backward step " and said it could not be supported by the internationalunion . He pointed to arbitration as the solution . Governor Dever added that he had told Mr. Spradling today that his presence in Boston was imperative , but that he had said he could not come , and would send here today Sam Beerong , the second in command in the international union . Mr. Spradling 's last-minute intervention threw the strike situation into " utter confusion , " as one state official viewed it . Another with long experience in labor relations dubbed it the " meanest thing of the kind " he had ever seen . He condemned it on the ground that the international union had stepped in to take away autonomy or democracy from the local union . If Mr. Spradling wanted arbitration , he should have sent a message recommending it when the union committee and the management tentatively agreed on arbitration and sent this to a vote of the 2,200 union members earlier this week , as his course was criticized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and let the arbitration plan of settlement be beaten two to one , and then when a negotiated settlement was submitted to the men , he practically vetoed it , ran State House comment . Talks Delayed If the strike runs on a long time . company officials said today , they might enter suit against the international union on the ground of interference with a contract under the Taft-Hartley Law . Mr. Spradling 's policy was interpreted in some quarters as designed to avoid a settlement on the basis of the old wages , which would set a precedent of national significance . The union has negotiations up in Worcester and Springfield and a number of cities in other states . The MTA contract in Boston expires the end of this month , and the union is asking an increase in wages . But if the Eastern Massachusetts dispute was sent to arbitration . no decision would be given for months , and the local situation would have DO influence elsewhere , it was said . Though the governor called his conference for 9:30 o'clock this morning , the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thirty or so union men who were not on the union negotiating committee of 12 wanted to sit in on the discussions with the management representatives , and Mr. Del Monte had to subpoena the 32 local union presidents to get them by themselves into the room with management . The busses on the Fall River Division continued to run today .                     