@@709933

txt The glamorous industry of travel and sight-seeing has reconverted to something very near to peacetime standards . For reasons which any newspaperman would understand and any newspaper reader could guess , I would hesitate to leave the impression that you can grab your typewriter and toothbrush and hitchhike across the continent and back without a touch of the strenuous and an occasional moment of inconvenience . Its not quite that easy  --  not quite  --  but the pleasures and rewards of trainboard touring arc back . After one- to three-day visits in 11 States and 13 cities along an approximately 7,000-mile route from Washington , D. C. , to Washington State and from Los Angeles to Kansas City and back to the Capital , there is a pleasant report to be made to the would-be tourist . The worst trials of wartime travel have vanished ; if you want to begin to see America after faithfully staying at home while the railroads were carrying the men and material of war , yoca n A pacAk your bag . There is , of course , a little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived when you can rush to the station at train time and have much chance of getting a seat or a berth , or when you can walk up to a hotel room clerk unannounced and expect to get a spacious , airy front room high up on the quiet court , or- even an unoccupied salesman 's display room , . without adequate advance reservation . If you want to travel , you need to plan , but as one who likes traveling only a little less than staying at home , I report that if you do plan ahead you now can travel comfortably , efficiently , and pleasurably . To . the critic who said that Punch was not so good as it used to be , the editor had a classic reply : " It never was . " But for the traveler who likes to see the country from a car window  --  with occasional stops at city , desert , and mountain  --  nothing has been lost , and he can resume where he left off when Hitler and Tojo made their mistake . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper correspondent to get about the nation , where the machinery of the democracy never failed to function . - Then you counted an upper berth a luxury , carried your own luggage , often stood in line for two hours or more to claim a room you ? had reserved weeks before , were allowed to get into it about 4 o'clock in the afternoon , and on more than one occasion made your own bed if it was to be made at all . A A A Far be it from me to say that these were anything but trite and trivial tribulations . The hardships of the war never were much on the home front . We had it easy , and thought we were being annoyed . But , relatively speaking , there has been no point and no pleasure in travel for its own sake during the past six years . With foresight "  --  and that 's an important proviso  --  it is different now . A Washington col- Southern Pacific " You Need to Plan " lerague and I made our train reservations a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Station on the evening of Sept. 29 we had two yards of tickets and Pullman accommodations , on which there was no slip-up for any reason during the 32 days we were on the road . We began making hotel reservations about three weeks before we were to leave Washington , and in all but two instances we obtained confirmed reservations , and in these two cities we obtained rooms at other hotels . Furthermore , the hotel rooms , were consistently available for occupancy despite our arrival in early or midmorning , and we negotiated the registration line without wartime bruises or interminable delay . Only in Butte , Mont. , was there a scarcity of red caps  --  a scarcity which merged into total absence , and in every city except Washington , D. C. , and Chicago taxicabs have increased sufficiently in number to do away with mass-scale group riding . The Washington station easily takes the national prize for the most inefficient and confused system for loading human beings into taxicabs , and there has been little visible improvement since the end of the war . Check-out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frciseo it was 6 p. m . One-day laundry service  --  especially useful to newspapermen , who count 24 hours in one city a long stay  --  is not only advertised in most hotels but performed . Hotel restaurants , though still crowded , are not impossibly congested . Food , is good , but expensive ; meat , even before President Truman lifted OPA ceilings , appeared plentiful west of the Mississippi  --  and expensive . A A A Prewar travel is back  --  but at postwar prices .                     