@@707824

txt The New York City market is swamped with eggs . As unprecedented production continues , some trade members estimated yesterday that 50,000 cases were begging storage space . Shipments are reported held in railroad warehouses . In one instance they are said to have been held here without refrigeration since the first of the month . Government buyers under the price support program declare that the storage situation has been " extremely severe for the last couple of months and critical last week . " Buyers have not yet found storage space for eggs they purchased for the Government last Wednesday . May Absorb Apple Odor One egg-trade wag predicted : " We 'll be eating apple pie without the apples in the fall . " He explained that some of the vast surpluses of eggs that are being moved into apple cooler space available until autumn were apt to absorb the apple flavor that clings to empty coolers . He cited the Government 's own reports describing extreme precautionary measures that should be taken to prevent eggs from taking on the flavor of apples and citrus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , entitled , " Eggs and Egg Products , " suggests that when ? , storage space is prepared for ? eggs " the storage rooms usually have been renovated , the walls and ceilings sprayed or whitewashed , the rooms thoroughly aired and cleaned . " It adds : " The surest preventive of molds forming on eggs is a clean sterilized egg room . If the room has been used for the storage of citrus fruits , apples , or other commodities that have a more or less decided odor , special care should be exercised in preparing the room for eggs . " Just how many eggs the Government has moved into apple coolers is not shown by any official reports available here . Rumors of the Government 's intention to use apple coolers extensively have been current for weeks . However , the first announcement that it was actually using them appeared in the " Summary of Egg and Live Poultry Markets " for last week , released here Saturday by the Office of Food Distribution , War Food Administration . The report on the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure storage space as the week advanced . Commodity Credit Corporation purchased 25,063 cases on exchange during the week . Receipts at New York City were 25,000 cases above last year . " Other Cities Lack Space The report showed that Philadelphia had " practically no storage space available , " while Chicago reported that " market receipts were very large and with storage space critically short , market was vulnerable at all times . " The Washington report in part read : " Utilization of apple and other commodity storage space gradually being vacated were sufficient to take care of Government purchases more promptly in this area . " Government buyers in this area discount the warnings by experts against storing eggs in apple coolers . They attach more importance to WFA 's announcement that its local inspection service was being increased temporarily ' to handle the huge oversupply of eggs . Government buyers insist on inspections immediately before or after purchases . " WFA is having to absorb a very large quantity of surplus and its rate of accumulation shows little promise of tapering off , " said Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urner-Barry Company , independent market reporters . ' Reports current in the trade indicate that as one solution the Government is arranging with a number of concerns in this area to crack and freeze large quantities of eggs . 