@@706897

txt To the War Manpower Commission there has been submitted the draft of a proposed National War Service Act drawn by Grenville Clark , a publicspirited citizen of New York , who drafted the original Selective Service Act . The new measure would impose on every able-bodied man and woman in the United States the same legal obligation for wartime national service which now applies to men of draft age . Specifically , it would empower the Government to call upon any man between the ages of 18 and 65 and any woman between the ages of 18 and 50 " to render such personal service in aid of the war effort as he or she may be deemed best fitted to perform " Ma chinery similar to that of the Selective Service Act would be provided for 4/is purpose . The bill provides that amt person drafted for non-combatant work in any field would receive the pay and work the hours generally arplicable to the job which he is caller , upon to fill . It further provides that ro drafted person would be obliged to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for the adoption of this legislation is essentially the argument of national survival . Labor shortages already exist in many localities and many industries . They will rapidly grow worse as more men are called into the armed forces and as the production of war material is stepped up to the immense new goals which the Government has set . No mobilization even remotely approaching this problem in size and difficulty has ever before confronted the American people . The argument is made that we can no longer afford to rely exclusively upon voluntary methods and that the time has come when the Government must have legal power to assign workers to specific jobs when voluntary methods fail and critical shortages develop . It may be said at once that this proposal , radical though it is in the experience of this country , rests upon a principle which can not be rejected . If it is fair and proper and consistent with democracy , as we know it to be , for the Government to select a person for military duty and send him for an indefinite period across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no less fair and proper and consistent with democracy to require him to do war work at home , if and when necessary to meet the nation 's needs . Recognition of the essential soundness of this principle has been forced on other democracies by the crisis in which we are irrolc-ed. nritaia , Australia and New Zealand all have National Service Acts , including compulsory powers . These countries are no less jealous than we are of individual rights and civil liberties . At the same time we must recognize that the draft of manpower for noncombatant work is a far more complicated problem than the draft for military service . A man taken by the Army . or Navy works for Uncle Sam ; but a man taken into an airplane factory or a shipyard or a copper mine , under compulsory legislation , would be working for a private employer who derived incidental profit from his services . This is one problem . Others would certainly be encountered in the administration of an act which would require forced labor at widely different rates of pay and under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the admission that this proposal is brought forward at a time when there still exist many needlessly severe limitations on the full use of manpower under voluntary methods of employment . In the non-war industries , which can not pass their costs along to the taxpayer , the existing provision for payment of prohibitive overtime wages after forty hours means that far more men are required to do a given job than would otherwise be necessary . There are innumerable " feather-bed " and other union rules . that force men to work less efficiently and require the employment of additional men to perform work which these men are not needed to perform . Considering the complexity of the problem , one recommendation seems clearly to be in order . This is the appointment of a Presidential commission , which through its personnel would command the prestige and the authority and the public confidence of the Baruch committee , to bring in a report on the whole manpower situation , with special reference to the adoption of a National War Service Act . Congress now stands adjourned . It will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready for work . This interval could be used to great advantage to prepare plans for meeting the inevitable crisis in manpower that lies ahead . The question is how to mobilize this nation effectively for total war , and the answer will require action simultaneously on several fronts .                     