@@711613

txt Searching examination of aggressive world forces which would tend to constrict world trade channels and threaten survival of individual business initiative highlighted , the opening session of the 20th Boston Distribution Conference today- at the Hotel Statler . In one address before the conference by a State Department official , Russia was accused of using every means at its command to obstruct the resumption of nor- ' mal world trade relations . In another address , a Canadian official called fold clearer recognition of the joint responsibility of the United States and Canada , in using labor and raw material resources of the North American continent , to make the maximum contribution to the restoration of world trade and commerce . Opening ' the conference , Harold D. Hodgkinson , William Filene 's Sons Company executive , and president of the Retail Trade Board , of the Boston Chamber of Commerce , chief sponsor of the conference , noted that the free ' distribution systems of most of the world still are " seriously controlled . " Such an international situation , he said , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparatively free , emphasizes this nation 's responsibility for steadiness and confident leadership in world affairs today . Many Messages Messages to the two-day conference , which will engage the attention of nearly 1,000 North American and European economists and businessmen , were received from President Truman , Paul Henri-Spaak , Belgian Premier and Minister of Foreign Af-i fairs , Charles Brannan , Secretary of Agriculture , and others . Theme of the messages was the vital necessity of cleansing world trade channels of obstacles of inertia to facilitate freer movement of goods and encourage more production . Such an accomplishment would hasten greatly the attainment of peace , they indicated . In this vein , Paul H. Nitze , Depyty to the Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , pointing an official finger in the direction of Communism , charged that : " The economic and political difficulties which have existed since the war have been exploited to the full by the Soviet Union and its agents abroad . " Violent invective and abuse , he said , have been heaped by the Russians on the ' International Trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means of promoting and stabilizing trade by the common effort of all friendly nations on equal terms and for the benefit of all . ' Responsibilities Faced M. W. Mackenzie , Canadian Deputy Minister of Trade and Commerce , addressing a luncheon . today observed that both Canada and the United States have increased their economic importance and face larger responsibilities as a result of the war . The great problem between the friendly two ' North American countries , Mr. Mackenzie said , is that the United States sells Canada twice as much as it buys from Canada and that there " are no markets to which we can look in the foreseeable future that can provide us with cash with which to settle an adverse merchandise balance with you that last year amounted to over $1,000 , - 000,000 . " Foundation for a healthier commerce between Canada and the United States , and for a commerce that will expand rather than contract , the deputy minister said , " must rest upon conditions that will enable Canada 's exports to the United States to rise much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "                     