@@708130

txt Today is the last day to register to vote in the Nov. 7 national , state , and county election . All . of the 4,579 precinct polling places in Cook county will be open to qualify eligible citizens to help decide the myriad issues confronting them this year . It is estimated that 300,000 persons are not properly registered . This includes those who have never signed up under the permanent regN istration system , those who will become 21 years of age by Nov. 7 , and those who have changed their addresses or names without correcting the records . Citizens Given Advice . Mrs. Mabel Reinecice , Republican member of the election-board , last night offered some advice to citi-zens : . To help find your polling place , look for the American flag which Is displayed there according to law . 2 . If you believe you are registered but did not receive a Chicago voter 's yellow identification card for 1944 , stop in at your polling place and make certain your name is on the list . Open Until 9 P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open from 8 a. m. to 9 p. m . Besides the 3,795 within the city itself , these include 221 polling places in Chicago Heights , Cicero , Berwyn ; Summit , Morton Grove , Elmwood Park , Skokie , Stickney , anti Harvey . The remaining 563 polling places In the county outside of Chicago are under the county clerk 's jurisdiction and will be open from 6 a. m. to 9 p. m . Election officials say that public apathy is disappearing and that a new high record may be established by the registration . County Total Given . Registrations in Cook county ' reached a total of 2,237,154 by Saturday night , ' It was learned yesterday . This included 43,499 new registrations in the Chicago board 's territory since the April 11 primary . In the same period there already have been 166.308 changes of address and 6,809 changes of name under the Chicago board . The county clerk has not compiled his figures . Chief Clerk John S. Rusch of the Chicago board warned voters to be ' ware of persons who are calling at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such solicitors have no authority and el/Identity seek to disfranchise citizens by misleading them into believing they are registered by these visits . All registrations and changes recorded today must be reported in person to the precinct polling place . Do not give a change of address card to any one to turn in for you                     