@@706628

txt Governor Lehman formally abandoned yesterday the candidacy of Lieutenant Governor Charles Poletti , his first choice as his successor , and joined President Roosevelt in backing United States Senator James M. Mead for the Governorship , as against Attorney General John J. Bennett - Tr . The Governor 's action came as no surprise , as it had been an open secret in political circles for some time that he had become convinced that Mr. Poletti could not be nominated , due to lack of delegate strength , and it was also known that efforts were being made to get the Governor to support Mr. Mead . Lieutenant Governor Poletti , reached at his Summer place in the Adirondacks last night , had no comment to make on the Governor 's announcement , but it is known that he bad discussed the matter with the Governor prior to the making of the announcement . There never was much possibility that the Governor would support Attorney General Bennett except in the course or party duty , as he and Mr. Bennett have never been on intimate terms , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . It was the subject of much comment in Albany two years ago when it took an act of the Legislature to make the Attorney General a member of the old State Defense Council , most of the members of which were appointed by the Governor . The Mead candidacy received additional impetus when it became known that the right wing of the American Labor party , which controls the party 's State committee , is scheduled to meet tonight , and to endorse Mr. Mead 's candidacy , provided that he is nominated by the Democrats . It is believed that the party will alter its previous formal announcement that it was going ahead with a third party ticket . This latter declaration was intended at the time as a warning lest Bennett be nominated , rathe than a final declaration of policy LEHMAN 'S STATEMENT The Governor 's statement was issued in Albany . It read : I am glad that despite his personal wishes Senator Mead has made himself available to the Democratic party as a candidate for the office of Governor this Fall . In character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . His experience over a long period of years in Congress is very valuable . He is a liberal in thought and in action and will give to the people of the State of New York a conitnuation of the high type of government to which they have become accustomed over the past twenty years . He has upheld the President of the United States whole-heartedly in all matters pertaining to the war effort  --  both before and since Pearl Harbor . The President has publicly expressed his confidence in him and a preference for his nomination . In my opinion Senator Mead is a candidate around whom all groups can rally with enthusiasm and with all confidence in victory . Governor at His Mansion The Governor was at the Executive Mansion , where he and Mrs. Lehman were preparing for a reception today to Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands , and he was not available for further comment . Mr. Poletti first became associated with the Governor in 1932 as assistant counsel and later counsel . He was appointed by the Governor to the Supreme Court in 1937 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 , when the Governor was drafted for a fourth term , he laid down , as one of the conditions of his running , that Mr. Poletti be named as his running-mate , and it was presumed from that time on that Mr. Lehman regarded him as a potential successor . Contrary to the legend that grew up later , the decision to drop William Bray as Lieutenant Governor was made be , fore Mr. Lehman consented to run again . Mr. Poletti is not entirely out of the picture . It is believed that both the Mead and Bennett camps would like to have Mr. Poletti on ' the State ticket again this year , 1 in some place , either as Lieutenant Governor or Attorney General , and overtures are likely to be made to him , if they have not been already . The principal developments yesterday in the Bennett camp were the coining of a Bennett slogan ? " A win-the-war and win-the-election candidate , John J. Bennett Jr. , " and the announcement that press headquarters for the Bennett campaign would be opened today at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State and national committees are already located . The Mead headquarters will be opened today at the Hotel Roosevelt . A. L. P. Committee to Meet The meeting of the A. L. P. tonight will be held by the executive committee of the State committee ' to set a date for a State committee meeting , which in turn will set the time and place for the State convention . It was disclosed that in view of the developments since the party made its announcement that it planned a third ticket of its own , the situation would be recanvassed at tonight 's session and Mead endorsed in some form or other . The meeting will be held at the party 's headquarters at the Hotel Claridge . Prior to the indication from the right wing , the left wing of the party , which is already out for Mead and which is engaged in a fight with the right wing for control of the party machinery and the coming State convention , issued a sharp attack on the right wing , charging it with being party to a conspiracy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block Mead 's nomination . Statement of A. L. P. Left Wing The statement , issued by Vito Marcantonio , Eugene P. Connolly and Morris Watson referred to the one issued on Saturday by the Righ Wing , calling for support in the party primary against the Leftists , and continued : " The blast issued by the reactionary old guard leaders Saturday under the name of the so-called liberal and labor committee to safeguard the American Labor party was an attack , not upon us , Ibut upon the second front and the win-the-war policies of the President . " Not daring to attack the President 's policies openly , not daring to say that in their hearts they desire the defeat of America 's chief ally ? the Soviet Union ? and gripped with fear lest their defeat on Aug. 11 endanger their big-shot standing in their trade unions , this handful of wilful , stubborn men has deliberately set out to wreck the American Labor party . They . have done this because they know that a strong American Labor party , able to exercise an effective balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have real political support for his policies in this pivotal State . " These men can not act openly because they know that the rank and file in their unions will not support them . " They are working with Jim Farley . " Their hand is tipped and their collaboration with Farley is revealed by their amazing statement which is calculated to defeat Mead for the Governorship . " We are out to work our heads off to elect Mead , because the President needs a Governor like Mead to help him . That is why Farley 's twenty-three have fished for dead herrings to fling . " Their pretense of opposition to the pro-Franco Bennett and support of Mead is a crude political show for which Farley and Dubinsky are pulling the strings . It was with these men  --  or most of them  --  that Farley organized the A. L. P. in 1936 , to support Roosevelt . Now Farley has turned against the President , and so have they . But the overwhelming rank and file of the party still is with the President , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his twenty-three . " As to their snide accusations that we are or were isolationists , they are just plain liars . We were never isolationists . We fought for collective security . We fought for aid to Loyalist Spain . We denounced the Munich betrayal . " We supported Russia against Mannerheim Finland , when theyFarley 's twenty-three  --  were collecting pennies to send airplanes to that enemy of democracy . We resisted participation in the imperialist war which grew out of the Munich betrayal and when that war became a people 's war for liberation we went all-out for it , and there we are today . " We stand on that record proudly . "                     