@@708669

txt ARMY CURBS NEWS IN REICH AS RESULT OF GOERING REPORT Stricter Censorship Prevents Reporters From Interviewing Captured Enemy Officials STREICH ER PHOTOS BARRED Passes Are Now Necessary to Visit Internment Camps and Hidden Factories By RAYMOND DANIELL By Wireless to TEE NEW YORK TIMES . WITH THE UNITED STATES SEVENTH ARMY in Bavaria , May 23 ( Delayed ) ? American and British correspondents working in what was to have been Hitler 's last redoubt , where many high Nazi officials gathered , are encountering more difficulty in reporting the dawn of peace in this area than they ever had in covering the war when the fighting was hottest . It seems almost as though , now that there is no enemy to fight , high Army officers , including Supreme Headquarters ' public relations division , headed by Brig . Gen. Frank Allen , are spending a large part of their time writing directives to circumscribe the movement and activities of war correspondents . Correspondents in the Seventh Army territory have reached the point where they say they are almost afraid to write a piece because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news source that Supreme Headquarters or one of the lower echelons can close . New Censorship Devised Although security admittedly is not involved , restrictions on correspondents are constantly being drawn more tightly and a new kind of censorship at the source is coming into practice , so that the American people are being deprived of information to which they are entitled , especially in connection with arrests of high German Army officers , war criminals and party officials . The trouble began when one of the news agencies sent a story from here regarding Reich Marshal Hermann Goering 's capture , reporting that the former chief of the German Air Force had a chicken dinner after he had been taken prisoner but failing to note that it was the same menu that all GI 's had that day at the place where Goering was being held : Headquarters ' public relations division immediately banned all interviews with war criminals and high German Army officers , an action that was followed by a whole // flood of restrictive orders by lower echelons to prevent the publication of anything that might prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Fifteenth Corps , which issued the directive placing all military governors within its area under officers commanding guard detachments in their towns , has forbidden any attempt to interview King Leopold of Belgium and has warned correspondents not to go near the place where the Belgian King is living . And today the 101st Airborne Division issued an order barring all photographers from Berchtesgaden , following the publication of a picture of Brig . Gen. Gerald J. Higgins and Field Marshal Gen. Kesselring talking things over with a bottle of wine and two glasses between them . A couple of days ago the same division issued a directive forbidding members of its Counter Intelligence Corps to so much as talk to representatives of the press or to admit them to their offices . This followed the interview with seven secretary recorders of the German High Command , that contained the reference to the shorthand notes that they had preserved . Counter-Intelligence Corps officials let correspondents interview the secretaries and inspect their notes , because they said no security was involved and that the individuals and documents had only historic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient to evoke a directive forbidding correspondents from seeing any documents or papers . The closing of the door to the press was a serious blow because in the present situation this body , charged with the duty of screen-I ing the populace , questioning war criminals and suppressing subversive organizations , is the most important news source in Germany . There is another device that is just beginning to be employed to hamper the press . That is a regulation requiring the correspondents , who were free to go anywhere within their Army zone during the period of hostilities , to obtain a pass from the intelligence officer in control before talking to the Germans in protective custody at their own request , or visiting slave camps , hidden factories or similar installations , even though these persons and places have no military importance . For instance , if I wanted to talk to a German philosopher in a nearby intellectual community I would have to get military permission to do so . Streicher Pictures Banned WITH THE UNITED STATES ARMY in Austria , May 26 ( Reuter ) ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts to prevent them from giving a factual account of the arrest and detention of Julius Streicher , the Jew-baiter . Photographers were forbidden to photograph Streicher , and correspondents were prevented from asking him questions . They were allowed to see him for a few moments , and later an interrogation officer visited Streicher in his cell and put to him questions suggested by the press . A major sat beside the interrogating officer and censored the information he gave to correspondents , who were strictly forbidden to ask questions on the persecution of Jews . The correspondents said they had no complaint against the field censors who are only obeying orders from Supreme Allied Headquarters . Censorship Explained ROME , May 26 ( U.P. ) ? Dr. Kurt Schuschnigg and some sixty other political refugees who were prisoners of the Germans are living in comparative luxury on the Isle of Capri , but Allied censorship bars correspondents from telling their stories . Newspaper men have been prohibited from interviewing Dr. Schuschnigg under a War Department policy that has no relation to military security . Allied intelligence officers are questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's rise to power and for evidence against war criminals . High officials consider it undesirable to arouse any type of sympathy for the German people , to interview future witnesses in war criminal trials and to protect the refugees against possible attack by those wishing to close their mouths forever .                     