@@709560

txt The United States formally offered yesterday to give up its store of atomic bombs and turn over all the secrets of harnessing atomic energy for peaceful means to an international Atomic Development Authority in which no nation could wield a veto power . Bernard M. Baruch , elder statesman and a key figure in two World Wars , outlined the program in a forceful and eloquent speech in which the world was warned that its choice was a simple one , " world peace or world destruction . " The American offer highlighted the first meeting of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission at Hunter College in the Bronx . The Commission consists of representatives of the United States , the United Kingdom , the Soviet Union , Canada , France , China , Poland , Australia , the Netherlands , Egypt , Mexico and Brazil . Under U. N. Auspices Mr. Baruch 's plan was a bold bid to outlaw atomic energy as a means of mass destruction and thus avert a mad armament race among the nations of the world . The United States representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established by treaty under auspices of the United Nations and ratified by all peaceful nations should receive exclusive control over raw materials and the production of atomic energy under a system by which nations would be speedily punished for any violation of the international pact . This treaty would renounce the use of the atom bomb in war and limit the development of atomic energy to peaceful means . Stressing the paramount importance of the problem , Mr. Baruch said : " There is a famine throughout the world today . It starves men 's bodies . But there is a greater famine  --  the hunger of men 's spirit . That starvation can be cured by the conquest of fear and the substitution of hope , from which springs faith  --  faith in each other ; faith that we want to work together toward salvation , and determination that those who threaten the peace and safety shall be punished . " Essential Rules Enumerated The white-haired Mr. Baruch , whom President Wilson called " Dr. Facts , " went directly to the heart of a great political issue , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards as essential to set up before it gives up its monopoly , the possession of atomic bombs and the knowledge how such weapons are made . It is essential to world security , Mr. Baruch said , that there should be immediate , certain and serious penalties for any nation that committed any of the following violations of international atomic ; control : ( 1 ) Illegal possession or use of an atomic bomb . ( 2 ) Illegal possession , or separation , of atomic material suitable for use in an atomic bomb . ( 3 ) Seizure of any plant or other property belonging to or licensed by the authority . ( 4 ) Willful interference with the activities of the authority . ( 5 ) Creation or operation of dangerous projects in a manner contrary to , or in the absence of , a license granted by the international control body . " It would be a deception , to which I am unwilling to lend myself , were I not to say to you and to our people that the matter of punishment lies at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baruch said . He added : " There must be no veto to protect those who violate their solemn agreements not to develop or use atomic energy for destructive purposes . The bomb does not wait upon debate . To delay may be to die . The time between violation and preventive action or punishment would be all too short for extended discussion as to the course to be followed . " The United States , he said , is ready to stop the manufacture of atomic bombs , to dispose of existing bombs either by destroying them or turning them over to the international authority for policing purposes and to give the control body the full " know-how " on atomic energy " when an adequate system for the control of atomic energy , including the renunciation of the bomb as a weapon , has been agreed upon and put into effective operation and condign punishments set up for violations of the rules of control which are to be stigmatized as international crimes . " Calling for " an international law with teeth in it , " Mr. Baruch said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program " of enforceable sanctions . " Mere words , he added , are not sufficient to warrant the relinquishment by the United States of the atomic bomb secrets . " It must have a guarantee of safety not only against the zffenders in the atomic area but against the illegal users if other weapons  --  bacteriological , biological , gas ? perhaps ? why not ? against war itself , " Mr. Baruch declared . Because Mr. Baruch 's policy statement had not been distributed until Thursday afternoon , none of the delegates replied categorically to it . They listened with great interest as he outlined the position of the United States Government , which had full Administration backing . Informally , they expressed their appreciation for the contribution Mr. Baruch had made . Next Meeting Wednesday Pending instructions from their Governments , the delegates decided to put off full-scale discussion of the whole problem and of Mr. Baruch 's proposal until Wednesday at 3 P. M. Yesterday 's session was begun with a welcoming address by Trygve Lie , Secretary General of the United Nations , who promised Mi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baruch had spoken , the commission decided to rotate the chairmanship monthly on an alphabetical basis . Dr. H. V. Evatt , Australia 's Minister of External Affairs , assumed the chair . Mr. Lie said he did not share the views of those who despaired of the future and doubted the ability of man to control a power " which at one single stroke might destroy more than many generations can build . " " It can not be beyond the resources of the human ' mind , which has made such enormous strides in this technical development to control it , to prevent its abuse and to use it for the good of all , " the Secretary General said . A message of greeting came also from President Truman and was read by Mr. Baruch . It said : " I ask you as the American representative on the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission to express to the members my sense of the extraordinary importance of the work in which they are about to engage . Nothing concerns the whole world more than the achievement of the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in wishing them godspeed . " In his 4,000-word policy statement Mr. Baruch did not go into details of how the proposed authority would be constituted , how it would be financed or how it would obtain ownership and conL trol of raw materials everywhere in the world and the American atomic-bomb producing plants . Nor did he offer details of the kind of punishment that would be dealt to any violator of the proposed international agreement . In general , his recommendations followed the policy proposed by a special State Department committee headed by Under-Secretary of State Dean Acheson and David E. Lilienthal , chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority . Implicit in Mr. Baruch 's statement offering the United States ' secrets to a world authority under specific conditions was that we would give up not only the " knowhow " of harnessing the energy stored in the bomb but also the means of detonating it so the au-te " thority would know how to ban detonants . To the proposed control authority , as suggested by Mr. Baruch , would be entrusted all phases of the development and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including managerial control or ownership of all atomic energy activities potentially dangerous to world security , the power to control , inspect and license all other atomic energy without regard to where it is situated and the duty of fostering the beneficial uses of atomic energy . It would also carry on an extensive research program into all phases of atomic energy so the organization would be better equipped to comprehend and detect possible misuses . In spelling out the authority 's operations , Mr. Baruch advocated that because its operations " are intrinsically dangerous to security " the facilities and stockpiles should be distributed throughout the world . "                     