@@706905

txt The Buna government station has fallen . The next to the last stage in eradicating the Japanese from New Guinea is over . Now all that remains is the enemy supply base at Sanananda . Elimination of the Japanese flora Buna Mission and the Giropa Point area is a long step toward the end of this campaign . The victory was the culmination of a series of brilliant tactical maneuvers . The plan was to break down the Japanese positions into a number of isolated pockets and then to clean up these islands of resistance one by one . By Jan. 1 , all that remained of the solid enemy defensive line of three weeks ago was a small isolated area around Buna Mission and a narrow finger of land running southeast from Giropa Point , paralleling the coast , to just north of the main airfield . Position Untenable For some days it had been obvious that these positions were untenable and that it was only a Matter of days before Japanese would be pressed back into the sea , liquidated , or forced to surrender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantry as the vanguard of the attack , the final hunt began , and by nightfall , after a day of bitter fighting , there remained nothing save a few stubbornly defended and completely isolated machine-gun positions . By now , even these probably have been blown sky-high . Thus ends a battle the opening stages of which started nine weeks ago . It has proved to be tedious business , but during its course of more than 60 days , vital facts must have been picked up . Chief of these are that only highly trained and resolute troops can tackle these enemy men who are skilful in defense and have it all over even the best infantry when unsupported by mechanical contrivances . May Pay Dividends If these lessons have been learned , then the long and bitter struggle for the coconut plantation on the east coast of New Guinea will pay dividends in the future . Tonight the Allied troops will be celebrating their victory in the microscopic village that is Buna Mission . In its heyday , it was no more than a few European houses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store , It then had neither strategic nor commercial importance . By now , these habitations have been bombed or shelled to oblivion . There is , however , strategic importance in this tiny spot on the map as far as this campaign is concerned . Its capture uncovered the left flank of Japanese positions at Sanananda . Its capture has presented us with the makings of an airfield which will be of first-class importance to our aerial control of this part of New Guinea . Landing Strips During the course of this campaign , we hacked a series of landing strips from virgin Kunai grass . These were prerequisites to any offensive on this side of the Owen Stanley Mountains . Murh of the food supplies to provision the forces in the front at Puna and Sanananda were flown to these strips from Port Moresby . But it has been impossible to maintain aircraft on these strips . Air protection had to come back and forth from Port Moresby , some 150 miles away . But with Buna it is different . The airfield there , a bomb-scarred and shell-pocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as long as we maintain our control of the air , it will be possible to build it up into an air base that will still further complicate the Japanese position in New Guinea . From here , we shall be able to protect more effectively our shipping along the east coast of New Guinea and we - shall be able to // By R. Maillard Stead Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor with the United Nations Forces in North Africa - MEDJEZ- EL- BAB , Tunisia , Jan. 5 ? The presence of thousands of American and British soldiers around the coastal districts of North Africa has produced marked ' changes in the community life of the native Arabs . Today one sees none of the normal features of Arab life . Fields are deserted and there are no signs of life around the farms or stone and straw homes of the Arabs . There are no eight-oxen teams pulling stolidly at plows with a whiplash cracking over their lowered heads , no be-robed Arab families walking solemnly afoot strung out by the roadside , no gray-bearded patriarchs on donkeys , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women trudging with loads of wood on their backs , no market-bound parties on horseback with bulging panniers , no ragged children , no mule-drawn carts , no troops . Ordinary Arabs do not allow strange activities of the military to disturb the slow-motion tenor of their way ? at least no more than necessary for working the new boom in eggs , poultry , tangerines and oranges . Business Is Good The upsurge of war to the Arabs ' very doorways has brought unprecedented trade to many a cactus-palisaded village now part of an airdrome or alongside an American or British encampment . The Arab inclination , therefore , is to stay around on the very fringe of or actually within fight- give better aerial support to any further operation in New Guinea . Opens Coast But of more immediate importance is the fact that we shall be able to push up the coast from Buna toward Sanananda . Already , United States patrols have felt their way along the seashore track in the direction of Sanananda Point . They have contacted Japanese patrols and for some days have remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their left flank . which will increase when the position at Buna is tidied up and our forces are reorganized , must automatically weaken Japanese resistance to our frontal assault down the Sanananda track . For the first time , tanks can be released to operate in this sector and the tempo of our advance on this last Japanese stronghold in New Guinea must show a decided tendency to increase within the next few days . That the Japanese at Sanananda are doomed , ' , here can be no doubt . It is almost impossible for them I now , even if they wanted to , to land reinforcements . Their stocks of food and munitions are diminishing , with small chance of replenishment . The weight of United Nations pressure is now doubled and , possibly sooner than most people expect , the Sanananda front may crumble through sheer lack of human and material cement to hold it together . ing areas to see what can be picked up ? especially as United Nations troops have orders not to deal over harshly with those local residents who may interpret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pick it up . The road out of Medjez , however , has become a region where picking up has given place to picking off . And since an Arab burnous is an easy disguise for a spy to adopt no person wearing one is advised to loiter within range of either frontline . That goes for motorists , too . From the shell-battered , bomb-scarred Medjez-el-Bab , a pivotal point of the Tunisian frontline news , I motored far enough into no man 's land to see German positions . It vas a strange experience . Motoring down a deserted road to Tunis via St. Cyprian with clouds of dust billowing up behind the car , one suddenly began to feel conspicuous . Unseen Observers Although nobody was in sight , there was an uneasy sense of being closely observed . Through binoculars both Allied and Axis frontline observers were undoubtedly studying this solitary apparition rolling towards the German lines . Today this route , along which Hannibal set forth toward the west from Carthage with his elephants , his cavalry and his foot-soldiers , is commanded by artillery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations stand across it east of Medjez . Axis forces straddle it west of Tunis . In between , advanced troops of each side are stationed opposite one another on heights commanding the valley through which the grey ribbon of roadway winds . During the past weeks the no man 's land dividing them has been quiet except for an occasional tank sortie or local engagement for posession of some favorable ridge . At night patrols have been thrusting cautiously forward to probe for weak Spots and snatch prisoners . Artillery is thudding intermittenly , sometimes ahead of us sometimes behind . But in no man 's land there was eerie quiet . Observers on the hilltops watching the lone automobile saw it pull up , turn , retreat up the hill toward Medjez , halt by a telegraph station that had - been half shot away . Near the road at the hilltop stands what is left of a little Arab farmhouse which has been held alternately by the Germans , and the United Nations . A shell from a German tank has Punched a circular hole neatly through the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had held German'rations and still had a chunk of mouldy bread inside . In an outer-building lay a letter dropped by a British soldier alongside a German water-bottle . Just as I was ruminating on the advice never to pick up battlefield souvenirs in case they might be booby-traps I was startled by a sudden commotion under the thatching . It was a pigeon still homing in the ruins . Close to a particularly scattered haystack were relics of artillery resistance to the recent German tank advance  --  a twisted section of gun mounting and a stel hlemet contorted into wry shape among the litter of shell-cases . Traces of that attack could be seen in the marks tank tracks had scored heavily in the fields of the valley below . German Bombers Arrive Then German dive - bombers came swooping down upon Medjez . Sixty rounds of artillery fire had crashed into the little town that morning . Down they came at an angle of 30 degrees with guns blazing and sirens shrieking as they skimmed the main street roof high . As bombs fell three plumes of smoke rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more chunk was blasted off the roof of the house where friends were preparing lunch against my return . A little hole was blown in somebody 's garden , another torn in the river bank . Nobody was hurt  --  which is most often the case in dive-bombing attacks , although they are highly alarming things to be underneath . Lunch was punctually ready but we ? had scarcely changed gear from stew to date pudding when another raiding party dived in . Again no military damage .                     