@@711424

txt By a vote of 16 to 8 , the house banking and currency committee tonight approved the Republicans ' antiinflation bill , calling for consumer and bank credit curbs and increased gild reserve requirements in the federal reserve syst em . simultaneously , a senate tanning subcommittee put the finishing touches on legislation for low cost housing and 500 million dollars for slum clearance . Full steam was put behind the Republicans ' own housing and anti-inflationary plan , in the hope of adjourning congress by Saturday night , leaving President Truman 's legislative program strewn as wreckage on Capitol hill . Last Minute Pleas The administration made desper ate but futile last minute efforts to salvage the president 's eight point anti-inflation bill , excess profits tax measure , and long range public housing proposals , No less than three , members and a Presidenial adviser came before the house and senate , banking committees dur. ing the day , urging adoption of the Truman program . They included Treasury Secretary Snyder before the house committee , and Agriculture Secretary Brannan , Commerce Secretary Sawyer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic advisers , before the senate committee . Besides , Mr. Truman called his 3ongressional leaders to the White House for an hour 's conference , Instructing them to exert every effort to pass his legislative program . Attending were Senate Demoerotic Leader Barkley ( Ky. ) , the President 's running mate ; Senate Democratic ' Whip Lucas ( Ill . ) ; House Democratic Leader Rayburn ( Tex. ) ; and House Democratic Whip McCormack ( Mass. ) parkley said the President thinks adoption of his full program is necessary . Hopeless Motion Rep. Dingell ( D. , Mich. ) . administration New Dealer , also went thru the hopeless motion of introducing the President 's bill for 4.8 billion dollars ih excess Profits taxes on the nation 's leading corporations . It was ignored by Republicans . Despite the Pretident 's directive for adoption of his program , no Democrat on the house banking committee offered his eight point bill as a substitute for the measure proposed by Chairman Wolcott ( R. , Mich. ) and adopted . Wolcott immediately hailed the gold reserve increase as indicating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy money " policy . The President had not requested this move and administration forces attacked it as a possible threat to the government bond market . Wolcott Lauds Bill Commenting on the bill , Wolcott said : " These powers . together with the powers the federal reserve and the administration already have , U judiciously administered , can stabilize ow economy . The increase in gold reserve requirements should have an especialb ' good psychological effect because it would indicate a reversal of the easy money policy . " Rep. Patman ( D. , Tex. ) , committee member , denounced the bill as inflationary and likely to disturb the government bond market . " It will cripple the efforts of the open market committee W support bond prices , will increase . rates and will be very damaging to our economy , " said Patman . " I predict the President will be compelled to veto ft when he realizes its impact on our economy . " The house will Consider the bill tomorrow under suspension of the rules , limiting debate to 40 minutes and requiring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the measure on Friday . The housing bill , already Passed by the , house in basic form , is due for senate debate also on Friday , making adjournment by Saturday night possible if all goes well . ' " ? The . anti-Inflation- bill contains the following provisions : 1 . Restores gold reserve requirements to the levels existing  - -  - between 1913 and 1945 ; when they were cut in anticipation of a post-war depression . Gold reserves behind federal reserve notes would in raised from 25 to 40 per cent and behind deposit liabilities from 25 to 35 per cent . 2 . Authorizes the federal reserve board to raise reserve requirements of member banks in the system by another 3 percentage points against demand deposits , and 1 percentage point against time deposits . The President recommended increases of 10 and 4 percentage points , respectively . The house bill would make maximum reserves for central reserve banks 29 per cent . reserve city banks 23 per cent , and country banks 17 per cent . against demand deposits . Against time deposits the reserves could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . Restores Credit Curbs 3 . Restores authority for the federal reserve board to impose credit curbs On instalment purchases , which expired last Nov. 1 . Under this authority automobile purchases would require one-third down payment and the balance in 15 months ; purchases of stoves , refrigerators , radios , washing machines . etc .. would be bought on similar terms : and household furnishings , such as furniture , rugs , etc. , would require a 20 per cent down payment . The instalment credit authority would extend to next March 15. and the bank reserve power until next March 31 . Mr. Truman requested that both extend to June 30. 1950 . Wolcott said thatPatman 's fears about adverse effects from raising gold reserves are dissipated by the fact gold reserves behind notes and deposits total 51 per cent now . " Nothing actually will happen . " he said , " because we 're importing gold and nothing could happen until we depleted ow gold stocks . " . Aids Low Cost Builders Sen. McCarthy ( R. , Wis. ) ex , plained that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the production of lower cost homes and contaans nothing to stimulate the building of higher cost homes . The measure contains credit aids and incentives to private builders . In this respect it follows the provisions of the Wolcott bill passed by the house late in the recent session and used as a base for the senate group . The senate subcommittee wrote in a 500 million dollar slum clearance program , extending over 5 years , which was opposed by the house and may be rejected . However , the bill does not . contain the public housing program of the TaftEllender-Wagner hill , which passed the senate and which the President demanded in the house . The Republican program throws overboard the President 's demand for sweeping powers to impose Nice and wage controls , rationing , stiffer rent controls , priorities , and regulation of commodity exchanges . Cling To Program However , administration witnesses continued to support this program . Snyder said it would be a " major blow against inflation " and was necessary to support foreign policy . Brannan came Prepared with plans tor price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel plan for using " meat money " in lieu of price controls . Under this system a housewife would be reAldred to furnish " meat money " of El every time she paid S1 in cash . for meat . The meat money would be distributed on the basis Of the Value of available meat supplies at a " reasonable price " in a given period . Keyserling said that inflation is " still on the march " but that ' the foreign aid and armament programs must go ahead despite their inflationary consequences .                     