@@710068

txt BARKLEY IS CHOSEN Democrats Rename Him Leader in Senate , Also Policy Chairman REPUBLICAN CHIEFS FIRM Some Dissents Are Heard , but Committee Assignments Go Through as Scheduled By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to THE NEW YORE TIMER . WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ? Senate Democrats , organizing for their minority role in the Eightieth Congress , which convenes at noon tdmorrow , unanimously re-elected Senator Alben W. Barkley today as their floor leader . The Kentuckian , who has served more than nine years as majority floor leader , also was made chairman of the Democratic Conference , or organization , head of the new Minority Policy Committee and chairman of the Steering Committee . Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois was elected minority whip . Senator Lister Hill of Alabama , majority whip in the Senevty-ninth Congress , did not seek the minority post . Tomorrow , unless the Senate should be thrown into prolonged session by proceedings against Senator Theodore G. Bilbo of Mississippi , the Democrats plan to begin a job which the victorious , Republicans completed ftidg , y , the manning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stripped the Senate committees from thirty-three to fifteen in number . Again the new Republican leadership displayed its strength as the GOP conference went through and approved the parceling out of the committee assignments . Dissent was'heard , but promptly was overriden . The generally harmonious Re // publican contingent of fifty-one members supported the assignments worked out after weeks of jockeying by the Committee on Committees , headed by Senator Edward V. Robertson of Wyoming . The Steering Committee , of which Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio is chairman , also had a hand in the work . Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan , who will be the new president pro tempore , received the chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Relations as well . Senator Wallace H. White Jr. , new majority floor leader , also was named chairman of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce and , besides , retained his post on the Foreign Relations Committee . On most of the committees the Democrats will have only one member fewer than the new majority party . At four key points , however , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves a majority of three . On the Appropriations Committee , the largest , the ratio will be 12 to 9 . An 8-to-5 margin will prevail on the new Committee on Labor and Public Welfare , the Public Lands Committee and the Committee on Rules and Administration . The latter body will have much to do with running the Senate . Reed Continues Melt Senator Clyde M. Reed of Kansas , who had sought the chairmanship of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee , carried his fight to the conference itself today . He objected to Senator White 's dual role as Majority Leader and committee chairman . He charged that Mr. White , as Minority Leader in the Seventy-ninth Congress , had attended only four of sixty-seven meetings of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee in the two-year period . He contended that the added responsibilities of the majority leadership would not permit of an improved attendance record . Mr. Reed also alleged that there had been " manipulation " of seniority to favor some Senators . Rules were broken , he also alleged , by the placing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Commerce Committee . The almost solid Midwestern line-up on the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry brought complaints from the East . It was found that Senator George D. Aiken of Vermont was the only member from East of the Mississippi . Protest came from the West Coast and Northwest over a lack of representation by that section of the country on the Foreign Relations Committee . This was fanned by the assignment to the committee of Senator Henry Cabot Lodge Jr . of Massachusetts , who had resigned from the Senate to go into the Army . Senator Lodge , now re-elected , declined a few days ago a move for the restoration of his seniority rating . He said he preferred to take his chances on assignments . He received consideration under the Bill of Rights and obtained the committee assignment , although the seniority he held previously was higher than at present . Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon , who had sought assignment to the Foreign Relations body , was in somewhat of a preferential status should a vacancy occur . With Senator Vandenberg in the chairmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following : Senators Arthur Capper of Kansas , White , Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin , H. Alexander Smith of New Jersey , Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa and Lodge . Senator Taft received his expected approval as chairman of the new Committee on Labor and Public Welfare , upon which much Senate attention is focused . Serving with Mr. Taft will be Senators Aiken , Joseph Ball of Minnesota , Mr. Morse , Forrest C. Donnell of Missouri , William E. Jenner of Indiana and Irving M. Ives of New York . Advance drafting of proposed control legislation will be largely in the hands of Senators Taft , Ball and Smith . Some of the program of this group is understood to be completed and ready for early introduction . The new Consolidated Committee on the Armed Services , with . Senator Chan Gurney of South Dakota as chairman , will be made up , on the majority side , of Senttors Style . Bridges of New Hampshire , Robertson , George A. Wilson of Iowa , Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts , Morse and Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be done by its Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments , which will be headed by Senator Aiken . Others on this committee are Senators Homer Ferguson of Michigan , Hickenlooper , John W. Bricker of Ohio , Ives of New York , Edward J. Thye of Minnesota and Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin . The Committee on Agriculture will be headed by Senator Capper and will include Senators Aiken , Harlan J. Bushfield of South Dakota , Wilson , Milton R. Young of North Dakota , James P. Kern of Missouri and Thye . Senator Bridges will head the Appropriations Committee . Serving with him will be Senators Gurney , C. Wayland Brooks of Illinois , Messrs . Reed , Ball and Ferguson , Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , the Republican whip ; Guy Cordon of Oregon , Saltonstall , William F. Knowland of California , Young ' and Henry C. Dworshak of Idaho . Millikin Heads Finance Senator Eugene D. Millikin of Colorado , chairman of the Republican Conference , also will head the Committee on Finance . With him will be Senators Taft , Hugh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hawkes of New Jersey and Edward Martin of Pennsylvania . With Senator White on the Interstate and Foreign Cornfierce Committee will be Senators Charles W. Tobey of New Hampshire , Reed , Brewster , Hawkes , 1 E. H. Moore of Oklahoma and Homer E. Capehart of Indiana . Other committees and assignments were as follows : Banking and currency : Senators Tobey ( chairman ) , C. Douglass Buck of Delaware , Capehart , Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont , Harry P. Cain of Washington , Bricker and McCarthy . Judiciary : Senators Wiley ( Chairman ) , William Langer of North Dakota , Ferguson , Chapman Revercomb of West Virginia , Donnell and John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky . Public lands : Senators Butler ( Chairman ) , Millikin , Robertson , Cordon , Dworshak , Ecton of Montana , George W. Malone of Nevada and Arthur V. Watkins of Utah . Public Works : Senators Revercomb ( chairman ) , Cooper , Cain , Martin , Malone , Watkins and John J. Williams of Delaware . Rules and Administration : Senators Brooks ( chairman ) , Wherry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ives . Civil Service : Senators Langer ( chairman ) , Buck , Flanders , Baldwin , Thye and Ecton . Senator Williams also was slated for this committee but will be reassigned , as his colleague , Senator Buck , also was designated . One of the complaints today was over double assignments from individual States . Committee on the District of Columbia : Senators Buck ( chairman ) , Capper , Ball , Flanders , Cooper , Cain and Kem.                     