@@705265

txt The principle that the workers in a dress factory have the right to demand efficient management as a condition of employment will be written into the collective agreement covering 85,000 unionized dressmakers in this city if five employer associations accept the proposals put before them yesterday by Julius Hochman , general manager of the Dress Joint Board of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , A. F. of L. Mr. Hochman informed represenItatives of the manufacturers at a conference at the Hotel Biltmore that the earnings of workers paid on a piece-rate basis were kept low by faulty plant organization , inadequate equipment and other manifestations of lax management and that the union would insist on , inclusion in the new contract of a I clause giving workers the right to I file charges with the impartial chairman of the dress industry against employers whom they deemed inefficient . The manufacture of dresses is New York 's largest industry , with an annual volume of $350,000,000 . Acceptance of Mr. Hochman 's formula would make this the first industry in which inefficiency on the part of management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production practices that the union holds responsible for many of the ills of the local manufacturers , the garment workers offered to supervise the establishment of a school of management at which experts in various specialized fields would tell the employers how to reorganize their businesses along more efficient lines . " This should give no offense to any production man or contractor in the industry , " Mr. Hochman said , " since we have found from experience that the more able the man the more ready he is to learn new methods and absorb information from any reliable source . " As an additional step in its campaign to " streamline " the industry and make New York City the style center of the world , the union recommended formation by the manu- facturers of a committee on standards to sift complaints from retailers and to draw up a code of fair practices . General agreement with the plan advanced by the union was expressed by representatives of the five associations at the close of the meeting , but none commented specifically on the proposals dealing with factory management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York dress shops were characterized by lack of coordination and supervision , insufficient floor help and antiquated machinery and that this " mismanagement " was the cause of loss of wages to the worker , higher overhead costs to the contractor , late deliveries to the jobber and " chaos and confusion all around . " " It is a vicious circle , " the union leader declared . " Where you find inefficiency you find poor earnings , high overhead , late deliveries and bad workmanship , and where you find these you also find that business begins to decline . " He said analysis of operations at one shop where sound organizational techniques were in use showed that production per worker was 40 per cent above the general level and that overhead costs were cut 25 to 30 per cent . thus demonstrating the benefits of efficient management to employers and employes . " In this shop , " Mr. Hochman declared , " each operator is graded according to his or her earning capacity . The management of the shop , for the sake of maintaining production and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of each operator . The firm knows at all times how many dresses can be produced by each worker and by the entire shop in an hour , a day or a week . It , therefore , knows exactly at all times what its production will be and can plan sales and promise deliveries accordingly . " Much of the difficulty in introducing efficiency into the local dress industry is attributable to the small size of many contracting shops , Mr. Hochman said . To overcome this difficulty , he suggested that all factors make a conscious effort to consolidate these shops into units large enough to permit planning of production on an improved basis . For factories making dresses in the lowest price range , a minimum of 100 machines is required for proper management , he declared . The union made known its readiness to sponsor a special management department headed by an expert in cost accounting to assist employers In planning production , to study the possibilities of stabilizing employment by leveling out the peaks and valleys of seasonal operation , to work out cost accounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in management techniques and to supervise the proposed school of management . This school would be set up at the Central High School of Needle Trades and would have a model factory as part of its equipment , under Mr. Hochman 's project . The classes would deal with production problems and " efficient production men and contractors " would be selected to help in the course of instruction . In setting forth his ideas on the formulation of a code of fair practices , Mr. Hochman observed that the New York dress market had acquired " a bad name " among retailers , who complained of late deliveries , improper sizings , failure to deliver according to sample and substitution of materials and trimmings . To prevent the abuses of a relatively small number of manufacturers from undermining the business of the entire market he called for establishment of an industry committee to examine all complaints , work out a code of ethics and develop machinery for its enforcement . When this was done the manufacturers would be in a position to press their counter-complaints against retailers and to insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Hochman said . The five employer associations present at the conference were the Affiliated Dress Manufacturers , the National Dress Manufacturers , the Popular-Priced Dress Group , the United Popular Dress Manufacturers and the United Better Dress Manufacturers . Spokesmen for all five commended the union for its attempt to better the condition of the local market and promised to cooperate in carrying out the general principles laid down by the workers ' organization . However , Louis Rubin , executive director of the Popular-Priced Dress Group , pointed out that enforcement of the fair practice code worked out by his association in cooperation with the National Retail Dry Goods Association had broken down during the past year because of complaints filed with the Federal Trade Commission by some retailers . He said he hoped a decision favorable to the association would be handed down , thus making it possible to resume enforcement of the code . The present agreement between the union and the five employer organizations expires Jan. 31 . The union has presented no demands for changes in wages or hours , pending action by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment opportunities through modernized production methods and a $1,500,000 promotion campaign .                     