@@708615

txt Asked what he thought of Senator George 's proposal that there be " substantial " reductions in both individual and corporation income taxes , Treasury Secretary Morgenthau indicated that the Administration is opposed to any reduction of taxes until Japan is defeated . Allied newspapers and magazines will be barred from circulating in Germany for an indefinite period during military occupation , OWI Director Elmer Davis said , adding that a similar ban will be placed on all foreign business enterprise . Page 3 . The Foreign Economic Administration announced an agreement with Argentina for the purchase of exportable surplus vegetable oil seeds and their products for delivery in 1945 and 1946 . All mail from the United States to American and Allied prisoners of war in Germany has been halted in transit , the War Department announced . The action was taken because of the breakdown of the German Government 's mail-distribution system and the rapid evacuation of the liberated prisoners . The Army postal service has been instructed to return all letters and parcels to senders . Bay State : $153,000,000 Road Program Urged Legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public hearing before the Legislative Committee on Highways and Motor Vehicles . Page 2 . Several hundred German prisoners of war have arrived at Camp My:es Standish , Ta union . from overseas . The Army announces they will do road building , repair work , and mess detail within the camp . They will be confined in stockades and fed according to War Department directions . Europe : Churchill Radiocast Put Off Till Sunday Prime Minister Churchill has postponed his radiocast scheduled for tonight until Sunday at 3 p. m . ( E. W. T. ) , a London dispatch said . Trial of Herman Goring will take place soon , a responsible source in London disclosed . The former Reichsmarshal is expected to appear before a high tribunal of representatives of the western Allies and Russia . Anton ** leader of the Nazis in the Netherlands . has been arrested on treason charges , a report from The Hague said . National : Snow Blocks Rochester , N.Y. , Ball GaMe Baseball game between Baltimore and Rochester at Rochester , N. Y. , postponed . Reason : Snow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian flag has been removed by Argentine police from the front of the newspaper Critica in Buenos Aires , where it had been displayed with other United Nations colors . Display of foreign flags is restricted to those of friendly nations , presumably meaning those with which Argentina maintains diplomatic relations . Critica said it would remove all United Nations flags in view of the police action .                     