@@707074

txt Retail furniture merchants here are exchanging scarce articles of merchandise among themselves at their weekly " trading post luncheon . " A furniture customer no longer needs to trek through the city 's furniture stores in search of wartime scarcity items . His local furniture dealer can usually tell him , within a short period of time , whether any of the city 's furniture dealers have the scarce merchandise . At the weekly " trading post luncheons " members of Chicago 's retail furniture dealers and exchanges swap merchandise on a costplus-freight basis , purely as an accommodation service to each other . Biggest trading items include coil springs , box springs , radios . upholstered furniture , dining or living room suites , and washing machines . Stores ' participating in the luncheon bargaining vary from those who annually gross $50,000 to $250,000 . The luncheon trading sessions grew out of a plan originally started by the Chicago Retail Furniture Association which provided for an experimental service exchanging scarce articles of merchandise among furniture dealers here . The association 's initial plan called for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This is how the association 's plan worked : Dealer A found he needed certain articles of scarce merchandise . and discovered that he had other items of scarce merchandise he could spare . He published in the bulletin what he had to offer , and what he wanted in exchange . The name of the firm was not mentioned Letters in reply were forwarded to him by the secretary of the association , and he was then free to accept or reject any or all offers Here is a sample of some of the offers which appeared in one of the issues of the Trading Post bulletin : " Dealer 001 : Have six washers in crates and 10 sofa beds . Desire to exchange for coil springs . " " Dealer 002 : Have six wool rugs . 9x12 ( regular price ) and 12 innerspring mattresses Will exchange for midget radios , vacuum cleaners . " The association 's weekly thilletin has been supplanted by informal trading luncheons on market day at the furniture mart . Dealers get together once a week in the spacious quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Chicago Retail Furniture Association has a table reserved at each luncheon accommodating members and wouldbe traders . The plan has attracted nation-wide attention . Requests from local furniture associations in other cities pour into the National Association 's offices here , requesting exchange articles . Defense area cities are among the heaviest bidders for exchange furniture items . 