@@710447

txt Secretary Calls for Releasing Business Initiative , Finds Planned Economy Lacking By WARREN MOSCOW Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal , speaking last night at a $100-a-plate dinner of the Democratic State Committee in honor of Mayor O'Dwyer , delivered a strong defense of America 's twoparty political system and its system of " democratic capitalism . " At the same time he gave what could be construed as a hint of President Truman 's attitude on labor legislation now pending . With Secretary of Commerce W. Averell Harriman and Attorney General Tom C. Clark on the dais with him , the Secretary of the Navy decried bitterness against all labor and all labor leaders , saying : " As a nation we are apt to make a black and white assessment of blame when we are troubled . That is an understandable and human weakness but the temptation to put on labor all the blame for in difficulties and high prices is as unjust as it is to saddle all business with that blame . " I came to know a good many labor leaders during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself and I can testify to the great participation of the American workingman in victory . Most leaders of labor are neither Communists nor Socialists . Would Avert Bitterness " Many of them realize the need of adjustments to rectify existing imbalances in labor laws . Bitterness against all labor and all labor leaders as a group is just as dangerous , just as unfair , as the tendency fifteen years ago to smear all business and management . Indicting fellow-Americans by groups is a negation of democracy , for ours is a classless society in fact , not by empty boast . " Hearing Secretary Forrestal , Democratic State Chairman Paul Fitzpatrick and Mayor O'Dwyer , who spoke extemporaneously , were 1,300 prominent Democrats of the city and state , gathered in the grand ball room of the Hotel Commodore . They paid $100 each for // an elaborate dinner that cost the committee $17.50 a plate , for a net yield to the State Committee of $100,000 , to be used to pay expenses of the 1946 campaign and of the coming campaign . Among those present was former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party 's leadership , and the audience heard Secretary Forrestal praise him and his political opponent , National Committeeman Edward J. Flynn , in the same sentence . At a table bought by the Transport Workers Union , was a , group of Left-wingers , including Joseph Curran , Saul Mills and Austin Hogan . And listed at still another table , but there only for a drink before he went over to the Dewey dinner at the Waldorf , was D. Mallory Stephens , Republican chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee . Mayor 's Talk Is Brief Mayor O'Dwyer , in his address , talked informally of the duties of political parties , and made only one remark of political significance . That was when he declared that the principal basic difference between the two major parties today was on their attitude toward labor . He expressed the hope that he would be able to perform his job as Mayor , " with the help of God and within the limitations that He had given to human beings . " As a result of the Mayor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major speech of the affair . Because of its context and its favorable reception , it raised the question in the minds of some of the auditors whether the Secretary of the Navy was being boomed for the vice presidential nomination in 1948 . The fact that Mayor O'Dwyer was guest of honor is part of the plan of the Democratic lera ' . rs in the state to help use the Mayor 's popularity in building up the party and also to boom him for the governorship in 1950 , if he is willing to run for that office . Praise of the Mayor was equalled , if not overshadowed , by praise for President Truman from the speakers . The President 's picture was prominent on the program , and Mr. Fitzpatrick opened the speaking program ' with a toast to the President . All praised him for practical , middle-of-the-road policies . In keeping with current Democratic strategy , the tone was ! to build up Mr. Truman as Presi-I dent in his own right , rather than inheritor of the mantle of Franklin D. Roosevelt . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forrestal hailed him asl. an example of America 's unlimited opportunities for men of character and ability . Slap at 3d Party Talk Seen Secretary Forrestal 's address , in dealing as it did with the twoparty system , was viewed by some as a rebuke to those who talk of a third party ticket , to be headed by Henry A. Wallace , in the 1948 elections . He said : " For three quarters of a century the powers of government in the United States have been exercised by one of two great parties  --  the Republicans or the Democrats . Broadly speaking , that has proved to be a sound system , as , under different party labels , it has been in our sister democracies of Canada and Great Britain . " Governments deriving from more than two or three parties have proved incapable of providing strong and continuing federal systems . Thus , proportional representation , while attractive in theory , seems to be unsound in application . It is government by fractions , the beginning of government by veto , without responsiWity . In Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense of our system of " democratic capitalism " Mr. Forrestal was strongly , critical of planned economy , saying : " This economy of ours is a delicately balanced machine . Its driving force is incentive , not merely the incentive of profits or wages but the incentive of service . The production of goods in quantity is its mainspring and it is that quantity production which provides the real wages of labor . Federal Planning Not Enough " No governmental planning or supervision or control can take the place of business initiative in maintaining that high production of goods and services which made this nation great and which the world will require from us for many years to come . " All nations and states in the world today are based upon capitalism , the difference being merely between state capitalism and individual capitalism . Our system finances productive enterprise from the savings of individuals , deposited in banks and insurance companies , rather than collected by government levy . The savings of our people are channelled into new ventures and into the extension of existing enterprises through commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to collect all the people 's earnings above subsistence needs , to channel those savings as it wills and ultimately to own the instruments of production . Inevitably that means that government must ultimately own and control and direct labor . " I am in violent disagreement with every and any aspect of such a system . " Seated at the dais , in addition to the speakers and the cabinet members , were Rabbi Louis I. Newman , Msgr . Patrick O'Boyle , and the Rev. Dr. E. C. Russell , Episcopalian minister , as well as Doris I. Byrne , Democratic vice chairman , and Edward J. Flynn and Mrs. , William H. Good , National Cornmittee members . Mr. ' Fitzpatrick was general chairman of the dinner committee and John A. Coleman was treasurer .                     