@@704551

txt Supreme Court Justice Frank Murphy , in his first public speech since his elevation to the nation 's highest court , last night warned the members of the Alumni Association of New York University Law School that the survival of democracy faces a great danger in the " tendency to seek a scapegoat in a religious or racial or political or economic group . " He said that dictatorships are " horn of such tendencies " and that on such attitudes " demagogues rely for their march to power . " To his warning , the , pstice coupled an exhortation to the lawyers to be always vigilant not only to recognize tendencies and persons who would endanger American freedom , but to " remind a democratic people constantly that in a nation divided by suspicion and hatred these blessings can not endure . " Justice Murphy made a flying trip to New York to deliver his speech , which had been scheduled before he ascended to the Supreme Court from his previous post as Attorney General . He had been considerably concerned over the public reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on them , and caused the Alumni Association to cancel plans to have his speech broadcast . The dinner , in the Hotel WaldorfAstoria , celebrated the 104th anniversary of the founding of the New York University Law School . General Sessions Judge John J. Freschi , president of the association , was chairman of the dinner . Other speakers included Dean Frank H. Sommer of the Law School , and Harold 0 . Voorhis , secretary of the university . Justice Murphy began with a reference to Abraham Lincoln ? " the somber Emancipator " ? as one whose life " is a monument to his unqualified faith and his resolute struggle for the democratic principle that all men are created equal . " " It seems almost beyond comprehension , " he continued , " that in this land , with its background of a century and a half of self-government and civil liberty , there should be doubt as to how that question will here be ultimately answered . Yet honesty compels us to recognize that such doubt exists today in as great a measure as at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution . " MURPHY SEES PERIL IN SCAPEGOAT HUNT // democratic principle that " all men are created equal . " It is three-quarters of a century since that struggle ended in tragic martyrdom . In the interim nations have perished and been born . The boundaries of States have been altered and altered again . Governments have come and gone . The economic life of most of the human race has undergone an amazing transformation and the greater part of the population of the earth has been , convulsed bar war . Yet , today , the elementary principle for which Lincoln labored and died is still the focus of a vast , world-wide struggle . The great , eternal question that stirred the heart of the somber Emancipator , that inspired the Founding Fathers to heroic deeds , and that has led men on a hundred battlefields to go cheerfully to their deaths remains a source of civil and international contention . It is the everlasting question of whether man shall live in freedom and equality under just and enlightened laws , or whether he shall live in constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It seems almost beyond comprehension that in this land , with its background of a century and a half of self-government and civil liberty , there should be doubt as to how that question will here be ultimately answered . America Not Immune Yet honesty compels us to recognize that such doubt exists today in as great a measure as at any time , perhaps , since the establishment of the Constitution . It exists primarily because for a decade the country has been economically ill , and to the consequences of that sickness America is no more immune , in the last analysis , than other nations where unemployment and its train of unhappiness , insecurity and discontent have ended in the destruction of democratic governments . To admit this possibility is not to question the loyalty of the American . people to democratic methods and institutions . It is merely to recognize that insecurity . fear , hunger and the other derivatives of economic depression can become so powerful that even life-long loyalties are temporarily obscured and forgotten . It is to recognize that men plagued to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not ordinarily keep their perspective . They do not think of history at such times . They do not stop to remember that mankind has been searching for the freedom which we in America now possess ever since the beginnings of history . They do not reflect how painfully and slowly that freedom has been won . We , gathered peacefully together this night , may remember these things . We may recall the fragment of democracy that came into being in the city-States of ancient Greece . We may remember the birth of Christianity with its ennobling emphasis on the dignity of the individual , the edict of Emperor Conrad II giving crude recognition to the principle of due process ; the magic words of Magna Carta ; the Petition of Right ; the Declaration of Independence , and the Constitution with its Bill of Rights . We here , in this quiet moment , may remember these things and realize the enormity of mankind 's loss should America some day turn away from the reign of law and justice . The grave question , however , is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow-members of the American democracy will continue to remember , regardless of what emergency or crisis may come . There are those who urge us specifically to cast aside our heritage of liberty and self-government and to search for the solutions of our problems under different political systems . To a degree , there is in such specific counsel potential danger for democratic institutions . Sees a Great Danger I am persuaded , however , that a greater danger ? greater because it is more subtle , more insidious  --  lies elsewhere . It is the danger inherent in attitudes and beliefs that in one way or another we ourselves have come to entertain . It is the danger that lies dormant in the belief ? so often sincere  --  that our national troubles are , attributable to one group or another of the population . It is the danger born of the tendency to seek a scapegoat in a religious or racial or political or economic group . Of such tendencies and such beliefs , dictatorships are born . On such attitudes demagogues rely for their march to power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sown which blossom into destruction for the reign of law and justice  --  for all that is fine and enlightened in the relations of man to man . It is well that a democratic nation be on guard against those who would seize power without popular consent . But the task of preserving a society based on justice and law is far broader than that . It requires , among other things , that each of us take upon himself responsibility for guarding against that mental climate of dissension and mistrust in which the institutions of law and justice sicken and die . Upon the lawyers , and equally upon those who train men and women to be lawyers , that responsibility rests with particular emphasis . You who study the law , who practice it , who interpret and administer the law , know as well as any and better than most at what cost a society such as ours has been created after centuries of heartbreak and struggle . Having studied the growth of the law from distant times when common men knew no law but the word of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule themselves by orderly and peaceful methods and who stand before the bar of justice equal with all others . That is why , in a world where government by law is constantly threatened , legal practice involves far more than the pursuit of a vocation . Having chosen to serve as a practitioner of the law , the lawyer becomes also a custodian and guardian of the law as an institution of civilized government . He can not remain : aloof from that responsibility . It is not enough that he conduct his practice with efficiency and integrity . It is not enough that he direct his abilities and his influence toward the correction of defects in the law . The lawyer should himself be alert to see the conditions that endanger the system of law and he should help the nation to see them also . Asks What We Want Do we want to keep a system of justice in which every man is entitled to a fair trial , to the benefit of legal counsel , to protection against self-incrimination ? to every essential of due process ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual , no matter how lowly , is free to speak his thoughts , to write as he pleases , to assemble peacefully with his neighbors , and to ' worship in the manner his conscience dictates ? Do we want to maintain an enlightened society in which even the most impoverished or unpopular member may look with confidence to the courts for protection against injustice ? The lawyer , knowing that at heart the American people do want to keep these imperishable splendors , has a mission to help them see how they can be kept ? and , equally , how they can be lost . It is in times like these , more than any other , that a democratic people need advocates of law and justice to remind them constantly that in a nation divided by suspicion and hatred these blessings can not endure , but that in a land united by mutual understanding and friendship they will prosper and grow strong . We need to be reminded that there is no hope in any program or philosophy which levels the finger of blame at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purging or suppressing that group . We need to be reminded what a tragic delusion it is to believe that justice and liberty can be denied to part of a nation and maintained for the rest . In the last analysis , there is no halfway house between democracy and despotism . For persecution is a brutalizing force and , once unleashed , it eventually destroys even those who brought it to life . We need to be reminded that when a people turn away from the reign of law , and equal justice under law , to a system of discrimination and persecution , it is not as if they merely discard a worn-out garment . They cast away , instead , the dearly won gains of centuries of human struggle and anguish . They set their faces backward and begin the long , tragic march back to those early ages when the individual looked to government not for justice but for life . There are those who believe that America is the last hope of democracy on earth . This may well be true , but even if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of freedom and the forces of autocracy , no believer in government by law , and certainly no student of the law , can afford to be merely a spectator . We can not afford to be ' disinterested . Our stewardship must be a brave one and an active one . Our faith in the society of free men must be a courageous faith . By the active , zealous and ungrudging practice of democracy , we must endeavor to preserve its unmatched blessings for the generation which follows ours . Only by so doing can we creditably discharge our obligation as free and enlightened members of the human race .                     