@@711261

txt The Jewish state , the world 's newest sovereignty , to be known as the State of Israel , came into being in Palestine at midnight upon termination of the British mandate . Recognition of the state by the United States , which had opposed its establishment at this time , came as a complete surprise to the people , who were tense and ready for the threatened invasion by Arab forces and appealed for help by the United Nations . In one of the most hopeful periods of their troubled history the Jewish people here gave a sigh of relief and took a new hold on life when they learned that the greatest national power had accepted them into the international fraternity . Ceremony Simple and Solemn The declaration of the new state by David Ben-Gurion , chairman of the National Council and the first Premier of reborn Israel , was delivered during a simple and solemn ceremony at 4 P. M. , and new life was instilled into his people , but from without there was the rumbling of guns , a flashback to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first action of the new Government was to revoke the Palestine White Paper of 1939 , which restricted Jewish immigration and land purchase . In the proclamation of the new state the Government appealed to the United Nations " to assist the Jewish people in the building of its state and to admit Israel into the family of nations . " The proclamation added : " We offer peace and amity to all neighboring states and their peoples , and invite them to cooperate with the independent Jewish nation for the common good of all . The State of Israel is ready to contribute its full share to the peaceful progress and reconstitution of the Middle East . " World Jews Asked to Ald. The statement appealed to Jews throughout the world to assist in the task of immigration and development and in the " struggle for the fulfillment of the dream of generations ? the redemption of Israel . " Plans for the ceremony had been laid with great secrecy . None but the hundred or more invited guests and journalists was aware of the meeting until it started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten minutes before . It was held in. the Tel Aviv Museum of Art , a white , modern-design twd-story building . Above it flew the Star of David , which is the state 's flag , and below , on the sidewalk , was a guard of honor of the Haganah , the army of the Jewish Agency for Palestine . As photographers ' bulbs flashed and movie cameras ground out reels of the scene , great crowds gathered and cheered the Ministers and other members of the Government as they entered the building . The security arrangements were perfect . Sten guns were brandished in every direction and even the roofs bristled with them . The setting for the reading of the proclamation was a dropped gallery whose hall held paintings by prominent Jewish artists . Many of them depicted the sufferings and joys of the people of the Diaspora , the dispersal of the Jews . The thirteen Ministers of the Government Council sat at a long dais beneath the photograph of Theodor Herzl , who in 1897 en , visaged a Jewish state . Vertical pale blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To the left of the ministers and below them sat other members of the national administration . There are thirty-seven in all , but some were unable to get here from Jerusalem . At 4 P. M. sharp the assemblage rose and sang the Hatikvah , tide national anthem . The participants seemed to sing with unusual gusto and inspiration . The voices had hardly subsided when the squat , white-haired chairman , Mr. BenGurion , started to read the proclamation , which in a few hours was to transform most of those present from persons without a country to proud nationals . When he pronounced the words " We hereby proclaim the establishment of the Jewish state in Palestine , to be called Israel , " there was thunderous applause and not a few damp eyes . After the proclamation had been read and the end of the White Paper and of its land laws pronounced , Mr. Ben-Gurion signed the document and was followed by all the other members of the administration , some by proxy . The last to sign was Moshe Shertok , the new Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . He was roundly applauded and almost mobbed by photographers . The ceremony ended with everyone standing silently while the orchestral strains of the Hatikvah filled the room . Outside , the fever of nationalism was spreading with fond embraces , warm handshakes and kisses . Street vendors were selling flags , crowds gathered to read posted bulletins , and newspapers were being sold everywhere . As the sabbath had started , there was not the degree of public rejoicing that there would have been any other day . The proclamation was to have been read at 11 P. M. but was advanced to 4 because of the sabbath . Mr. Shertok explained that the proclamation had to be made yesterday because the mandate was to end at midnight and the Zionists did not want a split second to intervene between that time and the formal establishment of the state . jiLn the preamble to the declaration of independence the history of the Jewish people was traced briefly from its birth in the Land of Israel to this day . The preamble touched on the more modern highlights , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish national homeland by the Balfour Declaration in 1917 ' and its reaffirmation by the League of Nations mandate and by the United Nations General Assembly resolution of Nov. 29 , 1947 . It asserted that this recognition by the United Nations of the right of the Jewish people to establish an independent state could not be revoked and added that it was the " self-evident right of the Jewish people to be a nation , as all other nations , in its own sovereign state . " The proclamation stated that as of midnight the National Council would act as a Provisional State Council and that its executive organ , the National Administration , would constitute a provisional government until elected bodies could be set up before Oct. 1 . Israel , the proclamation went on , will be open to immigration by Jews from all countries " of their ) dispersion . " She will develop the country for the benefit of all Its inhabitants , it added , and will be based on precepts of liberty , justice and peace taught by the He-1 brew prophets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " so- ? cial and political equality of all its citizens without distinction of race , creed or sex " and " will guarantee full freedom of conscience , worship , education and culture . " The statement pledged safeguarding of the sanctity and inviolability of shrines and holy , places of all religions . It also contained a promise to uphold the , principles of the United Nations . There was great cheering and drinking of toasts in this blackedout city when word was received that the United States had recognized the provincial Government . The effect on the people , especially those drinking late in Tel Aviv 's coffee houses , was electric . They even ran into the blackness of the streets shouting , cheering and toasting the United States .                     