@@708316

txt On Dec. 18 the War Contracts Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Military Affairs submitted a report in which was included , for the purpose of stimulating discussion , the draft of a bill to guarantee full employment after the war . On your editorial page of Dec. 23 you discussed this bill and made certain objections that merit full public discussion . First , you state that the bill merely " pays generous lip service to the encouragement of free private enterprise . " " Lip service , " I submit , is an inaccurate phrase with which to describe the bill 's fundamental principle that Government must provide private enterprise with full opportunity and encouragement for investment and expansion . Section 3 of the bill clearly provides that if there is any danger of prospective unemployment , the President 's primary responsibility is to submit to Congress a " general program for encouraging increased non-Federal investment and other expenditure , particularly such investment and expenditure as will promote increased employment in private enterprises . " This is **26;0;TOOLONG language . There are no " ifs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement that it pays " lip service " to private enterprise is without merit . It must be recognized , of course , that there is room for improvement in the bill . If it is felt that the present draft does not go far enough in the direction of encouragement to private business investment , I would be the first to consider any specific suggestions for strengthening the clauses that you describe as " lip service , " and would undertake to have any necessary changes incorporated in the text of the bill before it is introduced at the next session . Curtailed Spending Possible Second , you state that the bill " could be made the excuse for endless governmental spending . " The bill does nothing of the kind . It contemplates no increased Federal spending whatsoever except to the extent that non-federal investment is insufficient to keep our economy running at an even keel . Actually , the bill could serve as the basis for a drastic curtailment in governmental spending . In fact , the supreme merit of the Full Employment Bill , in the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the fact that it provides private enterprise with the opportunity of effectively curtailing deficit financing . If business rises to this challenge and supplies the necessary employment , the bill will supply a firm guarantee against large Federal investment and expenditure . Third , you suggest that the bill would " involve a completely planned economy . " Perhaps the best way to comment on this point is by referring to the most recent book attacking planned economics , " The Road to Serfdom , " by Friedrich Hayek . Professor Hayek points out , that it is not incompatible with the free enterprise system to plan deliberately a framework within which that system can best operate . Let me quote the following statement from his chapter on " Planning and Democracy " : " To create conditions in which competition will be as effective as possible , to supplement it where it can not be made effective , * * * these tasks provide , indeed , a wide and unquestioned field for state activity . In no system that could be rationally defended would the state just do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and continuously adjusted legal framework as much as any other . " No " Planned Economy " The proposed Full Employment Bill provides just such a legal framework . It sets forth a policy of maintaining full employment , and establishes a framework of responsibility by defining the relative roles of the President and the Congress in carrying out this policy . If the bill contemplated a " planned economy , " it would provide for the broad delegation of powers to the President and for governmental planning in individual industries . However , the bill delegates no additional power to the executive branch of the Government ; rather , it increases the responsibilities of the Congress . It does not call for industry planning by the Government , but permits free interplay between the buyer and the producer in all industries . Fourth , you imply that the bill is based on the " preconceived goal " of 60,000,000 jobs . This implication is unfounded . The bill requires the President to make an annual estimate of the number of jobs needed to provide full employment , but does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be 58,000,000 ; at some other time it might be 62,000,000 . The bill provides an entirely flexible method of gauging employment needs in the light of population trends , the employment of women , the size of the armed forces , changing hours of labor , and other factors . Fifth , you state that the bill ignores " the great threat of inflation . " I quite agree with your contention that immediately after the war the danger of inflation will be very serious . However , that will be a passing phase . With the withdrawal of war contracts , which now constitute just about half of the framework supporting our giant wartime economic structure , the major threat will be that of a complete collapse . I should also like to point out that under the proposed Full Employment Bill , whenever inflation looms on the horizon the Federal Government would take steps to bring the national budget into balance by measures to curtail investment and expenditure . Sixth , and last , you state that the bill reflects an unjustified " Faith in the magic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Government is not yet fully equipped to supply all the statistics that would be needed under the proposed legislation . With a reorganization of the Government 's statistical establishment , however , the necessary information could be obtained  --  and without any net increase in the flow of questionnaires and reporting forms . Moreover , let me remind you that the bill requires the President to make a periodic review of changing economic circumstances . This would provide a full opportunity to adjust any estimates that appeared out of balance . You also point out that in recent years Federal expenditures have usually exceeded the estimates in the President 's budget messages . The reason for this is that the Government has not yet developed its budget estimates in a manner that would gear in with non-Federal investment and expenditures , as set forth in the proposed measure . In fact , the Federal Government will never be able accurately to forecast the expenditures within its own control until it takes fully into account the prospective investment and expenditure of private business , consumers and State and local governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been formally proposed by the War Contracts Subcommittee . I would appreciate your printing an editorial correction on this point . As stated in the report , the subcommittee had insufficient time to make a complete study of the bill . It was transmitted , therefore , without commitment , for the purpose of stimulating discussion on the challenging problem of employiiient in the post-war period . During the last week , however , I have made a careful personal study of the bill and have come to the conclusion that , on the whole , it represents a practical and realistic vehicle for providing jobs for all after the war and keeping faith with the millions of soldiers and sailors who are now fighting to sustain our ripmnrratir waxy of life . We have read your editorial " Lumber for War , " in THE TIMES of Dec. 26 . There is a great deal more to the comparison between lumber used during the first World War as against the second . In this war the armed forces take sawmills with them to every military theatre . On many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Marines have installations of sawmill machinery which have already produced millions of board feet of lumber from native forests . The saving of shipping space alone is a tremendous factor . It obviously takes a great deal less room to ship a sawmill and power unit than it would to ship the lumber the mill is capable of producing . Incidentally , another interesting fact which your editorial does not mention is that of the entire lumber production of the United States approximately onethird is used for crating war materials for export . It has been found from bitter experience that a machine , no matter how carefully constructed or how well designed to meet a particular need , is of little value if it arrives at its destination broken before ever having been used . The export packages that are used these days are so well constructed that breakage is reduced to a minimum . While we are on the subject we can not miss the opportunity of mentioning the sawsmith . The great bulk of lumber is cut in sawmills equipped with circular saws , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of apprenticeship . They must be hammered to proper tensions suitable for the speed at which they are to be used , and must of course be straight and true . There are about 400 sawsmiths in the whole United States , and circular saws are one of the most critical single items of war material .                     