@@710999

txt No interference with the trucking of interstate shipments of food and other essentials is permissible under the new Slichter law , Clarence A. Barnes , Massachusetts Attorney General , informally ruled today . The striking Local 25 of the Teamsters International Union has halted such deliveries , holding that interstate essentials were not covered by the Slichter law . The State Division on the Necessaries of Life insisted that the union had no right to make such an exception . if it was seeking to go along with the new legislation . a position which was upheld by the Attorney General . " We say food is food , " John P. , Director of the Division , declared . Mr. Barnes gave his judgment in a letter to Francis Doherty , attorney for Local 25 . Complaint Registered The ruling came as the result of a complaint of Korman and Baggs at the Fulton Fish Pier in Boston that Local 25 drivers had refused to move fish from the pier to the New York , New Haven &; hartford Railroad . Meanwhile in the Suffolk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in equity for a declaratory judgment to define immediately certain portions of the Slichter Law and ultimately to test its constitutionality . The local asked relief from " vagueness of the law " and stated it was " eager to comply with the law , but is uncertain as to its right . " At the State House , John F. Stokes , State Commissioner of Public Safety , announced that while " members of the State Police have no participation in this strike . " they had been'instructed to watch pickets stoppng trucks and " shall observe the circumstances and determine whether reasonable persuasion is used . Reports of all violation will be made available to the Attorney General for his information . " Escorts Sought The Boston Police Department has had several requests from trucking companies for police escorts , it reported . Officials said the police ld acknowledge all requests from union or nonunion companies , but would have to limit escorts to warehouses or terminals , as the department did not have enough cars to provide escorts for door-to-door deliveries . No trouble was reported to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars to remain on the air 24 hours a day . Meantime , the tie-up of general merchandise handled by unionized trucking firms in Greater Boston was intensified . Idle truck drivers picketed the transportation companies Andcanvassed the highways to head off trucks interfering with their walkout . Locdlly complaints of interference with food deliveries are coming into the State House from time to time , Mr. said , and these are being referred to the union , which then passes them en to its men in the field to see that the hitch is removed and the food is delivered . Arbitration Wanted The State official had no word of any difficulties in local food handling continuing , once the union had been notified . He felt that these temporary hitches were explained by the novelty of a strike in which part of tie drivers stayed on the job while others quit , the general rule in all past strikes being for everybody to go out . Arbitration will be urged on both sides tomorrow by Prof. Douglass V. Brown , Moderator named for this purpose under the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was not anticipated that the State 's efforts tomorrow to obtain arbitration would have much result . The employers have offered to arbitrate wages , but not hours or any of the other union demands , such as a night differential . The union has refused to submit anything to arbitration . As yet , therefore , there has been no consent by either side to arbitrate the demand of the union for a five-day work-week instead of six . On the employer side , it is said this can be taken care of in the wage scale and that the men do n't want 40 hours but all the hours they can get with overtime after 40 . No Offers Made Employers also have declined to arbitrate the side issues on the ground that they are complex and that they might be harmed if these questions were arbitrated by someone who did not understand the industry . They also have refrained from making an offer they knew in advance would be refused , they report . The men , meantime , have held steady in standing by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages and hours . Both sides now appear so far apart as to lead some insiders to believe that each is spoiling for a fight . Full weight of the Teamsters ' International Union was placed behind Local 25 at a membership meeting yesterday . Nicholas P. Morrissey , New England organizer , read a telegram from Daniel J. Tobin , General President of the Teamsters backing the strike . Further details : Page 2.                     