@@705539

txt A resolution calling for the use of the United States Navy to insure the safe delivery of aid from this country to Great Britain was adopted by the National Executive Committee of the American Legion at a meeting in Legion headquarters here today . Other resolutions adopted by the committee sought the following : 1 . The resignation of Secretary lof Labor Frances Perkins . 2 . A full report by the President giving a complete picture of the national emergency facing the United States . 3 . Legislation prohibiting strikes and lockouts. 4 . " Voluntary and legislative action " to keep subversive elements out of defense industries . Need for Help Stressed The resolution calling for the safe delivery of aid to Great Britain was as follows : " Whereas , the American Legion in convention assembled at Boston , Mass. , Sept. 23-26 , 1940 , adopted a resolution whereby it urged the Goverment of the United States to exercise all lawful means to prevent the shipment of raw materials to aggressor nations and that it continue to extend to all peoples who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our security , and our peace , and " Whereas , thereafter the Congress of the United States , after full debate and proper deliberation , passed House Bill 1776 known as the lease-lend bill whereby the President of the United States is authorized to extend aid to Great Britain and her Allies in their effort to preserve to the world the priceless right of freedom , and " Whereas , we believe that practical and necessary aid to Great Britain and her Allies requires that war materiel , food and medical supplies be delivered to them , and " Whereas , there is grave danger that vessels carrying such materiel and supplies will be attacked by belligerent nations in violation of international law and in violation of compacts heretofore entered into by such belligerent nations , " Now , therefore , be it resolved by the national executive committee of the American Legion that we earnestly urge the President of the United States as Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the nation to employ such units of the United States Navy and auxiliary forces in such manner as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American vessels and their crews by guarding them // LEGION HEADS ASK CONVOYS BY NAVY // against attack from any source ; and " Be it further resolved , that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the President of the United States . " Miss Perkins Is Criticized In its resolution calling for the resignation of Miss Perkins , the executive committee said : " It is becoming increasingly obvious that there is a growing lack of confidence on the part of the American people in the ability of the present Secretary of Labor to fully exercise the high responsibility of that office . It appears that as long as the present Secretary is in office there will continue to be trouble in defense industries . " The cause of national unity in national defense will be best served by the tendering and acceptance of the resignation pf the present Secretary of Labor . ' " The request for a complete report by the President stated that high Federal governmental officials repeatedly had termed totalitarian aggression " an immediate and grave threat to the safety of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the people of the United States appropriate to the full extent of this emergency . " " The people of the United States , not being fully informed of the true facts , do not understand or appreciate the dangers of which the President and his officers speak , nor do they fully comprehend the full extent of the emergency which threatens the safety of the United States and its people , " the resolution read . " The American Legion pledges the utmost support to whatever plan of action is deemed necessary to the safety of this nation by the President and Congress , " the resolution added . The resolution for voluntary action against subversive elements urged cooperation of organized labor , citizens and governmental authorities voluntarily to forego strikes impeding national defense preparation as well as to exercise vigilance in forbidding subversive elements access to defense industries and defense workers . It asked that all " individuals and elements which seek to weaken our way of life " be kept from contact with defense industry employes , as well as from becoming employed in those industries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a weekly Sunday radio broadcast by the Free Company of Hollywood , of which they described Orson Welles as " a leading force . " Some of the presentations , the resolution said , " are not conducive to the teaching of sound Americanism . " It instructed the National Americanism Commission of the Legion to investigate the matter and to take " all necessary steps " to prevent all further broadcasts of such " subversive teachings . "                     