@@708497

txt Japan to Shut Schools for a Year ; All Over 6 Will Be Put in War Work The Japanese Cabinet yesterday ordered all schools , . colleges and universities in Japan closed for one year beginning April 1 and announced that the students would be mobilized for war and food production , air-raid defense and " other urgent undertakings that are immediately and directly concerned with the prosecution of the war . " Only classes for primary school first-grade children will be exempt from the educational blackout , according to dispatches by the Domei agency which indicated that even second-graders , normally 7 years old , were to be harnessed to the war machine . The Domei English language wireless dispatches , directed to North America and recorded by the Federal Communications Commission , said that the school closing order was made public during a plenary session of the lower house of the Diet by Count Hideo Kodama , Minister of Education . Subsequently the Japanese Board of Information issued a statement containing what Domei described as " the outline of an emergency educational measure for mobilizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nucleus of production in strict consonance with the tense war situation . " Citing the Cabinet decision to close schools until March 31 , 1946 , Domei said : " The Board of Information announcement further disclosed that all students would be mobilized and organized into a new students ' corps to participate actively in the production of foodstuffs , the production of munitions , air deContinued fense , important research works and other undertakings that are immediately and directly concerned with the prosecution of the war . " The announcement implied that Japan would not maintain even her higher technical schools to complete the training of scientists and physicians . The Domei reports said specifically that the sole exception to the suspension of classes would be the first-grade group . A Tokyo broadcast to the Orient made the point that not only students but also teachers would be made available to the war effort by the school closings . Count Kodama informed the lower house that the Government was now engaged in preparing measures to enforce the plan , Domei said . Emperor Views Blahs Emperor Hirohito , who previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Tokyo , yesterday toured the districts devastated in the record assault of March 10 , the Tokyo radio said . Meanwhile charges of inadequacy and inefficiency in the evacuation of civilians from Japan 's crowded metropolitan centers were brought against the Government in Parliament . A demand was made that firemen be exempted or discharged from military duty to cope with the large-scale incendiary bombings of American B-29 's . In an interpellation directed to Premier Kuniaki Koiso in the lower house , it was disclosed , according to a Domei dispatch , that the number of people evacuated from cities until now " amounts to only about a little more than 20 per cent of the total population and certainly less than 30 per cent . " Calling for evacuation to be carried out " on a much greater scale , " Representative Masazumi Ando demanded that as an " emergency measure now , " the evacuation of the " old and the young , with the exception of essential people , must be made compulsory and a measure must be effected to receive these evacuated people . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon establish a national structure which will dovetail with the military strategy . " " It is said that the people are caught in a feeling of restlessness and anxiety in regard to what they should do to meet the war situation , " he was quoted as having said . " In connection with this , a plan will soon be made public that will define the structure to be established and the steps to be taken by the - people under the set-up . " " I fully agree with the idea that , unless the people take a direct part , we can not truly fight the war , " he added . The Premier asserted that he " would like to bend every effort " to bring into being the recently proposed ineustrial army as " one of the objectives in the unification of the national structure and military strategy . " He explained to the lower house the reasons for the " temporary suspension " by the Cabinet of the election of members to the House of Representatives and the co , incident extension of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Domei said . The dispatch gave no details . Premier Koiso also appeared before ' the House of Peers , where he explained the Privy Council 's suggestion to extend representation in the lower house to residents of Formosa , Korea and Karafuto.                     