@@711423

txt Moshe Shertok , Israeli Foreign Minister , warned the Arab states , particularly Egypt , tonight that further violations of the truce might mean war . He also asserted that continuation of the current Jewish pogroms would have a direct bearing on the peace negotiations . He was referring , in the first instance , to reports of a serious Egyptian attack , supported by tanks and planes , against Israeli positions at Beer Asluj in the Negeb . His second reference was to reports from Cairo that in largescale riots against Europeans 250 Jews had been murdered or had disappeared and that at least 120 bad been taken to the Jewish Hospital in Cairo . This alleged pogrom started on July 20 , after the capital had been bombed from the air , and continued for more than a week . Similar disturbances of a serious nature were said to have taken place in other parts of the Arab world , including Bahrein in the Persian Gulf ; Aleppo , Syria ; in Iraq and also in Tripolitania and Morocco . " The Governments of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a day of international reckoning for the way they are letting Jews be free game for infuriated mobs , incited , in many instances , by official propaganda , " the Foreign Minister declared . Mr. Shertok said that this situation could not very well be disassociated from the question of those 300,000 or more Arabs who fled from Israel and Palestine , and who now , because of their desperate plight , were begging to return . He . held that they left in panic , aggravated by a guilty conscience , " in some cases stimulated by their British commanders . " Concerning the continued truce violations , Mr. Shertok ? disclosed that the Government had tonight informed Gen. A. Lundstroem , chief of staff of Count Folke Bernadotte. the United Nations Mediator . that unless the present wide scale attack by Egyptians was checked at once the Israeli Government would consider itself free to take appropriate military steps and not only open a full-scale attack on the Egyptians but " take action against all Egyptian positions we may choose . " Concerning Jerusalem , Mr. Shertok @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing the Israeli-controlled part of the Holy City under Israeli administration . Future plans concerning the city have not yet been worked out , he said , but nothing would be done to prejudice the possibility of b revertine. to the original claim of eventually incorporating Jerusalem in the state of Israel . Mr. Shertok expressed amazement at the silence of the Christian world when Count Bernadotte had proposed that Jerusalem be turned over to the Arabs . He said the Mediator 's idea had not been repudiated by the Security Council . Furthermore , there had been no protest from any Christian capital in the world against the Holy City 's being handed over to the Arabs . He indicated that Zionists , therefore , felt they were not morally bound by any international regime in Jerusalem and were thus taking appropriate steps under the circumstances . These steps comprise the placing of Jerusalem under the protective civil and military arm of the state . Presses Direct Arab Talks When asked if the state had taken any steps toward bringing about a round-table discussion with the Arabs , exclusive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , before and after the report of the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine had been presented to the Security Council , members of the Government had approached the Arabs along this line and in both cases had been turned down . Nothing official has transpired since then but unofficialy the Government has indicated strongly through the world press that it was ready and willing to concludel a peace treaty . He said that the state was opposed to an indefinite prolongation of the truce because , with invading I armies still in Palestine " and in places where they have no right to be , " it would mean indefinite mobilization and that the state had to submit to the authority of a large international staff even though it was an independent sovereign country . The state was anxious , however , for peace and if any real progress was shown toward this goal , he said , Israel would not complain about the length of the truce period . Mr. Shertok was particularly and noyed by the detention of 11,000 refugees in Cyprus . He said this act by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of piracy . " He also charged that it violated the truce because the Security Council had already , agreed that immigrants of military ) lags. could be permitted into the 1 country so long as they were not ' recruited .                     