@@711291

txt The seven nations , onstituting the Arab League rejected tonight an appeal by the United Nations for a cease-fire order in Palestine , and gave the Council a time limit of forty-eight hours in which to submit to them a proposal on the entire problem of the Holy Land . Dr. Naji el-Asil , representative , of Iraq , charged that Israeli forces had previously broken a cease-fire agreement regarding Jerusalem to which the Arabs had agreed , and that compliance with the Council 's resolution " will under the present circumstances only give advantage to Israeli terrorist bands . " The Iraq representative made it clear that the Arab states would demand assurances that the ceasefire order would stop the importation of arms and the flow of Jewish immigrants going to Palestine " to fight the Arabs . " He asked for assurances also that the ceasefire was " likely to stop the terrorists from their acts of violence and guarantee the safety of the Arab civilian population . " Charges Violation by Israel He asserted that Israel had violated the Council 's resolution of April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political standstill , by attacking such cities as Jaffa , Haifa , Tiberias , Safed and Acre , and by proclaiming the new state . The Provisional Government of Israel . which had previously issued a cease-fire order effective last Monday , the original deadline fixed by the cease-fire resolution , notified the Council that it had renewed its order today , effective at 1 o'clock New York Daylight Time , subject to the provision that it would be carried out " if the other side acts likewise . " Maj. Aubrey Eban , who had received a seat at the Council table as the representative of the Jewish Agency for Palestine , denied Dr. el-Asil 's charge that Israeli forces had violated the Jerusalem ceasefire order and said that " all ambiguity now falls away . " Major Eban said this was the fifth time Israel had offered an unconditional cease-fire order , that the Arab states had given a " flat and definite rejection " of the Council resolution and had substituted " an irrelevant proposal for satisfying certain Arab ambitions at the expense of the State or Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of Israel . then they can have it , " he said . " If they want war , they can have that too . But the Arab States misunderstand their own position most profoundly if they imagine that , having failed to defeat Israel in war , they can persuade it to commit suicide for the sake of peace . " Rebuff After Extension The Security Council originally I had fixed 1 P. M. ( New York daylight time ) Monday as the deadline for the replies to its cease-fire resolution but extended this until 1 P. M. today when the Arab States requested more time . The message from the Arab League rejecting the Council 's resolution , together with a similar rejection by Egypt , were received in code , and the Council did not take up the Palestine question until 5:55 this afternoon . The intervening time was devoted to the Kashmir and Czechoslovak questions , which also defied the Council 's efforts to reach a solution , and the Council adjourned at 7:12 P. M. almost im- mediately after hearing the replies from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replies was the chairman of the Council , Alexandre Parodi , French representative , who said that one statement was satisfactory and the other " much less satisfactory , " and that the Security Council " finds itself in a very grave and serious situation . " He proposed adjournment until tomorrow to give the members " some time to think matters over . " Warren R. Austin , United States representative , said that " the situ ' ation is so serious that I certainly would not feel at liberty to take a position in this situation without careful consideration of the situation by my Government and its advice to me . " He suggested that the Council meet tomorrow afternoon instead of tomorrow morning , as proposed by M. Parodi . Faris el-Khouri , Syrian representative , urged members to take into consideration that the Arabs were the plaintiffs and the Jews the defendants in the Palestine question . He said that the Arabs " can not agree to the cease fire and peace because they have nothing in hand , while the others have all their trophies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would prefer to have peace as it would be in their interest to have , " said Mr. el-Khouri . " Therefore , do n't judge both sides with the same yardstick . " Dr. Alfonso Lopez , representative of Colombia , then asked Sir Alexander Cadogan , British representative , to say whether British treaty obligations with TransJordan , Egypt and Iraq committed Great Britain " to help the Arab Governments even if they do not fall into line with the cease-fire order . " The British representative said that he did not know whether Foreign Secretary Bevin had yet answered a similar question in the House of Commons , but promised to answer tomorrow . Foreign Office sources had announced earlier that Great Britain would continue to supply arms to the three Arab ' Governments " unless and until " the Security Council found that the Arab States were the aggressors . Neither Dr. el-Asil nor Mahmoud Bey Fawzi , Egyptian representative , whose reply was presented first , demanded specifically that the Council take action to suppress the State of Israeli , whose existence they do not recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeatedly . No action has been taken by the Security Coancil regarding the membership application of Israel , Which has been recognized by the United States , the Soviet Union , South Africa , and six other countries . The Arab rejection of the cease-fire was foreshadowed by the reply from Saudi Arabia , which was received yesterday . Before the termination of the British mandate over Palestine on May 15 the Arab representatives had contended that Arab fighters ' Were volunteers , but Dr. el-Aril said today that the Arab States were represented by " regular " troops and protested against treating them on the same basis as the Israeli " terrorist bands . " Representatives of the Arab League , which is composed of Egypt , Iraq , Lebanon , Trans-Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Syria and Yemen . were understood to have drafted the reply in Amman , the capital of Trans-Jordan . The TransJordan Arab Legion . which is British-trained and maintained by a British subsidy of $8,000,000 a year , has proved itself the most effective force possessed by the Arabs in the Palestine fighting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifth adopted by the Security Council in five weeks . All were based on Chapter VI of the Charter , applying to the peaceful settlement of disputes and therefore were merely recommendations , to be accepted or not as the two sides chose . The United States proposed a resolution last week that would have called the Palestine situation a threat to international peace and ordered both sides to agree to a cease-fire under Chapter VI of the Charter , which authorizes the use of enforcement measures ranging from an economic boycott to military force . This was defeated by the opposition of Great Britain , but United States circles indicated tonight that it would be reintroduced . There was no indication as to whether the United States would lift the embargo on shipments of arms to the Near East , but most delegates believe that it will If the Arabs continue to refuse to agree to a cease-fire . The delay , it was explained , is to give Foreign Secretary Bevin , who has been attempting to persuade the Arab countries to agree to a cease4ire , an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lewis Douglas , United States Ambassador to London , are still proceeding , it was learned .                     