@@711271

txt How schoolteachers can teach , through all their subjects , the skill of living together more harmoniously in a democracy is to be the topic of a seminar-workshop course announced today by the Brookline School Department . Addition of this teacher-training course makes Brookline the first New England community to accept resporsibiilty for infusing ideals of better citizenship , tolerance , and respect for every individual , into its school curriculum . It is planned to begin the course in September or , if a staff can not be recruited by that time , in February . All teachers in the Brookline schools , public and private , and those of surrounding communities will be welcomed . Sessions will be held once a week , two hours each session , throughout the school year . Project Lauded Ernest R. Caverly , Superintendent of Brookline Schools , told reporters , " I consider this one of the most practical forward-looking educational steps taken in recent years . I should translate into a reality much of the democracy which for too long has merely been a subject of textbook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at one time . So interested in the project is the entire Brookline community , that the Lt. Hirschel L. Gutman Foundation for the Advancement of American Ideals , sponsored by the Brotherhood of Temple Israel , Brookline , will provide scholarships for every teacher wanting to take the course . This announcement was made simultaneously today by Paul Simons , Brotherhood President and a member of the Brookline Community Relations Committee . The latter committee was first to recommend such a course to the School Superintendent .. The seminar will honor a beloved teacher of social studies in the Brookline schools , Tyler Kepner , who passed on last year , and will be officially known as the Tyler Kepner Memorial Foundation . Details to Be Settled Further details will be worked out in cooperation with Prof. John J. Mahoney , who is conducting a three-year research study on this whole broad subject on how the schools can help make democracy work . Probably there will be one staff-instructor and several visiting lecturers and consultants , , Mr. Caverly said . Teachers in the Brookline public schools will receive credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    