@@707137

txt The wheat policy of the Roosevelt Administration . which has included subsidizing of farmers to " plow under " wheat lands and subsidizing of farmers to grow other crops in the face of what seemed a surplus of farinaceous foods . is on the point of reversal . Farmers will soon be urged by Food Administrator Chester C. Davis to grow more wheat on more land and Agricultural Adjustment Administration funds will be used to induce them to do so . The aim is to meet the tremendous demand for wheat as feed for the country 's growing livestock population and as raw material for the manufacture of industrial alcohol , and to have enough left over to help feed the people of liberated areas of Europe . Mr. Davis will ask farmers to sow more Winter wheat next Fall . How much more will depend , a spokesman for Mr. Davis said today , on the extent of this year 's crop . A bumper crop like that of last year would fill up storage space . But a bumper crop is not expected and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winter wheat sowings by as much as 10,000,000 acres . The appeal by Mr. Davis is expected at about the end of July . This would mean use of new land , but Food Administration officials emphasized today that farmers would not be encouraged to break out land which does not have at least 2 to 2/12 feet of moisture in its subsoil . Creation of a new " Dust Bowl " will not be risked and need not be feared , it was said , since during the drought years of the late Thirties the trouble spots had been located . Food can be stored in the form of grain more easily than in the form of animal proteins , a spokesman pointed out , and it is desired to build up a reserve of cereals against the day when Europe must be fed . Larger Relief Pool Possible Last year the United States agreed to contribute 50,000,000 bushels and Canada and Great Britain each 25,000,000 to a wheat pool for free relief and rehabilitation purposes . An international wheat pool official estimated today that it might be necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but with it possibly necessary for the United States to provide by far the greater share . A spokesman pointed out today that under the AAA Act payment for adjusting acreage to meet an increased demand for wheat is just as legal as for adjusting it downward in face of a decreased demand . With shortage of gasoline delaying planting in the northeastern States , the Food Administration announced today that Petroleum Administrator Ickes had placed Eastern farmers on the same priority footing as the Army and Navy in the purchase of gasoline and fuel oil for their tractors . Motorists were asked not , to use a gallon of gasoline they could do without .                     