@@705130

txt A calm in striking contrast to ? the hectic days of the past fortnight envelops New York City today as more than 3,000,000 men and women began their trek to the polls to elect the President of the United States . True to the tradition that political controversies in this country be settled in the voting booths , the calm that permeates this biggest city in the Nation is seen by observers as the certain harbinger that the tumult and the shouting is ended and that a united Nation will acclaim the victor in the presidential contest and stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the Administration having the mandate to guide the country through the next four years . Appeals for this united front have come from President Roosevelt , seeking re-election ; Wendell L. Willkie , Republican challenge ! , and men and women leaders in all parts of the Nation . America Comes First Three organizations  --  the Good Loser Club , the Council for Democracy , and the American Defenders of Freedom  --  already ate out to further this aim . The former , Mrs. Henry Kiddredge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been formed to make a united front " for the common good " regardless of which candidate wins the presidential election . Members of the club , she added , were evenly divided politically between President Roosevelt and Mr. Willkie . Beginning tomorrow groups of the clubs will distribute posters throughout the city carrying the legend : " Good Loser Club  --  Let 's Work for America . " " We wish to prove to ourselves After Election : Unity Put First in National Campaign of our American way by the expanding enemy , revolutionary totalitarianism . Together we must face the larger unfinished world contest between the two ways of life  --  the freedom of democracy and the slavery of totalitarianism . This constituted the greatest trial of our history . Divided we can not survive . " Our forefathers won with this single principle : ' United we stand , divided we fall . ' We call for unity Avenue , announced it would sponsor a " United American Rally " at Carnegie Hall tomorrow night . If the final results show President Roosevelt is re-elected , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the National Association of Manufacturers , a supporter of Mr. Willkie . If Mr. Winkle is elected , Dorothy Thompson , columnist and a supporter of Mr. Roosevelt , will be the chief speaker . Landon to Speak Other speakers announced for the meeting will be Alf M. Landon , Republican Presidential nominee four years ago ; Clarence A. Dykstra , draft law administrator ; George M. Harrison , President of the Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks , and Raymond Gram Swing , Chairman of the Board of the Council . Newbold Morris , President of the City Council , will preside , and Raymond Massey , actor , will read a statement by Stephen Vintent Benet on unity . Irving Berlin will lead the audience in a song , " God Bless America . " The meeting , which will begin at 9:30 o'clock , is free and will be broadcast over the Columbia Network from 10115 to 11 o'clock tomorrow night . Carl Beck , Director of the American Defenders of Freedom , in announcing the meeting of his organization , said it represented the views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterness rampant in this unprecedented election battle will sap America 's strength in time of emergency . " " The political battle has been hard fought , " a statement handed out by Mr. Beck said . " The healthy process of American Democracy at the ballot box is settling the major contest , if not all the issues . Any bruises , disappointments and bitterness left over should not in good sense be . allowed to remain to divide our strength . Patriotism calls us to close our ranks quickly . Now we must stand squarely behind the Government as elected . " As Americans all , we face together the announced destruction Among those signing the call for this meeting , some of them supporters of Mr. Roosevelt , others supporters of Mr. Winkle , were Booth Tarkington , author ; Dr. Robert A. Millikan , President of the California Institute of Technology ; Dr. Hamilton Holt , President of Rollins College ; William Green , President of the American Federation of Labor : James W. Brown , President , Editor and Publisher ; Dr. George V. Denny , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dickinson , President of Printers ' Ink ; Prof. 0 . N. NV . Sprague , Harvard University , and Dr. Wilbur L. Cross , one time Governor of Connecticut . These efforts at pouring oil on the troubled political waters follow a campaign which for charges and countercharges assumed more rancor than any that has marked United States politics in many years . Charges and countercharges were made by both sides right up to the close of the meetings and radio addresses early this morning .                     