@@705459

txt " M-Day " has come to the United States in fact if not in name . There has been no declaration of war by Congress . There has been no formal institution of the industrial mobilization plan worked out by the War Department over the past twenty years which in theory would mark the arrival of Mobilization Day . But step by step over the course of a year . beginning with creation of the National Defense Advisory Commission , there has been built up a series of controls , restrictions , and regulations over business which in the aggregate are tantamount to those envisioned in the industrial mobilization plan . The names are different , the effects are the same . During the past week there occurred a series of events which went far toward completing the control structure envisioned in the industrial mobilization plan : Allocation of the output of a major industry was ordered ? aluminum ; price schedules for an important raw material were promulgated ? aluminum scrap ; a super-mediation agency was established to settle one of the potentially serious handicaps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was created in the OPM to assure an adequate supply of skilled labor ; and a unit was established to direct the conservation , reclamation , and substitution of strategic materials . Previously a detailed method of handling priorities on armament orders and essential civilian goods had been developed and put into effect over a limited group of articles : a system for determining maximum prices had been established for one kind of producers goods  --  used machine tools ; a system of t  --  eport licensing had been established ; and a variety of ways in which defense plants and arsenals could be financed . constructed . and operated had been developed . Virtually Complete Control These actions in the aggregate virtually complete the roster of controls over industry considered by the War Department as necessary to assure adequate supplies of armaments to support the armed forces in a major war . High Army officials . including ataxia of those who have been responsible for workini out the industrial mobilization plan , said Mat week that the control structure is nearly complete . They suggested only that more stringent regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of line or if strikes develop into serious production hindrances . The industrial mobilization plan provides for a super-agency to be known as the War Resources Administration with an executive division having sections to handle plans program , priorities , clearance , conservation , and commandeering ; a liaison division to handle war labor , trade , finance , and price control ; staff divisions for legal , administrative , and statistical work ; and coordinating divisions to handle facilities , commodities , power and fuel , and transportation . We call it the Office of Production Management or its adjunct , the National Defense Advisory Commission , but nearly all the above functions are included . albeit under different names . The OPM itself functions through priorities , production , purchasing , and labor divisions while the NDAC has price stabilization. transportation , consumer , and agricultural divisions . Tucked around in the corners are a production planning board , and statistical , legal . and public relations departments . The production division of the OPM to a basket into which many of the functions of the War Resources Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw materials including heat , light and power ; it has a section responsible for production of airplanes , ordnance and tools ; and another which has control over ships , construction , equipment . and supplies . The present set-up goes beyond , if anything , the detail of control over munitions production provided in the industrial mobilization plan . While the types of control over business have been set up and tested through application on a limited scale , thus giving industry a taste of what to expect as the program progresses , there is as yet no clear indication of their ultimate scope . The growing need for raw materials as volume production gets underway may well see the system of allocation thus far used only in the aluminum industry applied to other industries . Likewise , priorities are certain to be extended along the lines already established . Only as regards retail prices and strikes , if the newly created mediation board fails to fulfill its purpose , is there likely to be new legislation . Present price control powers rest on the ability to requisition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very effective way tp keep down the retail price of shoes . sealing wax . or cabbages for once requisitioned consumers goods would have to be distributed .                     