@@707212

txt The nation 's supply of dressed meats is shrinking toward the vanishing point so rapidly that thousands of butcher shops in the Midwest as well as the East are closing and the new War Meat Board will meet in Chicago tomorrow to consider how to obtain enough meat for the armed forces . Fighting men on furlough gen1erally report that their meat portions are growing smaller and many assert that they have not seen a steak since they donned Iluniforms . Meanwhile , the colossal surplus 4 , Lf cattle on ranches continues to increase as slaughtering even in Chicago , center of the great packing industry , is reduced to 50 per cent of normal . Spokesmen for the livestock and packing industries charge this situation to restrictive OPA regulations such as quotas for slaughterers based on their 1941 output and the subsidy retail price roll-back program . Coincidently as City Markets Commissioner Daniel P. Woolley admitted that he was " not very happy " over the meat shortage here and that municipal authorities were " redoubling their efforts to provide the city with meats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had found no occasion for happiness in War Food Administrator Chester Davis 's seizure of 20,000,000 bushels of corn in Midwest elevators for their benefit . The consensus of the corn industries ' representatives was that this promise of supplies was " just a promise . " They said it might take weeks to replenish the stocks of plants that have been working on war contracts and that were forced to shut down last week by a lack of corn to grind . Packers ' representatives in New York disclosed that the War Meat Board in Chicago would try tomor- row to step up supplies of dressed meats for the armed forces . The recent set-aside order of the Food Distribution Administration requiring packers to reserve 45 per cent of their output has not produced the necessary supplies of meat for the nation 's fighting men . The output of the major packers is estimated at only about 50 per cent of normal by the American Meat Institute , which reported to the War Food Administration last week that the number of cattle slaughtered in federally inspected plants had dropped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with 173,000 for the preceding week and 237,000 for the corresponding week of 1942 . After supplies are earmarked for the armed forces , less than 25 per cent of the restricted output of meat is left for civilians . The local office of the Food Distribution Administration disclosed on Friday that it was unaware of any complaints that meat supplies of the armed forces were short . Spokesmen for local FDA explained that in the absence of complaints it must be assumed that the 45 per cent set-aside order was producing the meat requirements of the armed forces , otherwise the percentage would be increased . When the same office was asked yesterday when the Current " meat famine " here would be at its worst , one of its staff members replied : " I have heard no loud cries from any group about meat . There is not a lot of meat but supplies seem to be adequate . Poultry is short today  --  not sufficient for trade requirements , the bulk of arrivals in poultry have been handled by a ' small group of retailers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of FDA suggested that " some interesting information on meat should be coming out of Chicago on Monday : About 95 per cent of the slaughterers in this twelve-State region , not under Federal inspection , recently have been slaughtering in excess of quotas , and suspensions of the permits of many may follow . Such disciplinary action would further curtail the amount of dressed meat in the New York metropolitan area , but neither FDA nor members of the packing industry were unable to arty how much . The butter supply was described at " tight , generally , in the Eastern markets , " by the FDA representative , who added : " Supplies are short of the demand and store customers are being limited to a quarter pound or a half pound . " Morris Sayre , vice president of the Corn Products Refining Company , disclosed that the management had telegraphed the head of the plant at Pekin , Ill. , world 's largest producer of corn starch , that the plant must stay closed until after July 4 . After the company had received promises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the management talked with both Washington and Chicago without getting a trace of the promised corn . Only a little corn was available in Chicago . Considerable quantities were found in the East , but they were so widely scattered that it would be impracticable to move them back to Illinois . The large corn refining plant of the Clinton Company situated at Clinton , Iowa , shut down because of a shortage of corn , it was announced by the Corn Industries Foundation , trade association of the corn refining industry . The latest plant to close has a grinding capacity of 40,000 bushels of corn daily and is the third largest in the world . It has about 1,000 employes , end is the third plant to close within a week . The other plant shut down is the American Maize-Products factory at Roby , Ind . " Since all three plants produce industrial starch and other derivatives of corn used in textile production , foundry operations , paper manufacture and other industrial operations are affected , " the foundation explained in its announcement of the shutdown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " A hopeful aspect of the situation is the fact that the Government representatives now recognize that the output of these plants is vitally needed in the war effort and that unless the necessary corn supplies are found the execution of many important war contracts may be seriously delayed . " The most optimistic note on the entire food situation was sounded by the American Institute of Food Distribution , Inc. , in its weekly bulletin to some 3,000 members . The institute said that the domestic food shortages might be eased by increased food imports made possible by Allied blows against the German submarine menace . After asserting that the changed situation " brightens " the domestic food picture and should raise civilian morale , " the institute pointed out that sugar could be brought in from the West Indies and other areas of the Caribbean " as the domestic-sugar beet production falls short of expectations . " More coffee from Brazil and more cocoa from Africa will be available and wheat can be brought here from the Argentine , Australia and Canada to ease the domestic shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institute . Cuba and Latin America can supply any deficiencies of winter vegetables and fruit . Linseed oil in the Argentine can be converted into margarine to compensate for increased lard shipments going from the United States to Great Britain and Russia , according to the institute . While Paul Henkel , president of the Society of Restaurateurs , declared that " at least 20 per cent of the restaurants of New York City have no meat at all , " Patsy D'Agostino , president of the New York State-Food Merchants Association , asserted that he had a good supply of beef and lamb , and no veal , in his three stores . He added that he might be " an exception . " Notices of suspension proceedings were mailed by the Manhattan War Price and Rationing Board yesterday to three mid-Manhattan steak houses and one food retailer charged with violating OPA regulations . The retailer was the Yorkville Fruit and Vegetable Shop , Inc. , 1364 Third Avenue , owned and operated by D'Agostino Brothers , of which Patsy D'Agostino is a member . The shop is accused of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed that the notice had been mailed , Mr. D'Agostino declared that it looked like " OPA persecution . " The respondent will have a hearing on July 6 . Three restaurants accused of buying meats in excess of allotments authorized by OPA are Gallagher 's Steak House , 228 West Fifty-second Street ; the 51 West Fifty-first Street Corporation operating the Toots Shor Restaurant , and Christ Cella , 144 East Forty-fifth Street . Hearings have been set for next Thursday .                     