@@711322

txt Co unt Folk e Bernadotte of Sweden , United Nations mediator in Palestine , advised the U.N . this after noon that both the Jews and the Arabs had accepted unconditionally his terms for a four week truce in the Holy Land war to begin at 1 a.m . Friday , Chicago time . Count Bernadotte announced at Cairo that he would call a peace conference as soon as possible on the island of Rhodes , off the coast of Turkey . Trygve Lie , U.N . secretarygeneral made public . the text of messages sent by Bernadotte to the provisional government of Israel and to the seven Arab league states confirming their acceptance of the truce terms and of the cease fire hour , Acceptances , " Unconditional " Bernadotte said he had received " unconditional acceptances of my Proposal from all the interested parties . " He added : " The cease fire and truce , therefore , will . be effective Friday , 11 Tune , 1948 , at 6 o'clock in the morning GMT ( I a.m . Chicago time ) . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , at 3 p.m. today , Chicago time , and simultaneous announcements were made by the governments concerned . Reports from the middle east indicated that both sides had strong misgivings about Bernadotte 's interpretation of the terms of the truce resolution adopted by the security council on May 29 . Apparently neither side , however , wished to assume responsibility for rejecting the truce . The major point in dispute concerned Jewish immigration to Palestine . The Jews had insisted that only actual " fighting personnel ' , were excluded by the council 's resolution and that the admission of men of military age was expressly authorized on condition that they would not be mobilized or subjected to military training during the truce . Ruling By Mediator Bernadotte ruled that the admission of men of military age could be permitted only to an extent that would not give the Jews a military ' advantage and that such men admitted during the truce would have to be placed in camps under surveilance of the mediator 's observers . The truce terms prohibit the increase of fighting strength on all fronts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or exportation of arms In all the countries concerned . Patrol Vessels Requested At a press conference , Lie disclosed that Bernadotte had requested six coastal patrol vessels to control immigration to Palestine and enforce the arms embargo provision of the truce resolution . It is understood , Lie said , that three of the vessels will be provided by the United States , two by France and one ' by Belgium . These three countries are members of the U.N . security council 's truce commission in Palestine . The coastal patrol vessels will be the first war craft ever placed at the disposal of the U.N . The mediator , Lie said , has requested 63 military-observers , 21 each from the United States , France and Belgium , and has been assigned five Swedish ofgoers for his personal staff . The United States and France have sent 21 officers each . Fighting Goes On CAIRO , Egypt , June 9 ( AP ) ? Fighting continued today on scattered fronts in the Palestine war . Egyptian bombers again raided Tel Aviv , lsrael , ? dropping sticks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a night battle was fought with 1,000 Jews attempting to force open the road to Jerusalem at Bab El Wad . The Jews still claimed , to have the Egyptian spearhead at Isduci , 23 miles south of Tel Aviv , surrounded . A dispatch from Amman , the capital , said Trans-Jordan had announced that orders had gone out to all Arab legion " commands and forces in the field to cease fire as . from the bout and date fixed . "                     