@@709716

txt A spectacular tragedy of the skies occurred with unexpected sud ? denness today over the heads of 20,000 spectators at the North Montana State fair when two army bombers collided over the bleachers . They crashed In flames  --  one less than 600 feet from the grandstand ? anti a third flew away Barely . Four army airmen , two from each of the crashed planes , and at least two civilians were killed . One plane smashed into a barn , killing 19 horses . Eight automobiles also were destroyed . Two of Dead Identified Two of I he dead were identified as LI . Arthur Pelletier , Cleveland , O. , and Dorothy Mae Szabo of Belt , Mont. , a Montana State university student . An army investigating panel from the Great Falls air base started an inquiry into the accident . Two persons in the vicinity of the horsebarn when the plane struck were treated for shock and burns . They were Herbert Taylor , 45 , Payette , Idaho , burns on arms and legs , and Joseph Bowman , Jordan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine bombers from the Lake Charles , La. , army air base , and were participating in an aerial show in conjunction with the state fair . Shears off Tail The three , each carrying a pilot and co-pilot , were flying low oven the packed bleachers when the tragedy occurred .. As thousands of eyes were turned upward and marveling at the close formation of the bombers , the propeller of one sheared off the tail of the lead plane . The plane then seemed to swing toward the third , but apparently only grazed it . The tailless plane burst into flame and plunged earthward . For long seconds the fiery ship seemed headed straight for the bleachers . Hundreds rose in terror to escape . But the plane suddenly veered , swept over their heads , and smashed into and completely thru a barn 200 yards from one end of the stands . Tries to Control rhino The second plane , its pilot desperately trying to keep it under control , continued flying northwest and disappeared over a hill . A few seconds later a loud explosion carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was co-pilot of this plane . The third plane managed to rise and to circle back and forth within sight of the fair visitors . For a time panic almost occurred , but police and army personnel formed lines and kept people in or near the stands and spectators away from the near-by barn where the first plane had crashed . Searchers in the barn found the body of one civilian , which was not identified . Andy Seaman of Rexburg , Idaho , a stable attendant , was missang and the body was believed to be his . Identification of the other military dead was withheld pending notification of next of kin .                     