@@712395

txt The Government today announced early renewal of its mediation efforts in the steel pension dispute that has made idle 500,000 workers since Oct . L The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service will hold a series of conferences late this week with leading steel companies , Cyrus S. Ching , mediation director , announced . By the time the first of these meetings is held , probably late this week , it is expected that some of the " heat " will be out of the dispute . The parties , it is hoped , will be in a frame of mind to sit down with Government mediators and seek a compromise . By that time the Government staff may have several face-saving formulas ready for the disputants . Renewed Government interventionin the steel strike , coining so soon after Mr. Ching 's warning to coal miners and operators that their strike was bringing the nation closer to crisis every day , was interpreted here as a strong de -- termination by the Administration to take drastic action if the disputes failed to yield to early agreement . Ching WM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action might be taken . However , in informed quarters it is expected that another fortnight will see the peak of the Government 's mediation efforts . After that , the disputes are to be put up to President Truman , it is believed . The mediation service has been ' advised in the last few days that several large construction and manufacturing concerns have reported shortages of steel . The prospect of increasing shortages played a part in Mr : Ching 's action today . Mr. Ching said he was arranging " separate and informal conferences with representatives of some of the leading steel companies and with representatives of the ( CIO ) United Steel Workers of America . " The mediation director will preside at the first conference . He will be assisted by Associate Director William N. Margolis . The latter led the Government 's effort to settle the steel dispute at the United States Steel Corporation 's plants before the strike began . " We are trying to lay the groundwork for successful joint conferences , " Mr. Margolis said . The conciliation service will not try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputants and the executives of nearly forty companies involved in the steel strike . Individual conciliation commissioners or teams will be assigned to separate companies . The leading conferences will be held between the union and United States Steel , Bethlehem , Republic , and the Jones &; Laughlin Steel Corporations . Some hope was expressed here that the steel strike might be settled within a fortnight or three weeks and that the coal strike would probably end soon afterward . But no definite predictions were made for publication by any of the parties involved or affected by the stoppages . Both in steel and coal pensions are major issues . Issue of the Dispute The steelworkers ' union , led by Philip Murray , president also of the C10 , insists that the full cost of pensions and social insurance be borne by the companies . The union had sought a 30-centan-hour " package ' that included a wage increase , pensions and social insurance . However , a Presidential fact - finding board recommended against a fourth-round wage increase . It proposed instead that the companies pay 6 cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social insurance for each employe . While the companies agreed to allocate these - amounts for pensions and social insurance , they demanded that the workers contribute also . The union contends that such a contribution would in effect be a wage cut . With conferences resuming on Wednesday in the three-week coal strike , no optimistic voices could be found today among operators , miners or Government officials to indicate an early meeting of minds . Spokesmen for the Southern Coal Operators Association will confer in Charleston , W. Va. , with a team led by John Owens , vice president of the ' United Mine Workers . John L. Lewis , union president , will be in charge of a committee at conferences with Northern and Western operators at White Sulphur Springs , W. Va. , on the same day . " Captive " mines of United States Steel also will be represented .                     