@@709295

txt Opposing political leaders expressed satisfaction today with the orderly conduct of yesterday 's Presidential elections and indicated they would regard the outcome as a true expression of the will of the Argentine People . Bout sloes voiced confidence of victory , but it appeared that it might be 30 or 40 days before Argentina learns whether its next President will be Col. Juan D. PerOn , " iron man " candidate of the Labor Party , or Jose P. Tamborini , representing the Democratic Union . Watch Tabulation Under Argentine law all ballot boxes must be transported to pro- ' vincial capitals for tabulation of the vote . Because of the distances involved , poor transportation and the time required to count the paper ballots , an early indication of the outcome is unlikely  --  barring a veritable landslide . The tabulation will be watched eagerly not only in Argentina but in the outside world because of the bearing the outcome may have on this country 's future relations with the United States . Colonel ** was roundly denounced by the United States Department recently in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazis . Followers of Senor Tamborini , on the other hand , feel that his election would do much to repair Argentina 's strained relations with Washington and to cement Western Hemisphere friendship . The Argentine army , which had promised to see that the Presidential voting was conducted in a fair and orderly manner , emerged from the elections with its reputation much enhanced . Political observers described the elections as the most orderly in 40 years , and leaders of both major factions congratulated the army for its supervision . Guard Polling Places Approximately 250,000 members of the armed forces assisted in guarding the polling places , and no serious eisorder of any kind was reported during the 10 hours consumed by the voting . A nation-wide state of siege was lifted Feb. 22 for a period of 48 hours to permit the elections to be held under full liberty of the constitution . It was reinstated at midnight last night as a means of preserving order while the ballots are being counted . Voting generally was described as heavy , although there was as yet no accurate estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total number of qualified voters at 3 , - 500,000 out of the country 's population of 14,000,000 . The percentage of registered voters who cast ballots in individual communities ranged from 92 per cent in Rosario to 62 in Corrientes . Troops continued to guard the ballot boxes today en route to provincial capitals for counting and will remain on guard until the tabulation is finished .                     