@@709620

txt The long-awaited date for a general Turopean peace conference finally has been set . It will convene here on July 29 ? just 24 days hence  --  with the text of invitations to the 21 nations concerned being drafted today by the Big Four foreign ministers . This is the big development which came out of yesterday 's long session between Secretary of State James F. Byrnes , Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov , and President and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault .. After nearly eight hours of discussion , the four men were able to surmount the chief obstacles barring the way to a debate on treaties intended to end World War II for Italy and the Axis satellites .. Bids to 21 Nations The 21 nations scheduled to receive invitations to the peace conference are : ? Australia . Belgium , Brazil , Byelorussia , - Canada , China , Czechoslovakia , Ethiopia , France , Great Britain , Greece , India , Netherlands , New Zealand . Norway , Poland . Ukraine Republic , Union of South Africa , Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set gives the 17 nations not included in the Big Four over three weeks to come to Paris and set up their staffs for conference work . Actually , nearly every nation concerned already is prepared to a large degree , since the conference at one time was proposed for a May 15 date . The most important remaining point of disagreement which had held up preparation of treaty drafts  --  the question of Italian reparations  --  was resolved early today . It was agreed that Italy must pay Russia $100,000,000 from munitions factories , from its assets abroad , and from current production over a seven-year period . This is regarded as a concession to Russia , since it . Was . a point insisted ' upon by Mr. Molotov . However , Italy was granted two-year moratorium before commencing to make ? payments from current production ? which is considers4 a concession to the United States and British desires on the subject . ' Important Safeguard An important safeguard for Amercian contributions to the Italian economy is the agreement that Russia must furnish the raw materials out of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as reparations is manufactured . The value of this contribution is to be deducted from the account . Further , it is agreed that payment of these reparations shall not curtail Italian liabilities to other Allies and will not cause interference in Italian reconstruction . Russia , which has been advocating that the Big Four ambas-. sadors to Rome act as the main unit in handling the Italian situation , achieved their appointment as members of the Italian Reparations Commission . Anglo-American concessions to achieve this agreement were not setting the value of all factors , accepting Russia 's rejection of the ocean liners Saturnia and Vulcania as reparatiom payment , and accepting Russian rejection of considering Italian assets in Russia and in the Russian zone of Germany . Mr. Molotov raised the point of fact that the Romanian and Finnish treaties cud not have the same factors , but retired from this when Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Bevin pointed out that different treaties quite naturally can have , different practices . Trieste : Pilot Plant The settlement of Trieste , which had threatened to become the impasse of the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Trieste , the United Nations will have an opportunity to set up its first full internationalized area or state , with all the possibilities toward world organization that such a laboratory pilot plant promises . A significant factor in this settlement was that it gave France a chance once again to play its role of middleman between the West and East . The name in the Byrnes-Vandenberg proposal , out of which the settlement finally grew , was Free State of Trieste . Russia ? objected to setting up a free state as such and proposed an autonomous state . Mr. Byrnes pointed out that autonomous means part of a sovereign state , and that Russia has several autonomous territories itself . Then it was M. Bidault who sprang up with a workable compromise . He proposed it be called the Territory of Trieste . This was immediately accepted and set the stage for clearing up of ' the rest of the issues . Mr. Molotov agreed easily on United Nations domination , which . had been a rock of resistance on Mr. Byrnes ' part , 