@@709448

txt , etters to The Times AMES S. SHINN , M.D. , Field Director General , the Korean American Council ; Ex ... ) g. 15 Letters to The Times Korean Election Urged Removal of Army of Occupation Is Also Held Need To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I , as a Korean long resident of New York , compliment THE TIMES upon its understanding of the Korean situation and thank you for keeping the American public informed of the dangers inherent in the continued division of my country ? To those of us who have for so many years fought for the liberation of our beloved land an attitude such as you have taken is most heartening . Coupled with the words of the Secretary of State , Mr. Byrnes : " The joint SovietAmerican Commission , working . with the Korean Provisional Democratic Government , may find it possible to dispense with a trusteeship , " it is a ray of light on a dark horizon . It is true , as the historian said : " A great outrage on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationality . " May I also take this occasion to correct an erroneous impression which has been widely spread , namely , that there are many political parties in Korea . There are , in fact , only two major parties  --  the Democratic and the Communist . All others are , strictly speaking , not parties but merely a few men grouped around a local leader . To illustrate : in a small community in southern Korea one local leader , in order to voice his protest against the joint occupation , registered as the leader of a party which consisted of two men besides himself ! The difference between the Korean Democratic party and the Korean Communist party can best be demonstrated by three choices : 1 . If . the choice should lie between America and Russia the Democratic party would choose America , the Communist , Russia . 2 . If the choice should lie between America and Korea both parties would choose Korea . 3 . If the choice should lie between Russia and Korea the Democratic party would choose Korea but the Communist party would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the heart of Korea , is detrimental to the Korean people both politically and economically . In the north the Russians are not only encouraging but even impelling the Koreans to become Communists . In the south the Americans are not meddling with or encouraging any one party . While fair in itself , in view of the active proselyting elsewhere in the country , this becomes a negative virtue . What we Koreans want is that the occupational forces , at present about 300,000 Russians in the north and 30,000 Americans in the south , be withdrawn with the exception of 1,000 of each force . To these 2,000 soldiers should be added 500 each from both the British forces and the Chinese Nationalist troops , making a temporary joint commission army which could supervise a general election in Korea as soon as possible . We feel that in all fairness this election should take place within three to six months , in order to afford a proper expression of the desires of the Korean people and to enable them , without outside influence or inside pressure , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. SHINN , M. D. , Field Director General , the KoreanAmerican Council ; Executive Secretary , the Korean Society of New York State . New York , April 26 , 1946 . Bulgarian Stand Protested TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a cable from Sofia published in THE NEW YORK TIMES on April 19 it is stated that " the Bulgarian Government is drawing up for presentation to the Foreign Ministers ' conference in Paris and to the Allied powers a memorandum designed to prove that Bulgaria fought Germany and fascism within and outside her borders . " Whatever Bulgaria 's delayed allegations may be today on the eve of the Paris Peace Conference , that country 's Axis record can not be erased . It shows that Bulgaria has been for four years a whole-hearted Axis partner . While Greece was fighting a two-front war against the Italians and Germans and WE , S upsetting Hitler 's plans with the result that I'ussia was given time to prepare , what did Bulgaria do ? She ** joined the Germans in the occupation of Greece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , men , women and children , in Greek Macedonia and Thrace . She is also responsible for the devastation of a large area in that region and for the deportation of 50,000 Greeks . Bulgaria , which declared war against the United State3 , is responsible no less for ordering a score of ? American airmen prisoners to be , executed , despite any human or international law . The time of atonement has come for her now , and Axis satellites should be submitted to the verdict of justice . NICHOLAS G. LELY , Greek Minister of Information in the United States . New York , April 29 , 1946 . Taxi Regulation Needed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Today , the prospective taxi passenger is at a disadvantage . He stands at the curb or in the street vainly flagging the cabs as they whiz by . Usually he is unable to see whether the cruising cab is vacant or not . This city urgently needs a regulation which will require cab drivers to display prominently some signal , such as a red light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not for hire . Such a regu-1 lation , would save the public considerable time and effort . AARON D. BLATr Brooklyn , April 28 , 1946 . Balkan Problem Discussed Status of Transylvania as Rumanian Province Held Historical Fact TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Reference is made to certain state- . ments published in THE NEW YORK TIMES of April 21 , by a so-called American Hungarian Transylvanian Federation , under the signature of Dr. Stephanie de Losonczy , Secretary , which claim to set forth " the historical facts " of Transylvania and Hungary . The statements in question are a gross violation of the historical truth and have certainly defeated their purpose in the quarters acquainted with European affairs . ' However , for the information of the reader , the true historical facts should be set forth : Transylvania was not a part of Hungary " for over a thousand years . " She was constituted as a separate state in the fourteenth century . In 1526 , Hungary was conquered by the Turks and a Turkish Pasha ruled in Budapest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent principality . In 1687 Hungary , like Transylvania , became Austrian provinces and remained as such to 1867 , when the Hungarians persuaded the Austrians to establish the Austrian-Hungarian Empire , and give them a free hand in Transylvania . " Millennial Hungary , " therefore , is a myth with no historical foundation . Medieval Data Recalled Transylvania was not " settled in the ath century by the Magyars . " The records disclose that the early Hungarians settled in but four insignificant communities : Alba Iulia and Turda ( eleventh century ) , Cluj ( twelfth century ) and Dej ( thirteenth century ) . Because of their small number , the Hungarian kings invited Saxon colonists in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries . The latter settled in seven communities . Yet the Hungarians and the Saxon colonists represented but small nuclei on the broader river valleys , as compared to the ancient Rumanian " countries , " located on the upper river valleys , composed of many communities , much in the nature of the Swiss Cantons . From the " language , culture and ethics " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken by the majority of the people of Transylvania has always been Rumanian and that the culture for the Rumanian majority was brought about by the Rumanian Orthodox Churea of Moldavia and Muntenia , and later by the Roman Catholic Church direct from Rome , through the Rumanian Latin School . As for the " ethics , " the Hungarian feudal class has disproved by its oppression the basic principles of the moral philosophy implied therein . The statement that Transylvania was " the east wall for Western civilization and culture " is not correct . During the centuries of Turkish expansion , the Rumanian principalities of Muntenia and Moldavia held the Turks , by war and diplomacy , south of the Danube , both prior to and after the 160 years of Turkish rule in Budapest . Had it not been for the indomitable resistance of the two Rumanian principalities , which also prevented indirectly the Turkish occupation of Transylvania , who knows where the " east wall for Western civilization and culture " may have been ? Statements Surprising The frontiers of Hungary , as drawn by the Peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Hungarian populated areas * * have been torn from , Hungary " in the east , Transylvania , as alleged . The 1910 Hungarian census bears testimony to this effect . It proves that none of the five Transylvanian counties along the Hungarian border had an absolute majority of Hungarians ; the same is true of the eight counties through the middle of Transylvania and of the five counties in the eastern half of Transylvania . There are but four counties , in the Carpathian bend , far away from the Hungarian border , inhabited by an absolute majority of Hungarian-spealcing Szecklers who , throughout history , considered themselves a separate nation . What are , then , the " Hungarian-populated areas * * torn from Hungary " in the East ? The call for " Hungarian-populated Transylvania , " to be " returned to her mother country , flungsty , - as well as the other utterances made by the American Hungarian Transylvanian Federation , are , indeed , surprising . Groundless as the Hungarian revisionist propaganda was between the two World Wars , it did not venture such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Count Teleki , attached to the book entitled " Justice for Hungary , " did not hesitate to show a total of but 31.9 per cent Hungarians in Transylvania as compared to 53.8 per cent Rumanians . There can be no doubt , from the foregoing , that Transylvania is a Romanian province . And , as such , is it not the right of the majority to decide its own destiny in accordance with the democratic process ? This has already been done in October , 1918 , when the Transylvanian Rumanians , as the majority , declared the independence of Transylvania from Austria-Hungary , and the union to the mother country , Rumania , in December , 1918 . Rev. VASILE HATEGAN. , JOHN BURNEA . New York , May 2 , 1946.                     