@@710398

txt As the city 's telephone Sacred strikers went back to Picket work day before yesterday , Line some of them , according to this newspaper 's account , " avoided the eyes " of the picketers representing the long-line workers who remained on strike . Some of the returning workers openly wept at the thought of deserting the nation-wide strike front . But scores of others said : " What can we do ? Our unions ordered us back . " There is a double anomaly here . An overwhelming majority feels itself morally in the wrong before a minority . The local employes who went back numbered 37,000 . The long-line strikers in the city numbered less than 10,000 . In other cities there seems to be the same division of opinion , if in varying degree ; the local operators are going back to work , while the long-line workers  --  at the moment of writing  --  hold out : It is not really a nation-wide strike . More important is the fact that the returning workers have not been defeated and routed . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions . Why , then , this sense Against of guilt in the presence Labor of a picket line which Democracy does not represent majority opinion among the strikers ? The answer is in the sacrosanct character which the picket line has managed to take on in recent years . A handful of strikers can throw their picket line around a place of employment and hundreds or conceivably thousands of workers with no grievance and no desire to strike will go idle . No one seems to bother to ask how many workers are represented by the picketers , let alone looking into the merits of their quarrel . This is one of the problems which labor will , have to consider in its own ultimate interest . It is absurd that in the name of the " solidarity of labor " a trifling minority of workers shall impose its will on a great majority of fellow-workers , not to speak of the general public . It is not democracy , and in the long run it must lose its efficacy as a strike weapon . The tyranny of the picket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Obviously there is a close Sex connection between public and school teaching as an underWages paid profession and the fact that it is overwhelmingly a woman 's profession . But it remains a debatable ' question as to which came first , the low pay or the female preponderance . All we know is that threequarters of a century ago , in the year 1870 , the men were two out of every five public school teachers . Today they are only one teacher in every five . Still , this is a notable improvement over conditions twenty-five years ago , just after the First World War , when the 1920 census registered a low of 14 per cent men teachers , only one in every seven public school instructors . To some extent it may have been a lag in post-war readjustment , but as late as 1930 the men teachers were only 16 per cent of the whole . A detailed analysis would Higher probably show that the Pay male exodus from the pubOutside lic schools was in large measure the I c. , ult of expanding opportunities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself became still lower by comparison with wages and salaries outside . It was , in lesser degree , the same factor that depleted both man and woman power in the schools in recent war years  --  the pull of high war earnings . When outside opportunity collapsed badly in 1930 there was a perceptible return of prodigal male teachers , so that the year 1938 found them back to a ratio of one man teacher in every five . Low pay for women in Way- every occupation ha ? beStation hind it the standard arguTeachers ment that gainful employment for women is transitory employment , woman 's ) , ultimate destiny being marriage . It is not the purpose here to enter an ancient debate . ; lather is it in place to point out that for men , too , the teaching profession has historically been a stopgap profession , though the ratio is not to be compared with the women workers . In a simpler America  --  not so very far behind us  --  teaching school was one way for youths of limited financial means to work their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man . taught school by day and read law at might , or-taught school long enough to save up the fees for a later course in medicine or engineering . It remains to be said that this simpler America was also a poorer America . As time went on it became easier for more young men to work their way to a degree in law , medicine or engineering without a long detour through schoolteaching.                     