@@711936

txt WASHINGTON , March 14 ? The drive of Administration Democrats in the House to push through a fifteen-month extension of rent control faced a new hurdle tonight in a persuasive opposition proposal , supported by a powerful coalition , to relax Federal regulation . With a final vote set for tomorrow , a group of Republicans and Southern Democrats was reported to have united on an amendment to authorize the legislative body of any state or political subdivision to direct decontrol within its jurisdiction . This amendment , drafted by John Bell Williams , Democrat , of Mississippi , would require the Housing Expediter to lift Federal controls within fifteen days after a certified copy of such a resolution had been sent to him by registered mail . Actually this is just one of three proposals aimed at limiting control which are to be ready for submission tomorrow . However , it has the , strongest support because . it is the simplest and offers the opportunity for widest application . Administration floor leaders conceded frankly that they did not know whether they could muster the votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a fear that a series of amendments might build up new opposition to final approval by the House of a full , rent-control extension . In a key test vote last Friday , Administration forces succeeded in stopping an amendment to limit extension of rent control to ninety days beyond March 31 , the expiration date of the present law , by the narrow margin of 178 to 163 . The combination that sought to terminate controls ? on June 30 is intact in the new anti-Administration drive and reportedly has picked up strength . Just before the final vote , it is understood that the Republican minority will sponsor a motion to recommit the full bill to the Banking and Currency Committee with instructions to report immediately with a June 30 deadline . Alternative proposals to the Williams amendment are sponsored by Representatives A. L. Miller of Nebraska and Albert M. Cole of Kansas , both Republicans . Mr. Miller is prepared to ask that states and political subdivisions receive the power to direct decontrol by referendum . Rayburn Retains Optimism His Kansas colleague would make Federal controls inapplicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in any other , states adopting such legislation . Both men indicated their personal preference , however , for the Williams amendment . Republicans generally would rather have the move toward relaxation of Federal regulation made under Democratic auspices . Speaker Sam Rayburn , leading , Democratic figure in the House , ' will be present tomorrow when the final vote is taken . He was out of town on a speaking engagement when the situation got out of hand for a time on Friday . Not nearly1 so pessimistic as were party floor ' leaders , he predicted today that I there would be the votes to ' beat I down amendments and pass a fif- , teen-month extension . As a final joining of the issues neared in the House , a Senate Banking and Currency subcommittee hammered out details of its bill . Among preliminary committee decisions were the following : 1 . To recontrol residential hotel units , rolling rent back to the level of Oct. 31 , 1948 . The Administration had asked a rollback to June 30 , 1947. 2 . To recontrol trailer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent boards . 3 . To recontrol areas where the local rent boards so recommend . 4 . To decontrol luxury apartments renting at $290 or more a month as well as other accommodations as the Housing Expediter rules fall in the luxury class . 5 . To provide local rent directors with assistants whose duty would be to advise landlords and tenants as ? to their right to obtain rent adjustments . Senator John J. Sparkman , subcommittee chairman , reported a " rather strong feeling within the committee that the states should enact stand-by rent controls " in anticipation of the time when regulation would be turned over to the states .                     