@@710325

txt The United States and Great Britain agreed tonight to French demands for detachment of the Saar from Germany and economic integration of the Saar area with France . Both United States Secretary of State George C. Marshall and British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin opposed , however , a French proposal that the industrial Ruhr be detached from Germany . French Foreign Minister Georges . Bidault evidently planned this to be his big day in the Council , following the deadlock yesterday between the western powers and Russia on the issue of revising the German-Polish border . It was becoming apparent that the frontier talks might produce the first truly serious political results in the affected countries . Setback to Mikolajczyk A Polish foreign office spokesman said in a news conference here that the position taken by United States Secretary of State George C. Marshall yesterday favoring the return of some agricultural land to Germany from Polish administration , had dealt a fatal political blow to Stanislaw Mikolajczyk , former VicePremier , and his Polish Peasant Party . Both had been favored by the western powers and both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British contended that Russian Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov 's adamant opposition to change was bound to affect adversely Communist efforts to win popular support in Germany . In seeking immediate approval of cession of the small but coal-rich Saar , the French appeared to put Mr. Molotov , and also possibly Secretary Marshall and British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , on another political hot-spot . Focus on Molotov The French argue that the transfer would be the key to settlement of the French coal problem . They contend that , by taking control of all the Saar coal production and increasing the yield , they could make available to France a net coal gain of 500 , - 000 tons a month . Should Mr. Molotov block approval of the merger , aides of M. Bidault argued , he would be bound to incur political wrath in France . On the other hand , it was apparent , that were Mr. Molotov to accept the French demands at once , he first would deprive himself Of a trading point with France in the Council of Foreign Ministers and also get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 