@@706469

txt WASHINGTON , May 26 ? A draft proposal of a lease-lend agreement that would align Russia in respect to this form of aid with Britain and others of the United Nations was handed to Maxim Litvinoff , the Soviet Ambassador , today by Secretary of State Cordell Hull . The immediate and direct purpose is to place the Soviet Government in line with Britain , the United States and others of the United Nations not only in the war production program but in post-war efforts to restore world trade along the liberal lines advocated by Secretary Hull . When President Roosevelt was asked at his press conference late this afternoon whether the draft proposal was in line with the leaselend agreement with Britain of last Feb. 23 , he replied that , generally speaking , it was the same as with Britain and the others . In response to another question he said that it was a rough proposal , not necessarily in final form . In - effect the proposal would formalize the lease-lend program to Russia without any binding settlement terms necessary until after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement concluded under the lease-lend law through an exchange of communications between President Roosevelt and Premier Stalin last Nov. 4 the Soviet ' Government received an American credit of $1,000,000 , - 000 for the purchase of materials in this country without interest but under the condition that repayments would be concluded five to ten years after the war . When this credit was exhausted through the placing of orders , another $1,000,000,000 credit was extended early this year . . The condition for repayment within a specified time would now be erased through the proposal // LEASE-LEND PACT IS OFFERED SOVIET // advanced today , but active conversations might begin at any time on economic relations in a postwar world , even before the end of the war . That provision is contained in the lease-lend agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom of last Feb. 23 . Mr. Hull handed the Ambassador the draft proposal during a conference of forty-five minutes this morning , during which other questions were also discussed . The Ambassador hurried from the department to transmit the project to his government . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations undertaken with Britain on post-war problems could not ignore Russia . The draft , by following the lines of the lease-lend agreement with the United Kingdom , authorizes the postponement of a detailed settlement until after the war and repayment in a form that would not burden but would encourage world commerce . It provides for the return to the United States of defense articles that have not been destroyed , lost or consumed , as determined by the President of the United States to be useful for the defense of this country or the Western Hemisphere . Also full account is to be taken of benefits from the United States to the recipient of lease-lend aid . The gist of the agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom is set forth in Article VII . This is understood to be included in identical or similar language in the draft proposal made to Russia . This article envisages " early " conversations on economic relationships . There was no indication today whether these conversations would be undertaken soon with Britain , Russia or both . The text of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Kingdom follows : " In the final determination of the benefits to be provided to the United States of America by the government of the United Kingdom in return for aid furnished under the Act of Congress of March 11 , 1941 lease-lend , the terms and conditions thereof shall be such as not to burden commerce between the two countries , but to promote mutually advantageous economic relations between them and the betterment of world-wide economic relations . " To that end , they shall include provision for agreed action by the United- States of America and the United Kingdom , open to participation by all other countries of like mind , directed to the expansion , by appropriate international and domestic measures , of production , employment , and the exchange and consumption of goods , which are the material foundations of the liberty and welfare of all peoples ; to the elimination of all forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce , and to the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers ; and , in general , to the attainment of all the economic objectives set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 , 1941 , by the President of the United States of America and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom . " At any early convenient date , conversations shall be begun between the two governments with a view to determining , in the light of governing economic conditions , the best means of attaining the abovestated objectives by their own agreed action and of seeking the agreed action of other like-minded governments . "                     