@@707965

txt By Wireless tO THE NEW MIRE Tuns . LONDON , July 22 ? Strengths and weakenesses of the Allied positions in Normandy have been stressed by events of the past week during which the Twenty-first Army group cracked two of the strongest German defensive positions in the battle area  --  Saint Lfr and Caen  --  but was unable to follow either success with any considerable immediate penetration beyond the German front . Generally , the Allied position is much better than it was a week ago . Lieut . Gen. Omar N. Bradley and Lieut . Gen. Miles C. Dempsey unlocked the doors to the south and southeast , even though neither the American nor the British Army was able to do more than push the door open a few inches . Progress will probably be slow in the American sector for some time . Capture of St. LO has brought the First Army face to face with a new series of enemy positions which must be overcome before the drive ? to the south is resumed in force . The fall of Periers and Lessay will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American front for from a mile to two miles south of the road which runs through these towns . The First Army will exchange difficulties of moving through flat flooded country for those of assaulting hill positions from the lowlands . Roughly , half of the German forces in Normandy  --  the maximum estimate here is twenty-five divisions  --  are now occupied by the American First Army and the Germans have the advantage of strong defensive positions . There is , however , little possibility of their forming a connected line since they no longer hold St. L6 , the main communications center in this area . At any rate , progress in this sector is liable to be laborious and unproductive of any great gains for some time to come . On the Left Flank The situation on the left flank of the Allied front around Caen is more complex . It was this area which appeared to offer the richest rewards for a break-through . Beyond the German line from the Orne south of Caen to Troarn on the east lay flat country with good roads , area frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It was into this country that the Second Army , according to Tuesday night 's special statement by General Montgomery , " broke through . " It is here that it has been checked by a combination of Germans and mud . The Caen position was cracked with the aid of the greatest concentration of air power ever directed against an army in the field . Thirty-six hours later the British were being impeded by strong German anti-tank positions . Here was opportunity for further use of tactical air power . Heavy and accurate bombing might have enabled British armor , which had been rolling merrily southeastward , to resume its drive . Although better than it was a week ago , the present position in Normandy is disappointing , for , because of the fanfare attending the birth of the offensive , more was expected of the Second Army by the Allies . Nevertheless , events of the past week represent certain definite achievements by the Second Army and Allied Air Forces . Definite Achievements The strongest of the German defenses in Normandy has been reduced with the loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captured . A front which runs from the Orne On the west to Troarn on the east has been created , relieving to some extent crowding in the Allied bridgehead . General Montgomery now has more elbow room around Caen . Moreover , he has ended the always dangerous threat of assault across the Orne north of Caen by German troops in the Troarn area . When the offensive is resumed both flanks will be secure . Canadian divisions of the Second Army have done a fine job in extending the right flank of the advance . This movement has not only anchored the flank on the river but also has led to tactical gains to the west . German positions there had held up progress of the British ' else New York -. roes IA Gen. Miles C. Dempsey commands the British Second Army . thrust southwest from Caen almost from its inception . Expansion of the British left flank has been slower , for Troarn , the center of the German positions in this area , is a more formidable obstacle than enemy strong points on the other flank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foothold north of Troarn around the Forest of Bavent are slowly forcing the enemy either into Troarn or back into the estuary of the Dives River . Montgomery 's Task General Montgomery has already removed the threat of violent enemy counter-action from this flank . Obviously his task now is to anchor this flank securely on the Dives as his right flank is anchored on the Orne . When both these objectives are accomplished , the Second Army 's tactical position for the second round of its battle with the German Seventh Army will be much improved . One objective of last week 's offensive was not achieved . Much was done but German armor , that is the tank regiments attached to Panzer divisions facing the British , was not brought into the battle . Field Marshal Gen. Erwin Rommel kept these tanks well out of the fighting . He did not repeat his mistake at El Alamein when he failed to remove them out of range of British artillery and they suffered losses while still in reserve positions . Nothing like that happened this time and the bad weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the week enabled him to reform his armored divisions without serious interference by Allied air power . Marshal Rommel thus has almost his entire armored force intact and fairly fresh . This correspondent believes he will probably risk his tanks in a large-scale counter attack before the Second Army can get set for a resumption of the offensive . He is believed to be moving even more armor to the front . Until now the Allied advance has encountered only small-scale counter-blows employing from a company to a battalion of infantry and from two to four Tiger tanks . These latter weapons are not part of the Panzer divisions which , save for one or two SS divisions , are armed with Panther and Mark IV tanks . Tigers are part of the army reserve and are doled out to component units for special duties in the same manner as heavy artillery . Big Battle Ahead A. great battle lies ahead , for the enemy still bars roads to the south and southeast in strength . Curiously the " good tank country " of two weeks ago now has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of British armor . This is undoubtedly true up to a point ; scores of tiny villages and groups of trees do limit the freedom of armored maneuvers . But this is as good tank country as will be found in northern France . British armored units after years of campaigning in the western desert apparently expected to find similar terrain in Europe . What does make the area southeast of Caen " difficult " for armor is a very strong system of anti-tank defenses which the Germans have erected there since D-Day . These now form the principal physical barrier in the path of the Allied advance and their reduction is going to be a long , bloody task unless fickle weather gives General Montgomery opportunity to employ air power in strength as he did at the opening of the offensive .                     