@@707230

txt Appalachian coal operators have told the Director of War Mobilization , James F. Byrnes , that their interpretation of President Roosevelt 's press conference statenient yesterday regarding the difficulty of compelling John'L . Lewis of the United Mine Workers to comply with the National War Labor Board 's order was proof that " Mr. Lewis , through his defiance of the Government , has gamed his point " Correspondence made public by R. L. Ireland Jr . and Edward R. Burke , representing the Appalachian operators , stated that " The United Mine Workers of America threatened us with Government control of the manes again and again throughout our negotiations unless we met Mr. Lewis 's demands . " In their letter , sent yesterday , Messrs . Ireland and Burke wrote to Mr. Byrnes that the operators were inclined to feel , after hearing the President 's view , that " they would have been better off to have joined wan Mr. Lewis in the making of a contract , " and that they were " wrong in trying to support the stabilization program . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to retain its faith in the authority of the War Labor Board and the power of your office , " the spokesman wrote , " it is essential that you give us some assurance that the President 's remarks this morning do not constitute capitulation by Government to Mr. Lewis . " In a statement accompanying ' the correspondence which they released , Messrs . Ireland and Burke declared they had " not lost faith in the War Labor Board and the Office of War Mobilization . " " We do not believe , " they asserted , " that the Administration will continue to tolerate the present interruption of coal production nor that it will continue to deprive us of possession of our mines . To do so would mean complete capitulation to Mr. Lewis , and that , in turn , would be a threat to the entire industrial structure of the nation . " Byrnes Replies for President Mr. Byrnes answered on June 30 a letter sent June 23 by Messrs . Ireland and Burke to President Roosevelt , asking assurance that the Administration would take steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The Government desires to return the mines to their owners as soon as this can be done without increasing the risk of interruption of mining activities . " The operators ' spokesmen had written that " if the mines are to be operated on the above-quoted terms ( of the mine workers ) it can only mean that the coal operators are to be punished because Mr. Lewis does not see fit to obey the orders of the United States Government . " On this point Mr. Byrnes replied : " There has been no promise or commitment by the Government that the mines will be operated by the Government until Oct. 31 or any stated period . " The mines were taken over by the Government , not to punish the coal operators but to see that coal is mined . The Government is giving careful consideration to the steps which may be taken to obtain full compliance with the June 18 directive of the National War Labor Board without increasing the risk of interruption of mining operations . " In their letter of June 30 to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to that date to " indicate that Mr. Lewis is going to be required to incorporate the terms of the directive into a signed agreement , as ordered by the War Labor Board . Refer to Views of Ickes " We have , however , been advised by Mr. Ickes that although it is not his desire to continue the operation of the mines , he feels that he ' will be compelled to continue custody and operation of the mines for a considerable period of time , ' and that he is , therefore , taking immediate steps to convert , what he has previously referred to as custodianship , into actual seizure and operation . He has already made two appointments and has indicated that he will as promptly as possible greatly augment his staff . " This action on his part seems to us entirely inconsistent with any program contemplating forcing Mr. Lewis into compliance . At least it is most untimely . " The industry feels that having assiduously carried out the letter and spirit of all executive orders and the stabilization program , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if Mr. Lewis , who has defied the War Labor Board , is not required to comply with its directive , the operators themselves need not be governed further by it and should take such independent action- as they may see fit to protect their properties . " We therefore urge you to cause Mr. Ickes to refrain from putting into effect any more control of our property and their operation than pertains today until it is determined whether or not compliance by Mr. Lewis is going to be required . Failure to restrain Mr. Ickes as above suggested will perforce be an indication to us that compliance by Mr. Lewis is not contemplated . " Meanwhile Secretary Ickes stated , as Solid Fuels Administrator , that mine production was regaining its pre-strike levels . Production of bituminous coal was estimated at 10,350,000 tons during the week ending July 3 , which was more than double the output of the preceding wee ! . Carloadings indicate that the current week 's output will be even higher . However , failure of . longress to I extend the life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Coal Producers Committee , would further imperil coal production for war . The mine operators , he added , required the protective price floor provided by the act , especially as the end of the war approaches . He added that extension of the act would make negotiations easier between the miners and operators .                     