@@708655

txt Responding promptly to President Truman 's suggestion , General de Gaulle has welcomed the suggestion of a conference with the American Chief Executive , in what looks like a new start in the relations between the United States and France . The time and place of the meeting are still to be determined , but the French Foreign Minister , M. Bidault , has expressed the hope that it will be held in the not distant future , and that it will be " a new step toward closer Franco-American friendship which is dear to both our peoples . " In that hope the American people will join . Neither personal prestige nor protocol should be permitted to delay a meeting which is so necessary in the interests of both countries and of the world . It is unfortunately a matter of record that the relations between the United States and France have not been of the best , despite their common struggle against a common foe . Yet never was close cooperation between them more necessary than it is now . Such cooperation must be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world power , and especially as the representative and spokesman of war-wrecked Europe , whose destiny is now at stake , but whose voice is still so largely absent from the councils of the nations . The atmosphere of growing trust and cordiality between Washington and Paris is a recognition of that fact . This was recognized by President Truman when he declared that the United States is taking extraordinary measures to aid France , that we are willing to relinquish part of our own occupation zone in Germany in favor of France , and that we welcome French help in the war against Japan . It was likewise recognized by M. Bidault when he declared that France is determined to seek the solution of the problems of today and tomorrow in close unity with her allies , and that both the American and the French Governments have the same conception regarding the settlement of the German problem in the interest of world peace . These expressions of mutual good-will are reinforced by reports from Paris indicating that many of the contradictory fears and suspicions regarding American acts and policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a new confidence . At the same time , the history of the last few decades has demonstrated that relations between the United States and France have suffered whenever France 's special national interests and goals became so paramount in her policies that they obscured France 's true role in the world , and that these relations have been at their best whenever the opposite was the case . The true role of France has been expressed by no one better than by General de Gaulle himself , when he declared in his victory day speech that France fought " without illusions of conquest or passion for revenge , in reply to the eternal law that has placed us in the vanguard of a civilization founded on the rights of peoples and respect for the human person . " The nearer France approaches to that ideal , the greater will be America 's admiration for her , and the more potent will be America 's support of her .                     