@@711244

txt On the heels of President Truman 's seizure order , railroads here and generally throughout the country were quick yesterday to rescind earlier decisions not to attempt operation after today 's strike deadline of 6 A. M. , standard time . Previously announced plans for layoffs and suspensions of service were dropped , long-haul trains that had been canceled were reinstated and sent on their way during the afternoon and evening , embargoes were lifted , and normal through and commuting schedules were promised to the extent that operating personnel remained on the job . Telegrams Received Here Strike leaders here received notice by telegram at 2:30 A. M. that the strike had been called off by the unions , according to Thomas J. Harkins , assistant grand chief engineer of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers . He and other union officials had their headquarters in the Times Square Hotel . The telegram had been sent from Cleveland and was signed by Alvanley Johnson , chief of the engineers ' brotherhood . Mr. Harkins said that he and the other union heads here were beginning at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zations in the Eastern and New England territory . Mr. Harkins issued the following statement : " The chief executives of the brotherhoods involved have complied with the order issued ' by the United States District Court , District of Columbia , and have instructed the representatives of the brotherhoods and t " .. : f.r officers and - aployes involved to disregard the day of May 11 that was set to remove the employes from service . As a result of the restraining order the national officers , general chairmen and local chairmen are complying with the ' Instractions forwarded and normal ' operations of the railroads involved will be effective at 6 A. M. this date . " " We assume . " he added , " that there will be no delay whatever . " He referred to the details of getting the men back to work in time to insure uninterrupted rail service . Mr. Harkins said the telegram from Cleveland had been sent at 11 : : . i5 o'clock last night , and when asked about the delay in its receipt explained that be believed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Porch , vice president of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen , said a similar telegram sent t ohim at 11:59 o'clock last night had been received in New York at 12:55 this ' morning but had been delayed in ! reaching the Times Square Hotel headquarters . In the event that any day shift men fail to receive notice that the ' strike is off , the night shift men will leave their posts at the end of their tours even though no relief men appear , the union officials said . Notifying the switchmen will be an easier task than getting word to the engineers , firemen and enginemen , according to Eugene Morton , vice president of the Switchmen 's Union of North America . Two Rail Chiefs Go to Capital The Army , designated by the President to take over direction of the roads , lost no time in turning to the job at hanci . It summoned two top tanking railroad executives to Washington for conferences with Maj. Gen. Edmond H. Leavey , Chief of Transportation for the Army , Gustav Metzman , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonel . He will be placed in charge if the operation of all railroads in the Andrew F. , general manager of the New York zone of the Pennsylvania Railroad , also left here yesterday to confer with General Leavey . His rank and his job were not announced . Both are expected to be sworn in today by Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall . Mr. Metzman served for six months in 1942 as Chief of Rail Division , Transportation Corps , United States Army , in a civilian capacity . Mr. was a Brigadier General in the war , serving in the Transportation Corps as Deputy Director cf Operations and as Chief of the Rail Division . The first action in changing road plans , following the President 's seizure , was taken by the New York Central at 1:38 P. M. This was followed speedily by lesser roads here and late in the afterloon by the Pennsylvania Railroad . The New York Central 's announcement said : " We have canceled our previous plans for passenger train service curtailment this afternoon and evening and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no strike interruption . " At 1:55 P. M. loudspeakers in the vast terminal blared forth this message : " Attention , please . Commencing at once all New York Central trains will operate normally . " Five minutes later the announcement was made to apply also to the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad . taking down notices that said that all train service would be canceled , that through passenger trains scheduled to leave Monday that could not reach their destination by the strike deadline would be " either annulled or terminated at intermediate points en roue , " and that " no commutation service will be operated after 3 A. M. Standard Time Tuesday . May 11 . Taken down . too , were the notices of the New Haven that said " all passenger trains scheduled to leave their initial terminals on this railroad at 6 A. M. or thereafter will be abolished , " along with certain trains scheduled to depart prior to the strike deadline . At 3:10 P. M. the New York Central announced that its embargo on livestock , live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at minute before midnight last night ( Standard Time ) was withdrawn . The reinstated Twentieth Century Limited , one of five crack trains evhose cancellation had been announced previously , left Grand Central at 5 P. M. Standard Time for Chicago . It departed filled almost to capacity and road officials said they expected the flyer to reach its destination at 8 A. M. Standard Time today . The Pennsylvania announced last night that it expected to operate normally today . It . said also furloughs that were to have become effective tomorrow had been canceled and all its employes would continue on the job . A spokesman said 120,000 of the railroad 's 130 , - 000 employes had received furlough notices . Announcement was made " by the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western Railroad that its commuter trains would run on schedule today . The Pennsylvania , last of the roads to announce an embargo , Which it confined to livestock and live poultry , excluding perishable foods , lifted the ban at 6:30 o'clock last night . The embargo was clamped on at 6 A. M. yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including perishablles , on either last Friday or Saturday midnight . Altogether eighty-eight Class 1 railroads across the country had placed embargoes in effect . Shipments running into thousands of carloads were delayed . The Railway Express Agency yesterday continued its embargo . Commuter roads , including the Long Island Rail Road , said they were prepared to operate all scheduled trains , but as in the other cases the big " if " was whether engineers , firemen and switchmen would report for duty this morning . The Hudson &; Manhattan Railway Company , which serves 100 , - 000 tube commuters , was added in a supplemental order to the list of railroads taken over . Hundreds of thousands of commuters from New Jersey , Westchester , Long Island and other nearby points went to bed last night without knowing whether they would be able to use the railroads this morning . For days they have been organizing car pools and planning what buses they could take to reach the city if the roads were struck . Bus lines . already crowded , had promised augmented service in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon Police Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander had moved to put the emergency police chart into effect by canceling all days off and all vacations , making available 1,200 to 1,400 extra men . He said th , -e would be no relaxation of the traffic parking ban south of Fifty-ninth Street and in other congested areas . If anything , he said , the ban would be tightened and rigidly enforced . Under his plan , buses from outof-town points that ordinarily dischargei passengers beyond the city limits would be permitted to enter the city to discharge fares but not to pick up passengers . On their return trip places would be allotted where they might pick up returning passengers . The department , the police head said , would adopt an " elastic atti-1 tude " toward parking in outlying sections of the city , particularly near rapid transit terminals . Special consideration would be given to trucks moving foodstuffs under the plan . In a move to avert a possible shortage of essential supplies , Acting Governor Joe R. Hanley appointed Public Works Superintendent Charles H. Sells as Emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies . Howard S. Cullman , chairman of the Port of New York Authority , was designated emergency director for the Port . Mr. Cullman is to work under Mr. Sells as far as operations within New York State . are concerned . Planning in advance against the threatened ' emergency Mr. Cullman has regs.dy a comprehensive plan for the operation of substitute transport , both passenger and freight . The plan called for maximum use of trucks and ships for bringing in foodstuffs and other essential materials usually carried on rails , bus shuttle services for commuters , expanded ferry service and the possible use of excursion boats to carry passengers from points in Long Island Sound , the Hudson River , and along the Jersey shore . It covered also traffic and parking arrangements for handling the great increase in private automobile traffic . Governor Driscoll appointed John E. Boswell of Ocean City as emergency coordinator of transportation in New Jersey . Mr. Boswell , president of the State Board of ' Public Utility Commissioners , was , directed to cooperate with Mr. Cullman in keeping essential food , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    