@@711075

txt Having crushed all opposition in the rest of Eastern Europe , and having organized that . area into a solid bloc of Communist-dominated satellites , Soviet Russia now appears to have embarked on a drive to bring under its iron heel the last nation within that bloc which has still shown some signs of independence ? Czechoslovakia . That , at any rate , would seem to be the meaning of the Czechoslovak Cabinet crisis , which was precipitated by a Communist reach for dominant power in that country and has now led to a showdown between the Communist minority and the rest of the nation on which hangs the fate of the last vestiges of Czechoslovak democracy . The drive is headed , nominally , by Klement Gottwald , the Communist Premier . But behind him stands Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Zorin , who has arrived in Prague at this critical time as other Kremlin commissars arrived at similar junctures in other countries about to be taken over by the Communist International , of which the Czechoslovak Communist party is a. charter member . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so successful in Poland and the Balkans , if not in the West . There is the same attempt to repress free speech , the same mobilization of Communist-dominated labor unions , the same effort to oust all independent parties from the Government , and the same demand for a new National Front whose Communist character is but thinly camouflaged by Pan-Slavism . Above all , and most ominously , there is being raised the same Communist hue and cry against alleged plots , espionage and sabotage on the part of the " reactionary " majority and American and British " imperialists " which initiated the elimination of the Petkovs and the Manius and served to liquidate all opposition in Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , Rumania , Poland and Hungary . The significance of these developments for Czechoslovakia is self-evident . But the success of this drive still depends on Communist success in winning over or eliminating two elements that stand in the way . One is President Benes , who still carries the greatest personal authority in the country , and who has not only refused to accept the protest resignation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice that he will continue to insist on a parliamentary regime and will not accept any Cabinet that would exclude one group or the other from the Government . The other is the Social Democratic party , which has declared its solidarity with the majority , but whose Ministers have not resigned . This party , together with the Communists , could muster a slight majority in Parliament that would undermine President Benes ' stand . Thus far the Social Democrats have refused to serve with the Communists alone , but the party is divided on the issue , and in most other EastEuropean countries it has finally gone with the Communists . Judging from this attitude , that is what the Communists expect to happen in Czechoslovakia as well . At any rate , for the present they are concentrating their pressure on President Benes , who is not only bombarded by the Premier with demands for action in their favor and harassed by Communist mass demonstrations , but whose party , the Czech National Socialists , is also represented as being most implicated in the alleged " plots . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an exceedingly strong position . They have already neutralized the Army through infiltration .. They control the important labor unions . They dominate the official radio system , from which all other parties are barred . They run the larger part of the nationalized industry . And though their effort to get complete control of the police brought a Cabinet revolt , it is a question whether that revolt did not come too late . For the larger part of the police is ? already under Communist domination , and at Communist bidding it has already imposed a secret terror , marked by numerous arrests , that has alarmed the majority parties . Now , it would appear , the Communists are preparing for the final coup . For sometime this spring . Czechoslovakia is scheduled to hold a new national election . And though the Communists won 38 per cent of the vote in the last election , held in 1946 , they are apparently determined not to take any chances without having complete control of the Government and the election machinery . For only in this way can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comrades have already won everywhere else in Eastern Europe .                     