@@707944

txt An open-door policy assuring all nations access to the world 's oil fields under a system of international trusteeship is essential to peace and security after the war , the Foreign Policy Association declared today in its report on " Oil : An Economic Key to Peace . " The report strongly criticized . all attempts , to solve the problem of oil resources through cartels , synthetic production , exclusive agreements and projects like the Arabian pipe-line proposal of Harold L. Ickes , Secretary of the Interior . It held that these methods would prove formidable obstacles to peace . Pointing out that American oil reserves in the continental United States , Alaska , and the Caribbean may be much greater than the Roosevelt Administration apparently believes , the report says : " We can not afford to be isolated from the world oil controversies because we need other world commodities besides oil . For our economy we require at least nine major minerals that can be obtained only through importation . Two Hazardous Methods " Nor can we set out on an imperialistic search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries .... Had the United States acted alone on the Arabian pipeline under the terms of its Feb. 6 , 1944 , proposal , this country would have embarked on a hazardous adventure in unilateral imperialism . " The Anglo-American oil talks that followed the pipeline an . nouncement created a new danger ? that two great powers , the United States and Britain , might reach an exclusive oil agreement . There was an outcry in this country against the pipeline , and a similar outcry might occur in the future against an exclusive Anglo-American oil alliance . States left out of an oil accord might also refuse to participate in other economic accords . " The F. P. A. report then enumerates these four points which it recommends should be covered in an international agreement ' Equal Access for All " It is important that all nations should be assured access to oil , whether crude in the ground or refined oil at a marketing point . While in peacetime years oil buyers in all countries usually have been able to obtain what they need , it must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will not be able to get the oil they want .. . " An international oil agreement should provide in the first place for the ' open door ' for all nations lin oil countries which permit alien companies to drill within their borders , Such a policy would have to take into consideration existing concessions in any country and not unfairly force companies already on the scene to share their rights with new rivals . " Secondly , an international oil agreement should keep the ' open door ' open in the future , to remove the frictions caused by red line agreements . To remove a threat to stability in the marketing of oil , it should also control private cartels . An outright order of dissolution for existing cartels might have far-reaching consequences which would render such action impractical , but the establishment of new cartels could be banned . " Thirdly , an international agreement should seek to improve the lot of the peoples of those oil-producing countries whose petroleum is exploited almost entirely by outsiders . For this purpose it should set minimum labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . .. . " Finally , an international agreement should provide for the assignment of oil to the armed forces which , it is assumed , will be used to safeguard world peace under the aegis of the international organization the United Nations hope to establish . It should also make it possible to withhold petroleum resources from states which give signs that they will misuse oil for antisocial military purposes . " One difficulty in the way of denying oil to potentially aggressive countries is that they can resort to synthetic production . This problem , however , raises the question of world industrial control ether than of world oil control , ! Presumably the future of the petroleum industry of Germany and Japan is already under con-I consideration by the United Nations governments . " On international agreement concerning these four points will depend the future of world peace and of the United States so far as they are influenced by modern man 's need for oil , the report states . " It would he desirable if the governments of other oil-producing countries adopted the domestic policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concludes . " In that way , they could both prevent scarcity . The goal of both safeguard their own reserves , and domestic and international policy should be to make oil available to all for as long a period as possible in a manner that , to the greatest practicable degree , would obviate disputes among nations . "                     