@@706811

txt Down goes the dollar ' . value in most of the bars , bistros and bazaars of the neutral world . An American who tries to buy a drink with a dollar bin in Buenos Aires may find that his greenback is worth only about 50 cents He would discover a similarly low purchasing power of U. S currency in almost every country except Great Britain , Mexico , Canada . Bermuda and Newfoundland . The United States Government is deliberately driving clown the value of all dollar run cririi outside this country . It is doing so by making it very difficult for anyone to bring American currency back to the United States . A dollar abroad now may be an exlic for the duration . Clamping down on importation of American currency does n't affect the foreign exchange value of dollar bank balances drafts. telegraphic transfers and travelers ' checks Hence . normal business transactions are n't affected by the new officially inspired drive against dollar currency . The Government suspects that large amounts of American currency may have fallen into the hands of Axis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible , and one way of doing so is to prevent repatriation of American coin and currency . New Treasury Rule The Treasury has ruled that no person may enter the United States with more than $50 All currency and coin in excaps of that amount must be turned over to customs authorities at the dock . They turn it over to the local Federal Reserve Bank . The bereft individual may apply for return of his seized currency . What the Treasury does about his application will depend on whether it decides that his money is Axis loot . ( All currency imported through the mails or otherwise except on the person of an tndividual. regardless of the amount , is seized and held pending determination of its origin.I Sailors , who have a penchant of carrying their life savings around their waist so that it will be handy if they are shipwrecked , are the chief purveyors of currency at present Treasury officials say that persons leaving the United States these days should not carry with them U S currency in excess of $50 . That is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excess must be turned over to the customs authorities Officials say that not only is it unwise to carry much currency abroad because of the restrictions on its reimpnrtation but it is imprudent besides It is imprudent , they say , sincedon view of this Government 's policy . dollar current y is worth only a fraction of its former value in Europe and most parts of Central and South America . They also call attention to foreign regulations adopted in cooperation with this Government which make the general use of dollar currency illegal in most of the other American republics . Not affected are traveler 's checks , drafts or telegraphic transfers . These are considered the best means of satisfying personal financial needs while abroad at the present time . Do Not Apply to Mexico . Canada The currency importation restrictions do not apply to persons entering the United States from Mexico , Great Britain , Bermuda , Canada and Newfoundland . There are special rules on currency interchange between Mexico and the United States . Only two-dollar bills and subsidiary coins may move freely between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been functioning for several years as the Foreign Funds Control Unit . Its principal job is to engineer a financial blockade against the Axis powers . One phase of that work is to prevent the use by Germans . Italians and Japanese of U. S dollars which they looted in the invaded countries This is an important activity because S currency has been hoarded extensively by foreigners . Earlier this year . a Federal Reserve Board economist estimated that foreign hoard ing has probably amounted to between 51 billion and $1.6 billion . Hoarding Activity Obvious Most of the hoarding of U. S. dollars in recent years  --  that is. paper money ? is believed to have been done by nationals of foreign countries , either to be transferred abroad or kept here by agents . Economists say this activity is obvious because of the tremendous increase in demand for large denomination currency . The demand boomed in 1936 when Europeans began to surmise that a major war was in the offing . Circulation of big bills increased by about $3.4 billion from the end of 1935 to July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are used in good times . So a part of the increase was due to expanding business . But Washington believes that foreign hoarding viti responsible in large degree . As an International medium of credit , the dollar is still respected abroad . Foreign ex change transaction .. can be carried on the name as before . But the days of the supremacy of the dollar bill -- a kind of magic wand waved before the eyes of foreigners - no longer holds good . Only in this country does it command respect .                     