@@707275

txt The Italian Government announced tonight that it had declared Rome an open city , but the , United Nations radio in Algiers later said that no official information had reached the Allies . The United Nations radio in Algiers said last night that a city could be considered " open " only when all Ministries , all Government agencies and every military organization and all war industries have been removed . " So long as Rome continues to be a German military communications center it will constitute a legitimate objective of Allied bombings , " said the Algiers radio , accord* to The United Press . Marshal Pietro Badoglio 's announcement said the Government had informed the Vatican on July 31 of its decision . The Vatican City radio late tonight broadcast the Badoglio declaration , although earlier the announcement was reported to have surprised the Holy See . Crowds assembled during the evening in St. Peter 's Square , cheering the news and calling for Pope Pius in one of the warmest demonstrations in his favor since his public appearance in the bombed areas on July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Announcement The Italian announcement , as issued by Stefani , Italian news agency , read : The Italian Government on July 31 through the intermediary of the Holy See announced its decision to declare Rome an open city , since when the Government has been waiting to be informed under what circumstances this declaration could be accepted . In view of repeated aerial attacks against Rome the Italian Government has now determined to declare formally and publicly without further delay that Rome is an open city and that all necessary measures in conformity with international law are being taken . A Vatican spokesman declined tonight to comment on Premier Badoglio 's decision or on a report that one reason for the Vatican 's delay in dealing with this all-important measure for the church had been the Rome Government 's failure to give assurances regarding its foreign policy . Posters in Rome announced the Government 's decision . The announcement added that " emergency laws effective throughout the peninsula  --  martial law and curfew  --  remain in force in the capital as do blackout restrictions . " Northern Cities Angered The reactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself out of the ruined cities of Milan and Turin , were violent , disappointed and anti-Government . " Defying martial law against the assembly of more than , three persons , hundreds of demonstrators in Milan paraded to the Pia zza del Duomo , shouting , " If Rome ca n't take it , why do we have to ? " They carried a huge poster listing " Milan has had ten raids , Turin has had twenty-two raids , Genoa has had thirteen raids , Rome has had two and does not want any more ! Neither do we ! Down with the war ! " Reports from the north tonight indicate that the split in the left wing coalition had disappeared . All orators tonight interpret the declaration of Rome as an open city as proof that Marshal Pietro Badoglio has no intention of seeking peace with the Allies and is determined to fight . The demonstrations for the first time since the fall of fascism took on an increasingly violent antiroyalist note with repeated cries of " Down with the King and Crown Prince ! " mingling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his government ! " When the demonstrations took this turn mounted caribinieri , according to one report , charged the crowd on the Piazza del Duomo , beating with sabers . The crowd pushed a priest toward the soldiers who finally allowed a relatively orderly evacuation of most of the square . Small groups of rioters remained behind to grab pieces of masonry from the wrecked cathedral and hurl them at the police . Hundreds of arrests were made but the tension is growing and by tomorrow may have assumed grave proportions unless conferences between Socialist leaders and the military arrive at an accord .                     