@@709517

txt Mayor O'Dwyer 's houseclealing within his official family , which began on Friday with the dismissal of Charles R. Haffenden as Commissioner of Marine and Aviation , will be continued , it was indicated last night . It became known that he would bring to City Hall , as chief liaison officer between himself and the heads of city departments and agencies , Transportation Commissioner William Reid , former City Collector and a public official with a record of thirty years of distinguished service . Commissioner Reid , whose term as a member of the Board of Transportation expires on June 30 , will not be reappointed to that $20,000 post , but his presence as a key member of the Mayor 's personal staff is expected to help materially in ironing out the vexatious wrinkles now present in the relationship between the board and City Hall . Commissioner Reid is expected to join the Mayor 's personal staff within the next few days , but will continue to serve the remainder of his term on the Board of Transportation . In addition to handling liaison work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's committee on coordination with the United Nations setup now functioning in New York . Mayor O'Dwyer , it is understood , does not consider the present committee and its mode of operation satisfactory . Corcoran Slated for Spargo Post With the advent of Mr. Reid to City Hall , Thomas L. J. Corcoran , executive assistant to the Mayor , is in line for designation as Deputy Mayor , to succeed George E. Spargo , who now is recuperating from a heart attack that forced him several weeks ago to suspend public activities . Mr. Spargo , when he returns to work , will resume his duties as executive officer of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority . As Deputy Mayor , Mr. Corcoran will receive a salary as yet undetermined , but presumably greater than the $12,500 he now is paid . The office of Deputy Mayor heretofore has been unsalaried , but only because its incumbents have drawn salaries from other positions simultaneously held by them in city service . Another change said to be contemplated by the Mayor is the transfer of City Treasurer Spencer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Municipal Civil Service Commission on Friday , when the term of Harry W. Marsh , president of that body , expires . Mr. Marsh , it is understood , will not be reappointed to his present $8,500 post . Mr. Young , as City Treasurer , receives a salary of $10,000 and the shift to the Civil Service board , unless there is a salary readjustment , will mean taking a job that pays less . Non-Partisan Group Planned The new city committee on couperation with U.N . is expected to be reorganized along lines giving recognition to several political parties , with Democrats , Republitans , American Laborites and Liberals represented in its membership . In bringing Mr. Reid to City Hall , according to informed ; ounces , the Mayor plans to organze a " trouble-shooting " squad , whose members primarily will be - esponsible and loyal to him , re ; ardless of party affiliations and he demands of county leaders of mlitical organizations . The devel ) pment of such a squad was contemplated by the Mayor when he oak office on Jan. 1 , but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the hreatened transit strikes , the tugloat strike and the city 's financial risis , which occupied most of his ime and attention . The organization to be headed by Reid , it was reported , will reemble somewhat the " troublehooting " group that the Mayor ised during the war when he was nvestigating war contracts for the Lrmy . Mayor O'Dwyer is reported to be considering , as a successor to Mr. Reid on the Board of Transportation , William G. Fullen , former chairman of the now defunct State Transit Commission . Mr. Fullen , whose service in transit matters began in 1907 with the old Public Service Commission , has served also as counsel for the , Board of Transportation , and is regarded as an expert in all phases of city transit . There was no indication as to whom the Mayor was considering to succeed Mr. Young as City Treasurer , should he shift him to another post . By July 1 , it was indicated , the Mayor hopes to have his official family reorganized to his satisfaction , even if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boroughs . It is common knowledge that his dismissal of Mr. Haffenden from the important post of Commissioner of Marine and Aviation has widened , perhaps beyond repair , an existing gap between himself and Representative James A. Roe , Democratic leader of Queens and political sponsor for Mr. Haffenden . The transfer of City Treasurer Young , another appointee credited to Mr. Roe , would tend to keep the gap widened . Murtagh Causes Conjecture Incidentally , the presence of Investigation Commissioner John M. Murtagh in the Mayor 's office when Commodore Frederick G. Reinicke was sworn in on Saturday as Mr. Haffenden 's successor was regarded in some quarters as significant , since one of Mr. Murtagh 's duties is to check on the activities of department heads for the Mayor 's guidance . The appointment of Commodore Reinicke was made without consulting any political leader . That fact was interpreted in some quarters as an indication that the Mayor might take the position that where members of his official family are found wanting and as a result resign or be dismissed , their political sponsors will not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's apparent break with Mr. Roe , one of his original and most active sponsors for the Democratic nomination last year , may be highlighted on Wednesday when the City Council votes on the local bill to double the 1 per cent sales tax.1 The proposed increase is one of the ' items in the Mayor 's program to raise funds to meet the recordbreaking $865,000,000 budget now awaiting his certification . Four of the Democratic members of the Council come from Queens and their vote on the sales tax proposal will presumably be in some measure responsive to the stand taken by Mr. Roe as their leader . The proposed legislation to double the sales tax will be considered this afternoon in executive session by the Council 's finance committee , which is expected to submit a favorable report at the Council meeting on Wednesday , despite the flood of opposition expressed by business and commercial groups and the Congress of Industrial Organizations at a recent public hearing . It is expected that American Labor , Liberal and Communist party members of the Council will vote against the increased sales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens , favoring the measure . At least two Republican members , it was predicted , would vote for it because of the need for a balanced budget , although on principle they are against such an impost . If the controversial sales tax rise receives all the Democratic votes , except the four cast by Queens members , plus the two Republican ballots , it will be carried by a onevote margin , even if the Queens Democratic delegation sides with the American Labor-Liberal-Communist group .                     