@@706891

txt Madagascar was formally handed over to French administration by the British today in an agreement signed by Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and General Charles de Gaulle , leader of the Fighting French . The action is regarded here with more than usual interest because of the evidence it affords that this country is not interested in clinging to parts of the French Empire , and that Britain places more confidence in General de Gaulle 's French National Committee . The document makes it clear that Madagascar will be under the administration of General Paul Le Gentilhomme , Fighting French Commander in Chief in Africa , with the British forces remaining on the island purely as a defense measure . Berlin has been hammering for months in its propaganda on the theme that the government of Britain was eager to absorb in its empire the fragments of France 's possessions . Lately that tune has been supplemented with another suggesting that General de Gaulle had been relegated to a back seat since the advent of Admiral Jean Francois Darlan on the scene . Fighting Ended Nov. 5 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Nov. 5 , calls for the termination of the provisional military administration and " the reestablishment of the exercise of French sovereignty under the authority of a High Commissioner to be appointed by the French National Committee . " It provides further that all questions that can not be settled on the spot by the High Commissioner and the general commanding the British troops shall be decided between the Foreign Office and General de Gaulle 's committee . Among the first tasks confronting General Le Gentilhomme will be the reorganization of the French armed forces with a view to sharing in the defense of the island and perhaps to " playing their part in operations in external theatres of war against the common enemy . " General de Gaulle issued a statement , saying : " In Madagascar , as elsewhere , Fighting France will restore the laws of the republic . On the occasion of this agreement I should like to emphasize the coraIplete loyalty of which Great Brit , ain , our old , trusty friend , has just given yet another proof . The , French people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Government , despite currents , wind and tide , respects French sovereignty in the empire and fulfills its engagements most nobly and scrupulously . " The first British landing in Madagascar occurred May 5 , 1942 , and ' in six months to the day the last ; resistance collapsed . The campaign took so long largely because the occupying force sought to minimize French casualties . The island has never been a great source of military strength for France and it is doubtful whether at any , time there were more than 15,000 men in its garrison . Many of them joined General de Gaulle two years ago , as did the new High Commissioner , who commanded French Somaliland at the outbreak of the war and was the first colonial leader to throw in his lot with the de Gaullists . The Fighting French forces in the Syrian campaign served under him .                     