@@705617

txt The Cook County council of the American Legion , which is composed of representatives of 250 posts with a total membership of mire than 45,000 veterans , voted approval last night of a resolution urging a referendum In Illinois to determine the ex. tent of American involvement in the European war . In a companion move , the group voted to decline an invitation to take part in the massmeeting tomorrow in Chicago Stadium , at nich Wendell L. Wilikie , 1940 Republican nominee for the Presidency , will expound his interventionist views . There was no debate and no opposition to either action . The referendum resolution was presented to the 400 Legionnaire dele. gates , meeting in the council chambers of the city hall , by T. W. Merryman , chairman of the Americanism committee of the Legion council , which had formulated it . Legion Custom Cited . The resolution began by citing the custom:bf Legionnaires - to ! open-their meetings with the recital of the preamble to the Legion constitution , and singled out the quotation : " to foster and Perpetuate a 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Un-American and subversive organizations are benefiting by the surge of propaganda that is reaching the eye and ear of loyal Americans via the air lanes , newspaper columns , and news reels , with the result that facts pertaining to public sentiment often are distorted and misrepresented . Slate Election Urged . " The constitution of the state of Illinois provides the machinery for determining public sentiment in an American way on any given question . " Therefore , be it resolved by the 1st division of the American Legion , department of Illinois , that we favor the use of this machinery , known as the Public Policy act , to give , the people of this great state opportunity to express themselves upon the greatest issue that has ever faced them  --  the extent of American involvement in the European war ; and that the American Legion encourage the eiti ? zens of Illinois to initiate a referen ? dum to determine said sentiment . " It was explained that in the normal course of events the resolution would go . to the Legion state department for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition would have to be worked out after that . Viewed as Rebuke . This action of the Cook county Legionnaires was regarded as a rebuke to the national Legion management , which recently has been veering to the interventionist side , The question of the Wilikie meeting was brought up by Francis Phelan , commander of the Cook County council . He read a telegram he had ( received from Clifford W. Barnes , chairman of the Wilikie gathering , and asked that the membership decide on  --  the answer . Two speakers from the floor , one of them Edward Clamage , past state commander , said it was contrary to Legion policy to participate in such meetings ' and the vote instructed Phelan to reply to that effect . Urge Safe and Sane July 4th . The meeting indorsed a resolution calling for a safe and sane patriotic celebration of Independence day .. As in past years the Legion will hold Its own Fourth of July spectacle , including a display of fireworks , in Soldiers ' field . Col. A. A. Sprague will be honorary chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general chairman and Russell W. Root executive vice chairman . A capacity crowd is expected at the program . The resolution expressed the Legion 's continued opposition to indiscriminate sale and use of fireworks by Individuals . 