@@711093

txt Fugitives fleeing from Czechoslovakia , arriving by the hundreds in the American occupied zone of Germany despite vigilant ruthless Czech frontier guards , constitute a new refugee problem for the American Military Government and German authorities in Bavaria . More than one thousand , it is officially reported , already have crossed the frontier . They are from widely differing sections of the population , including local government officials , journalists , some British women married to Czechoslovaks , a few soldiers , and others . 1Gestapo Tactics Used They arrive without luggage , only " what they stand up in , " having crossed the frontier in the dead of night after many of their own friends or acquaintances have been interrogated or arrested by members of Communist local action committees . Following the practice of the Nazi Gestapo and the secret police of other totalitarian regimes , these action committees have done most of their work in the early hours of the morning , these fugitives declare . Persons who are members of President Eduard Bene former political party and of the ( Roman Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee investigations . They are the people especially considered to have a western European outlook . Not Confined Any known to have fought on " the other side " in the last war are suspect , by which is meant those who fought not on the German side but with the western allies , especially with the Birtish Army . It is the irony of fate that these refugees are being sheltered momentarily in the internment camps in which the Sudeten Germans expelled by Czechoslovakia during the past two years hitherto have been placed , since there are no private houses for them . Such is the case , for example , at Moschendorf , near Hof in Northeast Bavaria . These refugees , however , are treated by American Military Government authorities as political refugees , which means they are not behind barbed wire but are free to move about . But they get the same food as did the Sudeten Germans . The problem of what to do with these refugees is an urgent one . They can not be placed together with the Sudeten Germans , and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be that a displaced persons camp will be found for them , but it is felt in Bavarian political circles that responsibility for them later will have to be the task of the International Refugee Organization , especially if hundreds of thousands more cross the frontier in coming weeks . Some already have expressed a desire to go to Britain where they were during the recent war , while others look further afield to the United States where they have relatives or acquaintances . Meanwhile the United States Military Government announced that it has suspended extradition of Germans wanted by Czechoslovakia for trial on war crimes charges .. No such extradition has been granted for several weeks , it was explained .                     