@@710821

txt A resounding success for the followers of Gen. Charles de Gaulle seems assured by latest results of the Oct. 19 municipal elections in France . The liberation leader 's party , entering the election lists for the first time , has given every appearance of having accumulated unexpectedly heavy poptilar support . This very support , however . has added new complications to the already extremely complex and delicately balanced . French political scene . Much of the de Gaullist gains appear to have been won at the expense of the Mouvement Republicain Populaire , the predominantly Roman Catholic Popular Republicans ( MRP ) . This is a center party whose support has been instrumental in holding the Socialist Party at the helm of France . Thus , the Premiership now hangs in the balance . ; Cabinet . Chances Loom Moreover , the de Gaullist faction , despite its powerful showing , at the moment is represented in neither the Cabinet nor the National Assembly . This situation almost certainly will call for rectification . Although the Communists likewise are not represented in the Cabinet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakened , however . Rather they apparently have held their posititin , and the result thus intensifies the cleavage of France into two blocs . In the early returns , the Gaullist party obtained about 38 per cent of the votes , the Communists 30 per cent , Socialists 20 per cent , and the Popular Republican Movement 10 per cent . Thus , the new block against the Communists , the Rally of the French People ( RPF ) , already is stronger in numbers . In a country customarily as divided as France , for a single party to register 38 per cent at the polls is a remarkable showing of strength . Particularly in Paris , undoubtedly as a reaction to the Metro and bus strike , the de Gaulle party has shown definite strength , obtaining 48 out of 90 seats on the Municipal Council . However , the Communists have retained their 27 seats . The General 's brother , Pierre de Gaulle , was one of the Rally Members elected , and as the Daily Liberation says , " The 48 Rally members will undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move more political than municipal . " ? The MRP , Foreign Minister George Bidault 's party , was the greatest loser to the de Gaulle forces . The newspaper Liberation said on this point , " We thought the Rally would nibble at MRP . It has devoured it ! " Only where the Rally had no list of candidates did the MRP do well . Aube , the MRP daily , could only comment , " Branches have been broken  --  large branches  --  but the tree still has solid roots . " What this portends in the immediate future is the vital question . These were only municipal elections , but all parties had labored to make of it a national political trial of strength ? and the voters apparently well under stood this , as the balloting indicates . The RPF has no status in the National Assembly which will reconvene on Nov. 13 . But such constitutional deficiencies may prove to mean little when a movement such as the RPF gains momentum . It is worth recalling that at the last Assembly session a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " meaning a group or bloc made up of volunteers from various parties . At that time , it claimed around 75 members , but only some 30 names were disclosed . Now with what has been in effect a national referendum on the question of General de Gaulle and his ideas , it is possible that many Deputies will join this " intergroup , " making it perhaps the largest single unit in the Chamber . This would put the Communists in second place . Ramadier Role Difficult Meanwhile , the position of Socialist Premier Paul Ramadier has become most difficult . Instead of one strong group oposing him , the Communists , he now has two  --  the Communists and the RPF . The MRP , which co-operated with the Socialists , has been heavily reduced , and there is the possibility that M. Ramadier will have to step down . The Socialists still keep their position of third party , but the hardening of the rest of the French political picture into two opposed blocs promises to make operations even more difficult for Leon Blum 's party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setback to the MRP is one more sign that the French schism is a left-right split . For both of these are center parties . The center parties are slipping , according to the indications , and if they decline , the issue becomes one of greater tension and concentration of power in two opposing camps , capable of precipitating a major conflict , It seems certain that the RPF will attempt to exploit its success by obtaining representation in the Chamber . Just what governmental changes will come out of this new division is uncertain- . But at any rate , the French genius at compromise will be tested as never before .                     