@@705848

txt Businessmen and consumers generally dependent on imports from abroad should n't feel too optimistic about prospects that the shipbuilding program will alleviate their shipping shortages in the near future . When will the shipbuilding program relieve the shipping shortage ? Officials of the Maritime Commission generally answer : For imports of defense materials , by early 1942 ; For imports of non-defense materials , probably not until the summer of 1942 , at the earliest . Here are some of the things these officials worry about , which may increase-the shipping difficulties before new construction can really make itself felt : 1 . Sinkings of Allied ships , high officials think , may increase before this year is up . 2 . Shipments of lease-lend materials to Britain are due for a rapid increase early next year and will require more ships to be operated in the North Atlantic , even if sinkings do n't increase . 3 . Aid to Russia in any - volume probably will mean longer , slower outbound journeys for cargo vessels which return to the United States with defense materials from Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American neutrality patrol in preventing Nazi attacks on British shipping in the North Atlantic , substantial losses continue , CoMmission officials say . They attribute the decrease from the high rate of sinkings in the spring more to German concentration on the Russian war than to the activities of the neutrality patrol . Whenever Germany can turn her attention again to the sea war , sinkings will increase , they believe , and this means that more U. S. merchant ships may have to be made available to keep lease-lend materials moving . Such a move would be in keeping with President Roosevelt 's assertion Monday that the United States must " more greatly safeguard " shipments to Britain . Evidence that there is even now a shortage of shipping space for lease-lend materials comes from officials in charge of the Department of Agriculture 's food purchases for Britain . By 1942 , U. S. output of tanks , ammunition and artillery will be much expanded , and it will be possible to increase these shipments also . Diversion of ships to Vladivostok or Basra . Persia , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these ports , it is contended . In the case of Basra , on the Persian Gulf , the time required for the trip would add over a Week 's time to the voyage of a ship from New York to the East Indies for defense Imports . On the other hand , there are several factors which could relieve the shipping situation to some extent : 1 . Operation of about 400,000 tons of Axis shipping in Latin American ports may permit a few U. S. ships to be diverted to other routes or to be used more effectively for bringing strategic materials from Latin America . 2 . There are indications that about 18 French , Estonian and Lithuanian ships in U. S. and Latin American ports may also be seized , a total of about 165,000 tons . 3 . Efforts are being made to insure speedier loading of ships in Far Eastern , , African and Indian ports . From now until the end of 1941 , about 50 new ships will be delivered . In the first quarter of - 1942 , , according to Maritime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of these ships are being constructed for the British by the Todd Shipbuilding Corp . on an order for 60 placed before the lease-lend program was approved . In addition to these . the British are due to get some of the emergency ships being built by the United States . Other ships probably will go to the Army and Navy . There is no immediate request from these departments for additional transports . but Commission officials expect some new requests . Under the Merchant Marine Act , the Commission is required to supply the Army and Navy before any other needs are met . How many of the 140 ships delivered in the coming six months will he used to bolster U. S. imports is n't yet decided , but for the foregoing reasons the number may be small . Any which are made available for this purpose will be used for imports of tin , rubber , copper and other defense materials and not for non-defense commodities . In the succeeding six months , 200 more ships will be put in operation , and , providing there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided the United States does not enter the war , an Increase in non-defense imports may be possible . In June , importers for the first time definitely felt the pinch of shipping shortages and import priorities . The foreign trade report of the Department of Commerce showed a drop in receipts of sugar , tea , cocoa , copper , rubber and tin , among other important items . However , imports of rubber , tin and copper can be expected to show an increase when the July and August reports are available . But similar difficulties may be expected to affect shipments of other defense materials throughout the rest of this year .                     