@@705108

txt Well-authenticated Swiss reports that the Axis hopes to break up the French Colonial Empire and transfer its parts to German and Italian control , are taken to indicate genuine concern lest the French Empire should be transformed by Free France into an ally of Brit-ain . The Axis is worried by the movements of Gen. Charles de Gaulle , the Free France leader who , has not returned to England since his abortive attempt at Dakar , and about whom , except for reports that he had landed in the Cameroons , no reliable information has been forthcoming . Similarly , the mission of Gen. Maxine Weygand to French Africa remains wrapped in mystery . The French Colonial Empire , the second largest in the world , has a population of 65,000,000 distributed over an area of more than 4,500,000 square miles , Its various parts range in size and strategic and economic importance froia Algeria and Tunisia to Pondicherry in India or from French Indo-China to French Guiana in South America and includes such League of Nations mandated territories as Syria , Togoland , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General de Gaulle has already lined up an important part of the Empire known as French Equatorial Africa ? formerly the French Congo  --  which together with the Cameroons and Chad forms a formidable bloc stretching from the Atlantic to Libya in the north and the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan in the east . With the ex The rule of Gen. Auguste Nogues in Morocco , according to quite recent reports , is finding some serious opposition because of his easy compliance with the dictates of Vichy . Vichy propaganda in Morocco is directed toward proving Britain responsible for the present deteriorating conditions and that Britain intends starving out Moroccothei e is a growing scarcity of foodstuffs , including sugar and flour . Tunis , French Morocco , and Alm is are all quite closely attached to France , the former two having been attached to the Ministry of Fmeign Affairs , while Algeria came under the Ministry of the Interior . Active in Free France How French Indo-China will swing has been settled for the time being by Admiral Jean Decoux. who was sent out by Vichy to replace Gen. Georges Catroux @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Gaulle 's Free France . He is now back in London and is expected to play an mportant role in the activities of Free France . Admiral Decoux Sept. 22 yielded o dictates of the Nazis regarding J C apan 's demand to make Indohina a military jumping off g Cround for rear attacks upon hina . In mandated Syria the situation a still vague though Germany is believed to be anxious to procure a hold among the Arab population Italy had in Syria during the past weeks , it has hitherto achieved little success in its attempts to stir up trouble against the British , and equally there are few signs of any strong political support for Free France . A recent German radio announcement declaring that the French Army in Syria was " completely in a position to protect Syria " may be taken as indicative of Germany 's concern over that state . ? The attitude of the other French colonial possessions scattered ( ) ye ' the seven seas is naturally influenced considerably by reasons of self-preservation and economy . With the British fleet controlling oceans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire it is clear that their interests lie in co-operating with Britain . This is all the more so since Britain has made it clear again in Premier Churchill 's Oct. 21 broadcast to France that Britain has no intention of annexing any French territory and simply asks , in the Premier 's words , " If you can not help us , at least you will not hinder us . " Vichy 's control wherever it exists in these colonies is in no small measure due to fears of German revenge upon their own kith and kin in France among many French officials and soldiers . But it is one thing to follow Vichy and another thing to change from French to German , Italian , or Japanese control , and if such a big step is being contemplated by Vichy in its negotiations with Germany , it would certainly produce much opposition if not open revolt . Support Britain Special to The Christian Science Monitor TRINIDAD , B. W. I. ? Reports by persons who have arrived at British Caribbean ports from Martinique and Guadeloups suggest that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Britain , though the frequent clashes of dissidents with the police which marked the weeks immediately following the armistice have subsided . The pro-Petain factions are said to comprise mainly the . military , Government officials , and large ? andowners , though how long the majority of these will remain loyal to the Vichy regime in the face of worsening economic conditions is a question . Salaries of officials and the defense forces are said to be in arrears , and the sugar industry which is an important one to both islands is facing difficulties with the greater part of the 1940 crop unshipped . It is reported that the mayors of Martinique communes have passed resolutions of loyalty to Britain , which presumably could not be transmitted , and the populations both in the islands and in the mainland colony of Cayenne are said to be smuggling valuables out to relatives and friends in neighboring British possessions . While these reports can not be verified , they can be checked one against another , and it appears probable that a good deal of unrest does in fact continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who are mainly of African descent and are certainly aware that under Nazi control their lot is likely to be infinitely worse than it has ever been under the tolerant and sympathetic French administration . Aide to de Gaulle tcle World Gen. Georges Cairottx Replaced by Admiral Jean Meow : as Governor of Indo-China on order of Vichy regime .                     