@@707081

txt THE PROCESS of diverting men and women in non-essential industries and occupations to war jobs continues steadily . Women elbrks in retail stores are being drafted for munitions plants ; practically all fit men have now been withdrawn from the drygoods trade as well as all women up to the age of 35. and in certain retail establishments , up to 45 . Older women are filling in ; so many ha.v : , volunteered that the total number of clerks employed by retail drygoods stores has remained practically unchanged since the beginning of the war . The search for manpower for arms plants also has extended to the civil defense organization and thousands of full-time workers are being released to war industries and their places filled by part-time workers . ? ESSENTIAL WORK orders under which a man can not leave his job or he discharged without the consent of the Ministry of National Service do n't always work as designed A case has come to light where a firm dismissed a worker but was ordered to reinstate him . It preferred to pay his wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he caused so much trouble and loss of production . ? THE TRADITIONAL GARB worn by students at many exclusive old-school-tie schools i ? fulling a victim to clothes rationing . Black jackets and striped trousers , which were mostly the rule . arc being replaced by sports coats and flannel trousers or tweed suits of any color . Eton boys keep their tailcoats but now they frequently hand them in on leaving to be sold to new boys . Some schools have opened second-hand clothing shops . Even Christ 's Hospital boys who have worn blue gowns with yellow stockings since 1552 now are unable to replace their picturesque garb and are beginning to wear ordinary clothes . ? ? . THE GOVERNMENT has satisfied the House of Commons that it has no ulterior motives in taking power to appoint government directors to the boards of certain war factories . Oliver Lyttelton pointed out that the government has advanced C2S0 million to engineering firms and must have the authority to appoint additional directors where efficiency of production demands such- action . This is only done , he added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If necessary . the government has the power to appoint a controller for an armament plant , but the object of appointing directors is to forestall the necessity for such a drastic step . In view of these substantial safeguards , the PO members of Commons who petitioned for an annulment of the government power to appoint directors withdrew their request . ? ? ANTHONY EDEN gave a salutaty warning against basing Anglo-American relations upon sentiment and the two nations ' common language and origins when the real foundation should be their common interest in the maintenance of world peace . In practice the difficulty is to merge national self-interests into a common denominator of world interest . This is going to be the crux of the post-war currency stabilization negotiations If the United States and the British Empire can only find a common ground for fusing the proposals of the Keynes and American Treasury plans it would go a long way toward persuading other nations to follow suit Incidentally , British understanding of America and Americans should be helped by a plan sponsored by the Ministry of Information for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life . ? ? ? BBC LIKE RAF are letters of world-wide currency But whereas the RAF gets mostly bouquets . the British Broadcasting Corp . often gets more kicks than praise . Brendan Bracken . the Minister of Information , had the support of a great majority of the members of Commons in refuting charges that domestic radio programs are politically biased . Bracken also emphasized the importance of the BBC 's foreign broadcasts in countering Goebbel 's lies and in bolstering the morale of occupied countries . By and large , the BBC. a strange mixture of government and private control . works well in giving free expression to opinion . As a provider of entertainment , however , the BBC 's monopoly of the air has its drawbacks . ? ? ? LONDON BRIEFS : The London County Council is making its contribution toward persuading Britishers to take vacations at home by sponsoring open air entertainments from June through September . This program will include musical comedy , opera , ballet , circuses , dancing , swimming and athletic contests . ? ? ? British whisky distillers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? ? ? Ambulance trains for shipment overseas are being improvised out of existing equipment ; dining , sleeping and baggage cars are being adapted for this work . British and United States personnel are being trained in their maintenance . 