@@709774

txt Letters to The Times CECIL HOURANLNEIL BRANT.M . MANDELENAKIS . Letters to The Times Partition Plan Opposed Proposal for Palestine Is Rejected a ' Violating . Arab Interests To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Now that partition is apparently once again being thought of in Washington and London as a possible solution to the Palestine problem , your readers may care to know precisely where the Arabs of Palestine stand on this question . As a matter of principle the Arabs are unanimously and totally opposed to the partition of Palestine , irrespective of the boundaries which might be drawn to the proposed states , or of the degree of sovereignty which might be assigned to them . The principle on which the Arabs base their opposition to partition is that Palestine , the country which they have occupied and possessed for many centuries , is Arab territory . They can not allow the formation of a non-Arab state on any part of it , both for the sake of their own security and for the sake of the integrity of the Arab world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ custodians . Apart from their general opposition to partition on grounds of principle , the Arabs also reject specifically the proposals being currently made in Washington and London . There now appear to be two main proposals , one that of " federalization " issued by the British Government , the other that of President Truman , which is reported to resemble very closely proposals made by the Jewish Agency . As far as can be ascertained from press reports the main distinction between the two proposals lies in the area of the proposed states and the degree of sovereignty accorded to them . The specific objections of the Arabs to both are exactly the same and can be summarized as follows : Firstly , in so far as under both proposals immigration would be in the power of the Jewish region to determine , the crux of the whole problem would have been avoided . The present objection of the Arabs to Jewish immigration applies just as much to immigration into a part of Palestine as into the whole , and therefore would not cease with the limitation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final decision on immigration policy were put in the hands of a third party , neither Arab nor Jewish , the problem would still not be solved , for the conditions which have created this problem in the last twenty-five years  --  immigration without the consent and against the will of the Arabs ? would continue to exist . Secondly , both the American and the British proposals incorporate into the Jewish area a very substantial Arab population of at least 350,000 persons , as well as extensive and valuable Arab property . You would thus automatically have in the Jewish area precisely that problem of majority and minority which the proposal of partition is supposed to solve . Thirdly , and perhaps most serious , neither plan would be final . The British plan would not be final because it leaves ultimate authority in the hands of the Mandatory or Trustee Government , leaves open the possibility of radical changes in policy , and therefore encourages the Zionists in the hope that by exerting pressure in London and Washington they will be able to secure the full satisfaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be final because it would not be the intention of the Zionists to make it final . The fact that the Jewish Agency has accepted partition does not mean that it has given up the whole of Palestine . It is not difficult to imagine the policy of the Jewish Government in its own area . The floodgates of immigration would be opened , the Hagana would flourish unchecked , the alienation of land in Jewish organizations would be encouraged . The day would come when the Jewish state would be obliged by its own inner forces to expand , and it could only expand at the expense of the Arabs . It may be said that the Arabs object to every proposal which is made for the solution of the problem . This is not the case . What the Arabs object to is that these plans are concocted in London , tn Paris , and Washington , and then presented to them for their assent , thereby giving the world the impression that it is always the Arabs who obstruct while others propose . If only the Governments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no hope for the solution of this problem until it is admitted that the Arabs are interested parties , that they are indeed the most interested of the parties , then perhaps some progress might be made .                     