@@708394

txt The George bill headed toward a storm in the House today as Republican leaders announced their intention of adding " some very broad amendments " designed to assure that Henry A. Wallace , as head of the Department of Commerce , should not receive the direction of additional agencies , or new functions , from President Roosevelt . On the other hand , House Democrats seemed disposed to try to get the George bill through the House in about the same form in which it passed the Senate yesterday by a vote of 74 to 12 . The bill now " divorces " the lending agencies from the Commerce Department and provides for annual audits by the Controller General of the thirty-six wholly owned Federal , corporations , not now subjected to such audit . The Republicans moved rapidly today to achieve their ends , and even before the House referred the George bill to the Banking and Currency Committee soon after noon , Joseph W. Martin Jr. , Minority Leader ; Leslie C. Arends , the Republican whip , and Charles A. Halleck , chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steering committee of the Senate . Martin Discloses Program That the Republicans were drawing up a program first appeared on the record when Representative Martin , during a floor discussion as to which committee should consider the bill , said that he had " some very broad amendments " to attach to the George bill . The program was not spelled out , however , until later in the afternoon when Representative Jesse P. Wolcott , ranking minority member of the Banking and Currency Committee , gave its broad outlines to newspaper men , as follows : 1 . To curb the President 's " broad powers " under the War Powers Act to transfer any agencies . " Innumerable " loan agencies are not under the Federal Loan Agency . " The President under present law could transfer all lending and credit agencies not in the Federal Loan Agency to the Commerce Department . " The final form of this amendment is not certain and may have to be limited to barring transfer of further agencies or functions to the Commerce Department , or for Congressional approval of any transfers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the audit control in the George bill to provide that the Comptroller General audit all agencies and corporations in which the Government owns 51 per cent of the stock , instead of those wholly owned by Government . 3 . " This is more important than any of the others " ? to divorce the Secretary of Commerce from the Export-Import Bank , on which the Commerce Secretary now sits as a director . " The George bill does n't prevent continuance of this , " Mr. Wolcott said , adding : " It has been generally thought in investment circles that the President is going to ask to raise the capitalization of the ExportImport Bank from some seven hunched million to three or four billion dollars . Wallace as Secretary would dominate the bank and would be presumed to speak for the President . If other members of the board did n't go along , they could be removed . The bank could be used to effectuate his global economic and social policies . " Mr. Wolcott said he believed the Senate Republicans would go along with this program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monday morning with both House and Senate Republican leaders . Committee to Meet Tuesday Chairman Brent Spence of the Banking and Currency Committee said his committee would consider the George and related bills at an executive session on Tuesday . Two bills introduced by members of the House , generally similar to the George bill , are already before the committee . As the situation stood today after the Senate had passed the George bill and deferred action on the nomination of Mr. Wallace until March 1 , Jesse Jones continued as Secretary of Commerce with the loan agencies still in his department , although he had turned over direction of his dual responsibilities to Wayne Chatfield Taylor , Under-Secretary of Commerce . Since a retiring official holds office until his successor is appointed where no date or resignation is indicated in correspondence , as was the case with Mr. Jones ' correspondence with President Roosevelt , Mr. Jones will hold the Cabinet post at least until March 1 . There was considerable speculation concerning the individual the President will appoint as loan administrator when and if the George bill is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been mentioned by officials as the probable appointee , but a strong drive has developed from outside the capital for Henry Kaiser , the industrialist . Some Farm Groups Aroused Meanwhile , having temporarily disposed of one controversial Presidential appointee , the Senate was being harassed by some farm groups over his nomination of Aubrey Williams , former National Youth Administrator , to be head of the Rural Electrification Administration . The Senate Agriculture Committee announced that it would hold open hearings on the Williams nomination commencing on Tuesday morning . ? Explaining why he would vote against the confirmation of Mr. Wallace , Senator Albert W. Hawkes of New Jersey , Republican , and former president of the United States Chamber of Commerce , said that to put a man so closely associated with the Political Action Committee and Sidney Hillman in the Cabinet would amount to having " a second representative of certain groups of labor in the Cabinet . " Hawkes States His Views Senator Hawkes stated that the President made clear in his letter to Mr. Jones that he was appointing Mr. Wallace as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoted the third section of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act as follows . " ' It shall be unlawful for any person , directly or indirectly , to promise * * * any favor or reward for any political activity or for the support or opposition to any candidate or any political party in any election ' " " I take it , " said Senator Hawkes , that this means any person on the payroll of the United States Government . " Stating that " it is easier to give away lollipops than it is to teach sound economics which are in the interest of the people , " Mr. Hawkes warned of " national bankruptcy " and " state socialism under which all people will be limited to standardized Government jobs " if the Wallace program were attempted .                     