@@707612

txt In an intensified drive to keep girls of the early ' teen ages off the city streets at night and to reduce an alarming increase in the number of 13 to 15-year-old girls reported missing , the Missing Persons Bureau at Police Headquarters announced yesterday that a new working schedule had been put into effect for the thirty-eight detectives and nine policewomen of the bureau . Acting Captain John J. Cronin , in charge of the bureau , revealed that cases of missing girls of 13 to 20 years had increased 41 per cent last year . Attributing this to war conditions , working parents , neglectful parents and distaste for school , Captain Cronin said his bureau began last week-end to round up the " bobby socks brigade " in the midtown area . He added that his bureau had joined the Police Division of National Defense and the Juvenile Aid Bureau in a drive to remove from dance halls , bars and grills , movie theatres and railroad and bus terminals girls of high school ages who , he declared , " are often found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new tours of duty of his staff were from 8 P. M. to midnight and from midnight to 5 A. M. Fifteen girls were picked up in the Times Square area on Say. - day and Sunday . Captain Cronin reported a large number of these youngsters had Social Security cards and most of them declared they were employed in war factories . He said the drive would continue nightly . When a girl 's actions arouse the suspicions of detectives she is questioned by a policewoman , he added . If the girl is accompanied by a service man , he , too , : s questioned . Girls who have not been reported missing , but who come to the attention of the police , will be subject to follow-up action , Captain Cronin explained , because the plan calls for notification of parents and a request that they provide better guidance for their daughters . Last year , Captain Cronin said , 3,242 girls 13 to 20 years old were reported missing here . In the same period 3,118 boys of the same age group were reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He added that among the 13-yearold girls the increase had been 40 per cent , Among girls of 14 the increase was 64 per cent and among those or 15 it was 42 per cent . He said 298 cases of missing girls reported in 1943 still were open . Girls left home chiefly because their parents were busy in war plants and nothing had been provided for the leisure hours of the children , Captain Cronin continued . He said his regular staff had been augmented for the drive by eleven policewomen from the Policewomen 's Bureau at headquarters . His bureau handled 13,386 cases of missing persons last year . Of these 5,033 were women and girls and 6,302 men and boys . Only 401 cases remained unsolved at the year 's end .                     