@@709366

txt Letters to The Times GEORGE BARRETT.CHARLES UPSON CLARK.LOUIS G. SCHARF.ISIDOR BERGER , J.F. DUNNING . pg . 23 Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tnass : Judging from . the testimony presented before Secretary of War Patterson 's special committee investigating the officer-enlisted man relationship ? or lack of it is perhaps the better way to put it ? what the GI apparently resents most is that he ca n't buy liquor in his NCO club the way officers can , ca n't sleep between sheets the way officers can , ca n't look pretty in pinks the way , officers can . These very unimportant complaints are simply shadows , not substance . They are only symbols , which in aggregate can and do make for mighty nasty living in our caste-conscious Army , but which in isolated presentation simply depict the GI as a petty social climber who is ridiculously piqued because he ca n't have what some other guy has got . When we speak of the wisdom or foolishness of granting special privileges to officers we generally try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an efficient Army . When we try resolving such problems , therefore , we wish mainly to know how discipline is affected , since discipline is the criterion by which these caste complaints must be measured . Discipline Main Factor But let us remember that it is the discipline of the fighting soldiers with which we are concerned , since fighting is the Army 's business . And then let us bear in mind that it is often the rear echelon officer who associates " discipline " with the strict maintenance of officer segregation and privileges , when as a matter of fact such paper pursuits as they command require no special military discipline to maintain efficiency , any more than employes in insurance companies and banks need military discipline to do a good job . It is therefore very significant , I would say , that in the infantry and the air forces , the two principal combat arms of the Army where discipline is a matter of living or dying and winning a war or losing it , we find the Army 's closest approach to democratic equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bomber interphones that would have raised the hair of the swagger-stick general . It was the kind of mutually profane but healthy democratic talk between adult fighting men that made a mockery of the Army 's traditional idea of discipline , and I remember that these were the guys who so often and so openly defied regulations back at their bases to join each other  --  captains and privates ? at the bar . Fighting Army Needed I have heard exactly the same kind of " undisciplined " talk in the infantry at points of departure and in patrol , times when the one important and almost only real thing to everybody was just living , and I have known where many platoon and company officers who later went to town snarled at rearechelon MP 's who tried to keep them and their GI doughfeet friends out of the same hotel . Feather beds , liquor rations and limousines would be nice things for enlisted men to have , but these are not the things that GI 's expect from an Army . Neither , incidentally , are they things that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men do n't get them . But let us not confuse the whole caste issue with cheap talk about what 's good for the goose being good for the gander . What we want is a fighting Army , and what we need for a fighting Army is discipline . And I emphasize that precisely where complete and unquestioned discipline is needed in war ? in the combat infantry and the combat air forces  --  there , precisely , is where you will find democratic equality and real comradeship between officers and their men and no nonsense about segregation and special privileges . Maybe somebody knows an arm or branch of the Army that did more than the infantry and air forces to win the war . GEORGE BARRETT . New York , April 2 , 1946 . Jaywalking Defended To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Is it not still true that cities which permit jaywalking , like New York and Boston , have considerably fewer pedestrian traffic accidents than cities like Los Angeles and Atlanta , which arrest pedestrians for jaywalking ? That was the case for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trust to common sense and intelligent judgment than to hard and fast rules . With cars turning in from behind on the green light at a crossing , it is often far safer to jaywalk in the middle of a block . The real remedy , of course , is to insist on much higher standards for drivers ' licenses . Years ago I discovered that a 13-year-old daughter of mine had been driving a friend 's car for weeks unchallenged ; and from some of the performances I witness today I do not feel sure that enforcement has been tightened . CHARLES UPSON CLARK . Brooklyn , March 30. 1946 . Military Training Plan Proposed To THE EDITOR OF THE Nsw YORK TIMES : May I suggest a partial solution of the proposed Universal Military Training Act that will make it acceptable to the vast majority of our people . It is that the Army invite boys from 14 or 15 , to 18 years of age , to spend their summer vacations at Army camps set aside for this purpose , where the boys shall receive basic military-training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program should be laid To THE EDITOR OF Tian NEw YORE TIMES : That there are abuses under the rentcontrol laws can not be gainsaid , but what is generally unknown is that many rent violators are tenants themselves . The scandal of subletting is occurring in all parts of the country , particularly in the large metropolitan areas . The most serious scandals arise in the houses of tenants who are themselves protected under the rent regulations and who are charging exorbitant rents for subleased apartments or single rooms . Much of the publicity OPA. has directed against landlords has , in fact , involved rental increases by sublessors . OPA 's propaganda has made it appear that multiple housing owners , as distinguished from tenant sublessors , or rooming-house keepers , were the culprits . This also applies to the situation with respect to so-called " tie-in " rentals , where apartment seekers have been compelled to buy the furniture of tenants who sublease their apartments . Under the impact of the acute housing shortage in this city , the practice of subletting apartments has grown extensively of late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tenant might sublease , but it extends to the leasing of one or more apartments to a single individual tenant , who in turn rents out separate rooms to roomers or boarders at weekly or monthly rates . In a number of instances which have come to our attention , lessees of apartments used for single-room occupancy collect more in room rentals than they pay the landlord for the entire apartment or a group of apartments . In Harlem , for example , it is not at all uncommon ti find operators who lease as many as eight apartments in a building and then sublet individual rooms to lodgers . In most cases the income from this arrangement is many times greater than the aggregate rent paid to the landlord . In OPA 's terminology and classification these lessees or lodging operators are classified as " landlords , " and any infraction of the rules by these operators is made to appear as a rent violation on the part of a " landlord . " Their offenses are played up in such a way as to create the impression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large number of rent violations have been committed by subleasing tenants or rooming-house keepers . ISIDOR BERGER , General Manager , Greater New York Taxpayers Association . New York , April 1 , 1946. out by Army experts , so that these boys will receive credits for each term that may later be applied to their regular conscription period . These boys should be encouraged to augment their knowledge of the different machines they will be required to handle in the various branches of the service by special courses that should be made available to them in high school during the winter ; military clubs or companies should also be encouraged at the school . By this plan idle teen-age boys will be kept off the streets and out of mischief , and it should go a long way to reduce juvenile delinquency . The health of our youth will be greatly hnproved and , being entirely voluntary , they will enter with a spirit and nest that should produce good results . Louis G ; CHART New York , April 1 , 1946 . . Fraud Seen in Subleasing Tenants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Subleases to Veterans Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Last week I put into your paper the following advertisement for my apartment : " East 70 's . For sublease from first week in April for approximately six months , four rooms , furnished . Preference will be given to ex-service man having difficulty finding accommodation . Principals only . " I received within twenty-four hours approximately 250 replies . A great majority of these were genuine cases of veterans and their families being unable to find any place to live . Furthermore , a high proportion were cases of veterans who had been overseas for a considerable time and are still separated from their wives and families because they had to work in New York and could find no home . I can not help feeling that there are a number of New York people of means who have apartments and houses which are closed while they are away for the winter or summer , and I wonder whether some accommodation of this kind could not be released to veterans who have written to us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1946 . Gripes Over Caste Belittled Rank , It Is Held , Cuts Small Figure in Combat Branches of Service                     