@@710296

txt The Dutch-Indonesian agreement providing for a United States of Indonesia under the Dutch Crown was signed here today . It was only four months ago that the pact was drafted at Linggadjati. a village 15 miles south of Cheribon . Java . to end months of fighting between Republicans and Dutch forces . Under its terms , the Netherlands Government and the Government of the Republic will cooperate in the rapid formation of a sovereign dtjnocratic state on a federal basin and a constituent assembly will determine the future constitution . The Netherlands Government recognizes the Government of the Republic of Indonesia as txercising de facto ' authority over Java , Madoera , and Sumatra . The areas : occupied by Dutch forces will be included gradually through mutual co-operation in Rentiblican territory . Measures will be taken at once to insure that this inglusion ? Is completed , at the latest , by Jan. 1 , 1949 . Dr. Hubertus van Mook , Lieutenant Governor General of the Netherlands East Indies , said the signing meant that the Dutch and Indonesian peoples had " laid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the realization of this pact , " he said . " The country is poor and is yearning for the restoration of order and the renewal of activity . " Sutan Sjahrir , Indonesian Prime Minister , declared after the signing : " Great is the uncertainty and profound is the doubt and mistrust with regard to this important event . " But an easing of the tension is noticeable and there is profound relief . There are signs pointing to a clearing of the atmosphere . In Indonesia we are lighting a torch . Let us hope that this torch will remain burning with an ever-brighter flame . " The Indonesian delegation which today signed the agreement refused to attend the reception at the palace of the Dutch Lieutenant Governor General which followed the signing ceremony . An Indonesian spokesman de- , clared that it was not considered fitting that they should participate , as military operations in Indonesian East Java had left people there in an inflamed mood . Under the terms of the agreement , all property owned by non-Indonesians inside the new Republic will be restored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Dutch Timor , but not New Guinea . This group comprises East Indonesia . It is scheduled to join equally with the projected state of Borneo to form the United States of Indonesia . Among those signing the agreement in the Rijswijk Palace was William H. C. Schermerhorn , Dutch Commissigner for the Netherlands East Indies .                     