@@708784

txt The representatives of the three major forces of occupation agreed today on an interim settlement of the controversy over feeding the civil population of Berlin in the American and British sectors . They invited the French representative to sit with them tomorrow at the first formal meeting of the Kommandatur to govern the partitioned capital as a unit . The announcement of the agreement reached by Marshal Gregory Zhukov of Russia , Lieut . Gen. Sir Ronald Weeks of Britain and Lieut . Gen. Lucius D. Clay , Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 's deputy , who arrived earlier in the day , was made jointly by the military commandants  --  Col. Gen. Gorbatoff , Maj. Gen. L. 0 . Lyne of Britain and Maj. Gen. Floyd L. Parks of the United States  --  who , with the French commander , Maj. Gen. Geoffroi de Beauchesne , compose the Kommandatur , which is the inter-Allied City Council of Berlin . The basis of the agreement was not disclosed , but the statement indicated that the western Allies had agreed to bring in food or its equivalent from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that progress had been made toward solving the problem of Berlin 's fuel supply on similar lines , but no definite agreement on when the United States and Britain would take over full control of their own sectors of occupation in Berlin was announced . The only clue to the nature of the " satisfactory arrangement " reached by the Allies on the food problem was that it had been made on a " basis of contribution from all zones of occupation . " 1 Yesterday General Parks drew a distinction between " sectors of occupation " in Berlin and " zones of occupation " in the rest of Germany . Today 's statement did not say specifically that the western Allies had agreed to bring in food from their zones of occupation , where there is a surplus of popu- , lation and a shortage of food , so , it is possible that a deal was made by which the Russians would provide food for the whole Berlin area from the farming regions that they control in the neighborhood of the capital in exchange , for other commodities from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although there has been no final agreement yet on the sector . of Berlin that the French are to occupy , it has been agreed in principle that they will eventually have a small part of the capital under their control and therefore it was decided to invite the French delegate to the opening session of the Kommandatur tomorrow . General Gorbatoff will preside and act as chairman of the council for fifteen days , after which he will probably be succeeded by General Parks for a similar term . Each military commander is to serve as chairman in turn . There has been no apparent change in the situation here . Russian troops are still quartered in the American and British zones , and the burgomasters look to Marshal Zhukoff for orders . That condition is likely to continue until a final permanent agreement has been reached on every detail of each nation 's share of authority and responsibility . TEXT OF STATEMENT BERLIN , July 10 ** text of the three-power statement follows : Representatives of the three Allied commands met again in Berlin on July 10 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater Berlin . The meeting was presided over by Marshal Zhukoff . Lieutenant General Clay and Lieutenant General Weeks represented the United States and British commands . Useful decisions were reached in an atmosphere of complete mutual understanding . The three representatives agreed upon the immediate establishment of an inter-Allied governing authority designed to direct jointly the administration of greater Berlin , under the inter-Allied agreement on control machinery in Germany . The Kommandatur will hold its first meeting July 11 . The three representatives unanimously agreed to invite a French representative to participate as the fourth member of the inter-Allied Kommandatur . The Kommandatur will operate under the general direction of the Control Council for Germany and will consist of four military commandants , each of whom will serve in rotation as chief military commandant . The rotation will be made every fifteen days . Colonel General Gorbatoff will be first chief commandant . The commandants will be assisted by a technical staff which will supervise the control activities of the Berlin local government . Orders and instructions will be issued in the Russian , English , French and German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate problems of food supply for the civil population of Berlin on the basis of contributions from all the zones of occupation . Progress was made toward a solution of the problem of fuel supply on a similar basis . Proposals were put before the meeting for an early bringing into operation of the various divisions of the inter-Allied agreement on control machinery in Germany .                     