@@704989

txt A black powder bomb last night blasted the basement steps and rear windows of the home occupied by Charles Bartels , private secretary and first lieutenant of Patrick A. Nash , Democratic leader , at 35 North Mayfield avenue . No one was injured , altho the explosion shook the Austin residential district and was heard for more titan two miles . The bomb went off at 9:20 p. m . Bartels was not at home at the time . Neither his wife , Anna , nor a daughter , Charlotte , 25 , could offer any reason for the bombing . Secretary of 28th Ward . Bartels , altho his home now is in. the 37th ward , formerly lived in the 28th ward . He has been secretary of the 28th ward Democratic organization for about 30 years . I-Es boss , Nash , is the 28th ward committeeman and is chairman of the Democratic county committee . Bartels , who is about GO years old , started in the 28th ward as a pre . cilia committeeman when the late Roger Sullivan was alderman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sidewalks . Bartels ' name has never been linked with gambling or other rackets , and police are working on the theory that , because he is patronage head of the 28th ward , some disgruntled job seeker held a grudge against him . One puzzling factor was a visit to Bartels ' home after the bombing by James iBig Jim Martin , colored policy king . Threat to Kidnap Policy King . Capt . George Homer of , the Austin police district , who was at the Bartels home at the time , said he had not seen Martin , but others saw the latter arrive hurriedly and remain about 20 minutes before he departed . Martin is known to have left the city about two weeks ago after receipt of a kidnaping threat . He is the owner of the Airplane Inn , 1900 Lake street , and lives in Maywood . Bartels returned'to his home shortly before midnight and could offer no motive for the bombing . He said , however , that about a week ago he received a " pecult " telephone call from a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identify himself , however , became argumentative and said : " 1 can take care of you . " Bartels said Martin has been a close friend for several years and handles his political affairs in the Negro section of the 28th ward . The explosion cracked stone steps leading to the basement , broke windows in the basement and first and second floors in the two story brick building , and smashed dishes . The damage was estimated at $200 . The second floor is occupied by a Mrs. John W. Ford and her daughter , about 17 . Mrs. Ford 's brotherin-law , Joseph , is a Democratic politician In Oak Park township . The Fords move 'd In reciiy.                     