@@707774

txt WASHINGTON , April 22 ? For over two years the military , naval , economic and manpower resources of the United States and the British Empire and  --  through them  --  of most of the anti-Axis world have been controlled and coordinated by six integrating bodies known as " Combined Boards . " With the exception of the Combined Chiefs of Staff , little has been heard of them or their work . This unelected directorate has not only supervised the world 's way of doing business but has changed it in most of its essentials . Its mottoes have been : supply for the purposes of production ; production for consumption ; distribution for need . Its organs have been the Combined Chiefs of Staff , directing military and naval strategy ; the Combined Production and Resources Board and the Combined Raw Materials Board , which have unified anti-Axis production and allocated raw materials ; the Combined Shipping Adjustment Board , which has pooled and directed its shipping resources ; the Combined Food Board , which has planned the best uses of the food resources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Combined Communications Board , which work under the general direction of the Combined Chiefs of Staff and implement their decisions . Rule by Persuasion These vital governing bodies have no authority of their own . They use instead the powers of individual members or those of heads of other Government agencies whom their decisions concern . The boards themselves govern largely by persuasion . The Combined Chiefs of Staff are essentially . a clearing house for the views of members , their numerous experts and the overseas commanders whose duty will be to carry out their decisions . The success of the Combined Boards , which deal globally with materials , finished goods and the ships to transport them , has been less obvious but equally important . Our loss of important sources of raw materials has been countered by the development of new sources and the careful husbanding and allocation of the resources which remained . Without this integration of the war program the war might not have been won . Work With Raw Materials What is the future of the Combined Boards ? The Combined Chiefs of Staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after war as a safeguard of peace . Of the other Combined Boards , the most important today seem to be the two which deal with raw materials and production . On the Combined Raw Materials Board , responsibility was laid for the planning , development , expansion and use of the material resources controlled by the two countries represented on it  --  the United Kingdom with its empire and the United States . On the Combined Production and Resources Board , three countries are represented ? the United States , Great Britain and Canada . The board furnishes the combined Chiefs of Staff with a complete picture of production possibilities in the United Nations , and the war chiefs in turn keep it informed of the strategic policy on which its planning must be founded . The Munitions Assignment Boards allocate finished war materials in the light of the strategic needs of the moment . This , naturally , has involved many a contest with claimants for hungry armies and navies , not to speak of the protagonists of good neighbor policies . This principle of pooling and interchangeability prevails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CPRB has paid so little attention to that nice distinction between mine and thine , which is the basis of peacetime economy , that some of its activities will probably improve the productive technique of the United Kingdom and place it in a better post-war competitive position .                     