@@711258

txt A pilgrimage has reached here today . Two hundred members of the Illinois Historical society , men , women and even children , have gathered to tour the southern tip of the state , beginning tomorrow with this city of iron lace doorways and streetlined magnolias . They have cone to see the edge of Egypt , as southern Illinois is known , because it has a drama all its own , and occupies a special niche in the Illinois story . This rich little tip of river-rimmed land is farther south than Richmond , Va. , but thoroly north in political opinion , as well ' as industrial and agrarian ambition . It is at the same time a contradiction and a confirmation . As unlike the rest of the state as an antonym to a synonym , it scorns the prairies for the fertile , rolling foothills of the Ozarks , the dank , cypress swamps and lazy mudflats of the lowlands . It mixes cotton fields and coal mines , soft , drawling speech and hardheaded business . It abounds with rugged , scenic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentle . winding streams sprung into life by the day 's rain . Bears A Valiant Record With poetic grandeur , it christens one spot where the cliffs resemble streets and skyscrapers , Giant City , and at the same time with homely idiom dubs a stream Hogskin Creek . It bears a valiant record for its part in preserving the Union during the Civil war , but southern sympathizers once had their say here and both run-away slaves and Union deserters found protection in its hills . This is Egypt , so named because once in the winter of the big snow in the early 1800s famine struck northern Illinois , causing caravans of wagons to seek grain from the , southern counties . The deeply religious pioneers were quick to see the similarity between their mission and the biblical pilgrimage of the sons of Jacob into Egypt for grain Testimony To The Secret " We are the sons ot Jacob , ! the northern Illinoisans would say , as people greeted them on their trek , ? going into Egypt to buy Corn. ? " In a sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land of promise , " Will Griffith , editor of the regional magazine , The Egyptian Key , and founder of the Greater Egypt association , which is sponsoring the tour of the Illinois Historical society , commented . " There are still miles of land down here untouched . It . seems hard to believe , but people . don ' t know what 's in them yet . " The ages know net strange and mysterious machinations made this land , and of what it is capable .. Giant City State park . 12 miles south of ' Car : . bondale on U. S. 51 , where the members of the historical society will lunch in a comfortable rustic lodge today . is testimony to the secret . The weirdest of all state parks , porhaps'the weirdest part of ILlinois , it guards a-city of stone on its forest hills . Old Stone Fort , a sandstone knoll with steep . unscalable walls on three sides , at the north end of the grounds . is said to have been the scene of ' fierce Indian battles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pass , one of the highest points in Egypt , , eight or nine miles from Giant ? City , on state road 127 , the famous ? Black Diamond* road . Here on a great rise , one sees fazous Bald Knob , the treeless peak that broods over the Shawnee National forest . Then 10 miles south on 127 , there will be a stop for history In pictpresque Jonesboro . A granite marker . almost covered with vines , in the old fair grounds , saves for time the spot where Lincoln and Douglas had their third debate on issues that later crystalized in war. ? The Valley Of . Grain Two miles south of Jonesboro stretches a peaceful valley . ' known for almost 100 years as : Korathal .... Valley of Grain ... In it rises a beautiful , aban  --  doned , old , wooden church Built before the Civil war by sturdy German settlers , it was made strong and graceful of yellow poplar , and dedicated as St. Paul 's Evangelical Lutheran church . Inside , beneath a delicate fanlight , a white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of old world carving . Net , because the church no longer has a supporting congregation . it is propose a to convert its simple , perfect dignity into a multiple residence . Unless efforts of loyal E'ptians to have the.state legislature make a shrine of ; the church are successful , these members of the Illinois Historical society will perhaps be the last to see this relic of precise religion , which was erected hopefully in a wilderness . But the tour will go on , : south along route 127 , thre : Tarns winding south and east , the pilgrimage will stop at Mound City in Pulaski county , on the ' banks of the Ohio river . Then it will be back to ' Cairo , city of graceful , charm 