@@706196

txt The Battle of the Atlantic flared within 150 miles of New York City yesterday . The Third Naval District Headquarters at 90 Church Street announced that the tanker Norness , of Panamanian registry , had been torpedoed about sixty miles southeast of Montauk Point , not far from the approaches to New York Harbor . The announcement here at about 10:30 P. M. came after an earlier announcement from Washington that the tanker had been sighted awash off Long Island . With the Washington announcement a Navy warning was flashed to Atlantic Coast shipping to beware of Nazi submarines . An authorized Navy spokesman declared that the submarine menace extended " pretty well up and down the East Coast . " Early this morning the Navy Department at Washington announced that thirty-nine of the crew of forty had been saved . Those rescued included Captain Harold Hansen , in command of the tanker , and six other officers . The Navy announced that the tanker had been torpedoed early yesterday morning and that Navy vessels from New London , Conn. , and Newport , R. I. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survivors were brought ashore at New Bedford , Mass. , and the others were taken to the naval torpedo station in Newport Harbor . There were no Americans in the crew . Go to Station 's Sick Bay No one except Navy personnel was permitted to talk with the survivors landed at Newport , but the fact that they remained in the sick bay at the Torpedo Station and were not taken to the Naval Hospital on the mainland indicated that they had not been seriously injured . The attack revealed the closest presence of submarines to the shoreline of the United States since 1918 , when U-boats shelled ' and sank ships off the coast of New England and New Jersey . Bad weather at sea and the need for preserving secrecy regarding the movement of naval vessels engaged in the rescue , because of the possible lurking of submarines in the area , clouded the activities of the rescue ships . The Norness , a tanker of 9,577 tons , was a modern ship 489 feet long and with a 65-foot beam , built in 1939 by the Deutsche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was owned by the Tanker Corporation , a Norwegian company , and ope ? rated by Johann Rasmussen &; Co. , of Norway , as managers , with Panama as the port of registry . After the German conquest of Norway the company moved its of ? fices to New York . Hit by Three Torpedoes Erling D. Naess , president of the Tanker Corporation , said last night at his home in Short Hills , N. J. , that his agents had received reports that the vessel had been hit by three torpedoes . The tanker , with only the bow protruding from the water and with lifeboats surrounding her , apparently was sighted some time yesterday afternoon by a patrol airplane that was unable to determine whether she was the victim of a submarine . The position of the tanker placed her directly in the sea lanes from New York across the North Atlantic and apparently not far be . yond the mine field that the Navy recently announced had been laid as a protection to the approaches to New York Harbor . The Navy warning issued from Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tanker , indicated that German TJ-boats had opened a new drive against shipping on the life-line between the United States and Britain . On Dec. 20 the Navy issued a formal statement dealing with the reasons for limiting weather forecasts on the ground that they would be of value to the enemy and explaining that the report of a weather movement as far inland as the Dakotas might indicate a forecast that would be of value several days later to raiders at sea . Last Saturday the Navy announced that the fleet was investigating reports that German submarines were in New England waters and two days ago the torpedoing of a 10,000-ton merchant ship only 180 miles off the coast of Nova Scotia was announced . There has been no indication as to how many submarines the Navy believes are operating in American coastal waters or regarding the extent to which patrols are being diverted in search of them . The North Atlantic sea lanes have been virtually free of submarine attacks for the past two months , but this was believed at least partly because of Winter weather over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war against Germany it was believed logical that U-boats would range calmer waters off the American coast in an effort to cut down the amount of lease-lend aid that is being sent to Britain from the Eastern ports of the United States . It was not believed , however , that Germany could keep up widespread warfare of this sort because of the long distance that submarines must travel from their bases . Furthermore , operations of submarines in coastal waters bring them within a powerful screen of air and surface patrol craft , which makes the venture extremely hazardous . During the first World War German submarines attacked ships off the Eastern seaboard between May and September , 1918 , but not one convoy was attacked and not a single transport was delayed in sailing . On June 2 , 1918 , a submarine prowled along the New Jersey coast and sank six small ships , including a passenger steamer . A little more than a month later , on July 21 , a U-boat rose to the surface in full view of bathers on Cape Cod and attacked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was driven off by planes . Japanese submarines attacked several ships off tthe Pacific coast after the opening of the war with Japan , but now appear to be very wary . Since the last war many new devices have been perfected for the detection of submarines . Preparations to meet the submarine menace were taken along the coasts of the United States long before the outbreak of the war . In addition to the powerful and numerous fleet of submarine chasers operated by the United States Navy on constant patrol , the use of blimps for cruising up and down the coast to spot U-boats recently was announced .                     