@@709771

txt Letters to The Times ALFRED KOHLBERG.ROBERT F. WAGNER Jr.JULIEN ELFENBEIN . Letters to The Times Our Ally the Kuomintang A Student of Chinese Affairs Urges Support of the Present Government To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE TIMES of Aug. 20 contains a letter by Herman B. Gerringer , which repeats a number of widely held misconceptions of China . Mr. Gerringer not only excuses the ambushing and shooting of our marines by the Communists , but says he is astonished that they did n't start shooting our boys months ago . If he had read The Daily Worker , he would be informed that since last December the Chinese Communists have killed thirtynine of our marines and wounded many more . What were the marines doing ? Keeping open the lines of communication , as provided by the truce agreement of Jan. 10 , 1946 , negotiated by General Marshall and signed by the Kuomintang and the Chinese Communists . Clause C of this truce read : " Destruction of , and interference with , all lines of communication will cease and you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such lines of communication . " Communist . Not Democratic Throughout his letter Mr. Gerringer refers to the " democratic forces " and " democracy " and " democratic China , " using the words in the sense usually employed by the Russians when they refer to the Governments of Eastern Europe , the coalition Governments of Poland , Yugoslavia , etc . To understand them , it is only necessary to read in place of the word " democratic " the word " Communist . " When he says , " Mme. Sun Yat-sen , spokesman for democratic China , " the same reading for the word " democratic " completely clarifies the meaning . Mine . Sun may or may not be a member of the Communist party , but she has long been completely Marxist in her attitude and activity , as is well known to every student of the China scene . Mr. Gerringer refers to " the dispute between the major factions . " There are factions within the Government of China , but he does not refer to them . He refers to the dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the constituted Government of China , in power since 1927 and recognized by every one of the United Nations , including Russia , which signed a special treaty of amity and alliance with it just a year ago . Russia promisjtd to give " military equipment and otb.Pr material resources " to It only . Surely this constituted and recognized Government is not a " faction . " On the other side are the Chinese Communists , a rebel force in arms , under the direct orders of the Communist International and not truly a Chinese faction . Leaders Not Reactionary Another common misstatement repeated by Mr. Gerringer is that the Kuomintang is made up of reactionaries . I am personally acquainted with many of the leaders of China and especially with the two most frequently called " reactionaries " and even " fascists " by the leftists  --  Generals Ho Ying-chin and Tu Li-ming . All these men were the young semiSocialist revolutionaries of the second Sun Yat-sen Revolution of 1924-27 , somewhat mellowed by time and responsibilities , but still about as leftist as the British Labor party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic philosophy would be roughly on a par with that of Henry Wallace , Harold Ickes and Chester Bowles . Mr. Gerringer 's suggestion is for the United States to abandon China and leave it to its fate ( read : the Russians ) , which he says would result in a forced coalition Government . This is exactly the policy we followed in Poland and Yugoslavia . Mr. Gerringer is probably correct in expecting the same result in China , if we follow his advice . The difference is that Russia would in China come into possession of 500 million slaves instead of the 30 or 40 million in Yugoslavia and Poland , and we would face , across the Pacific , a Red Empire of 900 million inhabitants bent on world conquest , instead of 500 million independent Chinese who might be on our side in the coming war which Mr. Gerringer prophesies . ALFRED KOHLBERG . New York , Aug. 27 , 1946 . Violation of Civil Liberty Seen TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The serious controversy between the American Federation of Teachers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter requires that all male candidates for positions , including veterans , reveal confidential Selective Service data is the concern of every citizen who is interested in upholding the pledge of the Government of the United States . The American people , in a time of national peril , accepted the Selective Service Act . All are in agreement that the information supplied to the Selective Service Boards by some twenty million Americans shall be kept inviolate . And our Government has given its solemn promise that it shall be so . ' The promise of secrecy was necessary both in the interests of the national welfare and in justice to the millions concerned . The Board of Examiners of the city school system compels candidates , under the threat of failure , to waive their rights to the secrecy of their Selective Service files . The American Federation of Teachers , at its national convention in St. Paul , Minn. , condemned this practice by a unanimous vote , and charged that it " violates a confidential relationship and a basic civil liberty , and circumvents the spirit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reply of Edmund J. Gannon , member of the Board of Examiners , in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Aug. 24 , that , " in no way is there any desire or attempt to pry into anyone 's personal affairs or use that information for any other purpose except to get a complete picture , " does not answer the charges made by the American Federation of Teachers . Boards of Examiners in the past succeeded in getting a complete picture , and did an excellent job of licensing tens of thousands of fine teachers for decades without the aid of a Selective Service law . Surely , Mr. Gannon and his fellow members are capable or should be capable of selecting teachers without resorting to means that can only weaken a law intended for the national defense . The invasion of the right to confidential relationships , the nullification of pledges , are reminiscent of totalitarian . systems . The American Federation of Teachers is correct when it calls upon the Board of Examiners " to desist from this unwarranted practice . " JOHN B. WOODS . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bill Designed to Provide Improvement Is Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A report in THE NEW YORK TIMES on Sunday , Aug. 18 , carried excerpts of a speech delivered in Suffolk County by Gov . Thomas E. Dewey on the previous day . In his talk he discussed the deplorable state of New York mental institutions and charged his predecessor Democratic Governors with responsibility for existing conditions . This calls to mind an interesting situation which developed in 1941 with respect to this matter . At that time I was a member of the New York State Assembly and secretary of the State Health Commission , which included in its membership the State Commissioners of Social Welfare and Health , two prominent physicians , a number of experienced and reputable social workers , and some members of the State Legislature . The commission was an investigating body created by the Legislature specifically to study , and investigate all matters pertaining to health in the State of New York . In the course of its duties the commission conducted a comprehensive survey of our mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterioration and in many respects inadequate to meet the demands made upon them . In behalf of the commission I introduced a bill in the Legislature providing for a State bond issue of $50,000 , - 000 , to be used for repair arid rehabilitation of existing facilities and for the construction of additional accommodations . Under the State Constitution the proposed bond issue would have to be approved by the people in the elec tions following approval by the Legislature . Immediately after the bill was introduced Gov . Herbert Lehman transmitted a special message to the Legislature urging its adoption . Former Gov . Alfred E. Smith used his good offices as elder statesman to secure enactment of the bill . The State Departments of Social Welfare and Health joined in recommending its passage . It was editorially supported by THE NEW YORK TIMES and other newspapers in the State . Despite the fact that the bill was introduced in the Legislature in behalf of a legislative investigating commission , and despite the widespread support it received from people in all walks of life throughout the State , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to come to debate . For reasons which were never made known to me or to the public the bill was killed in the Assembly Rules and the Senate Finance Committees . Both committees were controlled by the Republican party . Perhaps Governor Dewey , after discussing this with Speaker Oswald D. Heck and Lieut . Gov . Joe R , Hanley , who was at that time Senate majority leader , can enlighten the public as to why the bill was summarily killed in committee . ROBERT F. WAGNER Jr . New York , Aug. 30 , 1946 . U. N. Held Lacking Authority To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Suppose the country receiving the ultimatum had been Russia instead of Yugoslavia , and Stalin had seen fit to scorn this world authority as Hitler scorned it in 1939 . And suppose the United States had then brought the matter before the Security Council of the United Nations and Russia had walked out of the meeting . What would be the next step ? Inasmuch as the thesis of your editorial on " America 's Ultimatum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been better to have cited the Yugoslavia incident to drive home the point that we sit on a powder keg today with the U. N. possessing no more authority to prevent war than the defunct League of Nations , when both disputants happen to be big powers ? JULIEN ELFENBEIN . Rye , N. Y. , Aug. 23 , 1946.                     