@@711836

txt An attempt by a Chicago brewery , controlled by the reputed " financial genius " of the Al Capone gang , to " push " its beer here through a recently formed corporation headed by Joe Louis , heavyweight champion , and Ray Robinson , welterweight champion , was blocked yesterday by the State Liquor Authority . Both fighters , however , received a clean bill - of health from the- SLA . After a ft-Mr-month investigation in which Chicago crime authorities participated , the SLA - announced disapproval of a wholesale beer license application filed by World Champions , Inc. , of 2076 Seventh Avenue . Mr. Louis was ' listed as president and director and Mr. Robinson as chairman of the board of directors . One of the principal stockholders in the Louis concern was the CanadianAce Brewing Company , Inc. , controlled by Alexander Louis Greenberg , long associated with Chicago rackets , according to the SLA . The Canadian Ace Company formerly was known as the Manhattan Brewing Company , which was owned by Capone , the SLA said . The SLA based its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company , holder of a wholesale beer license in the State of New York , has recently been the subject of revocation proceedings for failure to disclose that Alex Louis Greenberg , a principal ' stockholder and officer of the Canadian Ace Brewing Company , had been indicted and arrested on two occasions . " Also that two stockholders in the Louis corporation , Allen H.1 Schultz , a director , and Arthur S. Freeman , vice president and director , had failed to mention in the application that they had an interest in the Seneca Hotel , Chicago , which had a license to sell alcoholic beverages at retail . The SLA reported : " The Seneca Hotel has the reputation of being gangster-controlled . This reputation arises from the fact that Greenberg is the owner of at least 50 per cent of its stock . " The report added that Greenb'erg had bought some of the stock from a gangster who had been sent to prison in a movie shakedown racket . As for the Canadian Ace Brewing Company , the SLA declared : " From the inception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of the brewery . Such characters as Dion O'Banion and the Touhy gang were involved with the brewery and Greenberg , in confidential official files , was reported to be the manager of the brewery when it was operating under the name of Malt-Maid Company . " Charles W. Chattaway , assistant counsel for the SLA , said Greenberg was indicted twice in Chicago but never convicted . In 1919 he was indicted for grand larceny in the theft of fifteen barrels of liquor and as a receiver of stolen property , and in 1925 he was indited in connection with the theft of rum . Greenberg , born in Russia , went to Chicago in 1904 , Mr. Chattaway said , and entered the grocery business . He joined the Capone gang during prohibition and became " the financial genius behind the Capone mob . " " After repeal , " he continued , " Greenberg 's close connection with the notorious racketeers and gangsters of the Chicago syndicate continued . The Capone mobsters were very closely connected with the operation of the Manhattan Brewery and other breweries in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr. , deputy commissioner , who made the announcement in his office , 270 Broadway , said : " There is no indication in the investigation conducted by the authority that the integrity of either Joe Louis or Ray Robinson can be questioned . The authority believes that the stockholders , directors and officers of Canadian Ace , holder of 100 shares in World Champions , Inc. , had planned to use both Louis and Robinson in an attempt to ' push their beer ' in New York State . " Joe Louis and Ray Robinson have both been licensed by this authority , and Ray Robinson at the present time holds a retail liquor license in New York City . it may safely be presumed that neither of these reputable men would be permitted to traffic in alcoholic beverages in this state if the authority believed they were active partners of characters like Alex Louis Greenberg , who controls Canadian Ace Brewing Company and who has been notoriously connected with the old Al Capone Chicago crime syndicate . " It is the authority 's belief that like many other prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwittingly allowed their names to be used by persons of evil design . " Mr. Louis told SLA investigators that he had known Greenberg for the last seven years but only as a businessman . Mr. Robinson said he had known Greenberg three years and only as a businessman . Other officials of the Louis corporation were Truman K. Gibson , Mr. Louis ' attorney , secretary-director ; Theodore A. Jones , Mr. Louis ' accountant , treasurer , and Mrs. Ida A. Schultz , wife of Allen H. Schultz , and Greenberg 's daughter . A total of 400 shares of stock were issued at $100 a share , according to the SLA . They were divided as follows : Joe Louis Barrow ( his full name ) , 100 shares ; Mr. Robinson , 100 shares ; the Canadian Ace Company , 100 shares ; Mr. Gibson and Mr. Freeman , fifty shares each . Under the voting trust agreement , neither Mr. Louis nor Mr. , Robinson could vote in the corpo iration , incorporated in Illinois last September . The license application was filed here last October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present the subject of revocation before the SLA . The brewery has a license to sell beer wholesale in Albany . Members of the licensing board who rejected the application were Deputy Commissioners George W. Gatz , William Smith and Joseph , Kaitz . At ) aytona Beach , where the heavyweight champion has an exhibition scheduled for . tonight , Mr. Louis declined to comment , according to The Associated Press . He referred all questions to his attorney , Truman Gibson .                     