@@709507

txt Food experts said yesterday that fresh fruits and vegetables will be scarce in Chicago beginning today ; staple groceries should last at least a week , and meat , poultry , and dairy products may become slightly more plentiful in this area if the railroad strike continues , These estimates were based on a condition that housewives would refrain from buying scarce Items such ' as was done in many markets yesterday . With the tightening of food supplies , the office of price admin. istration restored ceiling prices to potatoes which it described as " probably the important single food Item removed from price control . " Warns of Prosecutions Coupled . with this action was an announcement from Rae E. Walters , regional OPA director , that dealers who take advantage of the present critical shortages to boost prices over the legal ceilings will face prompt prosecution . Burlington railroad officials added a bright note to the city 's food situation when they announced that a 90 car frate train , loaded with meat , butter , eggs , dressed poultry , and fresh fruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago this morning . ' The American Meat institute said that if the nation had to depend only on meat in storage , It would be meatless in four days as a result of the rail strike . Supplies of live stock which have continued to move to markets in trucks have augmented storage supplies , It was said . Prices Arc Advancing Supplies of fresh produce in South Water St. market were about normal yesterday , but prices of fruits and vegetables no longer under ceiling prices were going up . Beginning today arrivals will be limited almost entirely to foods brought in by truck from near-by states . These will include turnips , spinach , radishes , cabbage , and some asparagus , department of ag ? riculture officials said . The Illinois Central railroad , which is still operating , usually brings beans and potatoes from southern states and pineapple from Cuba . Altho live stock shipments to Chicago hit a new low for Friday , stock yards sources predicted that Chicagoans next week may get more meat , especially beef , if trucks continue moving their normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share of live cattle Is noved into Chicago by truck , while le rails customarily move nearly ill live cattle and dressed meat out ) f the city . The strike may reverse last week 's situation in which New York and gewark , and Jersey City , N. J. , pack . ors slaughtered 15 per cent more rattle than a year ago , Baltimore , Ad. , and Philadelphia , Pa. , 26 per lent more , and Chicago 48 per cent ess , packers said . Department of agriculture officials sold most , dairy and poultry Products come into Chicago by truck , and thipments to the east that can not be completed by rail may stop here . Fish dealers were optimistic about heir supplies . Albert E. Burhop , L large dealer ; said truck and air shipments arc expected to keep supplies almost normal . nuns on Food Stores Housewives , however , may deplete supplies of all foods in groceries , If yesterday was any indication , said John Tunzer , secretary of the Food Distributors Association of Illinois . Buyers went wild and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restaurants had enough food , but could not predict how long such a situation would continue . Restaurants adhered to their usual menus , but said shortages might appear at any time . The Chicago and North Western railroad announced it expected to move a GO car irate train of perishables into Chicago from Clinton , Ia. 