@@710782

txt Most of the food America is giving Europe is being delivered into the hands of government favored food dealers in Germany , Italy , Austrik , and Greece who sell it for cash to their country 's hungry , official spokesmen for the state and war departments revealed today . These foreign merchants are al . lowed to withhold a stipulated han ? dling charge for their part in distributing the American donated sup . Plies . The war department spokes. man said these " handling charges " are comparable to the pre-war profits these same merchants took from their food sales . Money Goes to " WPA " All the money these merchants take in over and above their " hon. dling charges " from the sale of the American supplied goods goes into a government adthinistered job cre ? acing and reconstruction fund for their country . It operates similar to an American prewar WPA pro . gram . Only a small part of the food paid for by the American taxpayers to " give " the hungry of Europe actu. ally is given away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are given to European hospitals , war orphans , and the poor . The rest is sold . The state department is using the 350 million dollars appropriated by congress last session for a post . UNRRA relief program for Greece , Italy , Trieste , Austria , Hungary , Po ? land and China to pay for the food . stuffs it is shipping overseas . Cur. rently only the first four are being given supplies . Hugo Sums Necessary The war department is feeding the occupied zones of Germany , Venezia-Giulia , Japan , the Ryuky us , and Korea , using regularly ap . propriated war department funds for this purpose . American occupation costs in Germany alone , of which feeding the conquered people reportedly is the largest item , has been placed by Herbert Hoover and other American authorities at close to 600 million dollars annually . The agriculture department re . ported this week that in August it had delivered 2 billion 195 million pounds of food to the state and war departments for their foreign relief programs . It was estimated that this relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 75 million dol. lays . American officials of tire army ' : civilian affairs division take charge of the American gift food upon Its arrival in the occupied zones . Re . lief missions established by Presi ? dent Truman and the state depart . ment take charge of the food going to Italy , Greece , Austria and Trieste . No Money Comes Back In what amounts to a bookkeep ? ing transaction , the American officials overseas " sell " the gift food to the foreign governments or the previously selected and licensed food processors and distributors who are to prepare and put the food into retail channels where It may be purchased by their country 's hungry . None of the money realized from the " sale " of the food ever comes back to the United States . The food is not " sold " to the foreign governments or their agents for what it cost in America but is delivered to them for a price which will permit Its resale thru the stores under already established price ceilings , the state and war department spokesmen explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities are keeping food prices at prewar levels . Thus , to enable the Italian merchants to take $2.75 a bushel American wheat and pro . cess it into flour , macaroni and bread which can be sold ill Italy at prewar levels , it must be " sold " to them at considerably less than the cost price of $2.75 a bushel . Wheat In the United States sold for a dollar a bushel or less before the war . None of the money " paid " the American agents for the American gift food comes back to the United States treasury , the officials said . The money paid them for the food sent Italy , for example , goes in a job and reconstruction fund administered by the Italian government . All the money stays In Italy . 