@@705577

txt Mark Ethridge , speaking with the endorsement of the majority of the nation 's broadcasters , said today that the radio industry had come to " a tragic fight " with the Roosevelt Administration on the issue of monopoly . Addressing nearly 1,200 delegates to the convention here of the National Association of Broadcasters , he- excoriated the Federal Communications Commission as attempting to reorganize the industry on the basis of " bad temper , impatience and vindictiveness . " Mr. Ethridge charged that the commission allowed its decisions to be influenced by " political pull " and that its report ordering drastic revision of radio 's internal relations was an example of " the fast boys moving in and seizing power to de-. feat the people in the exercise the rights . " When he was not called upon to 1VpIy.tco Mr. Ethridge 's address immediately , James Lawrence Fly , chairman of the commission , stalked from the convention room . His fists clenched , he paced the streets outside the hotel . - After ten minutes he returned and picked up some notes which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked if he intended to make a reply . " Leave ' me alone , leave me alone ! " he said . Neville Miller , N. A. B-president , who presided- this morning , attempted to explain to Mr. Fly that it was merely an oversight that he had not received an opportunity to answer and that he might speak at any time . " Do n't make a speech to me , " Mr. Fly retorted . Later the Commissioner said that he felt Mr. Milner had deliberately forestalled any reply and recalled that the N. A. B. head had publicly promised him such a chance yesterday . He added that he felt " the stage had been set " for his remarks immediately after Mr. Ethridge 's speech . If he had spoken , the Commissioner said , he would have discussed the importance of free radio and free speech and the part the commission 's report would play in insuring those freedoms . As for specific points in Mr. Ethridge 's speech , Commissioner Fly said : " I can not argue with a state of mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Fly had not decided whether he would accept it . Delegates eagerly awaited Mr. Ethridge 's speech after his statement last night that he had resigned his special appointmment by President Roosevelt to study operations of the radio industry . Mr. Ethridge is vice president and general manager of The Louisville Courier-Journal , which operates a radio station , and is a former president of the National Association of Broadcasters . Question of " Good Faith " Raised Mr. Ethridge , who has been a friend of President Roosevelt for many years , said that he was particularly concerned by the question of " the good faith of an invitation to make the study . " " I know the President on his part issued the invitation in good faith , " he said , " But there has been a breach of faith and I am perfectly certain that it can be pinned directly upon the commission majority . " Mr. Ethridge recalled that he always believed radio lacked any formulated policy , with the result that both the commission and the industry had reached " an almost psychopathic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stations affected by questions pend-. ing before the commission would make a move ; in short , that the industry was stifled , " he continued . " I felt it was tragic that an industry which depends so much for its development upon creative imagination should have to devote so much of its mental faculty to worrying about where the next blow from the commission was coming from . More than that , I had a much deeper reason for not wanting to see a fight precipitated between the Administration and the radio industry . Points to Present Conditions " We are engaged in a war besides which the adjustment of the nineteen-year-old structure of radio is trivial . I am aware of the argument of Washington bureaucrats that they are always being told that ' now is not the time to touch us . ' But it happened to be simple truth in this case . " After asserting that the country 's " most important job is to beat Hitler , " Mr. Ethridge said : " I firmly believe that the President was deceived as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not being told the decisive possibilities of the sort of fight which was being invited . If that fight comes , he must blame the majority of the commission which insisted upon it . " Mr. Ethridge said that soon after his appointment by the President his investigations showed that there " were no insoluble problems " which could not be worked out to the advantage of both government and radio . " I do subscribe deeply to the idea that the air belongs to the people and that the government is merely the trustee for the people in issuing licenses , " Mr. Ethridge said . " If that be true , there is one test , and one test only , that should be made to determine who shall have them ; who can best use them in the public interest . But nobody would pretend that the test has been universally applied . All too frequently , licenses have been issued upon a basis of what appeared , at least , to be ' political pull . ' " I know of three instances in which the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under consideration , and violated them by almost immediate action in favor of people . who were not unfriendly to the Administration . " Urges " Intelligent " Regulation Mr. Ethridge said that he recognized that there was room for reform in broadcasting , but did feel the industry was entitled to " honest and intelligent " regulation . " Personally , I do not believe you will have that assurance until the President and Congress jointly enunciate a policy under which the Communications Commission shall regulate  --  a policy so clear that there can be no mistake in the minds of anybody , " he said . " I should like to see a new commission , perhaps of three men , so hedged about by safeguards that members of Congress or radio operators , or anybody else who approached them to suggest dispositions of licenses , except in open hearings , would be put in jail . " Mr. Ethridge recommended full support of - the Senate resolution introduced by Senator White . of Maine , for stoppage of execution of the FCC report pending a study of radio control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , president of . the ' National Broadcasting Company , and Edward Klauber ; executive vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System , endorsed Mr. Ethridge 's address . The Mutual Broadcasting System 's majority stockholders have endorsed the FCC report . The delegates voted to continue Broadcast Music , Inc. , which the industry set up to replace the catalogue of the American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers . Broadcast Music was praised as an important weapon in bargaining with ASCAP . A reduction in fees which the stations will pay BALI was reported . About forty stations in the Mutual network formed the Mutual Affiliates Association , with S. A. Cisler of Louisville as chairman . The association will represent the group within Mutual which sides with the N. A. B. and disapproves of the ' network 's deal with ASCAP and the approval of the monopoly report .                     