@@707437

txt In a letter published on this page recently Secretary Perkins made the statement that " the Administration has been successful in stabilizing wage rates . " This follows the assertion by Chairman Davis that the War Labor Board has continued " to hold wages to the general level of Sept. 15 , 1942 . " The contention that wages have in fact been stabilized is apparently now part of the Administration 's " line . " Yet the Administration 's own figures show how incorrect such a contention is . Between August , 1939 , and June of this year the cost of living , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , has increased 26 per cent , hourly earnings in manufacturing industries have increased an average of 50 per cent , and weekly earnings have increased an average of 76 per cent . Why are these figures so little known ? Why do the Administration 's own leaders talk and act as if these official figures did not exist ? This is difficult to understand . It is not difficult to understand , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special student of the subject does not know them . For those responsible for the publication of these figures could hardly bury them more effectively than at present , even if they were making a special effort to do so . Every month the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor publishes a periodical known as The Monthly Labor Review . It is a fat publication . Its articles and tables contain the equivalent of about 100,000 words , the length of an unusually long novel . This is space in which to present a great deal of information and statistics . In the October issue , the latest at hand , the reader can find detailed articles on labor conditions in Bulgaria ; on wages , hours and living standards in India ; on labor in the British Colonial dependencies ; on industrial development in China ; on changes in New Zealand labor conditions ; on new dwelling units in nonfarm areas ; on consumers ' cooperatives ; on living costs in Puerto Rico , and much other interesting information . He will find any number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some crucial and central fact , such as what has happened to wages in manufacturing industries in this country since the beginning of the war ? He will not find it . If he turns to the September issue he will do a little better . He will find that average hourly earnings in manufacturing industries in June of 1943 were 95.9 cents and that average weekly earnings in the same month were $43.35 . He will also find what such hourly and weekly earnings were in May and April of this year . If he wants comparisons further back he will not find them . He will find , however , comparisons of the cost of living which go back to 1942 , 1941 and 1939 . He will find , for example , that all items on the cost of living had an index number in August , 1939 , of 98.6 and in June , 1943 , of 124.8 , an increase of 26.5 per cent . Suppose he wishes to find what the increase has been in the same period in hourly and weekly manufacturing earnings ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , however , if he digs up The Monthly Labor Review for December , 1939 . There he will find that average hourly earnings in manufacturing industries in August , 1939 , were 63.9 cents and average weekly earnings $24.60 . When the reader makes his own comparisons and calculations he will find that as compared with a living cost increase of 26 per cent from August , 1939 , to June of this year hourly earnings in manufacturing industries have increased 50 per cent and weekly earnings 76 per cent . But why should the reader be forced to such roundabout methods to find out the central facts of the present situation ? Why , can not The Monthly Labor Review have an adequate table of contents and an index ? ( The individual copies have no index whatever . ) Why can not a periodical which finds room for so much discussion of conditions in special industries or in foreign countries find room for a single page which would regularly and consistently give such general comparisons of wages ? Why does The Monthly Labor Review give comparisons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage increases ? One reason the Administration has been losing the fight against inflation is that it has never adequately pre- . sented the facts to the American people . In concealing them from the American people , whether intentionally , by inadvertence or by incompetence , it has also concealed them from itself . Until such figures are easily available and generally known , unions which have already received much greater increases than the cost of living will continue to shout that . they are going to strike because they are being robbed ; and it will be impossible to hold a wage line .                     