@@708826

txt TO THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : May I not claim a small niche among the " Letters to THE TIMES " to say that a reading of the most interesting letter of R. C. Leffingwell , published July 22 , convinces me that there is not as much difference between the spon-I sors of this bill and its critics as might be supposed . Most of the criticism , I am sure , is based upon a misunderstanding both of the terms and of the effect of the proposed legislation . For example , Mr. Leffingwell believes ' that the bill " is intended to guarantee full employment after the war " ; that it would put the national Government in competition with private enterprise ; that its purpose is merely " to make work " and , finally , that it could be carried out only by a totalitarian government . No Guarantee in Bill The truth is , there is no guarantee of any kind in the bill . There is nothing in its language to justify the assumption that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is intended to provide madework as undertaken by WPA . Finally , far from being an invitation to totalitarianism. as Mr. Leffingwell fears , it would in my opinion be an insurance against totalitarianism . Mr. Leffingwell tells us : " Of course I favor public works which are justified on their merits as of old , and public spending for relief and unemployment benefits , etc . But I do n't believe in a policy of public works to make work . " The sponsors of this bill believe , as Mr. Leffingwell believes , that the WPA approach through " public spending for relief " was not a successful solution of business depression and unemployment from which we suffered from the early Thirties until we entered a war economy . Public Works Praised It should be remembered that the public works program , under Secretary Harold Ickes , was an outstanding success when measured by the utility of the projects constructed and the financial success of each . It was carved out by private enterprise under the profit system . Workers employed were paid standard wages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the Federal Government , the States and local communities were not prepared with . plans in sufficient number to provide work for the unemployed . Made work as authorized as a substitute to provide relief . It seems to me obvious that advance planning of substantial public works , such as were fostered by Secretary Ickes through the Public Works Administration , is vastly to be preferred to " public spending for relief " to be undertaken after a crisis develops . As Mr. Leffingwell acknowledges , there are many public works " which are justified on their merits . " The system proposed in S. 380 would give us the advantage of being prepared in advance of a crisis , to schedule such works and prevent unemployment , instead of being compelled to act after the crisis by relief projects which experience teaches are inadequate . It must not he overlooked , in considering this bill , that it does not provide a system of executive spending or executive investment . It provides only a method by which the nation can be prepared in advance . No action could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future Congresses . Congress Must Approve It is true the bill provides for a job budget to be prepared in the executive office of the President , but the President is not given free rein . The bill establishes a joint committee to include members of both parties in both houses , and it is the duty of this committee to study any proposal that may be transmitted to Congress by the President . Even the report of the joint committee is not final , but its recommendations are to be laid before the standing committees of the Congress having jurisdiction over any matters that may be included in the recommendation . In other words , the bill was carefully drawn so as to preserve undiminished the full power of Congress over any expenditures . It commits the Government to no program except to have a program for Congress to consider . Mr. Leffingwell acknowledges that " the Federal Government has great responsibility for the maintenance of employment after the war . " He asserts that this " responsibility can best be served by creating and maintaining political and economic conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This is precisely what the bill attempts to do ? to create a system whereby the Federal Government can exercise this responsibility . That it is the purpose of the sponsors to encourage private enterprise is expressly stated in the following language from Paragraph ( d ) of Section 2 : " In order to assist industry , agriculture , labor and State and local Governments in achieving continuing full employment , it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to pursue such consistent and openly arrived at economic policies and programs as will stimulate and encourage the highest feasible levels of employment opportunities through private and other non-federal investment and expenditure . " In short , we have a bill designed to prevent crises in lieu of depending upon Universities a Factor The evidence that pure research requires freedom as its motivating force and does not thrive under planning for immediate goals can be seen from the fact that much of the fundamental research in physics is done in our universities . This is a point where I disagree with Mr. Kaempffert . An examination of the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the articles in pure research are done by the universities . The fundamental research done in industrial laboratories is incidental and is usually done by established scientists who , by virtue of their reputation , have gained certain freedom of ac. ; i , kw .. , Mr. Kaempffert is right in that some research should be planned in the field of applied science . This should be done in the industrial laboratories and by the laboratories run by the armed forces of our country . In the schools , however , the freedom of action which the scientist has at present should be maintained at all costs . It sounds strange to me that THE NEW YORK TIMES should suggest that we should follow Russia . Is not the greatness of our system due to the fact that we are not regimented ? What reason is there for giving up this freedom now and following the methods of regimentation ? If the scientist gives up his freedom , the next question will be : Which group will next be regimented ? JORDAN I MARKHAM New York , July 31. 1945 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forward The writer of the following letter , a former fudge of the Juvenile Court in Ogden , Utah , has been devoting much of his time to the problems of peace . It was at his suggestion that the Utah Legislature memorialized Congress and the President in favor of a Federal world government . To Tile EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRh : In the trials . now tieing prepared for the pr ? e.stsoa , . Axis war criminals the ' Linked Nett , ' asns are quietly taking a momentous , step not even considered at the San Francisco Conference , a step toward peace with implications so tremendous that I am amazed at the lack of reaction from press and public . They are injecting into jurisprudence the doctrine of Individual responsibility under international law . Pursuant to the report of our own chief counsel , Justice Robert 14 . Jackson , published in THE NEW YORK TIMES of June 8 , we propose to charge , try and , we must assume , punish if convicted the individual persons who conspired to bring about Nazi " invasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation of international law or treaties . " For this purpose a special international military tribunal is to be set up by the allied nations . Thus for the first time in history , so far as I know , individuals are to be held accountable for violations of world law before a " world vigilante committee " ? the usual precursor of true government of the people . Unprecedented Step For the first time we can see the possibility of international or world law enforcement by court instead of by war . For the first time we have a basis for dealing with a world criminal before he has opportunity to possess himself of the instrumentality of a state . According to Justice Jackson 's re ? port , in the war-guilt trials we may look to the Briand-Kellogg Pact and other treaties and declarations for the basic proscription of war . Well and good . But these contain neither a pro . vision for individual responsibility not any punitive clause . They are merely promises and declarations of intention and policy by the Governments of the several nations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law by reading into them a clause substan. tially that " any person who counsels , advises , assists in , or conspires for the breach of the obligations hereof by any power signatory hereto is individually guilty of a crime and shall be punished as the other powers shall determine . " Here is cause for great rejoicing . Here even more than in the United Nations Charter we may find the first step toward durable peace . Here is al least a semblance of true world law . a sprig complete with stem , leaves and bud , lacking only the roots . Let us nurture it carefully with courage and with wisdom . It can be made to bear flowers of justice and fruits of peace . I use the phrase " semblance of law " because one element in the definition of true law is missing : a government with legal authority as well as power of enforcement . It is this lack of governmental authority which leaves out proposed joint military tribunal in the unfortunate status of vigilantes . The tribunal can not look to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority , for when the offenses were committed both Axis nationals and Axis territories were outside our jurisdiction . Having no jurisdiction , we can grant none legally to our tribunal . Let us not be critical at this stage , however . Principle Violated It is clear from the texts of the treaties relied on and from all the history of the nations involved that none of the participating Governments considered that they were thereby subjecting their individual nationals to direct lawful discipline by the other signatory powers . On the contrary the existence of such rights in foreign powers has been consistently denied . The proposed rule of individual responsibility in the international sphere , having been enunciated after the commission of die offending acts , is obviously ex post facto as applied to the Axis offenders , and as such does violence to a principle of justice so fundamental that our forefathers felt it necessary to insert it in our own Constitution . Do we want to do this 7 It sets a dangerous course . Under such a precedent we might well expect some other nation tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause , forsooth , last year we wrote our own public servants urging them to denounce unjustly some trade treaty with that other nation . If we must punish individual Axis ofs. fenders for violation of international law , are we wise to do so by an ex post facto application of the first approximation of world law ? Will we not do better frankly to act merely Tor political expediency in this case rather than in the name of justice Should we not reserve the application of this first world law for persons who offend after the announcement of the rule ? But whatever my doubts as to an ex post facto application , and a vigilante method of enforcement for lack of a better , make no mistake as to the main point . This first application of world law to individuals is the real dawn , however faint , of world justice and peace , and Justice Jackson 's une assuming report is a greater , more courageous and historic document than the United Nations Charter itself . PALL THATCHER . Ogden . Utah , July 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed . But , Mr. Leffingwell warns , the bill contains the seeds of totalitarianism . Is it not evident from what we have seen and experienced abroad and at home during the last twelve years that totalitarianism arises when there is no plan to preserve the private enterprise system ? When a nation is confronted suddenly with an economic or political catastrophe against which it has not prepared , then it is driven toward arbitrary power . The full employment bill is a bill for economic preparedness . JOSEPH C. OlvfAHOINEY . Washington , Aug. 1 , 1945 . Editorial comment on this letter appears elsewhere on this page . Pure Research a Need Basic Study Seen as Backbone of Applied Methods TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : An editorial in THE TIMES of July 21 criticized Dr. Bush 's plan for government support of post-war scientific research . Further criticism followed in the column " Science in Review . " Both these articles seem to gloss over the fundamental problem involved , and the alternative which they advocate seems to me to be a step backward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , and this distinction is quite real . Applied research has an immediate aim , like creating some instrument to be sold on the market , or making some instrument to kill or save lives . Pure re ' search has no foreseeable aim but only tries to find some basic principles of nature . The importance of basic research is that it is the backbone of future applied research . Every invention most always has a long background in pure research . Motivated by Curiosity The motivation of applied science is the gadgets it produces and the instruments which appear on the market . The motivation of the pure research worker is curiosity . It may seem rather far-fetched to support people just because they are curious . Yet one must realize this curiosity is in part the basis of our civilization . The public should not be misled by the romance of the fluke discoveries made by people of little scientific knowledge . Some discoveries have no doubt been made by this method , but the main stream of applied research requires pure research . Once the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one must admit that pure research is also necessary . Pure research will be particularly needed after this war to fill in for the lack of this work in the war years . This war has produced a lot in applied research at the expense of pure research . In the long run , this would be detrimental to our country , since no new field of pure knowledge would open up to be applied . One should remember also that the great progress of the OSRD in this war is partly the result of three things which will disappear after victory . Most of the men of science were concentrating on a rather narrow field ; , , the hours were exceptionally long and there was a great deal of regimentation within the organization . These conditions are possible and endurable only under the great pressure of war , but are utterly undesirable under normal conditions .                     