@@706565

txt British dominion forces counterattacked today in the El Alamein bottleneck , 65 miles from Alexandria , and routed the enemy from certain po. salons . They captured more than 600 German prisoners who came forward in the midst of the battle to stir : render . The prisoners said they were too tired to go on . British officers said the enemy 's men apparently were near the limit of physical endurance after their gruelling 350 mile advance in the last live weeks . Continuing attacks by American and British airmen also were having a telling effect on the axis troops and fighting vehicles . Enemy Gets No Rest . The air force is giving the enemy no rest , and fresh allied troops are in the field . Officers and men are confident that they can outlast the axis troops . The British insist they are tough enough to stand the test when the main battle for Egypt is renewed . One striking impression on the way to the battle field was the tremendous activity of the allied air forces . Aircraft were constantly attacking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landing or taking off every minute of two . Some returned only long enough for gas and munitions before setting out on new sorties . The air forces undoubtedly have been a tremendous factor in the stand the British are making and the army does not hesitate to give the flyers credit . Capture 40 Big Guns . CAIRO , Egypt , July 4 ( 4 ? ) . ? The biggest aerial onslaught ever seen in the middle east has rocked the axis armies back on their heels 65 miles west of Alexandria , helping the British ground forces to check Field Marshal Erwin Rommel 's great eastward thrust across the desert and to capture 40 of the big guns with which the Nazi tactician hoped at least to hold what he had won . Hundreds of axis soldiers were captured and a number of enemy tanks were knocked out , a British communique said , as the reenforced British 8th army attacked in the area of El Alamein . The battle continued as both sides strove for a knockout . A dispatch from Alexandria said all kinds of reenforcements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment , were moving along the desert highway to the allies ' front . Describing the allied air attacks in cooperation with land forces as " unprecedented , " the British communique listed 28 axis planes as destroyed in the air and on the ground in yesterday 's all-day conflict . Down 13 Planes in One Fight . Sixteen of these were German dive bombers , 13 of which were shot down in a few minutes in a single spectacular battle over El Alamein with a squadron of South African fighters new to the desert . Evidently the RAF and United States army airmen in the desert put their full strength into the battle . Axis landing grounds , camps , and roads were attacked . Twelve allied planes were lost . ( The Germans claimed 28.1 Report Rommel Digging In . Reports that Rommel was attempting to dig into positions along the northern end of the El Alamein line came from the desert last night . While there was nJ disposition here to minimize the continuing threat to Egypt , it was felt that the heavily reenforced British army had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with full confidence in its weapons and leadership . The Egyptian government announced that axis planes raided the Suez canal area Friday night , but caused only three casualties . Alarms sounded also in Cairo and elsewhere , and Premier Mustapha Nahas Pasha announced that a complete blackout would be introduced for Cairo .                     