@@705702

txt Today is the fourth anniversary of the clash between Japanese and Chinese troops , at the Marco Polo Bridge , outside Peiping , which raised the curtain on one of the greatest wars of all time . Next September will bring the tenth anniversary of the similar incident , near Mukden , which was the preliminary to Japan 's invasion of Manchuria and the overture to a worldwide attack on freedom . Mukden and Peiping are both far away . The events there did not seem , in 1931 and in 1937 , greatly to concern America . We registered our disapproval of the aggressor , expressed our sympathy for the victim , made a few gifts to China , sent a few cargoes of supplies , and let it go at that . Yet Mukden. and Peiping were stations on a road that leads around the world , spanning the oceans , running straight and terrible through American cities and across American farms . Partly because of what happened at Mukden and Peiping nearly a million and a half young Americans are now under arms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our governmental expenses and our taxes are mounting to dizzy new heights . Two opposing forces that now divide the world took clearer shape at Mukden and new strength at Peiping . One is the " New Order " of dictatorship . Mussolini throve on that strong milk until Hitler , bred on a more potent brew , overshadowed and captured him . The road from Mukden and Peiping led to Addis Ababa , to the suicidal civil war that ravaged Madrid and Barcelona , to Munich , to Warsaw , to Paris , to Vichy , to Athens , and , by air and water , to London and the Atlantic Ocean . The other force is the " New Order " of democracy . When one thinks of fallen France and Scandinavia , of Europe in chains , of the armies of two dictatorships locked in Armageddon on the plains of Russia , of Britain staggering under many blows , of America Seemingly unawakened to her deadly peril , it must appear ironical to speak of the forward march of democracy . Yet something has happened in China which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom . " The trickle of supplies from Russia , Britain and the United States does not account for it . Neither does the personality or the organizing genius of the Chinese Generalissimo , Chiang Kai-shek . In hundreds of battles , in a westward migration of ? 50,000,000 persons into Free China , in a new development of highways and industries , in the loyalties of millions upon millions of unletttred peasants , in a campaign which is said to have saved 90 per cent of the population and 80 per cent of the soil of China from the invader and his puppets , China has been reborn . No leader could dictate this rebirth . It has come up from the earth . It has produced a national soul . We of the Western democracies can learn from this amazing spectacle that freedom is still a life-giving force . If democracy grew distrustful of itself in some nations of the West it has been rediscovered in China . Britain is stronger because China fought so valiantly . The splendor of China should help restore America 's faith in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not dead or dying when it can perform such miracles . Imperialism dies in this vast struggle . The souls of white , yellow and black men are kindred when they fight for the same glorious old cause . Even Russia may awake to freedom under her hammering . Some day the representatives of many nations may meet at the Marco Polo Bridge to dedicate a monument to the new birth of peace and liberty . " They did not despair , " the inscription may say . ' ' They did not fear . They laid down their lives gladly , knowing that justice must prevail . "                     