@@708897

txt E x pu lsion of Germans and Hungarians from Czechoslovak soil is the only reasonable solution for this country 's very great minority problem , Eduard Benes , President of Czechoslovakia , declared today . Furthermore , it will be no longer possible to grant special rights to any portion of a minority which might remain since this country learned to its sorrow during the years just before this war that both the Germans and Hungarians willingly allied themselves with Czechoslovakia 's enemies , the President added . At the same time Mr. Bedeemphasized that any transfer of minorities would be handled in the most humane manner possible . In the interview granted in this famous resod high among the hills of central Slovakia where the President is enjoying a few days ' rest . President BeneS recalled that just after the Munich pact he had pleaded with leaders of the German and Hungarian minorities not to do anything foolish and warned them that if war came it would be the minorities which would suffer therefrom . Anti-Semitism Problem He said they laughed at his advice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ robbery and cruelty against the Czechs and Slovaks and that Czechoslovakia was now forced to eliminate its minorities problem in self-defense . Anent the country 's other minority , the Jews , Dr. Betie admitted that unfortunately " a kind of anti-Semitism exists in Slovakia " whereas Czech areas are completely free of this . He explained Slovak anti-Semitism as dating from the days when the Jews were aligned with Hungarian nobility which ruled and exploited Slovak peasantry . He added , however , that the Czechoslovak Government would do all in its power to end this Slovakian anti-Semitism . Turning to some of the country 's other problems , the President revealed that his country was carefully and deliberately following a program of social and economic reform which avoided going too far or being too radical . In this way , he declared , Czechoslovakia would avoid having to retrace its steps later and Would be spared the possibility of violence on the part of conservatives who might want to restore the old system . Enterprise Protected While stating that certain major projects such as coal and metallurgy would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property and private enterprise would be safeguarded . He said there seemed to be some solidifying along political lines in the three main racial areas of Czechoslovakia . Furthermore , he declared , trends to political parties seem to be much the same in each section since it appears likely that four major political parties will arise in each . These parties will be Communist , Social Democrat , Roman Catholic , and National Socialist ( not to be confused with the German Nazis . Thus Dr. Bene ? expects both voters in this country to line up politically with persons who think as they do regardless of whether they are Czechs or Slovaks . This would be a big step forward over the situation existing during the 1930 's when persons tended to line up in racial blocs . Political Outlook Regarding this country 's first elections since the war , Dr. Bend said he was trying to persuade po-1 litical parties to hold them in November and was warning leaders that he would not permit any postponement beyond the end of February . Until now the Provisional Government has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benet ' as President , On Sept. 20 , however , the President will cease signing any such decrees , therefore , elections must be held enabling the country to choose its own lawmakers . At present all parties are represented . After the elections he will insist that all parties continue to participate in the government , at least during its first six-year terms . Three Major Problems He explained that during the difficult and important days ahead each party must assume some responsibility and ' must take either credit or blame for what is done . Asked if this would mean that there would be no official opposi tion , Dr. Bend replied that position would center within parties themselves In the view of President Bend , Czechoslovakia will have to reforms mentioned above . 2 . Settlement of the country 's minorities problem . 3 . Drastic financial readjustments in order to bring the coun- try 's currency into relationship with that of the outside world . However , Dr. Bend , who helped set up free Czechoslovakia after the last war and was instrumental in reviving it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country can settle the stiff problems facing it . In his view , this sturdy little country whose democracy was so strong as to earn Hitler 's special hatred has all the necessary requirements for being a prosperous and helpful influence on all Europe .                     