@@705854

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 6 ? Defense officials and British supply officers here were cheered on several counts this week by the announcement from OPM that military aircraft deliveries by United States manufacturers in August reached an all-time high of 1,854 , an increase of 394 over the preceding month and of 1,268 planes over August , 1940 . This was welcomed not only because it represented the largest gain yet recorded in aircraft output but because it came in the midst of criticism of the whole defense program 's progress . The August production rate , if continued for twelve months , would mean a total annual output of about 22,250 planes , considerably short of the President 's goal of 50,000 planes a year . But OPM expects further increases in the coming months and expects peak production about August , 1942 . Airplanes and tanks are the chief weapons of modern war and the United States tank program is said officially to be behind schedule in both light and medium tanks . The light tanks now being produced in some quantity , some of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are said to be ideal for desert fighting . We have received 34 per cent of our total requirements in light tanks to equip a 3,000,000-man army . Cause for Delay One cause of the delay in production of medium tanks , in which the Germans excel , was the change in specifications to remove 1,100 pounds of aluminum because of the shortage in this basic , material . On other important military items officials give this report as of Aug. 1 : Light machine guns ? Up to schedule . .50-caliber machine guns  --  Ahead of schedule . Scout cars-100 per cent of requirement fulfilled . Sub-machine guns ? Slightly , ahead of schedule . 90-mm. anti-aircraft guns  --  Behind schedule . President Roosevelt said that anti-aircraft gun production would go up to 61 guns per month during the next four months . 3-inch anti-aircraft guns  --  Well ahead of schedule . Modernization of World War 75-mm. and 155-mm. guns  --  Well ahead of schedule . Garand rifles  --  Production above 1,000 a day and ahead of schedule . 60 and 81 mm. infantry supporting mortars  --  Far ahead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program , too , is the building of the Army and Navy to a total strength of 1,917,331 officers and men . This has been done in a hurry , and while the full equipment for soldiers is not yet available , the Army is said by officials to be the best physically , the best fed , the best sheltered and the best clothed in the world . They said these " housekeeping " items are more important in actual warfare than is generally understood and they point with approval to a speech by General Wavell , British Commander in the Midde East , in which he quoted Socrates , the Greek philosopher , as placing housekeeping responsibilities at the top of qualifications for a general and put last a requirement that the general should understand the tactics and strategy of battle . The chief bottlenecks holding up defense are the acute shortages of such basic materials as aluminum , magnesium , nickel , pig iron , copper and steel . Equally important from the standpoint of delaying production have been the rapid changes dictated by the performance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Design When additional armament was placed on planes which were not designed for such loads , the ships nosed over and the basic plane design had to be altered . The same thing happened on increasing armor protection for pilots and other crew members against the heavier guns now mounted on planes . All this consumed time . Labor supply is not yet a Dottieneck , since a great majority of the defense factories are operating on a one-shift basis , but there have , of course , been serious delays because of labor disputes . There is , in fact , the prospect that as many as 2,000,000 workers may be temporarily thrown out of employment in the next few weeks due to the closing of civilian factories whose supplies of raw materials have been taken through priorities for more important defense requirements or more essential civilian in , . dustriea.                     