@@705134

txt Election judges and clerks who attempt to steal votes or who permit trickery in their polling places today will be removed immediately from their duties and arrested and jailed at once . This was announced last night by County Judge Edmund K. Jareckl as ho and the election commissioners completed preparations for today 's election . Three other developments in the city-wide fight for honest elections occurred yesterday . They were : Special agents of the federal buI ? renu of investigation arrived in Chicago from surrounding middlewestern cities for election day duty in the so-called " bad wards , " The agents will gather evidence for District Attorney Albert Won , who has declared that federal trials ' loom for election law violators . Squads of volunteer cameramen Li ) received their final instructions and assignments Waite wards where they will gather pictorial evidence of " repeater " voting and chain bal ? toting frauds , and protograph those whose votes are challenged . Police Commissioner Allman promised special protection for these fraud fighters as well as for polls watchers . 3Mobilization of the 10,000 volun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irregularities in more than 31 of the city 's 50 wards . These volunteers  --  private citizens who rose in revolt against the wholesale vote frauds of the past  --  will be assigned in groups of 250 to 300 in certain wards . There will be two observers and two volunteer challengers in every precinct in addition to regular party watchers and challengers . Board Reveals Full Plans . The full ' plans of the election commissioners for the voting were disclosed for the first time when Judge Jarecki announced his determination to remove entire election boards where fraud 9ccurs or Is suspected . Special squads consisting of police , deputy election commissioners and nonpartisan observers will carry out this part of the program , he said . " The deputy commissioners will be empowered to remove an entire election board , " said the judge . " They will ' swear in an alternate board and then bring the original board  --  three judges and two clerks  --  before me in the election commissioners ' offices . All Officers of Court . " All these polls officials are my officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each instance , regard . less of the type of fraud observed or suspected , the displaced board members will be charged with contempt of court . I 'll set a bond or hold them without ball as I see fit . " The FBI men arrived in answer to a call sent out several days ago after Maurice M. Milligan , special federal prosecutor , who will have charge of the department of justice 's national vote fraud investigation , conferred hero with District Attorney Woll . Fraud a Federal Matter . " The federal courts will have Judddiction over vote frauds in this election , " said Woll , " because it involves votes for federal offices ? President and congress . Tho agents are receiving the assistance of trained investigators who know the city and its political workers . " Candid cameras , long range " big berthas " that will bo able to operate from windows of homes and apartments near polling booths , and tiny pocket kodaks are among the various types of equipment to be carried by the volunteers who will fight vote frauds with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three or more so that no pictures need be lost thru reloading . Commissioner Allman promised special police protection for the cameramen last evening in reply to open threats made by Democratic aldermen and ward workers that they are prepared to smash cameras and run the volunteers out of their wards . The commissioner said his men will keep the peace even it it means locking up city officials .                     