@@710923

txt The Fourth French Republic looks like it is surviving its first open challenge by the communists . Their plan , of course , was to bring the entire country 's activities to a halt through a creeping paralysis of strikes . The plot is heading for failure . Raids on plants and mines where work has been resumed  --  and sabotage . too  --  are still the order of the day . Perhaps the last great gesture may be the call for a " warning " strike of 1.200.000 government employes late last night by the civil servants union . It might well mark the inevitable last phase of the communist campaign . The government should have available now enough military police to protect most workers who defy communist strike orders , and to foil most attempts at disorganizing public services by violence . The Mailman Returns For the first time in ten days mail is being delivered in the offices and homes of Paris . The city is rid of its fear of being deprived of gas , electricity and transport  --  although of these only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communists decide to proclaim the government 's announced wage concessions constitute a complete victory for them . and so call off strikes , the movement of revolt they launched may drag on for some time . Rut they 've lost their chance of overthrowing the government by creating chaos everywhere . Communist objectives were both economic and psychological . They can boast they set hack industrial recovery by weeks it not months . But their campaign seems likelj to end without leaving too bitter feelings behind . If the communists were ever really prepared to start a civil war . they lore realizing by this time it would be hopeless French men and women who do not believe in or toast revolution far outnumber the half million or at most a million fanatics of Moscow persuasion . The atmosphere of almost all France was not and is not revolutionary . It only required a discrete , firm and speedy attitude on the part of the government to avert any danger of civil war . That attitude was adopted and maintained by the moderate Catholic premier , Robert Schuman and his two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It suggests France may yet dispense with an appeal to General Charles de Gaulle to head what could scarcely avoid becoming a comb/nil:ion of all right-wing forces against all left-wing groups In other words , a nationwide split may be averted . Reanon fur Revolt Its surprising the communist plan headed for failure so soon , because never since liberation had workers in cities more reason for revolt against their conditions of living The previous government had made a tactical blunder It had ended economic subsidies ? admittedly ruinous  --  and accordingly ordered sensational increases in the prices of fuel , light , transport and other things that directly affect every household budget And it had failed to advance simultaneously ciene.te measures to soften the blow by readjust ? ng wages . That was playing into the hands of the communists  --  who could exploit some very real grievances of " the masses . " They promptly did so . But their appeal was weakened by three facts 1 Most Frenchmen resent dependeime on any foreign government for guidance in either internal or external affairs They scarcely needed the return of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them his party is Moscow's. 2 The communists ' main bait to the worker was higher wages . But tong experience already has proved to every worker in this country that higher wrsges bring higher prices  - -  and solve nothing for long 3 A tradition remains deep-rooted among French workers : Unions should never be exploited for political purposes Nothing was more evident than that the communists wo re attempting to use labor as the principal weapon for capturing control of the state American Aid America 's aid to France , and demonstrations of intent to aid further , have abetted these influences Not even communists propagandists have ever tried to prove Russia could  - -  - even it it would  --  substitute for the United States as a source of the supplies which are indispensable to French recovery Doubtless communism is being checked but not crushed . It will have further opportunities when the country begins to reckon up the bill payable for the paralyzing activities of the past fortnight . Already it is plain wage concession ? decided upon by the government mean a general readjustment of prices and a new rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ havoc with all existing government budget estimates and postpone the day when the state can cease paying Its way by runrunx banknotes off the presses . While ships loaded with coal are immohlkited in b rench ports stocks of coal within the country are perilously low . Until it is determined precisely that the new wage levels will be and how far they will react upon various prices , no manufacturer will be eager to undertake new commitments even if he can make sure of his stocks of raw materials . Trouble in World Trade A major puzzle springing out of the new inflation will be how to reconcile the rising price level with expansion of expot ts . It will make the problem of currency exchange rates even more difficult . The basic French poser remains this How to stabilize prices at any level The new government 's answer to this is unknown  --  and likely as yet not definitely drafted . But it is probable it embodies an idea which Leon Blum intended to execute it he had assumed the premiership . That is to knock down the prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as freezing bank accounts and paper money in circulation , to reduce purchasing power , have been talked of . The spread between prices of iarni and factory products is still enormous despite a recent rapid rise in industrial wares spurred by price hikes for coal and steel The wholesale price index , with pre-war equalling 100. shows foods now registering 1.122 and industrials 9S7 This is the outcome of political e , onomics . The last French government was in the habit of pampering the peasant to induce him to sell his produce . Then feeble attempts to force him to deliver proved a fiasco . Will the Schuman government try indirect pressure  --  such as blocking bank notes and bank nccounts ? If so wo n't it cast further discredit on the currency in the eyes of both city and rural folk ? But it is a gamble whichmay be made , perhaps together with a bid for use of the really vast hoard of capital hidden by the population  --  which may be made by granting amnesty to those who belatedly reveal their possessions .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         