@@708722

txt What will the post-war refrigerators be like ? What new features will make them an improvement on the ones manufactured before Pearl Harbor ? First , virtually all makes will provide two temperatures and each will have a deep freeze unit . In this special compartment , fully Insulated so that the rest of the refrigerator Is never affected by its zero or minu zero cold , frozen foods can be kept indefinitely , ice cream can be stored , and ice cubes can be frozen In a minimum of time . The main section of a number of postwar refrigerators will be better arranged , affording more room for tall bottles and for bulky items such as watermelons . Shelves will slide out and be easier to clean . Many will be stainless steel . A new principle of chilling by placing the refrigerating coils in the walls of the unit will make for a constant , even temperature within . Provide for Larger Storage Several manufacturers say that high humidity will eliminate the drying out of foods and will permit their storing for much longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its post-war refrigerators wall an ultra violet ray lamp ' which will kill bacteria that might result from this humidity and which also will eliminate food odors . Because of new methods of chilling the units , many of the new models will never need to be defrosted , a feature which will sell thousands of post-war refrigerators to women who have been discommoded for years by the necessity of defrosting each week . Even before production ceased some manufacturers were equipping their products with mechanisms that were a fur cry from the cumbersome " compressors " still ' to be found in so many thousands of homes . Elimination of belts , pulleys , etc. , assured a much more dependable mechanism . Moving parts were reduced to a minimum and the cost of operating shrank to less than a third of the amount considered normal only a few years before . It 's Only the Beginning It 's reasonable to expect that further progress will be made in postwar days and that even more dependable mechanisms will provide plenty of power yet will use increasingly small amounts of current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we 're told . not to expect any new refrigerator 's at all , for at least six months , maybe more . But when you consider that you 'll be able to store thi ' ordinary foods longer and better , that you also will be able to have your own deep freeze unit right in your refrigerator , and that the labor Involved in defrosting will be a thing of the past , you 'll agree that the post-war models are well worth waiting for .                     