@@707270

txt New York City 's supply of meat dropped 2,000,000 pounds last week from the total of the preceding week . As the slump was announced here by Federal authorities . Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia declared it supported his argument for geographical allocation of meat supplies according- to population and need . Buell F. Maben. regional head of the Food Distribution Administration . took an optimistic view , promising that the supply would improve during the rest of the year . Mr. Maben suggested that while we might not have all the meat we should like to buy the supply would be equal to the point value of meat coupons . Hart Attacks La Guardia Meanwhile , Mayor La Guardia announced that he would back up the Commissioner of Hospitals in his plan to provide through custom slaughtering the meat requirements of 20.000 patients in city hospitals . He voiced his determination to continue the plan of custom slaughtering after Dr. Edward M. Bernecker , Commissioner of Hospitals , and Albert Pleydell , Commissioner of Purchase , had disclosed that they had been examined before the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter R. Hart of Brooklyn , chairman of the Council Investigating Committee , charged in a formal statement that Mayor La Guardia had been the author of several press releases attacking the committee although the statements contained in the releases had been attributed to other city officials . Mr. Hart declared that both Commissioners Bernecker and Pleydell , ifter their appearances before the committee , had reported to the Mayor at City Hall and he forecast that " the public may expect another release . " When Mr. Maben announced that Department of Agriculture figures showed that the supplies of meat received here for the week ending Aug. 7 had totaled 24,666,300 pounds , he ' explained that the amount was " somewhat more than 2,000,000 pounds less than for the previous week , ending July 31 . " In promising that receipts would increase for the rest of the year , Mr. Maben cautioned that the increase would not be at a fixed rate . He pointed out that there would be fluctuations in supply that would not immediately reflect livestock marketing and slaughtering throughout the rest of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held to a minimum and most , of these supplies have been taken from areas other than New York . Says Supplies Will Equal Points " We will not have all the beef we would like to buy when the supply does increase this fall , " he asserted . " In the meantime , we will have a supply of meat equal to the point values of ration coupons outstanding and this means all meat including variety and fabricated cuts . " The FDA market news report on locally dressed beef yesterday said that " approximately 90 per cent of the steer beef in several large slaughter houses was absorbed by Government agencies and the kosher trade . " The report added that " the balance was made available to the general trade as hindquarters and hindquarters cuts . " " The non-kosher trade again absorbed large quantities of locally dressed fresh pork , spring lamb and mutton to offest the continued and sharply curtailed beef and veal supply , " the report said . Questioned concerning the meat situation , Mayor La Guardia said : " Bad news again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pounds I 've been in touch with the FDA I want to make it clear that I have been working closely With the FDA . They feel just as badly as I do about this situation . " The fact remains there has been a drop ? an appreciable drop this time . It all comes back to what I have been saying  --  that we need a definite allocation according to geographical regions it accordance with population and lneeds . That means we 'll get our percentage of the kill . They have this plan under study in Washington , and I will press until we get it . Until we do , it 's going to fluctuate just like this . " Bernecker Reiterates Stand Dr. Bernecker reported to the Mayor that when he appeared before the City Council investigating committee at its office at 70 Wall Street members had " asked me a few technical questions on my knowledge of custom slaughtering , " the amount of beef consumed and on the feeding of patients . " The principal line of questioning concerned itself with my statement which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They wanted to know whether I was trying to incite riot by threatening to send the relatives of patients enrolled in the hospitals down to the doorsteps of the committee . I told them that I was using a figure of speech but what I meant to imply was that whoever interfered with our present arrangement which assures our hospitals a constant flow of meat would have to assume full responsibility . " I reiterate now that I intend to hold them completely responsible if through any action of their committee the city 's hospitals are deprived of a steady flow of meat to the sick poor of this city . " In announcing that he intended to " back up the Commissioner , " Mayor LaGuardia declared : " If there is . any interruption , the people should know where the responsibility lies . " Commissioner Pleydell declared that members of the Council Investigating Committee had spent about two and a half hours the evening before trying to-prove that reports of a meat shortage had been greatly exaggerated . Harlem OPA Opens Today Frank C. Russell , District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harlem civic leaders and OPA officials in the Empire State Building to discuss the opening of the Harlem OPA branch at 136th Street and Lenox Avenue this afternoon at 2:30 o'clock . Furthermore , Mr. Russell announced that there was no deadline for applying for War Ration Book No. 3 and that applications might be made up to the time the books become valid about the middle of September . Magistrate Nicholas Pinto in Coney Island Court fined Neil Cameron , a butcher of 1670 East Seventeenth Street , $25 on a charge of violating ceiling prices . The defendant maintained that he had to pay his wholesaler above ceiling prices but he refused to divulge the identity of his wholesaler . Magistrate Henry A. Soffer , in Long Island City , imposing fines of $25 each on two butchers accused of violating ceiling prices , declared that the time for leniency had passed and that if the defendants appeared in court again they would be sent to jail .                     