@@704875

txt The Democratic National Convention met at 11:05 , C. S. T. , today under conditions unprecedented in the history of American politics . The Convention is dominated by one man , President Roosevelt , who for two long years has declined to discuss his political intentions and who , only last Friday , announced his firm intention not to come to Chicago . It met today determined to break the unwritten law of Amer ican political history not to nominate a President for a third term . It started , furthermore , determined on making this nomination without having received  --  right down to the final minute  --  any formal word that the man it intended to nominate would accept if the honor were bestowed upon him . Mr. Roosevelt 's confidential commitment , it is understood , includes only what he will do if drafted and drafted in the sense of receiving the nomination by acclamation . Even to Mr. Farley in his secret conference at Hyde Park , it is understood , Mr. Roosevelt only discussed what he would do if nominated , without going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a spectacular but tentative scheme put forward by partisans here designed to emphasize the widespread demand for his renomination . Under it his name would not be formally put in nomination at all , but after the nominating speeches for lesser figures had ended the regular roll-call would be started , and Mr. Roosevelt would be given their votes , State by State , without any preliminary formalities , making the choice unanimous by the end of the ballot . Failing this strategy Mr. Roosevelt will be nominated by Judge John E. Mack of New York , who nominated him in 1932 and 1936 . As the convention started today the other outstanding development is the growth of sentiment for John Nance Garner as Mr. Roosevelt 's running mate . The Garner boom emphasizes the delegates ' desire to preserve the appearance of party harmony and to put additional pressure on National Chairman James A. Farley to retain his post . The situation at almost every point is in dramatic contrast with that of the Republican Convention at Philadelphia . At Philadelphia 's wholly " unbossed " convention there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Willkie  --  under conditions of excitement that jerked the massed galleries out of their seats . Here in Chicago , on the other hand , Mr. Roosevelt 's nomination on the first ballot is taken for granted , while the platform in all major respects will be what he dictates from the White House or through his lieutenants . Chief interest here centers on two points : First , the procedure under which Mr. Roosevelt 's expected ' acceptance of the Convention 's draft will come ; second , the degree of party harmony and enthusiasm that can be mustered up under the present unique circumstances . Several Possible Bound up in this are several matters prove ultimately critical in winning or losing a closely-fought presidential campaign : whether National Chairman James A. Farley can be reconciled to the third term , whether a compromise Vice-Presidential candidate can be selected who will unite the badly divided New Deal and conservative wings of the Party , and finally , whether the wording of the foreign affairs plank can be made to satisfy noninterventionists , lei by Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible as the crack o . Mr. Farley 's gavel at noon today in the immense Chicago Stadiun set in motion the strangest corn vention that the Democratic Part ; has ever held . Mayor Kelly o Chicago welcomed the delegates followed by Senator Scott W Lucas of Illinois , speaking in be half of Governor Horner . Tonight comes the keynot speech of William B. Bankhead Speaker of the House , while to morrow night comes the addres of Senate Majority Leader Albei W. Barkley of Kentucky . But it is not these routin speeches which set the mood fo the Convention , nor even the con test over the platform or the Vice-Presidential uncertainties which preserve it from the danger of being one of the dullest conventions in years . It is the minuteby-minute waiting of delegates , alternates , press , and public for some unexpected event ; the belief that a convention in these unprecedented circumstances can not in the nature of things be as tame as this one sets out to be ; that an explosion-is likely to corn " now or later . So far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three Up for Nomination As the best method of registering their covert opposition to a third term , and possibly also to pep up the meetings , Mr. Farley , Senator Wheeler , and Vice-President Garner have all agreed to allow their names to be placed in nomination for the Presidency just as though they did not know that Mr. Roosevelt 's followers already control more than two-thirds of the delegates . The Farley nominating speech will be made by Raymond M. Fisher of Nanuet , N. Y. , who succeeded Mr. Farley as Chairman of the Rockland County Democratic Committee in 1929 , in the event that acid-tongued Senator Carter Glass of Virginia , detained in Washington , is unable to reach Chicago . In a press conference shortly before he called the delegates to order , Mr. Farley voiced the opinion that dominates this Convention 's atmosphere . He was asked : " Do you anticipate that before the results of the first ballot are announced the nomination will be made unanimous ? " " 1 think so , yes , " replied the Postmaster General . For his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimous . He made clear , however , that he was not releasing his own delegates prior to that first roll call , and did not attempt to speak for other contenders such as Senator Wheeler of Montana . Vice-President Garner , and Paul V. of Indiana . " The Massachusetts delegation is pledged to me , " Mr. Farley told reporters in a big hotel ballroom . . " If the delegates release themselves , that is up to the delegates . " Three Work for Roosevelt Senator James F. Byrnes of South Carolina , who , with Secretary of Commerce Harry Hopkins , and Frank Walker , Treasurer of the National Committee , are handling Mr. Roosevelt 's interests here , explained in a radio talk last night that this is the first convention under which the party in power is bound by the terms of the Hatch Act forbidding political activity of Federal jobholders . " The delegates were selected while the Hatch Act was in force , " he declared . " This act removed from the power of the President the traditional right of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patronage. , Among the delegates there are no Federal attorneys , no Federal marshals , no postmasters , no Federal office-holders , taking time from their public duties to see to it that the man who appointed them to public office is given effect . " New Hatch . Pronesal Mr. Byrnes referred to the original . Hatch Act , passed last year which exempts elected officers or Cabinet members from its political restrictions . The latter are conspicuous by , their presence here . Mn . ' Roosevelt has not yet efigt ? ed the second Hatch Act just misted by . Congress , which barsthe political activity of state officials who are unpaid in whole or part from Federal funds . Senator Hatch has just urged before the Resolutions Committee a third , still more radical proposal , that the Government should finance political parties in their campaign expenses out of the Treasury , making private contributions illegal . This startling proposal received some support in committee but raised questions as to its practicability . It looks as though the vice-presidential race were still wide open . New Deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The conservatives are concentrating in turn against a running mate like William 0 . Douglas of the Supreme Court or Attorney General Robert H. Jackson as being too " New Dealish . " Mr. Roosevelt 's intimates have now fallen back on Cordell Hull , but he has refused the office . If they are unable to overcome his objections they have drawn up a list of compromise " eligibles . " One of those most mentioned is Henry A. Wallace , Secretary of Agriculture . One feature of this Convention is the plight of John L. Lewis , Congress of Industrial Organizations chieftain . Both he and William Green , head of the American Federation of Labor , are in the City . Mr. Lewis attacked President Roosevelt at the Republican Convention , but it turns out now that he does n't like the Republican labor plank either . Two important C. I. 0. , lieutenants , Philip Murray and Thomas Kennedy , are backing the third term and have climbed on the Roosevelt band wagon . It looks very much as though Mr. Lewis would now have to eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . ?                     