@@712382

txt Things that are n't in the news any more sometimes tell us more than those which are . Do you remember when Henry Wallace led a political movement which had the leaders of the old-line parties standing on their heads in anxiety ? But it 's a long time now since we have heard much either from or about Mr. Wallace . About the last time was when he did not announce that he would run for the Senate in New York . That announcement came from Vito Marcantonio of the American Labor Party , and there were overtones in the announcement that Mr. Marcantonio and his party were annoyed with Mr. Wallace . But whether it was Mr. Wallace who declined- to run or the ALP which made it appear that way , the essential fact is that Mr. Wallace did not put his name into the New York Senate race . Most other things to be said about the Wallace movement are in the negative vein . While it still has a headquarters in New York City , the flow of verbal and printed matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just does n't make headlinet any more . A A A Then take a look at the supporters which have dropped away . There is Senator Glen Taylor of Idaho . who ran as Mr. ' Wallace 's vice-presidential teammate during the 1948 election . Senator Taylor still openly disagrees with the Democratic administration on foreign policy . But the disagreement hasbeen muted as time goes by . In other respects , Senator Taylor has almost become a Truman regular . And he insists stoutly that he is a thoroughgoing Democrat . The biggest journalistic voice favorable to the Wallace camp during the presidential campaign was that of the New York Post . The Post does n't look , think , or talk that way any more . Under new editorial direction now , the Post has put away the shrill voice of autumn , 1948 . And the New Republic , which Mr. Wallace actually edited for a brief time , has long since taken its departure from the camp . The nearest thing left to a journalistic voice of the Wallace movement is the old PM , now resurrected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 cents a copy , which very well assures it of not having a large mass following . * * A This is all quite a change from a year ago . In those days some solons were saying that the American two-party system was doomed . Events may prove them right , some day . But that day apparently is going to be quite a way off yet . The danger to the two-party system today lies much more in the weakness of the Republicans than in the liveliness of any third party . The Wallace party may be only dormant , but it is so dormant that most of us have almost forgotten that it ever did exist . Why this all happened is anyone 's guess . Probably just the plain fact of defeat in the elections is the principal reason . Not many people cling to a stalled band wagon . But perhaps there is another factor of some moment . We are inclined these days to be thankful to Marshal Tito because he has relieved us of many a European worry . We have n't needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But possibly Titoism has had a stronger influence right here at home in our own domestic affairs than most of us realize . For one thing , Russia 's blustering attitude toward Tito is distressingly reminiscent of Hitler 's attitude toward Czechoslovaki4 . Surely many an individual who lingered under the illusion that Russia represented the great hope of liberalism must have been shaken by the spectacle of mighty Moscow accusing minute Yugoslavia of " aggression . " Perhaps that is one reason a political party built heavily on the theory of Russian innocence in a wicked world is languishing . Then , too , Titoism has provided a bridge whereby many a sincere left winger has managed to get away , from Moscow while still keeping personally left . There is no information yet of the numbers who have crossed or who may be crossing that bridge . But the traffic on it must be fairly heavy . And it must be one factor in the phenomenon of the decline of the Wallace movement . 