@@711383

txt Winston Churchill , stanch opponent of appeasement of Germany in the years before the World War , said today that if the Western powers should yield to the Soviet Union in the Berlin crisis they would lose their best chance of escaping a third world war . A bowed but still belligerent figure , the wartime Prime Minister said at a political rally at Woodford that Britain 's note to the Soviet Union demanding an end to the blockade of Berlin " makes it plain that we will not allow ourselves to be blackmailed out of Berlin . " Although he heaped ridicule and scorn on Britain 's Labor Government for its domestic policies , Mr. Churchill placed his Conservative party solidly behind the Government in its opposition to " Communist intrigue and Russian imperialism . " He said , " We support Mr. Sevin in his foreign policy . " There was , in fact , a noticeable unanimity of purpose shown in his speech and in the foreign-policy utterances of four Labor Cabinet Ministers who also spoke at weekend political meetings . At , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged that the Communist parties throughout the world were trying to use post-war troubles and discontents to produce a breakdown of world economy for their own political purposes and that the lack of international cooperation had separated the East from the West and had interfered with economic recovery . " I believe , " said Sir Stafford , " that there is nothing more important in the world today than the strengthening of Western European democracy . and this can be done only on the basis of the sound economic development that the European Recovery Program is designed to encourage and help . " Sir Hartley Shawcross , the Attorney General , speaking at Oswestry said : " Once we establish ourselves on a firm and stable political and economic foundation , I am sure that the problems that at present divide this couiltry and Russia will be solved . " Discounts War Danger While there is no " real danger " of a shooting war , the Attorney General said , the Communists are conducting another kind of war  --  a campaign of propaganda , unrest and disruption , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Berlin crisis coincided with the excommunication of Yugoslavia . from the Communist Information Bureau suggested to Mr. Churchill that severe internal stresses were at work in the Kremlin oligarchy and that " one part of the dictatorship is working separately from , or even contrary to , the other . " Nevertheless , he said , the safest course for the Western demeeracies is to continue their " plain , fair , straightforward policy " and not to abandon the Germans either to Soviet vengeance or to hunger . Mr. Churchill spoke from a temporary stand at one end of the commu- , ity football field at Woodford , which he represents in Parliament . His renowned voice , amplified by loudspeakers , echoed back from rows of suburban houses . Arctic ' Evening in July It was what the chairman called an " Arctic July evening . " Some 4,000 men and women stood huddled in their overcoats on the damp , cold turf . Fewer than a hundred could be accommodated in the miniscule grandstand and perhaps two hundred more had folding chairs . The sky threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun broke through . Mr. Churchill delighted his audience with a typically scathing and witty attack on the Labor Government ami , some of its Ministers . He charged that they had runup the cost of Government to three times its pre-war level and had increased the number of civil ' servants by two or three times . Reaching for the high-crowned old-fashioned bowler hat that is one of his trademarks , he acted out the picture of the Labor Government , begging with one hand for " American capitalist doles " and wasting the nation 's substance with the other . He said that the Conservatives had not opposed the acceptance of those " doles " because they did not wish to deny the people aid , but he added that the Government was not " acting honorably or even honestly " when it accepted American assistance and at the same time derided the free enterprise system on which United States production was founded . Calling for the dismissal of the Government he said that to have a clear conscience in accepting American aid Britain should do her utmost to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               