@@709209

txt The gradual rise in the rate of automobile output since the first of the year is scheduled to continue this week with Packard Motor Car Co. added to the list of pro , during companies . I Meanwhile . rumors were again being circulated that the C.I 0 . United Auto Workers land the Ford Motor Co. are near a wage agreement . Negotiations are scheduled to be resumed this morning . Ford , which passed the 1.000-a-day mark on January 4. is now turning out more than 1,200 cars daily . Production last Friday . for example , was 1.267 Fords , 167 Mercurys , 32 Lincolna and 1+77 trucks . A further improvement is in prospect this week , but the company 's January goal of 2.000 Fords a day is threatened by the continued shutdown of the two leading automotive glass producers , by short supplies of miscellaneous parts and the danger of a steel strike . Chrysler Corp. , which has not been releasing output figures , is believed to be turning out slightly less than 1,000 units a day . The increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reported to have been held down by shortages of various parts . It is Idoubtful if Chrysler 's supplies of glass would permit production much beyond the end of January . Chrysler will reopen this week its Mound Road truck plant closed last Tuesday by A F.L. teamster pickets in an effort to force the company to insist on union drivers for trucks called for by dealers . Four days ' production of Dodge trucks was lost and 3,000 employes were made idle . Auto production by Nash-Kelvinator Corp. , which came to an end the week before Christmas as a result of the exhaustion of glass supplies , has not been resumed . Studebaker Corp . at South Bend , Ind. , is reported to be getting up towards the 200-cars-a-day mark , with hopes that a rate of 400 cars will be attained before long . Hudson Motor Car Co , also turning out about 200 cars a day , has given out no information on the status of its stock of glass . but the chances are that production will have to be interrupted before long for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,000 more employes yesterday brings its payroll up to about 5,000 compared with about 10,000 on December 18 . Assembly of Clippers is expected to be maintained at a moderate rate this week , since a good stock of finished bodies had been accumulated before the shortage of bearings and other parts'stopped assembly operations for almost four weeks . Reopening of the Meldrum Avenue plant of Briggs Mfg . Co. , which manufactures bodies for Packard , is scheduled for today . This plant has been closed since December 21.                     