@@707042

txt Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , in a twenty-minute talk to key members of Congress in the closely guarded rooms of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today , said it was too early , at this stage of the war , for the . United Nations to plan with too much detail for the post-war period . What is needed now , attending members reported him as having declared , is not a blueprint for enforcing the peace and preventing future aggressions , but a rough sketch that may be filled in by experience as we go along , and completed when hostilities end . With a broad , strong foundation constructed and with the four great powers  --  the United States , Great Britain , Russia and China ? serving as pillars , he was asserted to have suggested , the machinery and superstructure could be added later , when the blueprint was finI ; oiled and clear . The things that were said by the visiting Foreign Secretary in his reports , remarks and observations that followed a luncheon attended by other British and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some instances but without reservation in others , by participants later . These reports agreed in substance , if not in all details . Talk Called Lucid and Frank The Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill resolution , just introduced , calling for the setting up nov , of a United Nations organization to consolidate post-war %%Mon with the fighting of the war , members said , was not discussed " as such , " though it had been in mind as questions relating to the future were put to Mr. Eden . Mr. Eden 's more or less formal talk was recei-led as being " lucid , " " frank " and " appealing . " Senators and Representatives plied him with questions and afterward spoke warmly and enthusiastically about his willingness , promptness and candor in answering them . Furthermore , they said , they found him realistic . He gave emphasis , one Senator stated , to the declaration that the Allied powers had been drawn together into the war against the Axis not through just personal or national affection but in response to the instinctive realization of necessity for fighting for collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Foreign Secretary volunteered a declaration that , so far as Great Britain was concerned , no secret agreements or understandings with other nations existed . The Anglo-Russian understanding , it was reported , was brought up " only incidentally , " and the answers to the questions concerning this were not revealed by the members . Bombing Affects Nazi Morale One question asked Mr. Eden about the post-war status of Poland , a member said , was " pushed aside " and was not pressed . In discussing the progress of the war , another reported , Mr. Eden asserted that Germany appeared to be having difficulty in obtaining oil supplies , that the Nazis ' aircraft production was not up to what it used to be , and that the steady bombings appeared to be having decided effect upon morale in that country . The only formal report of the Eden talk came from Senator Tom Connally , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , who was joint host with Representative Sol Bloom , chairman of the Howe Foreign Affairs Committee , at the luncheon . The full membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British Foreign Secretary , Mr. Connally said , presented a general review of the war and discussed the relations between the United Nations and possibilities of post-war settlements . The talk , he emphasized , was " in most generous terms . " " He expressed the view , " Mr. Connally reported , " that the four great powers were conducting the war in complete harmony and understanding , and expressed the hope that they would be in general agreement after the war . The talk was very beneficial to all present . , In the view of those participating the prospects of the war , ? as presented , were very encouraging . " Mr. Eden was accompanied to the luncheon by Viscount Halifax , the British Ambassador ; Sir Ron , ald Campbell , British Minister ; William Strang , Assistant . Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and an expert on Russia , and Oliver C. Harvey , the Foreign Secretary 's private secretary , who was.British Minister to Paris from 1939 until the fall of France . Secretary of State Cordell Hull and 4 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Amerscan Ambassador to Great Britain , were the American officials attending , besides ranking officers of the Senate and House and their Foreign Relations and Foreign Affairs Committees . In the congressional luncheon guest group were : Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois , acting president of the Senate in the absence of Vice President Henry A. Wallace ; Senator W. F. George , chairman of the Finance Committee , a ranking member of the Foreign Relations body and head of a recently established special committee to study post-war problems ; Senator Charles L. , minority leader ; Senator Carl Hayden , acting majority leader ; and Senator Hiram W. Johnson , ranking minority member of the Foreign Relations Committee ; Representative John W. McCormack , majority leader , and Representative Joseph W. Martin Jr. , minority leader of the House ; Representative Luther A. Johnson , ranking majority member , and Representative Charles A. Eaton , ranking minority member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . Connally Gives His Position When the luncheon , speaking and questioning periods were over , Senator Connally made a statement as to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " is that the governments of the United States , Great Britain , Russia and China , in the active conduct of the war , are in complete harmony . Our paramount duty is to crush the enemy utterly . I favor the establishment of an international body by the United Nations to preserve the peace and prevent aggression . " I favor military and naval sanctions to enforce the decrees of such a body . I favor a declaration by the United States Senate that the United States will cooperate with other United Nations on all matters growing out of the war affecting the peace of the world and the sovereignty of free people . I am in complete agreement with the foreign policies of the President and Secretary Hull . " Asked for his position on postwar planning , Mr. Connally said : " I am for complete post-war planning when it is found that we can do it . It is a matter of practicability ; you can not just press a button now and  --  ergo ! it 's done . If I had my way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can not be done . But a court without a Sheriff is not much of a court . A decision that can not be enforced is no decisioSnenator Connally said he might ' appoint a subcommittee next week to , study the Ball-Burton-HatchHill resolution and other post-war planning measures now before the committee . He emphasized it was only one of several , and said it should not be construed as the only post-war measure that would receive committee consideration . Thomas Backs Action Now The four Senators who introduced the controversial measure meanwhile received support from Senator Elbert D. Thomas of Utah , and also from the Writers War Board of New York . Plans for setting up post-war machinery now , Senator Thomas held , were " not premature , " and added that " until adequate ma- chinery for settlement of differences between nations can be set up and enforced , " war was inevitable . " If we wait until the war is over all the old bitterness of the League of Nations fight will occur again , and very likely hopes of permanent peace will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter to the sponsoring Senators from the Writers War Board said " We feel very strongly that now is the time to discuss these policies freely and openly . Such progressive discussions will help to cement the bonds which now connect the United Nations , it will help to make clear that we are not fighting merely to win the war but to prevent another ; and it will serve notice on those who have drawn a Maginot Line around their minds that the American people are fully resolved on world cooperation . "                     