@@710106

txt The Congress of Industrial Organizations proclaimed today its implacable opposition to any Congressional action to quash the vast claims to portal-to-portal back pay now pending . The union made it clear also that it . intended to fight for the retention , as the ultimate standard , of the Supreme Court decision as to what constituted " work . This decision opened the way to the present claims . Through Lee Pressman , its general counsel , the CIO argued that pending Senate proposals were only nominally directed at the portal-to-portal issue and would , in fact , threaten " the entire future operation " of the whole of the Fair Labor Standards ( Wages and Hours ) Act . Appearing before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee , Mr. Pressman proposed that Congress , pending final court decisions as to the actual rather than the potential liability of corporations , do nothing beyond taking a single limited rstep. 1 This , be said , should be a simple I authorization to employers and I unions to settle portal claims through collective bargaining . Management , he declared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who , he asserted , would be " at the economic mercy " of the employer . Pressman Cites Work Ruling Mr. Pressman contended that the only " realistic definition " of work was that provided by the Supreme Court  --  the activities , of the , employe which required physical or mental exertion in an employer 's " benefit " and under his control . Mr. . Pressman asserted , under critical examination from members of the subcommittee , that one representative of industry had told him that management had no interest in " discussing " these claims with labor because " members of Congress " had already given reassuring indications that the unions would be " deprived " of their right to compensation . Persistently challenged by the subcommittee chairman , Senator Forrest C. Donnell , Republican , of Missouri , to identify this industrial representative by name , Mr. Pressman declined to do so , pleading a " confidential " position . ' To make such disclosures , , he contended , would " seriously in-i jure " future collective bargaining in that it would make both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations . At length he agreed to submit on Monday the legal precedents which he believed justified him in withholding the information . He added that he had heard no members of Congress mentioned by name in the discussions . Mr. Pressman contended that pending legislation to knock out , portal-to-portal claims not only would " most seriously . undermine " I the whole of the Wages and Hours // Law but would be unconstitutional . If Congress should , in any event , pass such an act , he told the subcommittee , " it will be tested in the Supreme Court . " " And if by chance the court holds that act unconstitutional , " he added , " we will have an even more horrible mess than we have today . There would then be two more years of accrued ( overtime ) liability by employers . That would be the net accomplishment . " The witness asserted that , given Congressional authority for making portal settlements by negotiations between the companies and the union , he was " deeply convinced that there will be no problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You want us , " objected Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican , of Indiana , author of one of the pending bills , " to place in your hands the right to settle these claims ; to strike , to break a factory , to do anything you wish . " You would have the power to refuse compromise . ? This would place in your hands the administration of the laws of the country . " Mr. Pressman , rejecting this idea . declared : " We consider ourselves decent Americans trying to live and let live . " At the outset of his prepared statement he observed that the subcommittee 's hearings were the first on legislation before the new Republican Congress , and added : " It is a circumstance of the most profound importance that these first legislative proposals of this new Congress should envisage a retroactive elimination of workers ' rights which are based upon claims already accrued . " Asserting that the probable present liability of employers had been " exaggerated " in " the hysterical outpourings of a certain section of our press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been " exaggerated " on both the union and management sides . He declared that the CIO itself had no figures as to the total which he could offer . " As far as we know , " he said , " not a single penny has yet been ' paid out in judgments as the result of the portal-to-portal litigation . " It was his contention , in elaboration , that while the Supreme Court decision , on a point of general policy , had been followed by an " avalanche " of suits , the trial court had not , in fact , yet applied this decision in a practical way as to how much an employer actually owed . It was " entirely possible , " he said , that when these rulings came they would reject many claims too trivial for action . He declared that labor was not to blame for the " avalanche , " saying it had been encouraged by published statements that Congress would take action against such suits . Among a number of labor union members who also Were witnesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite possiblk. were " watered " in the damages sought . Admits Possible Exaggeration On this point Russ Nixon , Washington representative of the United Electrical Workers , C10 , testified that suits against five corporations with greatly different payrolls had all been brought for the identical sum of $1,000,000 . These , he said , - were General Electric , with about 100,000 employes ; Westinghouse , with 75,000 ; General Motors Corporation ( electrical division ) , with 25,000 ; General Cable , with 15,000 , and Slyvania Electric , with 20,000 . IlieSe demands , he stated , were all made " subject to specific adjudication , " or to settlements with employers . Actually , he agreed in answer to questions , the unions did not know positively whether the companies owed 510,000,000 or 5100,000 . Arthur Schuesterman of Cumberland , Md. , a worker in a Celanese Corporation mill , testified that individual authorizations for suits were " mailed in packages " from that plant and that he could not recall the name of the lawyer who had power of attorney to handle them on a contingent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that workers ' claims in his plant were , in general , " exaggerated a little bit possibly . " Another was J. J. Pickerel , a textile worker in Front Rwal , Va. , who said the figures there were " possibly well watered . " The general picture left by Mr. Schuesterman was of men hurriedly putting in claims , on the basis of mimeographed authorizations , in fear of Congressional action against what they contended were rights already won .                     