@@710619

txt The United Automobile Workeri , in an agreement averting their Ford Motor Company strike , have been given a year 's grace from strike-damage suits under the Taft-Hartley Labor Act . This the Company agreed to in an 11th-hotir pact which served to keep 107,000 production workers on the job as a nation-wide walkout was called off . The agreement , under which the union and Company will undertake mutually to settle their dispute growing from the Act 's penalty provisions , protects the union for a period of a year from the date a new contract is signed . Ford and the UAW agreed to spend at least a year , if necessary , in order to secure a mutually satisfactory understanding of union and company privileges . A joint committee will seek this . Ford Pleased Henry Ford II , President of the Company , issued the following statement on the compromise : " The agreement to refer to a joint study group the question of the liability of the union for damages by suit for breach of contract seems to us an eminently fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor legislation raises problems of human relationships . It has become apparent to us that all of the ramifications of such problems can not be ironed out immediately around the bargaining table . " Under today 's settlement , opportunity has now been provided for finding in less hectic surroundings a solution within the spirit of the Taft-Hartley law acceptable to both the union and the Company . " A joint statement announcing the agreement averting the strike was made public less than eight hours ahead of the strike deadline . ' Union Exempted The statement said the union would not be held liable for breach of contract " because of any strike or work stoppage " during the year 's period . " The Company , ' ' said the statement , " will not institute any suit against the union , its officers , and members in such event . " In addition , the UAW was given ' the " right to strike " on the issue if no solution were forthcoming after " a year of deliberation and negotiations . " The year 's . grace to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be dated from the date of the Ford-UAW contract still to be drawn . A strike against Ford had been threatened in an effort to enforce the union 's demand for a contract clause giving it immunity from the Taft-Hartley penalty provisions . The law permits an employer to sue a union for damages in event of a violation of its contract with management . This the UAW has sought to avoid by private contract in all current negotiations . Calling the agreement over the Taft-Hartley dispute a " compromise , " the statement set it forth in a series of eight.points . Procedure Set Out Summarized , these call for the following procedure : A four-man committee ? two front the union . two from the company  --  will be named to " work out a solution to the question of the liability of the union , its officers and members , for damages by suit for breach of contract . " If the committee is unable to arrive at an agreement within three months from the " date cf contract , " it will choose a fifth member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if necessary . " If it takes still longer , the committee may continue on a majority vote of its five members . The fifth member shall be the umpire under the Ford-UAW contract , if the committee has been unable to agree on another party . Any committee solution must be unanimous . It will be binding upon both Company 2nd union . If the committee fails to agree , the UAW is permitted to reopen direct negotiations on the issue , but the " total time " spent in deliberations and negotiations " shall not exceed one year in all . "                     