@@710793

txt denpendence . When permitted to enter the three exhibition cars , the crowd moved quietly along the zig-zag passages and soft-carpeted floors . Ingediously arranged to keep visitors interested in what exhibit is around the bend in the corridor , the train is a model of the finest engineering techniques in the country . Its exhibits , locked securely beneath double - thickness glass , then inclosed in plastic containers , were in most cases easily readable . Guards occasionally permitted spectators to step aside and peruse the documents more thoroughly . Rededication Scroll At the end of the inspection tour was the Rededication Scroll , which all were asked to sign . Later these signatures will be placed in the Library of Congress . For one Marine , Corp . James R. Hodges , Jr. , the Lynn stop was a homeComing : He showed the exhibits to his parents and grandparents in advance of the public exhibition . Among the early visitors were a group of high school students who carefully inspected the entire train , then immediately departed to make a radio broadcast to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herbert M. Golden , Area Director of Freedom Train 's activities , is the first stop where labor and management , combined in a joint Rededication Week program . Work was stopped at the General Electric plant here for one-half hour Wednesday for a Rededication meeting , he said . Mayor Albyrt Cole , M. Henry Wall , Chairman of Lynn Rededication Week , and many Lynn clergymen boarded the train be-1 fore the general public were admitted . Freedom Train 's 24-enlisted- I man Marine contingent had its hands full , gently urging the crowd to keep moving . Clocking the visitors as they stepped off the Train today was Corp . Ted P. Tintor of Massilon , Ohio . He recalled many praiseworthy remarks made by Freedom Train visitors . Om Philadelphia woman , he said , left with tears in her eyes , remarking with heartfelt appreciation , " that 's wonderful . " Upon completion of its Lynn engagement tonight , Freedom Train will slip into the Hub under cover of darkness . In the morning , the train will be ready to take aboard from 10,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two from each junior and senior high class ! n the public and parochial schools , Will be given a preview of the 128-item exhibit , beginning at 9 a. m . They will return to their classrooms Tuesday with written accounts of their adventure . The initial welcoming ceremony will get under way at 9:30 a. m. at the Nashua Street tracks . Temporary Mayor John B. Hynes and Governor Bradford will give brief addresses . While these train activities are continuing , countless other thousands of persons will observe a one-minute period of tribute to the American heritage at noon tomorrow . Metropolitan Transit Authority stock will come to a complete halt . Everywhere in the city activity will be voluntarily stopped to give citizens an opportunity to rededicate themselves to a more useful citizenry Labor Rally Today 's Rededication Week program in Boston will be topped off with the labor rally at 8 p. m. at the Hotel Bradford . Philip Murray , President of the CIO , will speak under the sponsorship of the Metropolitan Industrial Council . The final event of the Rededication Week program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday on Arlington Street . Members of at least 300 organizations will walk to the Parade Ground on Boston Common where they will hear Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , Jr. , ( R ) of Massachusetts . The parade will be divided into two lines of march , a military and a nonmilitary . The former will leave Arlington Street and Commonwealth Avenue and travel to the Common via Boylston Street , while the nonmilitary group will approach by way of Beacon Street ,                     