@@706380

txt Fires have recently been a virtual " every day " occurrence aboard the stricken former French luxury liner , Normandie , which was taken over by the navy Dec. 12 , Fire Commissioner Patrick J. Walsh charged today . The commissioner made this announcement after an investigation of last night 's destructive four hour blaze , the third to , require help from city fire fighters since the navy began the task of converting the vessel into a naval auxiliary . The first are , on Feb. 9 , caused the  --  ship to capsize at her Hudson river pier . John J. Keeley , director of fire prevention measures on the vessel dui. - Mg salvage operations , said last night 's fire was under way for 50 , minutes before city firemen were no ? 1 titled . He differed sharply , however , with Walsh 's assertion that there have been many other fires . Denies Other Fires . " There have been no fires on the Normandie , and if there were they I would have been reported to the city fire department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department battallion chief who retired in 1933 after 27 years ' service , said .. Walsh said that sparks and molten metal from ' the metal cutting operations of the salvagers had started numbers of small fires , but these had been extinguished by workmen stand= ing by with ready hoses . This method failed to work last night , he said , because the flames burrowed instantly beneath a steel wall into a cork refrigerator lining . Sparks from ' welder 's torches are believed to_the have started last night 's fire as well as the ruinous fire of Feb , 9 . An investigation of this , blaze by the house naval affairs committee led to a finding that it was due to Carelessness and a placing of , responsibility with Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox . Lack of precautions and conflict of authority and responsibility among naval bureaus were criticized by ; the committee . Explosions Spread Fire . ? Keeley declared members of his special 21 man fire brigade began fighting the lire at once last night , and believed they could handle it without outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were three explcisions and that their cause was not known but might have been due to an accumulation of gases . Walsh indicated that gas from decomposing meat stored near where the fire started may have been responsible for the blasts . He said he had no criticism of the fire precautions taken aboard the ship and believed everything possible had been done . Walsh said the Normandie is " mere tinderwood " and that fire hazards are rooted in the very nature of the highly difficult task of salvaging . He declared much of the material burned was slated for removal anyway and that damage was " very trifling . "                     