@@707638

txt The 1Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor asserted today that the cost ' of-living study made by the labor 1 members of the President 's Costof-Living Committee was " absolutely wrong " in asserting that liv1 ing costs had risen 43.5 per cent since Jan. 1 , 1941 , instead of 23 4 per cent as reported by the bureau . In a heavily documented reply to the labor members , A. Ford Hinrichs , Acting Commissioner of Labor Statistics , declared that the claims made by George Meany , secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of Labor , and R. J. Thomas , president of the United Automobile Workers ( CIO ) had not been supported by their data , that their charges contained many " errors of fact , " and that they had made use of " unrepresentative data " to support their conclusions . The BLS study was made after the labor members on Jan. 25 last had filed a copy of their report with the Cost-of-Living Committee , of which Chairman W. H. Davis of the National War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BLS report today together with Mr. Hinrichs ' covering letter . The entire report , with statistical appendices and detailed explanations of the methods used by the BLS in making its cost-ofliving index and its specific replies to many items in the labor report , comprises about 65,000 words . Report Before President A week ago Mr. Meany and Mr. Thomas sent their report directly to President Roosevelt with an urgent request for an investigation of the alleged part played by the BLS in the publication of a cost-ofliving index " which distorts the basic facts of our wartime living costs . " The appraisal of the labor report was made by the BLS upon Mr. Davis ' request . The committee chairman said that copies of the report had been given to - all committee members , but no comment on behalf of the committee was available at this time . Messrs . Thomas and Meany issued a prompt retort , but George Batt , one of the two industry members of the cost-of-living committee , said from his home in Montclair , N. J. , that he thought prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the situation . The Thomas-Meany statement defended the report made to the President 's committee as " based on evidence from hundreds of American housewives . " It added that " no group of Government bureaucrats have ever before had the audacity to insult millions of American housewives by telling them that their experiences are all wrong , and that they should instead try to live on BLS statistics . " The statement challenged the BLS to submit to a public opinion poll of housewives on the question whether the AFL-CIO figures , or those of the BLS , were correct . The statement concluded : " We shall shortly make available to the Presidential committee a full analysis of the BLS confessions and laments which make the most insulting document to organized labor from the Department of Labor since its creation more than three decades ago . " In his covering letter Mr. Hinrichs said that the BLS ? cost-ofliving index was a national average " measuring prices of cost-ofliving essentials " and was " not a measure of standards of living " which were affected by many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase of war bonds and cost of migrating to jobs . Denying the Meany - Thomas charge that the BLS index did not reflect inadequacies of price control and the unavailability of cheap clothing , Mr. Hinrichs said that these items were not to be dealt with by mere adjustments of an index . The bureau 's findings that food costs had gone up 40 per cent since January , 1941 , and not 74 per cent as claimed in the labor report , had been supported by additional surveys , said Mr. Hinrichs . Even if his bureau could compute an index for rents in the manner proposed by the labor report , it would result only in an insignificant increase in the national index of living costs for wageearners ' families , according to the I letter . Exaggerations Charged The Meany-Thomas report , he I added , had " also greatly exaggerated " the rise in the cost of clothing and house furnishings . While the bureau 's index measured the disappearance of low-priced merchandise , contrary to the labor allegation , it did not measure ! quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could not be measured and evidence as to this subject presented in the labor rer port could not be verified . However , even if deterioration were estimated at 10 per cent , he said that this would only result in a 1.7 per cent increase in the over-all index figure . A summary of the entire report in Part One explained that the bureau index was " a good approximation of average price changes for essentials of family living , " and that it was " a national average , not a micrometer reading applicable to the situation of every family . " Emphasizing that the average increase of 23.4 per cent in the cost of living meant that about half the country 's families had experienced greater increases , the report said that a typical family with a spendable income 23.4 per cent greater than in January , 1941 , was probably as well off today in Minneapolis as it was three years ago , but that a family in Savannah , with a similar increase in spendable income , would not be so well off . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in arithmetic , one in stating that broilers and fryers in Buffalo went up 150 per cent , when the basic figures indicated a 76 per cent rise . A mistake of fact was alleged when the labor ' report said - that rents in Los Angeles were shown by the bureau index to have dropped 2.6 per cent between 1941 and 1942 , when the bureau showed a rise of 2.6 per cent for this period . To support the charge that representative data had often been disregarded in the labor report , the BLS stated that the former report presented figures on rents for 115 of the most crowded small-war centers ( containing only 7 per cent of the population in cities of that size ) " as if they were typical of cities where the remaining 93 per cent of the population- lived . " " The rent figures are quoted from a Government report which specifically warns that they are not representative of other communities , " according to the Labor Department report . The Meany-Thomas report was also accused of disregarding relevant evidence such as the citation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above those of the city proper , while no mention had been made of rents in other suburbs where the rise was smaller than in Los Angeles . Labor Price Data Assailed The BLS maintained that , the Meany-Thomas report had completely disregarded the relative importance of different price movements . The method pursued by the labor chiefs , it was said , was like saying that the price of food had gone up 30 per cent because bread had gone up 10 per cent and pepper 50 per cent , the " average " being 30 per cent . Rents had not gone up 15 per cent as alleged in the labor report , but only 3 per cent , the BLS said , adding that the MeanyThomas report had failed to heed the qualifications in the WPA report which it had cited as its authority . Turning to an analysis of the labor charge that food prices had advanced 74 per cent instead of 40 per cent as stated by the BLS , the latter 's report asserted that the labor procedure was " fallacious " since it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food stores ( including everything from food to liquor ) ; in delicatessen stores ( including not only potato salad and caviar but newspapers and magazines ) ; in hotels and restaurants ( where you pay for the preparation of food and for service rather than for merely food as you buy it in the grocery stores ) , and in drinking places ( which only serve small amounts of food but do dispense increasing numbers of drinks ) . " " This is obviously no ' check ' on food prices , " it was said . As a matter of fact , it was stated , if the principal items of food purchased for the home and not now in the BLS index had been included , the index would bel slightly lower than it was now . The BLS argued that the labor report emphasized the unavailability of cheap merchandise when . it asserted that clothing , prices had advanced 72 per cent instead of- the 31 per cent estimated by the BLS , and that housefurnishings had gone up 62 per cent and not 28 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices of these items indicated to the BLS that the labor spokesmen had selected " the very cheapest type of clothing and furniture " to represent the market situation in 1940-41 , it was stated . " These were of a quality not ' usually bought by the city workers , " according . to ? the report . " Those loviest-priced items were then compared ( in , the labor report ) with much better quality clothing and furniture in higherpriced lines in 1943 . " The bureau said that when typical medium-priced items bought by workers ' families had been taken from the same catalogue quoted in the Meany-Thomas report , the rise for clothing became 34 per cent , and for selected housefurnishings , 30 per cent . Although the labor report , it was said , appeared to exclude the purchase of higher-quality goods ( voluntary " trading up " ) in its cost-of-living estimates , the BLS maintained that the labor chiefs had not s.dequately allowed for the extent to which " trading up " reflected " the free choice of consumers with more money to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " confusion " in the report not unlike that occurring when people talked loosely and said that their " cost of living has gone up " merely because they had paid more for a better overcoat or dress .                     