@@709896

txt An effort to prevent a major depression was announced today by Paul G. Hoffman , chairman of the Committee for Economic Development and president of the Studebaker Corporation . The plan was approved at an . allday session of the CED Board of Trustees . It calls for research studies in collective bargaining and other aspects of labor-management // relations , wage-price policy , taxation , credit and fiscal and monetary policy in general . Two special committees were appointed on labor-management relations . One consists of five prominent university economists , the other of twelve business and industrial leaders in addition to Mr. Hoffman . The economic experts already have started work . They are expected to make a preliminary report on collective bargaining which can be considered at a meeting of the special business committee in Washington on Dec. 5 , and of the CED 's full research and policy committee the following day . Policy Statement Expected It is anticipated that the CED will then release a policy statement in time for consideration before the new Congress begins its study of new labor legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its approach would be sympathetic toward voluntary cooperation rather than coercion to prevent strikes and other interruptions of production resulting from labor-management disputes . The economists made it clear they were skeptical of any solution based upon legislative action that would infringe upon the right to strike . William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , and Philip Murray . president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , will be invited to consult with the committees either personally or through representatives . Local labor leaders with actual experience on the firing line of labor management warfare will also be invited . They will be asked to state their views and offer criticism , but will not be required to assume responsibility for any findings or recommendations . Joint Meetings Planned The experts ' committee and the business group will hold joint meetings in an attempt to reconcile any differences that develop between their points of view . The research and policy committee will make public the official CED position , but the experts will have complete academic freedom through the right to publish independent reports if they find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the CED trustees were concerned over the casual way in which many people since the stock market break have accepted the idea that another great depression was inevitable . They regard this as psychologically unrealistic . It might lead the public to " talk itself " into a depression or fail to take steps which might head one off , they believe . A similar fatalistic attitude was concentrate first on collective bargaining , " he said . " Obviously collective bargaining - has not worked well in recent years , and we are seeking a body of facts upon which can be based a responsible view of what can be done to improve it . " We do not want to curtail the rights of labor in any way , but wg hope to find a way to reduce the ' use of the strike weapon . Neither labor nor management benefits from unnecessary strikes , and we believe that a high proportion of recent strikes , perhaps 90 per cent , have been unnecessary . There ought to be a better way to settle disputes than to cut off production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy would try to determine how real wages could be raised in terms of increased purchasing power , that is without forcing price increases . There is no longer ' any hope of getting significant wage increases by taking money away from one group and giving it to another , he added . He believed it would be necessary to put stress on the need for higher productivity , through increased worker efficiency and more efficient use of technological                     