@@711968

txt Behind the scenes of pomp and ceremony of the signing of the North Atlantic alliance , congressional battle lines were being drawn tonight on the vital decision of backing up the alliance with arms shipments to western Europe . Legislation authorizing rearmament of pact members is being whipped into shape by an interdepartmental committee . The administration program is expected to call for spending 1.8 billion dollars to arm non-Communist nations in the next year or two . This sum will not provide forces large enough to defend any nation in the event of attack altho it will go toward filling out shortages . Military experts are still agreed that 150 soviet divisions could roll over Europe to the Pyrenees in 60 days . France Wants 40 Divisions France has hopes for 40 equipped divisions as a defense goal . The entire 1.8 billions would not build the French army to that strength . There is also talk of eight or 10 Italian divisions , altho there is considerable skepticism on the value of Italian troops . On Capitol hill the signed pact was expected to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arms shipments . Many senators who favor the pact are opposed to following it up with arms shipments . Sen. George ( D. , Ga. ) said that President Truman would be both " wise and prudent " to postpone his plans to rearm western Europe lest the new pact become a military alliance aimed directly at the soviet union . Sen. Martin ( R. , Pa. ) , a veteran of three wars , who rose from the ranks to become a major general , voiced the fear that the United States might spread itself " too thin " thru the armament program . Both senators favor the pact . " Fears Financial Burden " Our financial burdens are going to he tremendous , " George said . " We are going to have to increase our military aid to Greece and Turkey . Congress is going to have to provide some kind of program to help non-CommunistChina . We may increase our own military expenditures over budget estimates . " " But what I am really afraid of , " he said , " is that if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid for western Europe , these countries will want us to garrison their frontiers with American troops . " Some senators plan to seek a reservation which would state specifically that ratification of the treaty does not bind this nation to arm Europe . It is felt this reservation could be made without limiting the pact itself . Here 's Prospective Program The arms assistance program is expected to go to the bureau of . the budget this week and then to the White House for presentation to congress . This is the way it is . shaping up : 1 . COST . The requested authorization is expected to be slightly above 1.8 billions . . At the same time this country would carry on aid programs to Turkey and Greece . Surplus stocks would be Sent abroad at a listing of 10 per cent of their original cost . A long list of specific arms would be shipped that would have to be produced by American plants . Items would come from the American strategic reserve and from war stocks considered in excess of American needs . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the bill will ask blanket authority to extend arms aid or confine it to pact members . The administration is waiting to measure sentiment before making this decision . Mostly Army Equipment 3 . TYPES OF ARMS . The list is long , but is concerned principally with army equipment . Some aircraft and airplane parts are included . There is little naval equipment . The European nations want to build up their own plane plants rather than build the American aviation industry . Britain is understood to have asked for 200 Boeing bombers , but there is no confirmation of this report . The French have reportedly asked for dive bombers for air carriers . Principal outlays would be from suet ) excess stocks as small arrnat machine guns , artillery , tanks and ammunition . Procedure Outlined 4 . CONTRACT PROCEDURE . /t is expected that the bill will provide that the army , navy , and air force place any contracts for supplies for foreign nations , which would permit the defense establishment to co-ordinate such purchases with American defense plants . 5 . LIMITATIONS . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation from sending the American arms to its colonies . This would forbid the Netherlands using American arms against the Indonesians altho shipping of American armsmight release Dutch arms for this purpose . 6 . ULTIMATE AIM . The goal is an army of 40 divisions in western Europe complete with air support . The plan does not contemplate arms for Spain , which has some 20 divisions and stands ready to tight the soviets on any attack . 