@@707179

txt BUENOS AIRES , Argentina , June ** Argentine Gov- ' ernment gave its firbt tangible proof of its desire to comply strictly with all its international commitments by issuing a decree late this evening prohibiting the use of secret codes in international wireless communications . This action ' was taken in compliance with the resolution of the Rio de Janeiro Conference of 1941 . Today 's measure , in effect , prohibits the Axis embassies from communicating in code with their governments , for they have no cables at their disposal . The decree says : " In view of the adhesion of the Argentine Government to Resolution 40 of the third meeting of consultation of American Republics , and with due attention to the exigencies of continental security , the Provisional President of the Argentine Republic decrees : The use of code , - cipher or conventional language is suspended in international communications by wireless or wireless telephone . " It will be recalled that the Castillo government restricted the ' use of code in international wireless messages , but still allowed each diplomatic mission in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three ' Axis embassies and the numerous legations of the satellite governments , this permitted many hundreds of words in secret code to be sent each day to points where they would do the Axis the most good . Now the prohibition of code in wireless communications is absolute , which means that the Axis and satellite diplomatic missions will have to communicate with their governments in the clear . It // ARGENTINA PLUGS 1 AXIS ' CODE ' LEAKS ' // is worth pointing out , moreover , that this measure does not affect the United Nations , for they can use the cables , on which there are no restrictions , and which they control . The reaction of the Axis governments to the latest Argentine measure is awaited with the greatest interest here . It is felt that it will certainly interfere greatly with the departure to Europe and Japan of much valuable information that formerly could be communicated to the Axis governments in absolute secrecy . In the future such information will have to be written in clear language and thus be subject to the control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group of American correspondents in his official capacity for the first time today , the new Argentine Foreign Minister , Rear Admiral Segundo E. Storni , confirmed the intention already announced by the provisional government of fulfilling all the international obligations assumed by Argentina . He left no doubt in the minds of his audience that he believes all Pan-American commitments , and especially the Rio de Janeiro agreements , should be carried out by Argentina as soon as reasonably possible . The break with the past will apparently come by degrees , however , for he said : " Step by step , we shall arrive where we should already be . " Admiral Storni spoke in cautious diplomatic language , but the meaning of his words could hardly be doubted . " On my part , I can only add that the Argentine Government intends to fulfill all  --  I say all  --  its international obligations ; that it wishes to pursue a policy of most complete collaboration with all the Republics of this Continent , particularly with the United States , and that it desires to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Argentine people . " What these aspirations are can not be in doubt , for the Argentine people always nave stood for legality , and they hate violence and conquest . As a government and as a nation we can not but De against violence and conquest as a means of settling the world 's problems . " Asked whether the Argentine Government intended to recognize the French National Committee established in Tunis , he replied that it was still too early to give a positive reply . One difficulty , he said , was that Argentina still maintains diplomatic relations with Vichy , which still has an embassy in Buenos Aires although the Ambassador is absent , having been replaced by a charg ? d'affaires . The Foreign Minister closed his remarks by saying that Argentina intends to proceed with caution , advancing toward her goal by slow steps .                     