@@706503

txt Practically all the French people are pro-American and hopeful of axis defeat , United States Ambassador William D. Leahy told a press con ? ference tonight . Adm . Leahy , whom President Roosevelt recalled from Vichy last April after a sudden return to power of Pierre Laval , arch-exponent of collaboration with Germany , also said that a year and a half of close and cordial relations with Marshal Henri Petain had left him with a " high personal regard " for the aged chief of stale . Ile added , however , that Petain was under such constant German pressure that it was difficult for him to do much for the relief of his country . France Completely Submerged . " I have just returned , " Leahy said , " from a France that is completely submerged under an Invasion of barbarians who have seized most of the country 's material resources and have destroyed much of the spiritual possessions of the people of France . " The sense of freedom that one feels upon arriving in America is completely beyond my facility with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the French people , he added that they " are suffering from a complete military defeat , are unorganized , inarticulate , and have no influence whatever on the composilion or policy of ' the government . " " There is , however , " lie went on , " no other agency than the government thru which we can maintain contact with the French people . " Favors Maintaining Relations . Maintenance of diplomatic relations with the Vichy government , despite recurrent . crisis and difficulties , has been worth while , Leahy maintained . " Maintenance of diplomatic relations with the changing governments of France has up to the present time made it possible to assist the French people in keeping alive their hope for an eventual deliverance from their oppressors . " Maintenance of diplomatic relations has also made it possible , " the ambassador added , " to keep the government of France informed as to the attitude of the United States toward action that has been contemplated from time to time by the axis powers to further their war effort . " And so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between France and Japan in Indo-China , no positive action as yet taken by the marshal 's government since t h e armistice has been of material mill ? tary assistance to the axis powers . "                     