@@706700

txt The prospect of more war work for New York City in the near future , with jobs for many thousands of the city 's 400,000 idle , was held out by Mayor La Guardia , Senator Robert F. Wagner and Representative Emanuel Celler of Kings in addresses before a conference of labor union delegates and employer representatives held yesterday in the Hotel Commodore under the auspices of the State Federation of Labor and the City Central Trades and Labor Council . Represented at the conference were spokesmen of the construction , garment , printing , shipbuilding and other trades suffering from Unemployment arising from the dislocations and displacements caused by the war production program . The Mayor asserted that one of the largest aluminum plants in the country would be completed " just across the river " in December , giving employment to thousands of New Yorkers . Contracts were awarded last March for a government - financed . aluminum plant in this area and in May construction plans for an aluminum plant were filed in Queens . Upon the suggestion of Mayor La Guardia. the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint committee of employe and employer representatives to cooperate with Federal , State and city authorities in bringing more work to New York City . Wage Differentials a Problem Both Mayor La Guardia and Phillip McCullough , deputy regional director of the War Production Board , declared , however , that to obtain more war contracts unions in this city would have to take some steps to meet , the wage differentials in other cities . Mr. La Guardia dwelt also on the refusal ' of some New York employers to ' bid on contracts as a factor malting for unemployment . " It will require some contribution on your part , " Mayor La Guardia said . " There will have to be some getting together to meet the situation . Perhaps some concession of a few minutes a day would meet the cost differential . " Mr. La Guardia told the conference that plans have been completed for the pooling of the resources of 27,000 small plants with an average of fifteen employes , so that these plants may be in a position to receive war work , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light from Washington . " At the same time he warned the conference that New York City is not the only " distress area " and that New Yorkers would have to be patient and realize that the President , the Army and Navy and the WPB have a tremendous job to do . " Our hope today is the Small War Corporations Law , which , rec- ' ognizes the existence of this great production force in small plants that have not yet been utilized , " the Mayor said . This corporation , he explained , with a capital of $150,000,000 from Congress , may become the prime contractor for small plants and parcel out contracts or sub-contracts to such plants . The Mayor assured the conference that both President I Roosevelt and Donald M. Nelsen , ' War Production chief , are aware of New York City 's unemployment problem and are anxious to relieve it . Mr. La Guardia sympathized with the construction trades particularly , as not getting a fair ' break for their 60,000 jobless in New York . Unemployed in these trades should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since most of them are high-class mechanics and could be easily trained to work on arms jobs . Admitting that there has been inequality in the distribution of war contracts , Senator Wagner pointed out that " the small business man did not get the contracts he should have got . " According to Senator Wagner , 73 per cent of the contracts totaling 360,000,000 , - 000 allocated up to the April of this year went to 100 corporations . " Washington is keenly interested in this situation and will do its utmost to change it , " Senator Wagner declared . He agreed with Mayor La Guardia that the big hope of small plants and the 400 , -1 000 unemployed in this city was I the Small War Corporations Law . Richard O'Connell of the regional office of the Social Security Board reported in behalf of Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg , regional director , that some 50,000 workers may be expected to get jobs here in the next sixty to ninety days as a consequence of " the efforts now being made by all agencies con-1 cerned t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination by government procurement agencies against New York City , citing as an exam-1 ple the placing of a contract for 50,000,000 pairs of trousers in the South as against an order for only 10,000,000 in New York " because there was a-saving of 10 per cent per pair on the contracts placed in the South . " In this connection Mr. Celler pointed out that whatever saving there was in the price was eaten up by the necessity to construct new plants and install new equipment to enable the Southerners to fill the contract . Mr. Celler said he was in favor of Federal subsidies for New York plants to meet the conditions prescribed by , the government procurement agencies . Mr. Celler announced that he was trying to get the government to build a second aluminum plant in this city , preferably on the site of the World 's Fair , and said that the two plants , when completed , would provide work for 100 ; 000 men . Mr. Celler was critical of the Government Printing Office in V1Whington " for not doing its duty by he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government printing work which should have come here has gone elsewhere , " Mr. Cellar said . Richard C. Brockway , State director of the United States Employment Service , said that there were only two ways in which to cope with the unemployment problem here  --  the procurement of more war contracts and any other work that may be available , and the migration of part of the city 's unemployed to other areas . He voiced the hope that when the government takes steps for such migration the unions would cooperate in facilitating the plans . Other speakers included Lieut . Col. Frank Schawacher of the Service of Supply ; Dr. Meredith Givens , representing Frieda S. Miller , State Industrial Commissioner ; Thomas Hill of the labor division of the regional office of the War Production Board , and Joseph P. Ryan , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association . More Rosen of the Metal Trades was chairman of a committee which brought in resolutions for the establishment of a joint management-labor committee to deal with the unemployment problem . It was understood that representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to be represented on the committee . Betty Hawley , a vice president of the State Federation of Labor , induced the conference to adopt a resolution urging that the government , instead of employing women and girls from schools and rural areas in new plants set up here or elsewhere , try to give work to the thousands of technically trained women from the garment and other trades . Thomas Murtha , president of the Central Trades , was chairman of the conference and James C. Quinn was secretary . Application for a charter has been made by the Manufacturers War Emergency Institute , 673 Broadway , formed to obtain more government warorders for New York and other communities , according to an announcement yesterday by Abraham Felder , president of the institute . The purpose of the organization , he said , was to " revivify suffering trades and put their employes back at work . "                     