@@706053

txt Britain 's air strategy is shifting with the changing course of the war . Without abandoning bombing raids and offensive tighter sweeps in the west , the main weight of RAF attacks has swung east and south to Russia and the Mediterranean . It is not merely air tactics that have been altered as hostilities break out in Libya or conflict looms in the Caucasus . There are signs that the major aims of British strategy have been modified . Superiority in the Air It is in the highest degree significant that the British offensive against the Axis in Libya is being fought out under skies where for the first time air superiority is possessed by the British and not by the Nazis . This means that a formidable air force both in bomber and fighter planes has been massed in the Middle East , particularly perhaps in Egypt . This air force includes many of the best American planes such as the Curiss Tomahawk , the Brewster Buffalo and the Grumman Martlet . British Hurricanes and Bristol Beaufighters are also there in strength . Bomber Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East as well . In addition to American Marylands British Indian troops racing 200 miles across the desert to capture Augila in Central Libya raised hopes in London late today that the Imperial column would soon reach the Gulf of Sirte , high water mark of latst spring 's British offensive , and cut off the main line of supplies to Axis armies in the west , the Associated Press reported today . With their communications severed , the Axis North African forces , already boxed in by powerful British mechanized legions on land and by the British Mediterranean fleet at sea , would thus be in desperate plight . By R. Maillard Stead Military Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor LONDON , Nov. 25 ? A progressively formidable task lies ahead of the Imperial forces in North Africa in the opinion of military circles here , as the highly successful first week of the British offensive in the Western Desert closes . Already the British job is getting noticeably tougher as artillery and infantry are moved up behind tanks which have borne the brunt of the fighting so tar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the British driving up from the southeast have so far failed to make contact with the Tobruk garrison striking down to meet them . Instead , the tank battle in that area has resulted in such heavy losses on both sides that it is reported today to be slowing down . Axis strength in the sky is appreciably increased though the RAF still claims the upper hand . Some German and Italian air fields were waterlogged by a heavy rainfall that coincided with the opening of the British attack and now they have dried up in time to receive reinforcements from , the C mainland of the European ontinent and Axis-occupied islands of the Mediterranean . Tanks Battle Like Ships With both sides going all out , decision is expected soon in the present diffused tank encounter that bears points of strong resemblance to a naval engagement . This decision ence all the rest authorities here not in itself the as some of the                     