@@708725

txt GENERAL AT FRONT He Is Fatally Hit at Post on Hill With Marines Spearing Advance IS EXTOLLED BY LEADERS Before Okinawa , He Cleared Aleutians of Japanese Geiger Gets Command By W. IL LAWRENCE By Wireless to THE NEW YORK ' TIMES . TENTH ARMY HEADQUARTERS , Okinawa , June 18 ? Lieut . Gen. Simon Bolivar Buckner Jr. , commander of the Tenth Army , was wounded fatally today by an enemy artillery shell that landed squarely in a forward marine observation post where he was watching his Tenth Army troops mop up dwindling Japanese forces on the southern tip of Okinawa . He died within ten minutes after the shell fragment had torn a large hole in the left side of his chest . The tall , Whiteheaded 58-yearold general , son of a Confederate general and named for South America 's " General Liberator , " met his death only a few days before he would have been able to add " conqueror of Okinawa " to the unofficial titles of " defender of Alaska " and " liberator of the Aleutians " won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army officer killed in action during the Pacific war , will be buried at 9 A. M. tomorrow in the Seventh Division cemetery near the Hagushi beaches , where his troops went ashore in a surprise unopposed landing on Easter Sunday . General Struck by Shell General Buckner , who liked to go down to the front where he could see his troops in action and confer with the active line commanders to get their views on strategy , was seated on a rock 1 latop a hill overlooking the village of Makabe talking with Col. Clarence R. Wallace of Arlington , Va. , commanding officer of the Eighth Marine Regiment of the Second Marine Division , and his operations officer , Maj. William Chamberlin of Chicago , when he was wounded . Japanese guns , which had been silent , suddenly opened up at 1:15 this afternoon and the first shell struck the rock on which the general was seated . Shell fragments tore a large hole in his left chest . Staff Sgt. Robert B. Hillburn of Wichita Falls , Tex. , a Marine Corps combat correspondent who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jg ) Fred C. Wallace of Oakland , Miss. , naval doctor , ' who administered blood plasma and other emergency treatment in a vain effort to save General Buckner 's life . Lieutenant Wallace pronounced him dead at 1:25 . Carried to Sheltered Spat They kept dropping shells in the observation post while Colonel Wallace , Major Chamberlin and hospital corpsmen picked up General Buckner and carried him back about fifty yards to a sheltered spot beside a cliff where Lieutenant Wallace made his vain effort to revive the Tenth Army leader . General Buckner , in good spirits because he saw complete victory in this operation only a few days away , had gone down to the observation post to see how the Eighth Regiment was making out . This regiment , part of the Second Marine Division , was transferred only recently to the First . Marine Division commanded by Maj. Gen. Pedro A. Delvalle and went into action this morning . While talking with Colonel Wallace , General Buckner posed for motion pictures taken by Staff Sgt. Martin Cohn of West Long Branch , N. J. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General to the sheltered first-aid spot . News of General Buckner 's sudden tragic death spread quickly across the island . Officers at first were reluctant to believe it , and only when official dispatches were // SERVICES ARE CONDUCTED FOR OUR DEAD ON OKINAWA Lieut . Gen. Simon B. Buckner Jr . The New York Times ( U. S. Signal Corps ) BUCKNER IS KILLED AT OKINAWA FRONT // seen did the story gain acceptance . This statement by Vice Admiral Harry Hill voiced the sentiments of all military men here : " I am deeply shocked and grieved by the news of General Buckner 's untimely death in the hour of victory . We have all lost a friend , the Tenth Army an outstanding leader and the nation a great and patriotic man . " General Buckner , whose soft , slow Southern way of speech was spiced with salty Japanese-hating epithets , had reviewed the Okinawan campaign for correspondents last Friday afternoon . He talked of the battle here in the past tense and this correspondent wrote that night that " his appearance was in many ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , marines and their officers who fought under him , the Navy , which supported and supplied this operation , and had declared that " I could ask no greater privilege than to lead these same troops and their subordinate commanders on to Tokyo to assist a few more Japs in joining their honorable ancestors . " Geiger Named Successor By Wireless to THE NEW Yoax TIMES . GUAM , Tuesday , June 19 ? Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , in over-all command of the Okinawa operation , immediately named Maj. Gen. Roy S. Geiger as commander in chief of the forces in the Ryukyus . General Geiger had been in command of the Third Marine Amphibious Corps , one of the two corps that formed the Tenth Army . His seccession was provided for in the operations plan in case of General Buckner 's death . Nimitz Praises General The news of General Buckner 's death cast a pall over headquarters here as well as bringing grief to the troops in the front lines . Admiral Nimitz sent messages to - Mrs . Buckner and also the Tenth Army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's command . The admiral sent the following message to the forces in the Pa-cific : " Although we join in grieving over the loss of your able and courageous leader , Lieut . Gen. Simon Bolivar Buckner Jr. , all of us in the Pacific Ocean Areas take pride in the day of victory on which he gallantly met a soldier 's death . By the achievements of the Tenth Army in the Okinawa campaign under his leadership we will all gain new inspiration to overcome any and all obstacles standing between us and the ' final victory over Japan . " A Well-Tried Officer Only the day before . General Buckner was killed Admiral Nimitz issued a bristling defense of General Buckner 's conduct of the Okinawa operation in reply to newspaper criticism of it . Observers both here and in the field were inclined to agree with Admiral Nimitz . There was nothing of the fury of Patton or the dash of Holland Smith in General Buckner , but there was the sound conservatism of a well tried officer and the fact that our land casualties on Okinawa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribute to him . The naval casualties , as Admiral Nimitz explained Sunday , would ! have occurred no matter how fast i'the Japanese on Okinawa had been eliminated as long as mud and lack of roads held up airfield construction . In the Okinawa operation General Buckner went in. with six divisions against an entrenched enemy that must have come close to rivaling- his forces in numbers and had the advantage of prepared positions and did not have to fight the mud as he did . Tributes From Leaders Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , June 18 ? Heads of the War and Navy Departments and Fleet Admiral King , Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet , issued statements tonight expressing deep regret on learning of the death of General Buckner on Okinawa . The statements follow : SECRETARY OF WAR STIMSON  --  The Army has lost one of its most skilled and aggressive commanders . Under his vigorous leadership the annihilation of a force of more than 80,000 Japanese and the conquest of a vital base of operations for the invasion of Japan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is with profound regret that I have learned of the death of Lieut . Gen. Simon Buckner . He was a splendid officer and gentleman and was held in high regard by his associates in the Navy and Marine Corps . ADMIRAL KING  --  It is with deep sorrow that I learn of the death of Simon Bolivar Buckner , commanding general of the Tenth Army on Okinawa . An able leader and an accomplished warrior , he fell in action just as the final victory is being achieved in the desperate battle for that island where so many of our brave men have died . His sacrifice will live for all who cherish valor and selflessness in the struggle against the enemies of mankind .                     