@@710032

txt The United Nations General Assembly disapproved yesterday the Union of South Africa 's proposal to annex South-West Africa . The Assembly requested South Africa to submit a United Nations trusteeship agreement for the territory . South-West Africa , which the Union of South Africa now administers under mandate from the League of Nations , was the subject of a brief and relatively happy debate in the Assembly . Although South Africa had fought for a right to annex the mandated territory , D. D. Forsyth , Secretary to Prime Minister Jan Christiaan Smuts and Secretary for External Affairs in the South African Cabinet , promised the delegates : " The Union Government will continue to administer the territory in the spirit of the mandate . " The vote on the Assembly 's resolution requesting the Union to submit an agreement whereby South-West Africa might be transferred from its present status to the United Nations trusteeship system was 37 to 0 with nine abstentions . South Africa was among the states that cast " abstaining " votes . The others were Australia , France , Greece , Liberia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution as approved had been written by Denmark , India and the United States . It was , in the words of John Foster Dulles , United States delegate , a " denial " of South Africa 's proposal for annexation of South-West Africa territory . However , Mr. Dulles emphasized , the resolution was " couched in terms which , while firm , are courteous and avoid offense and which // made a constructive suggestion for the future . " Plebiscite Merit Challenged The Assembly 's decision against annexation was based on its refusal to accept as final the opinion of the natives of South-West Africa on the subject as reported to the United Nations by the Union of South Africa . The Union had conducted a poll among the tribes in South-West Africa on the matter . Gustav Rasmussen , Danish Minister of Foreign Affairs , urged the Assembly to accept the resolution , which came to the floor through the Trusteeship Committee . Sir Maharaj Singh gave the resolution India 's support . For the Union of South Africa . Mr. Forsyth stated : " The overwhelming majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-European , believe that the incorporation of their country in the Union of South Africa would be in their best political and material interest . They have therefore asked for this incorporation . " The South African delegation has spared no effort to explain the circumstances which led to the request for incorporation expressed by the peoples of South-West Africa and to present the full facts . The explanation and full facts are therefore on record and were considered in detail by a committee which , by a two-third majority , recommended the adoption of the resolution in rather different terms from the motions now before you . " On this account the South African delegation is unable to support either of the draft resolutions before us . It will therefore abstain . " The South African delegation will report back to the peoples of South-West Africa and will acquaint them with the contents of any resolution passed . " TEXT OF THE RESOLUTION The text of the Assembly 's resolution is : The General Assembly . Having considered the statements of the delegation of the Union of South Africa regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Union ; Noting with satisfaction that the Union of South Africa , by presenting this matter to the United Nations , recognizes the interest and concern of the United Nations in the matter of the future status of territories now held under mandate ; Recalling that the Charter of the United Nations provides in Articles 77 and 79 that the trusteeship system shall apply to territories now under mandate as may be subsequently agreed ; Referring to the resolution of the General Assembly of 9 February 1946 , inviting the placing of mandated territories under trusteeship ; Desiring that agreement between the United Nations and the Union of South Africa may hereafter be reached regarding the future status of the mandated territory of South-West Africa ; Assured by the delegation of the Union of South Africa that , pending such agreement , the Union Government will continue to administer the territory as heretofore in the spirit of the principles laid down in the mandate ; Considering that the African inhabitants of South-West Africa have not yet secured political autonomy or reached a stage of political development enabling them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an important question as incorporation of their territory ; Therefore , the General Assembly . Is unable to accede to the incorporation of the territory of SouthWest Africa in the Union of South Africa ; and Recommends that the mandated territory of South-West Africa be placed under the international trusteeship system and invites the Government of the Union of South Africa to propose for the ' consideration of the General Assembly a trusteeship agreement for the aforesaid territory .                     