@@705169

txt Congress yesterday refused , rather definitely , to give up its position in the national and international affairs picture The House , by a vote of 191 to 148 , rejected the adjournment resolution offered by the Administration 's leadership . Indications now are that the session will continue to December . The adjournment question was the first controversial issue to come before the Congress since the national election earlier this month In view of the fact that New Dealers were ready to hail adjournment as a vote of confidence in the Administration , the action of the House is regarded as of considerable significance . The disposition of this issue seemed to indicate that , notwithstanding the third term victory at the polls . Congress intends to keep a. close watch on the handling of both domestic and foreign affairs ant . will not be inclined to accept Administration recommendations without question In other words , the attitude of the House . at least on this one question . has not been influenced by the election results . Short Range Point of View From the shorter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal is important . The way now is clear for the Senate to go ahead and consider the Walter-Logan bill to place a check on the use of powers by many federal bureaus , agencies and commissions , This bill passed the House by a big majority during the past summer and the Senate is scheduled to resume debate Friday on the motion for its consideration . The House leadership badly misjudged the temper of the House on the adjournment question . Speaker Rayburn and Majority Leader McCormack had expressed confidence that , with the elections out of the way , members would change their position and vote for adjournment The Republican leader . Representative Martin ( Mass. ) , had judged the temper of the House differently . Mr. Martin had explained that the determination of House members to keep Congress in session so long as the emergency exists could not be altered just because the elections were over . U members changed their attitude he said , it would be tantamount to an admission that the election was the " emergency ' . President Roosevelt has not expressed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . however , did announce that the Chief Executive had no recommendations of sufficient importance to prolong the session . Coalition Defeats Resolution Nevertheless , members of the House , both Administration supporters and critics , assumed that the Administration wanted the session ended In some quarters , this is the explanation advanced for the decision by Speaker Rayburn and Floor Leader McCormack to bring the adjournment question to a head . nothwithstanding the known opposition of Republicans and a large bloc of Democrats . It was a coalition of Republicans and Democrats which defeated the adjournment resolution . The President reiterated at his press conference yesterday that he had no new defense program to submit to Corigt-ress at this tune Mr. Roosevelt said laughingly that ne knew of nothing he could send to Congress except routine Army and Navy promotions which need confirmation . When asked if the refusal of the House to adjourn made any difference to him , the President replied that it did not . In addition to the Walter-Logan bill , there are several other important measures which could be considered by the prolonged session . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill abolishing the present Labor Relations Board and creating a new one with more clearly defined powers . The House has not acted on the Senate bill changing premium rates under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act . It has been suggested in some quarters that a continuation of the session would permit earlier development of a tax program to be acted on next year . Leaders of the congressional tax committees would be on hand and in a better position to cooperate with the Treasury in working out legislation , it was pointed out . May Be Debated for Several Days The motion for Senate consideration of the Walter-Logan bill may be debated for several days before action is reached . Yesterday . Senator Hatch ( Dem. , N. Mex. ) denied that President Roosevelt has said he would veto this measure if passed by the Senate and sent to the White House . Mr. Hatch contended the Chief Executive is not familiar with the change made in the bill by a subcommittee in an effort to remove features objected to by the Administration . Generally speaking , members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjournment resolution . Senate opposition to adjournment was not strong and leaders were confident that if the House agreed to the adjournment resolution , the Senate would follow suit . It was considered possible that House leaders may make another adjournment attempt within the next ten days or two weeks . The leaders themselves , however , said they have no plans . Democratic leaders seem to feel that the fact that many of their party members were not present had very little if any effect on the results . A breakdown of the vote showed 144 Republicans , 44 Democrats , 1 American Laborite and 2 progressives , making a total of 191 , voting against adjournment and 148 Democrats voting for adjournment . Forty-two members were paired and 51 members failed to vote . Republican Leader Martin interpreted the vote as reflecting a sentiment throughout the country for Congress to remain in Washington so long as the war in Europe Continues . 