@@705099

txt A petition of the Steel Workers Organiz= ing Committee charging the Bethlehem Steel Corporation with disobeying Federal labor statutes and demanding that government contracts be withheld from companies failing to comply with the orders of Federal administrative bodies was presented to the labor advisory committee of the National Defense Commission today for early action . Sidney Hillman , labor member of the Defense Commission , to whom the petition was handed by Van A. Bittner , regional director of the S. W. 0 . C. , acting for Philip Murray , W. 0 . C. chairman , asked for further time to study the document . It was agreed that the advisory group 's standing committee would study the petition and make a report at the next meeting of the committee in two weeks . The demand made by the steel union had the effect of placing Mr. Hillman " on the spot " with labor and more particularly the C. I. 0. , which has been pressing for drastic action by the government against offenders of labor statutes . Mr. Bittner , who had planned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the petition and explaining the union 's position on it , canceled the meeting after the advisory group had decided to refer it to a committee consisting of himself , Daniel Tracy , Second Assistant Secretary of Labor , and W. J. Hogan , a railway union leader . " Political Dynamite " Feared Although the fortnight 's postponement will be up a week before election , it was indicated that nothing would be completed on the Bethlehem situation before election , as the controversy is regarded as containing " political dynamite . " However , Mr. Hillman , who told reporters that " nothing controversial " had come before the advisory commission , said that meetings have already been held by members of his staff with Bethlehem personnel and that these meetings would continue in the hope of settling the steel union 's controversy with the company . Mr. Hillman is now expected by the S. W. 0 . C. to impress on the Defense Commission the " justice " of its cause and to demand action . If he succeeds in working out the problem by settling the Bethlehem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist that all contractors be barred from government contracts if they violate orders of Federal agencies . Apparently all the members of Mr. Hillman 's labor committee , whether A. F. of L. , C. I. 0 . or railroad unions , are united in this demand . The petition , a seventeen-page document , demanded that the labor policy proposed by the steel union and which had been adopted by the Defense Commission until the recent protests had caused officials to abandon it , be embodied in an , Executive order signed by President Roosevelt . A similar demand has been made frequently by John L. Lewis , chairman of the C. I. 0. , but President Roosevelt has replied that such a proposal was a legal matter . The petition reviewed the labor policy of the Defense Commission beginning on Aug. 31 , when it issued a statement that " all work carried on as part of the defense program should comply with Federal statutory provisions affecting labor wherever such provisions are applicable . " " This applies to the Walsh-Healy Act , the Fair Labor Standards Act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement added . On Sept. 6 , according to the petition , the Defense Commission adopted principles governing the letting of defense contracts reaffirming adherence to labor laws as a requirement for government contractors . On Sept. 13 President Roosevelt approved the principles in a message to Congress and on Oct. 1 Mr. Hillman released letters from Secretary Knox and R. P. Patterson , assistant secretary of war , further approving the labor principles , it was said . Contradictory Statements Alleged Then , the Murray petition added , Attorney General Jackson on Oct. 2 gave an affirmative opinion to Mr. Hillman 's views on the subject . Within a few days after the policy had become formulated , the petition stated , the Smith committee investigating the NLRB held a public hearing on the question . " Under the driving attack from this committee and the press the government policy was completely nullified , set aside and reversed by representatives by the government who appeared before the committee , " it was stated . " The statements which were made before the House committee by the representatives of the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are so contradictory to the statements which had been made prior thereto as to leave the situation in a most frightful state Of confusion . " Charging the Bethlehem Steel Corporation with refusing to confer with the Steel Workers Union , Mr. Murray declared that the company was flagrantly and openly flouting the Federal Labor Act and the Walsh-Healy act , despite which the government had awarded it contracts for over $1,000,000,000 , and of this total some $600,000,000 was awarded three days after the Defense Commission enunciated its labor policy . Mr. Murray maintained that the Bethlehem company 's alleged refusal to bargain collectively was merely a repetition of its actions during the World War , when the National War Labor Board insisted that the company recognize the rights of employes to bargain collectively . In reviewing the Bethlehem controversy with the War Labor Board Mr. Murray quoted from former President Taft 's letter to Eugene Grace , company president , charging him with wishing to repudiate collective bargaining to which he had agreed . Roosevelt Expects Peace Parley By The United Press . WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bethlehem Steel Corporation are arranging a conference to iron out difficulties arising from the controversy over the award of defense contracts to Wagner Labor Act violators . Mr. Roosevelt made this disclosure at a press conference when he was asked about his viewpoint . on the dispute whether defense contracts should be let to firms who have appealed to the courts an NLRB order finding them guilty of failing to observe the law .                     