@@705113

txt There is a strong likelihood that copper soon may be brought into the United States from American owned South American mines to help meet the needs of the defense program . These defense demands , on top of creasing commercial requirements . have suited in record breaking copper sales consumption in September and thus far in tober . Total needs are fast getting beyond ability of the domestic industry to meet . Reports that the situation is nearing the point where active consideration may be given to calling on the South American producers were given credence in metal circles yesterday . Suggestions along this line have been made on several occasions in the recent past . Cut in Tariff Unlikely Another report which received wide circulation yesterday was that the import tax on copper might be reduced by 50% through executive order . There was little inclination to believe this report , however , largely because of the doubt which exists as to the legality of such a move . The copper levy is an excise tax included in the revenue act rather than a straight tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market by this tax on imports , which amounts to 4 cents a pound . It is pointed out in the trade , however , that this tax would not be effective on South American metal purchased and brought into the country by a government agency . Such copper could be held as an emergency reserve and released to American consumers as demand arose . It was revealed in the trade yesterday that large custom smelter interests had visited Washington and discussed with Defense Commissioner Leon Henderson problems in connection with production and prices peculiar to their end of the copper industry . It is understood that particular reference was made to the fact that copper in the outside and custom markets has sold during the past week or so at substantial premiums over that of the primary producers , whose quotation has been maintained t. 19 : ' cents a pound . in the outside or custom section as high as 13 cents a pound or slightly better has been reported paid by consumers . Forward Requirements Requirements of the domestic copper industry for the last three months of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Bureau of Mines , is placed at 361.000 tons , an average monthly rate of slightly above 120,000 tons . Of this total , domestic trade needs accounted for a monthly average of 107.800 tons . while copper to be applied on orders for export amounted to 12,560 tons per month for this period . The Bureau of Mines also estimated that copper used by American manufacturers during September for both foreign and domestic orders aggregated 109.629 tons . Copper fabricators figures covering the same month showed actual use of copper for purely domestic consumption at a new monthly high of 92.875 tons . Production of copper in the United States from primary sources , secondary and scrap . amounted to 79.021 tons during September . It has hovered around 80.000 tons for the past several months . Some trade authorities believe the industry over a protracted period can produce 85,000 tons to 90,000 tons per month with present facilities . Immediately following the surrender of France to Germany drastic curtailment of output was forced upon the foreign &ming; properties owned by American companies . These mines , had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates placed the drop in output as varying from 40% to 50% under the rate of output prevailing prior to the French collapse . In recent months , however . because of the sharp increase in the use of foreign - bonded " copper by American manufacturers working on armament orders , production of these mines is understood to have been stepped up considerably from the low point .                     