@@705948

txt Plans for rehabilitating 200,000 of the 1,000,000 youths who have been rejected for military service because of physical or mental deficiencies were announced ' by President Roosevelt at his press conference today . The program will apply immediately to the 200,000 who were certified by local draft boards as susceptible of physical rehabilitation for the Army . Local physicians and dentists will give the treatments , for which the Federal Government will pay , as part of the cost of national defense . When in proper condition , the men will be inducted into the service . While this is the immediate program , Mr. Roosevelt said that it was only the first objective , adding that something should be done along broader lines , and declaring that he considered the existence of the conditions revealed by ; . he selective service examinations as an indictment of America . Nearly 50 per cent of 2,000,000 men examined for selective service were found unfit mentally or physically . The President said that he would start a long-range program calling for cooperation of States , counties , cities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation . The plan for rehabilitating the 200,000 men was adopted on the basis of a report to the President from Brig . Gen. Hershey , director of the selective service system . The President could not estimate how much it would cost but said that it would be much less than if the men had been inducted and rehabilitation had then been attempted . The plans are already far advanced for helping the 200,000 men . Those suffering from heart diseases , musculo-skeletal defects and mental and nervous disorders will be put in a special category and will be examined by traveling boards or teams of specialists who will recommend curable cases for immediate treatment at government cost . Of those rejected under the Selective Service Act , 100,000 were found mentally unequipped for service , since they did not have the equivalent of a fourth-grade education . The other 900,000 rejections were due to physical defects or mental and nervous diseases . The largest category of physical defects came under the dental classification , representing nearly 21 per cent of the whole . Defective eyes were another major cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we did not want men in the Army with false teeth . This remark prompted an interjection from one of his listeners that General Grant had false teeth . The report of General Hershey was as follows : " About 50 per cent of the approximately two million registrants who have been examined for induction into the Army of the United States under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 have been disqualified because of physical , mental or education reasons . Of the approximately one million rejected , 900,000 , or about 90 per cent , were found to be physically or mentally unfit . " The physical rejections of registrants were distributed as follows : TABLE " Of this number , about 200,000 can be completely rehabilitated and made available for general service in our armed forces . The remainder can be rehabilitated to perform only limited service or because of mental , nervous , cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases , and musculo-skeletal defects are incapable of rehabilitation for even limited service and are , therefore , not being considered under the present rehabilitation program for Selective Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the 200,000 registrants who can be completely rehabilitated and made available for general military service in the armed forces at a small cost and in a reasonably short period of time . " Certain types of venereal diseases , operable hernias , deficiencies iri teeth and vision and other minor defects will be corrected in cases where the Army determines that the registrant will then be acceptable for general military service . " The registrant will have the privilege of having the services performed by his family physician or dentist in his own community . " The cost of this rehabilitation program will be borne by the Federal Government as a necessary part of our national defense program , and additional funds will be made available to the Selective Service System for this purpose . " Asked whether the men could be compelled to undergo the treatment , President Roosevelt said that when a registrant appeared before an examining board he was under its jurisdiction and could be directed to undergo such treatment . If he should refuse , he could be inducted into the Army and compelled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had rejected an alternative plan suggested by the Army for the defectives to be inducted and then rehabilitated as enlisted men in Army medical centers . When housing , food , clothing , Army pay and medical care were considered , this would have cost some $500,000,000 , he explained , whereas the salvage program by local physicians and dentists would cost much less than that .                     