@@710289

txt Warren R. Austin , United States representative to the United Nations , will make a statement to . the U. N. Security Council Friday on the Greek and Turkish situations . Mr. Austin disclosed his intention after a conference with President Truman . Retail food prices declined in the month ending Feb. 15 for the third consecutive month , the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported . The OPA ruled that landlords may collect one additional month 's advance rent as a " security deposit " on newly built furnished dwellings which are rented , for the first time , after today . Previously , the agency barred all security deposits in excess Of one month 's advance rent on grounds that such payments open the ' door to ceiling evasion . Two top military leaders urged Congress to enact legislation unifying the armed services , saying , " There is no such thing as a separate land , sea or air war . " Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Army 's Chief of Staff , and Gen. Carl Spaatz , top Air Force officer , told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branches  --  Army , Navy , and Air Force ? " must be closely integrated " to insure victory in any global conflict . Boston : Foreign Trade Totals $680,100,000 Foreign trade to a total value of $680,100,000 moved through the customs districts of New England ports to destinations throughout the world in 1946 , Harold P. Smith , Regional Director of the U. S. Department of Commerce , reported . Page 2 . ) Closed shops were labeled " un-American " by proponents of legislation to outlaw this labor practice in Massachusetts as they opened their case before 450 persons in the State House . The Rules Committee of the Massachusetts Senate voted against suspension of rules to admit the bill to increase salaries of Boston schoolteachers and the legislation went to the floor of the Senate for open debate . Newfoundland : All Reported Safe in Air Crash All nine persons aboard a United States Army C-54 transport plane , which crashed 25 miles south of the Stephenville air base last Sunday , are reported safe , The aircraft was en route from Westover Field , Mass. , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Europe : ' Monarch ' Liner Blaze Extinguished Fire that raged through the 22.424-ton liner Monarch of Bermuda in dry dock at Hebburn-on-Tyne , England , was declared extinguished , 26 hours after it began . Cause of the blaze and amount of damage have not been determined . Flood waters of the Vistula River are reported to have inundated 40 Polish villages , making 20,000 peasants homeless . Meanwhile . a Berlin dispatch said ice smashed an Oder River dam near Kiistrin , east of Berlin , flooding an estimated 150,000 acres of farmland and forcing approximately 180,000 persons to flee . William Z. Foster , leader of the American CoMmunist Party , left Belgrade after an unpublicized visit there . Yugoslav sources did not disclose with whom he conferred . Central Committee of Liberated Jews has appealed to the Foreign Ministers Council in Moscow for aid in Jewish immigration to Palestine . The Committee represents Jewish displaced persons camps in the United States zone " of Germany . National : U. S. Plans Radiocasts to Greece Short-Wave radiocists to the creek , Turkish , and ' Arabic people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States to ? a , ' acquaint them with American foreign policy , Assistant Secretary of State William BentOnSaid in Philadelphia . Page 14 . Spring , only five days old , was given a surprising , speedy brush off by roaring March winds and snow storms which swept over the Eastern half of the United States , causing considerable damage and seriously disrupting , power and communication service and impairing rail , motor , and air travel . Americas : Revolt Situation in Paraguay Clouded 1 The situation in revolt-torn Paraguay was clouded by conflicting reports from the Capital at AsunciOn and rebel headquarters at ' ConcepciOn  --  both claiming that final victory was near .                     