@@705233

txt Agreement " in principle " on a plan for reorganizing the administration of defense to obtain the utmost speed in the output of vital war supplies for this country and the democracies was reached today by President Roosevelt , Secretaries Stimson and Knox , Assistant Secretary Patterson of the War Department , and Under-Secretary Forrestal- of the Navy . As submitted by the four advisers of the President , and left for him to fill in the details , the proposal calls in substance for an over-all defense council composed of Secretaries Stimson and Knox and William S. Knudsen , industrial member of the Defense Advisory Commission . No other structural changes would be made in present organizations . Others members of the Advisory Commission would continue their functions as originally designated by the President . The procurement agencies of the War and Navy Departments would proceed under present arrangements , which themselves are products of many years ' planning . But the new " supreme " council would be charged specifically with getting the rearmament job done and , according to the plan as worked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caribbean , would be clothed by him and Congress with the authority necessary to that end . Broad Power for Knudsen Mr. Knudsen might continue as the principal industrial representative of the commission , or he might be supplemented by another , but he would speak for the full commission in the council . Actually , therefore , he would be practically the day-today chairman of the Advisory Commission . The President would remain the nation 's chief defense officer , even over the three-man council , but the everyday planning and operation of the rearmament program would be the primary responsibility of this body . Just how far the agreement " in principle " between the President and his advisers went could not be learned tonight . The plan was before Mr. Roosevelt , however , and he made known to those who conferred with him his determination to follow its general lines in an attempt to speed the defense program . Before he departed on his recent trip the President made some suggestions for greater efficency in the defense organization . Several are believed to be embraced in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Knudsen move his desk into the White House and become the President 's chief industrial liaison office . The plan as submitted , however , is understood to include Mr. Knudsen in a more independent status . Announcement Expected Soon Whatever the details , a White House announcement of some form of realignment of the defense setup appears to be indicated during the next few days . While the Administration thus contemplated its own moves , agitation was resumed among the opposition for action by Congress . Representative Taber of New York introduced a bill , which was referred to the House Military Affairs Committee , calling for the appointment of a defense coordinator , at $15,000 a year , a defense procurement director , at $12,000 a year , and necessary assistants . The measure would authorize the director to procure , on his own responsibility , all necessary military and naval supplies . This program , Representative Taber told the House , would remove bottlenecks due to lack of authority by the Defense Advisory Commis .. sion to put its policies into operation . Representative Maas of Minnesota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent tour of inspection for the House Naval Affairs Committee that naval construction is ahead of schedule , and that the Navy 's short program and // 3-MAN COUNCIL TO SPEED DEFENSE // airplane plant construction are proceeding satisfactorily . But , in his opinion , pilot training was " badly " behind schedule , due largely to the lack of planes . The manufacture of tanks was not proceeding in a satisfactory manner , he thought . " Time will not clear up this jam , " he said . " The most essential thing is a director of defense with legis lative authority . " Representative Woodruff charged in the House that President Roesevelt himself was part " of the bottleneck behind which the defense program is dammed up . " " In spite of constant criticism and warnings cn the part of several members of the Congress , the national defense program was allowed to lag until now the country is told by William Knudsen of the National Defense Commission , that our defense is at least 30 per cent behind the program , " Representative Woodruff said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisting upon passing on all matters himself , President Roosevelt , part of the time away from Washington , his whereabouts unknown to the members of Congress , has , . in part at least , been the bottleneck behind which the defense program has dammed up . " Whether or not it was so intended , nothing . could have been more perfectly designed to produce a demand for mobilization and regimentation of business and industry than the bogging down of the defense program . " There are those in Washington who believe , and not without reason , that the administration was waiting for what at least appeared to be a public demand for the enactment by the Congress of the . industrial mobilization plan , which means the setting up in peace time in this country of a complete military dictatorship . " That demand for the adoption of the mobilization plan has come . It arose from so many different sources so suddenly as to bear a close resemblance to a preconceived propaganda program . " President Roosevelt has already taken action toward increasing the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories will be erected for the Navy at a cost of $35,000,000 . Westinghouse will operate one at Louisville , the Reynolds Corporation another at Macon , Ga. , and the Hudson Motor Company a third at Detroit . The fourth will be at Macon , Ga. , it was reported . Two new plants are planned for making torpedo tubes for the Navy . The President , it was said , also ix being asked to approve several new munitions plants for the Army .                     