@@704961

txt More than 600 German bomber ! struck another mighty blow at Royal Air Force bases in the south of England yesterday . Convoyed by high-flying fighters and taking advantage of every wisp of cloud In the sky , they scored some hits on several military airports and climaxed a day of spectacular battles by pressing home one dive-bombing attack for fifty minutes on the very edge of London 's area of the balloon barrage . For these successes , however , the Germans paid a high price . The Air Ministry admits that an undisclosed number of R. A. F. men were killed by Nazi bombs but a Ministry communiqmi says that the Germans lost 140 planes . Sixteen British planes crashed during the day but eight of their pilots bailed out and got home . The destruction of 140 German planes out of 600 that the Air Ministry estimates were sent over yesterday was proportionately the heaviest defeat that Germany has suffered . The British loss of only sixteen machines makes the ratio of Nazi losses for the day nine to one . This is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reports of several pilots engaged iv yesterday evening 's fighting are still being examined , but this preliminary figure brings the German air losses around the British coasts since the outbreak of the war to 1,035 and to 959 since the first mass attack on June 18 . Yesterday ground batteries shot down twelve planes . During the seven preceeding days they shot down fifty-seven  --  twenty-two last Thursday when the tally reached a record high of 180 . Two Raids on London There were two air-raid warnings in London during the day . The first came about 1 o'clock when the church congregations were en route home . That was when a fifty-minute battle took place . The second warning sounded at 5 P. M. when forty-two bombers crossed the Channel , but before they could reach London they were intercepted and driven back over the sea . The Germans showed clearly yesterday that their object was to Hock out British plane bases . They concentrated on airports an a few docks , from Portsmouth in the south right around " invasion corner " to Essex on the north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hits , they did not get far in their task of immobilizing these craft . A case in point was the attack on a large military airport . By a piece of superb strategy and by the ingenious use of a great white cumulus cloud , the Germans certainly did succe.ei in pressing home their attack and they must receive credit for great courage and flying skill , but they did not succeed in putting that airport out of action . Come Over In Waves What happened was this . Shortly after noon the Germans came over in three waves of twelve . As they crossed the coast they were flying high ? and when they were first sighted above the objective they were well above the clouds . Immediately fighters went up to meet them . The German formation remained high , manoeuvring behind the cloud and sun , an.I then when the fighters were Lalfway to meet them one formation of twelve bombers , which had waited behind , came 1 low over the airport and battered it with a series of high explosis and Inzendiary bombs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had finished and before long had an opportunity to see that that airport was still functioning . Three hours after t ' e first L ' . tack ended there was a further alarm . Immediately a whole hornet 's nest of fighter aircraft took off from this same airport and climbed into the sky to meet the invaders , which this time did not come . It is true that the Germans succeeded in hitting buildings on the airfield , but their real objective was undoubtedly to keep the planes on the ground and they did not do that . The Germans did not spray their bombs off the targets as much today as they did on Friday when they shattered a " few houses " in South London . About nine bombs did hit outside the airport that this correspondent saw . Two of these fell in a churchyard about a quarter of a mile down the hill from the airport , damaging four small cottages which stood across the street , knocking out all the stained glass and taking off part of the roof of the church itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the airport while he was trying to shake off a Hurricane and these bombs wiped out two houses but did not kill any one . Two other bombs fell across from the airport in a shopping district and destroyed a fish shop and a grocer 's , and though the tail end of one bomb was lying right in the middle of the road when American correspondents arrived , no civilian casualties were reported in this area . At Croydon , which was also raided during the day , there were several civilian casualties . The raid on Croydon was not nearly so great as the other day , however . Food Supply Attacked All the German planes did not dive in formations yesterday , however , and all were not directed to attack airfields only . One lone raider , for example , used a new technique and indicated that the Nazis are starting a new campaign . He cans over with a load of incendiary bombs and flew low , dropping them in fields of grain . Next he attacked sheep and cattle with machine gun bullets from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sold by the neighborhood butchers next week . The largest attacking formation of the day was reported off the north bank of the Thames in Essex . Almost 100 German fighters and bombers arrived in this area , but , according to the Air Ministry , they were driven back over the sea by large formations of British fighters . From almost every airport between here and Dover , fighters went up yesterday evening to attack a large formation of bombers that started out in the direction of the capital . At the same time the raiders had to run through a constant stream of anti-aircraft fire . Gradually they were forced eastward until they got over the coast , where the coastal batteries drove them home . It now seems clear that the Germans are trying first to immobilize the R. A. F. air bases nearest to the south and east coast . British fighters , they know , burn up a lot of gasoline and can not stay in the air as long as many other slower types of fighter craft . Therefore the Germans seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of making the British fighters operate from bases farther inland . Bombers Roam at Night At night , however , the Germans roam all over the country . An hour after dark last night they were reported even right up in the north-. west , having flown right across England . Here are a few incidents reported from southeast England during yesterday 's raids . Eye-witnesses of an attack in the London suburbs said that German planes came down and machine-gunned military objectives . Some of their bullets landed in residential districts , they added . In another London area bombers were reported at a height of 30,000 feet , but they did not attack . Four Messerschmitt fighters made a machine-gun attack on the balloon barrage of a southeast coastal town . Incendiary bombs were dropped near a railroad line in one town early this morning . Whistling bombs were dropped in a district of north London and people in another town said they saw parachutes falling . There were no men on the end of them , indicating that the Germans are keeping up their tactics of trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . These reports file into London here at night like returns from voting precincts in November . There does not seem to be any way of stopping bombers at night , as both the R. A. F. and the Germans have proved , and as soon as dark falls the string correspondents in almost every section of the country report " raiders over . " Little Damage at Croydon LONDON , Aug. 18 ( UP ) ? It was stated officially today that , although damage and casualties had been inflicted on several airdromes and to civilians in the vicinity of the great Croydon airdrome outside London , the day 's damage was comparatively mall . Nazi reports that Croydon airdrome on London 's southern outskirts had been " left in flames " after today 's attack were found to be without foundation . As late as 4:30 P. M. , long after the raid , the airdrome had not been touched by bombs . Bombers Driven Out to Sea LONDON , Aug. 18 UP )  - -  In the second big Nazi air sweep toward London today forty-two Nazi bombers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective , and at least three of this flight were shot down , the British declared . Eighteen German bombers and twelve fighters assaulted the area of Portsmouth  --  British south shore naval base  --  but six of them were destroyed and the others jettisoned their bombs and fled , the British asserted . While these attacks were in progress , other waves of German fight ' ers and bombers smashed at the lehannel towns , the East Coast , the Southwest and the Midlands . Scattered raiders also dumped bombs on widely separated English areas . Some houses were wrecked in a residential district near a Midland town but most bombs were said to have fallen on soft ground . Fires broke out on the Southeast Coast before British fighters chased off a squadron of twenty-two German planes in a battle . In the southwest an undisclosed number of soldiers were killed when they approached a delayed-action bomb . Seventeen bombs fell on a golf course in a London suburb during the first attack on this area . Attack Beaten Off For more than an hour British pursuit planes hurled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off . Scattered fighting still was going on . The retreating raiders dropped bombs In Kent and the neighborhood of South London , an Air Ministry communique said , but " further details are not yet available . " Up to mid-afternoon no casualties had been reported , but unofficial reports said considerable private property had been damaged . Four enemy planes were shot down before any bombs dropped , and three others in dog-fights soon afterward . Observers who saw one mass wave of 100 cross the coast and dash toward the capital , said they counted only fifty-three returning in a ragged formation . The raiders flew so high it was difficult for observers on the ground to follow the fighting . People in the London area calmly took shelter or watched from roofs and gardens for a glimpse of the Nazis . The British Air Ministry information service , telling of raids over every corner of England , gave these details of some of the fighting : " A squadron of Spitfires engaged German bombers which were about to attack their airdrome in Surrey . Within a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighters . " About the same time , a Hurricane squadron was challenging an attack in the Hampshire area . They shot down six Junkers dive bombers and two Messerschmitt fighters . " During air battles over Kent , a squadron of Hurricanes on patrol sighted five Messerschmitt fighterbombers at 21,000 feet . " ' We climbed up and dived down on the enemy , shooting down the lot in a dogfight , ' said one Hurricane pilot . " A crack Spitfire squadron , approaching the century-mark of successes , engaged a number of lone fighters and bombers over Kent . While these fights were going on , several large formations of bombers ? at least eighty  --  appeared flying in line abreast in sections of twelve . Looked Like Huge Rectangle " They looked , as a Spitfire pilot said , ' like a huge rectangle ! , They were supported by many enemy fighters circling above and in front of them . Before the Spitfire pilots landed , they had destroyed three Messerschmitt 109 fighters , seriously damaged two more Messerschmitts and two new Heinkel 113 fighters as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Hampshire area , two fighter squadrons had remarkable success . In the first raid shortly after 1 P. M. , nine Hurricanes went up and shot down nine Nazi raiders ? eight bombers and a fighter . " An hour later , eleven Spitfires went up to intercept another mass raid . Again their own number of enemy bombers and fighters  --  ten Junkers arid one Messerschmittwere destroyed . "                     