@@705420

txt Two great lessons have been learned by the officials working out the complexities of the arms program . Lesson No. 1 is that wars are not fought according to the lines on statisticians ' charts . That lesson is being currently impressed on business men in charge of our defense program for this country and Great Britain . Lesson No. 2 is that too many " generals " with divergent policies are just as bad for a defense effort as too many cooks are for the broth . Aluminum provides subject matter for the first one : machine tools for the second . A few weeks ago charts on the supply and demand of ingot and fabricated aluminum projected well into 1942 were being circulated here . The ingot chart , for example , carried two lines both rising gradually over the period but with supply showing a small balance over cc , mbined civilian and defense needs for nearly every month . Human Element Not Considered On the basis of this carefully worked out and accurate statistical data , it appeared safe to draw the conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be no serious shortages in months to come So much for the statisticians . They had accounted for everything but the human element But it did n't all work out as planned . First . scrap aluminum failed to flow back into the market as expected . This tended to pull the supply line down a bit  --  the leeway was narrowed . Second . the British stepped up their consumption of aluminum , thus cutting off Imports of 3.000.000 pounds a month from Canada . pushing the demand line up . By that time the leeway was out the window . Third . increased activity by fabricators necessitated accumulation of greater working stocks , thus cutting down the amount of metal available for consumers until expanding facilities of fabricators are adequately stocked with aluminum in process . Industrial users . too . were building inventones . Fourth . rising-national income , with consequent greater consumer buying power , stepped up the civilian demand for products made partly or wholly of aluminum . That effect was to convert an approximate statistical balance between supply and combined civilian and defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically all the 45,000.000 pounds of current monthly production while around 32.000,000 pounds of civilian needs must be met largely from scrap returned to foundries and secondary smelters . Theoretically that scrap should aggregate around one-third of civilian needs . Actually it probably falls somewhat stioi t of that ratio at present although efforts are being made to get more scrap back into the market . Apt to *Upset Statistical Balances The moral seems to be that close statistical balances between supply and demands for raw materials in particular , and all sorts of products in general , are apt to be upset almost overnight by the unpredictable necessities of a major war and the armament effort to support it Wars are not run on a statistical basis . The second lesson has to do with idle or semi-idle machine tools . That problem has been attacked from several angles . William S. Knudsen , for example , made a plea before the National Association of Manufacturers for a longer work week in plants with defense orders ? for elimination of the week-end blackouts . A well-organized unit with a carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production division of the OPM to foster spreading of primary contracts . Ninety percent of these contracts are held by a group of about 600 large corporations . The spreading process would be through subcontracting by which these 600 companies would have parts for guns , tanks , airplanes and many of the other multitudinous items making up the armament program manufactured by the thousands upon thousands of smaller manufacturing concerns throughout the country . Would Put Idle Machines to Work Thus , the idle or partly idle machine tools in the shops of these potential subcontractors would be put to work . This program was an adaptation of the " bits and pieces " method used by both Germany and Great Britain to produce the most armaments in the quickest possible time . Effect would be two-fold : By drawing these idle or partially idle tools into the defense program the delays inherent in waiting on manufacture of new tools for primary contractors would be eliminated in part and thousands of skilled workers and supervisors in small plants would get a chance to bring their talents to bear on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get to the " results " stage , the machine tool section of the OPM issued an urgent appeal for " immediate sale of idle machine tools to manufacturers working on defense contracts . " This , of course , is directly at variance with the whole subcontracting program . How could a potential subcontractor with idle equipment , with skilled workers and supervisors available take on any defense subcontracts after he had sold his idle machine tools to a primary contractor already overburdened with work , short of labor and faced with the problem of training supervisors ? Some bitter words were spoken and some resignations threatened in the OPM before that snarl was straightened out through issuance of a " clarifying " statement which did n't " clarify " at all but merely " repealed . " These two examples are typical of the sort of thing which must be learned by trial and error in a program having the complexities of our current effort to arm . Fortunately , these two lessons have been learned relatively early . Chances are that they will be taken to heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 