@@709489

txt New York and the East got a taste last night of general paralysis of railroad transportation . Engineers and trainmen , lacking official notification of the truce reported by union leaders to President Truman , walked out at 5 P. M. ( daylight saving time ) . This stalled passenger and freight trains in Grand Central Terminal , Pennsylvania Station and other terminal points from three to six hours . The paralysis , for the time being , was as complete as if the strike orders had remained in effect , for despite radio broadcasts reporting the postponement at 5 P. M. , official orders were not sent out from the headquarters of the railroad brotherhoods in Cleveland to their regional representatives in the East , directing the men to go back to work , until two hours and fifty-one minutes after the chiefs had accepted Mr. Truman 's proposal . Many engineers and trainmen , after bringing their trains into terminal points , went home or to meetings although their working day was not done . Hearing of the report of the strike postponement , hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern representatives , respectively , of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen . Until 7:45 P. M. Mr. Harkins told callers that he had not been notified officially of the truce and " the strike is still on . " Then , when he had received a coded telegram from Alvanley Johnston , grand chief engineer , he announced : " The strike if off for five days . That 's official . " Mr. Reed made identical announcements before and after he had received official notice from A. F. Whitney , president of the trainmen 's brotherhood , at 7:45 o'clock . The telegrams had been filed in Cleveland at 7:25 P. M. ( Eastern daylight time ) . The telegram from Mr. Whitney read : " At the urgent request of the President of the United States , progress can be made in further negotiations with the railroads . We have agreed with him to move the strike date from 4 P. M. , May 18 , to 4 P. M. , May 23 ( Standard Time all teritories ) . Please be governed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours for telegrams dispatched by Mr. Harkins and Mr. Reed . to reach crew dispatchers ' offices of the railroads in the East . Mr. Harkins said he did not know why it had taken so long for the official notice to be filed in Cleveland . He suggested that it might be attributed to a backlog of wires , 100,000 in all , that had to be sent out . However , the message purported to have been filed at 7:25 o'clock and not earlier . Some Volunteers Run Trains The walkout was not 100 per cent effective . The Central Railroad of New Jersey announced that it had moved eleven of seventeen scheduled passenger trains between 5 and 8:10 P. M. All the road 's trainmen walked out , but these were replaced by volunteers from other classes . Nine of the trains had their regular engineers , the company said , because these men refused to strike against the government . The other two were manned by company executives with engineers ' licenses . Members of the non-striking brotherhoods worked in accordance with their agreements . The Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially . One was the Representative , bound from Washington to New York and stalled at Newark . some minutes late , at 6:03 P. M. This was moved at 6:55 P. M. , but the engineers and trainmen may have done so as a safety measure . The other was a New York-toWashington train stalled in Pennsylvania Station since 5:30 P. M. , which departed at 7 o'clock . Pennsylvania officials persuaded the crews that a truce had been declared and that they ought to take the trains out , since the Government had taken over the roads , without waiting for official notice . The train loaded at 6.48 o'clock . But except for these isolated instances and for the movement of trains to terminal points under the terms of the strike order , the paralysis was complete until national headquarters in Cleveland notified strike headquarters in New York and the latter notified dispatchers ' offices of the divisions and sections . Grand Central Tied Up 4 Hours The New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad resumed service from Grand Central at 8:56 P. M. with the departure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 4:56 . The Central Railroad of New Jersey resumed service at 8:10 . The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad moved out the West Virginian for Washington at 8:30 . The Long Island Railroad moved its first train at 9:11 , one from West Hempstead to Manhattan . Other roads resumed passenger service for the most part between 8 and 10 o'clock . but all said it would be hours before schedules were back to normal . Some canceled trains were restored , others were dropped or restored as added sections to later trains . But most lines said it would not be before later this morning that freight service could be resumed . Outbound trains for the South and West from the Pennsylvania station that were an hour and more late included ( all times being P. M. , E. D .. T. ) : the Broadway ' Limited , scheduled to leave for Chicago at 6 , left at 7:15 ; the Spirit of St. Louis , scheduled for 6 : 55 , left at 8:43 ; the Jeffersonian , scheduled to leave for St. Louis at 7:05 , left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled for 6:10 , left at 8:32 , and the Cincinnati Limited , scheduled for 6:25 , left at 7:50 . The Southern Limited for Atlanta , Birmingham and New Orleans , scheduled to leave the Pennsylvania Station at 5:35 , got away at 7:47 , with a North Philadelphia train that had been delayed attached as a section . At midnight officials at the Pennsylvania Station said most of the major trains were operating on schedule . There were a few delays , however , caused by a shortage of yard men . By 1 A. M. the station was almost deserted and most trains were only a few minutes late arriving and departing . The first " crack " train to leave the Grand Central Terminal following the postponement of the strike was the Ohio State Limited , which pulled out for Cincinnati at 10:56 . The train 's normal departure time is 5 . The Twentieth Century , scheduled for 6 P. M. , did not leave until 12:09 A. M. The Missourian , from St. Louis , was the first inbound train to arrive . It came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. Y. , for two hours and twenty-five minutes . Shortly before 1:30 A. M. today Grand Central Terminal was still crowded and a number of big trains were still to leave . Men and women sat around on their luggage playing cards . The Wolverine , scheduled to leave Grand Central for Detroit and Chicago at 7 , finally left at 12:26 A. M. The Water Level Limited , to Chicago , left at 12:45 A. M. instead of 6:10 P. M. , and the Lake Shore Limited pulled out at 1:18 A. M. instead of 7 P. M. The Pacemaker , due to leave for Chicago at 5:10 P. M. , pulled out at 11:35 P. M. Officials said they expected all traffice would be on schedule by this morning . With passenger and freight trains stalled at several dozen terminal points in and near New York , many of them on the through tracks and not on sidings , it was expected that it would take all night to restore train service to normal in the East . Some Balk at Truce Order But the situation was further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the members refused to obey their unions ' postponement orders . The most important of these were on the Long Island Railroad , serving commuters on Long Island , and the Hudson &; Manhattan Railroad , serving commuters in Jersey City , Hoboken and Newark . Learning that their engineers and trainmen were refusing to heed the new order , Long Island Railroad officials characterized their walkout as a " runaway strike " and announced at the Long Island Terminal in Pennsylvania Station that service was suspended until further notice . At the Flatbush Avenue Terminal in Brooklyn the road announced that there would be no service all night . After a four-hour stoppage , however , the road announced that the men had accepted the truce . Limited service was resumed shortly afterward . Although the movement of trains before the unions ' orders came through was interpreted by railroad officials as indicating that some of the union members , at least , were not anxious to walk out , the delay in transmitting orders from Cleveland to New York gave an effective demonstration throughout the east of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been allowed officially to stand . In the Mott Haven yards of the New York Central Railroad the Twentieth Century Limited , bound for New York , was stalled amidst freight trains that had been shunted there and the yard was jammed with cars . At Grand Central Station it was estimated that ninety trains , which normally carry 50,000 travelers , had been delayed . New York Central officials ananounced to passengers that service would be resumed as soon as crew members , who were on hand , were ordered back to work by their unions . The stalling of railroad service threw an additional burden on taxicab , bus and subway service in the city and left homebound travelers thoroughly confused , moving into and out of stations , and milling about them . Some business houses had anticipated the difficulty and had sent their suburban workers home early , but others had hoped that the strike would be called off . The halt in train service delayed for twenty-four hours the reunions of fifteen British war brides and their children with their ex-service men husbands . The women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early in the afternoon , were taken to Pennsylvania Station by Red Cross workers to catch trains scheduled to leave between 5:10 and 6:45 . When the trains were indefinitely delayed , the women and children were taken back to the ship , where a " consolation dinner " was given for them . Mayor O'Dwyer , when informed of the announcement of the postponement of the strike , said , " I am delighted and elated . " He had planned to broadcast over WNYC , the municipal radio station , at 12:30 P. M. today , from his home in Gracie Mansion , a summary of the steps that would be taken by the city to handle the situation . He immediately canceled the broadcast , however . The plans made yesterday at a City Hall conference with department heads , the Mayor said , would be held in abeyance , ready to be put into operation should an emergency make that necessary . At the City Hall meeting , according to the Mayor , Police Commissioner Arthur A. Wallander reported that he had held several conferences during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bus companies and a final conference with them at Police Headquarters yesterday morning . Mr. Wallander said , the Mayor continued , that the conferees had worked out plans for extra bus service to accommodate persons who ordinarily enter and leave the city by rail . Col. Sidney Bingham of the Board of Transportation reported that available spare cars would be used on the city 's subway lines and extra personnel assigned to handle traffic ordinarily using rail lines , such as the Long Island Railroad lines in Queens and Brooklyn . Mayor O'Dwyer said he and his key commissioners planned to hold daily meetings to check on conditions . He said he had planned to confer tomorrow with representatives of the Office of Price Administration and of Federal and city prosecutors on efforts to hold down black market activities , which he anticipated would increase substantially if a rail strike caused a local food shortage . The first effect of the stoppage was an embargo of express shipments , put into effect at 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon . Besides normal traffic , this halted the movement of perishable fruits over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed at that hour and drivers were notified to stop picking up parcels .                     