@@710255

txt By unanimous vote , the Senate gave final ' legislative approval today to three bills extending state residential and commercial rent controls for another year . With enactment of the program asked by Governor Dewey in his annual message , continuance of state regulation thus is assured . The bills will be trans-l mitted to the Governor for signature over the week-end . Debate flared on only one of the measures , the Stephens-Pakula bill extending residential rent regulation . Democrats were unsuccessful in an effort to extend to one year the present six-month stay permitted in eviction proceedings and to make the state law operative with ceilings continued at present levels in the event Federal controls are relaxed . The amendment was defeated by a vote of 18 to 31 , but four New York City Republicans , Paul A. Fino of the Bronx , Seymour Halpern of Queens , C. Corey  --  Mills and Richard McCleery of Brooklyn , and the Senate 's lone labor member , Kenneth Sherbell , were recorded with the Democrats for the proposal . Senate Republicans were in a tight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill in the House earlier in the session that contained an identical provision for extension of stays of eviction . This was brought out in debate , but Senator Benjamin F. Feinberg , majority leader , insisted that the amendment containing the other . ! feature , could not be passed because the Federal Government had asserted jurisdiction in residential rent regulation . The residential controls are state-wide in application and become operative only in the event , as was the case for twenty-five days last summer , that Federal regulation is permitted to lapse . The commercial rent freeze applies only in New York City . In another important step on the subject of housing , the Assembly Rules Committee reported the Schneider bills extending the moratorium on mortgage foreclosures and deficiency judgments for another year but limiting application of the act to one , two and three family dwellings occupied in whole or in part by the owner . The requirement for 3 per cent annual lamortization is continued . The Senate , meantime , approved Senator Mitchell 's bill permitting insurance conipanies to engage directly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company as required in the original urban redevelopment law of 1942 . After debate that produced opposition on both Democratic and Republican sides of the house , the measure was passed by a vote of 29 to 17 , the minimum margin possible . By a unanimous vote , the Assembly give final approval to the Williamson-Lawrence bill creating a White Plains parking authority with power to lease or rent part facilities and let concessions , subject to- approval of the Planning Board . The Senate concurred in approval given earlier in the week by the Assembly of the proposal to amend the Constitution to create a tenth judicial district , made up of the counties of Queens , Nassau and Suffolk , all presently in the Second Judicial District that also embraces Kings and Richmond . The amendment will be submitted to the voters this fall . Defeated in the Senate by the margin of a single vote was the proposed Reoux amendment to the Constitution , approved by the Legislature last year and already passed by the Assembly this year , to open the forest preserve for fifty more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having won almost unanimous Senate approval earlier , Senator Thomas C. Desmond 's bill barring outdoor advertising along the state throughway , now slowly being constructed , was killed by a vote of 9 to 35.                     