@@705504

txt The question of postponing a National Labor Relations Board hearing on a complaint , charging the Ford Motor Company with violating the National Labor Relations Act , was the chief obstacle today to immediate settlement of the nine-day strike at the River Rouge plant . That obstacle promises to be removed today , since a mass meeting of strikers , numbering about 18,000 , voted enthusiastically last night at the Coliseum not only to approve a peace formula offered by Governor Murray D. Van Wagoner but also to authorize the strike negotiating committee and the union executive board to conduct conferences with the company as they saw fit . At 3:13 A. M. today C. W. Lucas , secretary to Governor Van Wagoner , made the following announce-ment : " Progress is being made in obtaining the answer to the one remaining point necessary for settlement of the Ford strike . The conference will be resumed Friday morning . " The Governor and the union committee had been in session from midnight until after 3 A. M , discussing mainly the NLRB hearing on the Ford case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led by Allan S. Haywood , national C. I. 0 . director ; Michael F , Widman , chief of the Ford organizing drive , and R. T. Thomas , president of the United Automobile Workers ( C. I. 0. ) , is reported to be in favor ' of accepting the conditions which I the Ford Motor Company tacked on to its acceptance of the Governor 's peace proposal . Earlier yesterday the union strat- egy committee accepted the Van Wagoner formula without conditions and urged their acceptance at the mass meeting The second condition set by the Ford company was that payrolls to be used in the election of collective bargaining representatives would be available " in the plant . " The board usually requires duplicate payrolls which it may check in its own offices . Although both conditions were rejected last evening by Frank H. Bowen , Detroit regional director of the NLRB , it was reported that representations to President Roosevelt by Governor Van Wagoner might be expected to help convince the National Labor Relations Board that postponement of the pending complaint hearings would mean a quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that both the union and the company join in the request for the postponement the Washington office of the board is expected to accede to the request . Governor Van Wagoner , who had worked out the peace formula after conferences with Federal Conciliator James F. Dewey , discussed the strike situation over the telephone with Dr. Harry A. Millis , chairman of the NLRB in Washington . Mr. Dewey reported to Secretary Perkins , who relayed the move-by-move developments to President Roosevelt . Philip Murray , president of the C. I. 0. , was on the telephone from his Pittsburgh office several times and was reported to have urged acceptance of the peace formula as well as the company 's conditions . The Governor 's peace formula called for the return of all employes to their jobs without discrimination , including five of the eight men whose dismissals furnished the immediate cause of the strike , the cases of the other three men to be arbitrated . The formula also provided for the continuance of grievance machinery . Both sides to agree to expedite the holding of the NLRB elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant and the company to furnish the payrolls . Union leaders , while disappointed that they were unable at this time to obtain a contract providing for recognition of the union for its members only , were nevertheless elated that grievance machinery manned by union members was provided in the proposed settlement . I. A. Capizzi , Ford attorney , said the company was insisting upon postponement of the NLRB election because it would be unfair for both sides to be engaged in a fight while election arrangements were pending . " It would not be possible to get the true expression of the feeling of the workmen if a hearing were under way during the election , " he said . A delay of several hours before the company 's position was made known was caused by a fist fight in the vicinity of the Postoffice Building , where the injunction hearings against the union are being held by Federal Judge Arthur F. Tuttle . Mr. Capizzi 's associates put witnesses on the stand to bring out the circumstances under which seven or eight men had engaged in fisticuffs with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both ' told of men they said were Communist party members who were i also members of the union or union organizers . The witnesses were Paul I Padgett , 21 , a former Communist , who testified before the Dies Committee , and Andrew Pasternacki , 24 , who also said he had been a Communist . The Governor 's Plan Governor Van Wagoner 's peace proposal was as follows : " In the interest of national defense and the preservation of law and order , I submit a practical and fair plan as a basis of settling the Ford strike and resuming work at once . I make this proposal with the knowledge that what I propose does not completely satisfy the desire of either the company or the union . But the welfare of our nation and of 85,000 Ford employes in this crisis is of most importance . " Based upon my knowledge of the situation and my best judgment of what is fair and just , I make the following proposals : " 1 . All employes shall be returned to their jobs without discrimination at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the agreement the Ford Motor Company made with me not to reopen their plants during mediation , I am asking James F. Dewey ( Federal conciliator ) to arbitrate the cases of the other three men  --  Ray Piton , Jack Wilkie and Andy Dewar . 2 . Grievance procedure established before the strike shall be resumed . Further , I shall appoint a committee consisting of myself , representing the State ; Mr. Dewey , representing the Federal Government ; R. J. Thomas and Allen Haywood , representing the U. A. W. ( C. I. 0. ) , and Harry Bennett and one other Ford official , representing the company , to continue to meet and settle any other matters of dispute which might arise before the National Labor Relations Board election . " 3 . Both parties , likewise , to agree to do all in their power to expedite the holding of the labor board election ; as an example , the union shall agree to an election in the plant and the company should agree to furnish adequate payroll records . " I request that both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will acceept without further delay the above proposal . " The union 's reply read : " We have received your proposal for terminating the strike of the Ford workers at the Rouge plant . Your program has been given consideration by spokesmen for the Congress of Industrial Organizations , officers and members of the international executive board of the United Automobile Workers of America , C. I. 0. , and union committeemen at the Rouge plant . " We have come to the conclusion that your proposal constitutes a constructive basis for termination of the strike and would create machinery for maintenance of stable and equitable labor relations in the plant pending holding of the National Labor Relations Board elections . Our decision has been influenced also by the desire of the C. I. 0. , the U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . and the Ford workers to expedite our national defense program . " We accordingly accept your proposal and will recommend its adoption to a meeting of Rouge workers tonight . " This was signed by Thomas Haywood and Widman . Harry H. Bennett wrote the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication offering terms for a temporary settlement of the Ford strike . The company has at all times been anxious to settle this strike as speedily as possible , for the sake of its thousands of employes and their families who are innocent victims , and because of the urgency of com ' pleting its national defense contracts . " No doubt you realize that since this strike started all Ford defense work has been forced to a standstill and much unnecessary suffering and privation has been caused to workers . For these reasons the company does not wish to appear arbitrary in working out a temporary solution of this strike . All of your proposals are fundamentally acceptable , with certain modifications which are detailed here-with : " On the first proposal we are prepared to re-open the plant according to your terms , with the exception that it is impossible to return all employes to their jobs at once . " Certain machinery in various departments of the plant has been damaged ; some of it has been destroyed . In such vital departments as the open hearth steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days and even weeks . A plant of such tremendous size as the Rouge , with one department coordinated closely with the other , can not suddenly be reopened to full production after being idle for more than a week . " The company is willing to resume production immediately , as far as it is able , and to re-employ without discrimination the number of men required to operate the plant in its present condition . Others will be re-employed as speedily as the plant is restored to its normal condition . " On the second proposal , the company is willing to resume the grievance procedure which was in existence prior to the strike , with the modification you stipulated with regard to a grievance committee . " There are pending before the local office of the National Labor Relations Board certain complaints made by the union . One of these complaints is scheduled for hearing on next Monday , April 14 . " As a condition of any proposed settlement , the company will insist that this and other National Labor Relations Board hearings affecting the Rouge plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " As to the third point in your proposal , the company is not only willing but anxious to expedite the holding of an election . The company 's sole interest in that regard le to make sure that a fair and honest election is held  --  an election that will represent the true wishes of the majority of its employes . In that connection the company will make its payrolls available at any time in the plant . "                     