@@707678

txt The Senate adopted today , by a vote of 47 to 31 , the " States ' Rights " conference compromise on the longcontested service men 's voting legislation restricting sharply the use of the Administration-endorsed Federal ( short ) ballot in the **26;269;TOOLONG election . The measure was sent to the House , where its acceptance was expected by a roll-call showdown scheduled for tomorrow . Still admittedly in the dark as to whether President Roosevelt would accept or veto the agreement on the franchise and constitutional issues which have been threshed out three times on the Senate floor and twice in the House , the Senate divided as follows : For the Compromise ? Twentythree Democrats , fourteen of them representing Southern States , and twenty-four Republicans . Against the Compromise  --  Twentyfour Democrats , three from Southern States ; six Republicans , and one Progressive . Many Face Voters in Fall Eleven Democrats whose seats will be voted upon in November , six of them in the South , voted or were paired or announced in support of the program which Administration leaders said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cast under the existing 1942 soldier voting law , which Congress set out four months ago to amend and broaden . Ten Democrats due to face the electorate this year opposed the conference compromise . Six , Republicans whose terms are expiring voted , were paired , or announced in support of the " States ' Rights " plan . Three opposed it . ' Two Democrats and four Republicans were paired or announced as being favorable to the compromise . Three Democrats , including Senator James M. Mead of New York , and one Republican were paired or announced against it . Six Democrats and five Republicans , who on Feb. 8 supported the amendment which put the GreenLucas Federal ballot plan into the Senate bill and thus got it before the Senate-House conference , voted today for acceptance of the com- promise which , Senator Theodore F. Green , co-author , said , " bears ) only a superficial resemblance " to the original . On the other hand , only three Republicans and one Democrat who had supported the GreenLucas amendment opposed the compromise . The voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took the floor to denounce the compromise as an agreement lunder which fewer members of the armed forces would be likely to vote than if there was no new law at all . He predicted that it would be accepted , nonetheless , by both , the Senate and the Hcuse . " If everyone of them ( service men ) from my State of Kentucky , given the right to vote or the opportunity to exercise that right , should announce in advance that he would vote against me if I should ' be a candidate again , " said Mr. Barkley , whose present term expires in January , " I would nevertheless feel it my duty to give him ' an opportunity to do that very thing . " If all the soldiers and sailors and all the combined armed forces of the United States Army and Navy and all the other members of our forces scattered all over the world should at this hour announce that they would vote against the party now in power , if the opportunity were given to them , I would nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity . " Yet the conference report appeared to be the best that could be obtained under the circumstances , the majority leader said . He blamed its restrictive provisions upon the conferees representing the House , which had passed the Eastland-Rankin bill providing for the use only of State ballots . Senator Arthur Walsh , Democrat of New Jersey , read into the record the editorial , " The Soldier Loses , " published in THE NEW YORK TIMES this morning , and observed : " I shudder at the thought that the Congress should expect the officers in charge of our armed forces to understand the complex and complicated bill which has come from conference . I despair that the rank and file of our fighting men will ever be able to comprehend it . I am afraid that when they start studying it they will become disgusted and feel that the Congress has let them down . " I say this without in any way impugning the motives or questioning the sincerity of the members of the conference committee who brought forth the compromise proposal . I simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can find a way to call off the war for a month or two so that our soldiers can go to voting school . " Senator Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , told the Senate that if President Roosevelt vetoes the " States ' Rights " program , then he and he alone must assume full responsibility for the disenfranchisement of millions of soldiers , sailors , Marines and Coast Guardsmen , " and must face that day of reckoning when the people of these United States will demand to know why he did n't want the members of the armed forces to participate in the 1944 election . " " Can it be , " Mr. Bridges went on , " that the proponents of the Federal ballot plan have an ulterior purpose in trying to force through the Congress an unconsti- , tutional method which could and would ultimately be challenged in the courts and perhaps compel the House of Representatives to designate the next President of the United States ? " Can it be that they are so out of touch with the sentiment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and naval personnel can be voted like a herd of cattle for a fourth term ? " As ratified by the Senate , the , service men 's voting program would provide that the Federal ( short ) ballot could be cast by those serving overseas whose home State Legislatures had authorized and whose Governors had certified by July 15 that they would accept lit for counting , but on condition that they had applied for a State ballot by Sept. 1 and had not re- ' ceived it by Oct. 1 . State ballots , which few exceptions , would be used by service personnel stationedl within the United States .                     