@@711556

txt When Penelope in ancient Greece spent her days weaving a robe and her nights unraveling what she had done in the daytime , she established a classic precedent for the predicament of four solemn , bearded men in the Somerset county fail here . Penelope 's robe was never to be finished ; likewise the sentences of these men are seemingly never to expire . Each night they lose all the time they gained by spending the day in jail . Their sentences each morning are exactly the same length they were the morning More . They were jailed last week for 12 day terms by Justice of the Peace C. A. Maust for refusing to send their children to school . All have children over 14 and under 18 who are ready for high school , Always 12 Days To Go The justice put a unique twist to their sentences by decreeing that an additional day be added to their terms for each day the Youngsters remain away from school . The result is that altho as of today they have spent 7 days in jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something is done . they will always have 12 days to go . The prospect is apparently tarrying them less than it is the rest of the community , they indicated today . State laws on school attendance may be irresistible forces , they conceded , but their ingained belief that high school is a waste of time for children destined to be farmers , makes them immovable objects . The four prisoners , Menno Brenneman , Jonas Petersheim , Enos Nast and Amos Yoder , are members , of the Amish branch of the Mennonite church , a religious sect which encourages pastoral pursuits . Married Amistrnen wear beards , troad brimmed black hats , dark clothes , and abjure buttons in favor of hooks and eyes . Church Abhors Litigation Their objections to high school training for their children stem from religious pounds , they explained , only in that their church teaches them to abhor waste and they regard high school as waste . A religious tenet has an important bearing on their remaining in jail , however . They explained the church frowns on participation by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could get a lawyer and appeal their sentences . They may seek special dispensation , they said . Permits for children of sebdol age to stay home to work on farms were freely tented in Pennsylvania in the war years , it was said . This year , however , authorRies hare withheld permits in the absence of a Showing that children are actually needed at home .                     