@@710470

txt Mr. Hague 's thirty Something years as Mayor of About Jersey City may be an Mayors All - American record for that municipal office , though one recalls a Mayor Dahlman of Omaha who was a permanent fixture for nearly a generation , and there are perhaps other cases among oitr smaller towns . In any event , the Hague length of service is not exactly in a class by itself . Mayor Crump has presided over the destinies of Memphis for nearly twenty years in two long tenures with an interval of twenty years . New York has recently had a different kind of Mayor in Mr. La Guardia 's twelve years of service . Consecutively or with interruptions , Chicago and Boston have had long-service chief executives , either because the voters wanted them to stay or they knew how to hold on . The odd thing about They the chief office in the Are Not gift of a municipal Promoted electorate is that there have been many popular Mayors but the office of Mayor has very rarely led to the highest office in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States only three men ever served in a City Hall . Andrew Johnson , surmounting the handicap of a meager education , was elected Mayor of Greeneville in east Tennessee at the age of 20 . Calvin Coolidge was Mayor of Northarripton ten years before he was made Warren G. Harding 's running mate . In both instances , indeed , it might be argued that they did not become President by winning a Presidential nomination . Their nomination for the Vice Presidency came after long political service away from . the home town . This makes Grover One Man Cleveland the only auRose thentic case of a Mayor Fast who moved on rapidly to higher things . In 1881 he was elected Democratic Mayor of Buffalo in a heavily Republican city . This made him-immediately a man of destiny , and destiny lost no time in meeting its obligations . In 1882 Cleveland swept the state for Governor . Two years later he was elected the first Democratic President since Buchanan in 1856 . But even here the speed with which Cleveland scaled the heights makes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought him promotion . There was hardly time for him to make a record in the Buffalo City Hall , though he did have behind him a fine record as Sheriff some ten years earlier . It was primarily his demonstration as a vote-getter in the Mayoralty election at a psychological moment that sent him upward . Perhaps we do n't reDramatic ward good Mayors with District promotion to higher ofAttorneys fice because municipal administration is not spectacular . It is a different matter with district attorneys and other local prosecuting officers . The young lawyer in public employ who battles the organized forces of corrupt politics and its business allies and is rewarded by high public office is 13y now a venerable American tradition . His place is secure in the popular literature and drama and the films . He appeals to the crusading instinct in the American people . Governor Dewey today is the latest example in a roster that goes back in the present century to Charles E. Hughes and the late Charles S. Whitman in New York , to Hiram Johnson in California , to James W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Samuel Tilden J. Tilden bears direct Before on the point . Mr. Cleveland Tilden was , not technically a prosecuting officer when , as chairman of the Democratic State Committee in 1872 , he opened fire on the Tweed gang . But his role was the classical one of the leader in a fight against political corruption . Two years after his attack on the Tweed ring Mr. Tilden was elected Governor of New York , in 1874 . Two years later he was almost elected , if not actually elected , President ; his popular plurality has never been questioned . For that matter , Grover Cleveland , who did succeed where Samuel J. rilden failed , would also . fit into the argument . Cleveland , as we have seen , did not move swiftly from Mayor of Buffalo to Governor and President because he was a good Mayor . Primarily he embodied the popular indictment of Republican misrule in state and nation .                     