@@704925

txt Britain 's policy in the Far East has been forced onto a more realistic basis by intensification of the Japanese anti-British campaign . The arrest of four Japanese in London and five in other parts of the Empire following detention in Tokyo of a number of British subjects on the charge of spying , are surface symptoms of the renewed tension between Britain and Japan . There is reason to believe that these signs point to the British Government 's readiness to apply a stiffer attitude to Tokyo unless there are early indications of a friendlier tone on the part of the Japanese Government . The arrests of the Japanese here , it is officially stated , were not made as reprisals . When Mainoru Shigemitsu , Japanese Ambassador in London , called on Viscount Halifax , British Foreign Secretary , to protest , and complained against what he described as an " unfriendly act , " Lord Halifax is understood to have pointed out that just as the Japanese authorities have assured the British Government that the arrests of the British subjects in Tokyo could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese could hardly apply the adjective unfriendly to the action Viat has now been taken in London . The Japanese arrested , including Satoru Makihara , London manager of the big Mitsubishi concern , and Sunsuke Tanabe , acting manager of the Mitsui interests , were detained under defense regulations , and only after careful inquiries . In authoritative circles it is pointed out that it is only natural that the British government should be particularly careful in taking defense precautions as long as the Japanese Government takes such a distinctly hostile attitude toward Britain . There is a growing conviction here that the present wave of Japanese hostility toward Britain , and for that matter toward the United States , is understood to a large extent to be due to Axis diplomacy . The presence of a Gestapo agent , Franz Huber , in the Japanese Home Office , is emphasized here as constituting evidence that Nazis have an inside track in Tokyo , and are using it to the fullest advantage . The fact that this outburst of By a Star Artist Claimed by Japan and railroad link with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use , animosity toward Britain dates from a few days after announcement of the Anglo-Japanese agreement on closing the Burma Road is arousing pointed comment both in the press and in certain official quarters . The conclusion is freely drawn that the Japanese Government has now made it plain that Japan has no intention of doing what the British Government hoped , namely , utilizing the Burma Road concession as a chance of making a new start toward better Anglo-Japanese relations . As Prime Minister Churchill indicated in his warning over the week end , the danger of invasion has by no means passed , and Britain is determined not to be diverted from the main task of defending the British Isles and defeating the Nazis . Accordingly , British policy in the Pacific may be expected to continue cautious . But henceforth it is likely to be conducted with less illusion as to the possibilities of basing any real hopes of friendly relations with Japan on a policy of appeasement or one-sided concessions . LONDON , Aug. 5 ( fP ) ? A Japanese Embassy spokesman declared today that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two prominent Japanese businessmen in London . Ambassador Mamoru Shigemitsu meanwhile was busy preparing a third protest for submission to the British Foreign Office . SHANGHAI , Aug. 5 ( /P ) ? Chinese reports said today that Japan had made new , sweeping demands on the Government of French Indo-China , including the right to use the French ' railway into the Chinese Province of Yunnan for military operations and to establish a military or naval base on the Indo-China coast . These reports were not confirmed by other sources and were denied by an official Japanese spokesman in Tokyo . The Chinese accounts said that the Japanese wanted to use the railway from Haiphong , on the Indo-China coast , to Yunnanfu , capital of Yunnan , for operations against the Chinese forces of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek . Such a thrust would menace the vulnerable southwestern provinces , General Chiang 's main stronghold . A coastal base presumably would be used for naval operations in the south seas , possibly designed to fix Japanese domination on the Netherlands Indies . Japanese authorities here said they had no knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important representations " of an undisclosed nature were reported made Saturday to Vice-Admiral Jean Decoux , Petain-appointed governor-general of Indo-China . Local Japanese said they did not know the nature of the representations . Domei , official Japanese news agency , said the representations were made by the Acting Chief of the Japanese Contraband Control Mission in Indo-China . They coincided with the arrival by air of the head of the mission , Gen. Issaku Nishihara , in Tokyo to confer with the Government on the next phase of Japanese policy in Indo-China . Tokyo dispatches state that Foreign Office spokesman , Yakichiro Suma , . denied any new demands on French Indo-China .                     