@@706036

txt President Roosevelt told labor yesterday his ad ministration wo n't force a closed-shop . This declaration , and the President 's reminder to the unions that if necessary . Congress will pass legislation to keep defense Industries operating improves considerably the chances for a peaceful settlement of the captive coal mines dispute . ( Story on Page 2 . ) Heads of the big five operating brotherhoods announced a strike on 51 railroads at 6 A. M. , December 7. first day of a three-day walkout program . ( Story on Page 2 . ) The Steel industry is expecting a drive for closed shop , dues checkoff and a wage increase . ( Story below . ) The steel industry is looking beyond the captive coal mines dispute to new and more directly threatening labor troubles . The C.I.O. 's Steel Workers Organizing Committee intends to drive foi a closed shop and the dues check-off along with another wage increase , according to word in the industry . While the unions might have little trouble in getting a modest wage advance , the closed shop issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This prospective development in the labor field may come into the open at Detroit next week when the C.I.O. holds its convention there Steel company officials have heard that the S.W.O.C. will have some proposals to put before the parent body at its meeting . Even if the question is not raised there however , this union drive will develop soon , the industry thinks . Were it a wage problem alone , high corporation income tax rates would help the unions win quick concessions . Steel companies in the highest excess profits tax brackets could deduct nearly three quarters of a future wage increase from their tax bills . ' U. S. Steel Corp. ? with 35% of the country 's steal making capacity  --  will probably be first to face this union drive . At least that 's what the so-called independent steel companies believe . These men believe that the big corporation will resist and will have the support and backing of all its competitors if a fight develops . Such a battle , particularly if it included an industry-wide strike , would have a serious effect on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry are anxious about the outcome of the captive mines union shop fight with John L. Lewis , not only because of its direct importance to them , but because of its indirect bearing on future union moves against the industry . S.W.O.C. officials are credited with having disclosed to some steel ' men that the lack of labor agitation in recent weeks might be looked upon merely as " the lull before the storm " . They also reportedly told steel leaders that they had by no means abandoned their idea of ultimately unionizing the entire steel industry . U. S. Steel has already had experience in fighting the closed shop . It did so at the Kearny . N. J. shipyards of its Federal Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co . The result there was that the United States Navy took over the shipyard . That the steel companies are generally opposed to such union moves as the closed shop and the check-off is clearly shown by their resistance to United Mine Worker demands in the captive coal mines dispute . In this case the National Defense Mediation Board handed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This decision will certainly be used by ' the steel companies in their arguments with the union against these prospective demands . When the S.W.O.C. drive comes it is expected to be directed against those companies still operating without a S:W.O.C. contract as well as those which have already signed up and have bargaining agreements . According to word from sources close to the union the drive will first be aimed at the subsidiaries of U. S Steel . Such union strategy could be explained on grounds that a successful contest with the big corporation would pave the way for marshalling the smaller companies into line . The present contract between the S.W.O.C. and U. S Steel gives the union the right to negotiate only for its members who are employed in U. S. Steel plants .                     