@@711418

txt The next approach to Moscow on the Berlin situation will most likely be an oral one by envoys of the United States , Britain and ... France directly to Foreign Minister Molotov , it was learned from an authoritative source here today . It is hoped that by making their demarche in this way instead of by formal notes it will be possible to break down the barriers that have prevented any real diplomacy on an issue that involves war or peace . Foreign Minister Molotov might be in a position to say something or react hi- some way and in that case the envoys would be able to talk things over with him and perhaps make progress . President Truman has received no official proposal for a conference with Premier Stalin on Germany , according to the White House . The President would be glad to see the Soviet leader in Washington , it was said . Each of the envoys , according to present plans , will receive a written aide memoire that will be the formal basis of what the Western Allies want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach is American , it is understood , ' but the State Department originally felt that the envoys should seek to deliver their messages to Premier Stalin . This was put up to the British and French by United States Ambassador Lewis W. Douglas on Saturday when the Standing Committee consisting of himself , Rene Massigli , French Ambassador to Britain , and Sir William Strang , British Foreign Under - Secretary , met . The British did not like the idea at all , but after some discussion accepted it . However , it was decided that it would be easier and better to approach Mr. Molotov instead of Mr. Stalin and it is said that Mr. Douglas reported this . news back to Washington , where it was then ? agreed to . There has been no change of any importance in what will be put to the Soviet Union , although small modifications have been made in the last three days . The primary idea still remains to offer four-power discussions on Germany as a whole providing that the Allies ' rights to remain in Berlin are recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the blockade of Berlin . It is possible that the Western powers will consider it satisfactory if their insistence on their rights to be in Berlin are not denied Lfy Moscow in its reply . The level of the proposed talks will be left to the Russians according to the present draft . Thus , if Premier Stalin desires to meet President Truman , Prime Minister Attlee and Premier Marie directly it would be up to him to say so . The probability is that the Soviet Union will propose a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers , but even if the Russians suggest a meeting on a still lower level it will not be rejected . All these matters were discussed today in the most important international talks yet held on the Berlin crisis . Charles E. Bohlen , State Department expert on . Russia , and Lieut . Gen. W. Bedell Smith , United States Ambassador to Moscow , along with Ambassador Douglas spent most of the afternoon with Foreign Minister Bevin . In the morning they all foregathered with the Standing Committee of the three powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ambassador Smith 's presence at the discussions in Berlin yesterday and here today becomes clear in the light of the proposal to make an oral approach . It is he who would do so on behalf of the United States and he plans to start back for Moscow tomorrow evening . It will be soinetime Wednesday before he reaches Moscow so the probabilities are that the approach to Foreign Minister Molotov would be made that day or Thursday . Thursday is likelier I because France needs another day or two to get her new governmental machine working . The French Ambassador- is in Moscow , but Britain 's , Sir Maurice Peterson , is ' here and he took part in today 's talks . Britain will there ' fore be ? represented by a charge d'affaires . Great secrecy is being maintained regarding the Anglo-American talks of this afternoon , but it is presumed that the proposals previously agreed to still are in force . The problems discussed today were understood to be primarily long-term prospects . The Allies were somewhat caught by surprise when , the Russians sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This time they-really want to be prepared for any reaction and above all they want their envoys to be well instructed on how to react in turn . It is realized that approaching Foreign Minister Molotov would necessarily be a forlorn hope . That statesman is now chiefly famous for his ability either to say nothing or to say " no " . if he says anything . What is to be published ' about the next Allied move and when was doubtless decided today . One reason the British originally opposed the idea of an oral approach was that they felt this was no time for secret diplomacy since there is too much public nervousness . However , the Americans all along have felt that the less said publicly the better . So far as the French are concerned there is no doubt here whatever about the continuity of France 's foreign policy even though former Foreign Minister Georges Bidault is being replaced by former Premier Robert Schuman . When M. Bidault at The Hague last week agreed to the general principles of the next demarche to Moscow M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today to commit the French Government to any policy . However , it is not fair to blame the French for this delay in preparing the next move since it is obvious that matters could not have been any more advanced than they are today . In fact , it is probable that not only the French Government but the State Department and Administration still have to approve the final modifications in the plan made today and over the week-end . The British Cabinet discussed it this morning and presumably found it acceptable . Since then , however , Mr. Bevin had his talk with the Americans and tonight General Sir Brian Robertson , British Military . Governor in Germany , was enroute to London . He was to have briefed Mr. Bevin for the foreign affairs debate scheduled in the House of Commons for Wednesday , but the debate was called off tonight in view of the delicacy of the negotiations and the likelihood they would be at the most delicate stage on Wednesday . The problem of Berlin came up in the House of Commons this afternoon when C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office , was asked about the Soviet offer to feed Western Berlin . He replied that no food had yet materialized and no offer of supplies for distribution bad been made . Participation of the American and Canadian representatives in the Permanent Military Committee of the Western Union also came up . Mr. Mayhew pointed out that this did not mean a military alliance with the United States and Canada .                     