@@706790

txt Every motorist in the United States who obeys the speed and rationing regulations will receive enough recaps or used or new tires to keep his car rolling for essential purposes for the duration . This program was announced today by the Office of Price Administration . It was described as a direct outcome of the recent Baruch report on the rubber situation . Hitherto only a few specified classes of drivers , such as doctors , clergymen , various government officials and some war workers , have been eligible for new and used tires and recaps . Now every one who wants them for necessary driving will receive the minimum grade of tire suited to his purposes . To be eligible , however , he must submit to periodic inspection of his tires to show that they are not being abused and to insure that they do not become worn beyond the point where they can be recapped ; he must keep within the 35-mile-an-hour speed limit and he must share his car with others on every trip as far as possible . To make the plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " passenger-car tires in the country is to be created . An OPA spokesman said today he did not believe this would mean taking spare tires for pool purposes . But cars with six tires , he said , probably would have to contribute one of their two spares , and persons who had accumulated extra sets in preparation for emergencies would have to give them up . Passenger-car tires in dealers ' stocks also would go into the stock pile . Price Administrator Leon Henderson said today that the plan had been designed as " an over-all control to insure for the nation continuing use of those of its 27 , - 000,000 passenger cars which are a vital part of its economy and its transportation system . " Simultaneously William M. Jeffers , the rubber director , announced that fifteen republics and British colonies of Latin America had agreed to sell exclusively to the United States all crude rubber produced above essential domestic needs and to take steps to expand production . The Baruch committee estimated that United States importation of natural rubber probably would be about 53,000 tons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Dec. 31 , 1943 . A spokesman for Mr. Jeffers stated , however , that there was no connection between this agreement and the broadening of the tire-replacement program by the OPA . It is likely that most of the crude imported from Latin America will be used for mixing with synthetic rubber in manufacturing high-quality rubber products for military use . The creation of a national stock pile through requisitioning of unused tires apparently is to be the chief source from which the OPA will obtain the material for its broadened tire-replacement prograin . Mr. Henderson said today that plans for establishment of the ' , stock pile would be ready for and nouncement within three or four days and that the complete mileage rationing program for the county would be put into operation when national gasoline rationing starts on Nov. 22 . Mr. Henderson listed " five steps in the government 's plan for keeping America 's passenger cars rolling for essential mileage with a minimum use of rubber , " as follows : " 1 . Rationing of used tires and recaps and new tires now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mileage to each of the nation 's passenger cars . " 2 . Actual control of each car 's mileage through the rationing of gasoline to prevent unnecessary driving as far as possible , and to hold the national average down to b.000 miles per car per year . " 3 . Compulsory periodic inspecdon of all tires to guard against abuse and prevent wear beyond the point where they can be recapped. " 4 . Denial of gasoline and tire replacements to cars whose drivers persistently violate the national thirty-five-mile-an-hour speed limit for rubber conservation . " 5 . Capacity use , through carsharing , of every car on every trip so far as possible . " Warns on Stricter Rules " The government 's undertaking to keep tires on all passenger cars with driving reduced to essential mileage , " Mr. Henderson said , " is a goal which can be reached only if driving is brought within the 5,000-mile-a-year average recommended by the Baruch report , and if there is strict adherence to the thirty-five-mile-an-hour speed limit . Any failure to accomplish the mileage limit or speed cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national rubber resources . " Replacements will be authorized for passenger cars on the basis of the minimum grade of tire that will serve for the mileage granted in the gasoline ration book . Those who use their cars but little will get certificates for recaps , or if their worn tires can not be recapped , they will get used tires . Others will get recaps or new tires of the various grades now in dealers ' stocks . But always , the minimum amount of rubber will be issued to meet the individual need . " An OPA spokesman supplemented nis chief 's remarks with the prediction that the enlarged plan would put a stop to most of the tire bootlegging which has been going on . He also said he hoped it would provide a solid basis for tire conservation , since every car driver would know that his chances of keeping his own car in service until the war is over depended on the care that not only he himself but other drivers took of their tires . " We should get a wide public support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " It wo n't be like prohibition days . " He said that local tire rationing boards would dovetail their activities with local police enforcement of the speed limit so as to keep check on violators . Developing Rubber Production The Latin-American countries which have signed the agreement to develop their rubber production and sell only to the United States are Brazil , Peru , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Colombia , Bolivia , Ecuador , Honduras , El Salvador , Mexico , Guatemala and Panama and the British colonies of Trinidad-Tobago , British Guiana and British Honduras . Similar agreements are being negotiated with Venezuela , Dutch Guiana and the Windward Islands , in the Western Hemisphere , and with Liberia . Most of the over-all agreements have been supplemented by active programs to develop the potential rubber production resources of the countries concerned . Financed largely by the United States , with some financing by private interests , these development operations are carried out directly by local government corporations , by private companies of local no , ' tionals or by American corporations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be produced , collected and sold to the United States , but it will at the same time aid the domestic economy of the countries involved . Thousands of workers are being moved into the jungle where the wild rubber is gathered . Fair wages are assured and camps with adequate housing are being established . Supplies and equipment of all kinds are being provided , including quinine and other medicines . Transportation facilities in the various countries are being expanded . Considerable quantities of rubber were produced in Latin America in the early years of this century . Brazil reached a maximum export total of 41,000 tons iri 1912 . Rubber from the plantations of the Far East has supplied the basic markets for more than twenty-five years , however , and during that time very little rubber has been exported from Western Hemisphere countries . As a result , pioneering work , virtually on the basis of a new industry , is now necessary in most areas . 