@@708924

txt While the first full Assembly meeting of the United Nations is some six months away , preparations for it ate not being delayed . Composition of the delegation that will represent the United States at this historic first gathering of this second world league is under consideration . Like the delegation that represented this country at San Francisco when the Charter was drafted , American representation at this first Assem bly meeting is expected to be primarily Congressional . There will be Government advisers , technicians , experts on hand just as at San Francisco , But the five-man I i epresentation that iS permitted ' each nation is expected to be made up by this country as follows : Edward ' R. Stettinius , former Secretary of State and President Truman 's choice for Chairman of the American Delegation , will be spokesman for the United States . He is now in London as a member of the 14-man Executive Commit tee laying plans for the first Assembly meeting . He will be this country 's iepiesentative in the November meeting of the 50-man Preparatory Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's recommendations . The other four official seats will , linkr present plans , be filled with Congressmen , two from each House and two from each party  --  as at San Francisco . There is some feeling in official circles , however , that possibly one or two of the seats should go to State Department officials , that Congress should not monopolize all of the accredited representation except for the Chairmanship . However , all such needed representation can be provided by attaching these men to the delegation as advisors or technicians . This Administration 's determination to please and placate Congress in foreign policy matters will decide appointments . Mr. Stettinius , whose Government service was actually climaxed by his San Francisco chairmanship of the United Nations Conference , is not expected to continue indefinitely as American Chairman to the United Nations organization . Rather , he is expected to conclude his period of public service with attendance at the fifst meetings of the new o  --  ganization . Once it is on its feet and operating , he is under stood to have plans of returning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States as a site fat the new world organization is winning much favorable consideration among United Nations members . While the decision is one for the preparatory commission meeting in November , to make , le-ports from London where the Executive Committee is sitting and from other world capitals indicates the site picked may well be in this country . San Francisco , Philadelphia or some site on the Canadian bottler IS frequently mentioned . Pacific powers are particularly receptive to having the new league 's site nearer their part of the world . Russia , whose Asiatic interests should not be lost sight of , expressed guarded approval of an American site . Some close observers here anticipate an immediate side stepping of this issue by the preparatory commission - if division on location discloses strong disagreements , which would leave the Secretariat for the time being in London with Assembly meetings moving around among world capitals or nations until a decision could be reached . However , the best opinion available now indicates that the United States is more and more being accepted as the logical location @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of the United Nations organization as a working agency there will be a number of both permanent and temporary posts that the President will have to fill . Besides the five-luau assembly delegation , there is every belief here that America will be among the group of l8 nations on the Economic and Social Council . A. delegate will have to be named . And then when the numerous economic , social , educa1 ional , health and cultural coin- , missions are set lip tinder it other Americans will find position on mo , t of those groups . It is also taken for granted an American will be named to the World Court . An American will sit on the Trusteeship Council . The American chief of staff will be a member of the security council 's military staff committee . And of course , America sits on the Security Council . Wherever the organization is located it is expected there will be numerous Americans working in the permanent Secretariat . If the site chosen is in America much of the secretarial and stenographic help will undoubtedly come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that is , in the various officers and administrative staff  --  permanent or term employees is being debated . Much is to be said for building up an experienced long serving civil service . However , a suggestion that national officers rotate in their international positions , thus benefiting home governments through their experiences , is getting seine con.iderat ion . WASHINGTON . Sept. 15 ? An up-to-date survey of the official opinions expressed by the leaders of the United Nations shows that armed forces will be a dominant element in the postwar world . But it is insisted that national armaments must be subordinate to world political organization and ? that either one without the other could be inadequate to saftuard the peace and order of the world . These conclusions emerge as the clear consensus of the Allied spokesmen in a detailed analysis of their views as collected by the legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress and ! now iosued as a special public relations bulletin on armaments policy in the postwar world . " A careful summary of the expressed policies of the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following attitudes : 1 . Force in International Relations is another name for the power or energy to achieve an end ; it-is indispensable as a means of defending the accepted principles of international law ; it is necessary in older to keep the peace and to bring about abandonment of the philosophy of aggress sion . Defense of the accepted principles of justice and law must rely ultimately on the sword . Only by making practical application of this principle of organized force in the world of the future can the crushing burden of armaments be abated . International armaments are analogous to the police force in community life . " Force is the service of the law . " 2 . Armaments and World Organization are conceived of as indissolubly related to one another , with the armaments always subject to the political organization . It does not matter whether that organization be lye league or some other agency . Mostly , the statements have i eference to the United Nations as the core of the future world organization . Specific mention is also made of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividing naval controls of the two great oceans . One mention only is made of the use of aviation as the exclusive form of international force . The armaments should always be kept at a minimum and should not be used to maintain the world in a static condition . Growth and change arc as desirable as order and justice . Even economic sanctions are valuless , however , if there is not also the knowledge that military force will ultimately follow such sanctions if tisre-garde &; 3 . Disarmament as a General Policy can only be achieved gradually and following the re-establishment of confidences among na ( tons in each other 's good faith . Mutual fears have hitherto battled all attempts to solve the problem of disarmament . But the process of disarmament must be proceeded with at all hazards if the world would get rid of budgets that have always swallowed up the billions that might have been spent for social welfare . 4 . Disarmament of Aggressor Nations is universally insisted upon , coupled with surveillance over the aggressors until such time as they demonstrate ability and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not be a motive , but the defeated nations must be made to realize their defeat and not permitted to rearm . " The disarmament of the aggressor nations must be complete . " More specifically , the occupation of strategic points in the defeated nations by the victors is envisaged . In general the disarmament of Germany is described as unilateral , complete , controlled , and permanent . Such disarmament must be so broad that " no industry that can be used to manufacture any kind of armaments must be allowed to exist in Germany " . also that " all communications and transport ( including Sea ) must remain in the hands of the United Nations , and should be operated under international agreements . " 5 . Control and Limitation of Armaments is a foremost problem for any projected system of collective security . It must proceed progressively with the development of world organization . American policy is announced as that of " limitation and reduction of disarmament as universal international objectives . " Distinction is sometimes made between offensive and defensive armaments , favoring abolition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any case should be through some international agency . The Library of Congress survey , which is available to public libraries gratis upon request , reports that expressions of public opinion do not appear to reflect any sentiment for disarmament . Disarmament , as such , constitutes only a small part of the discussion of war and peace aims of the Allies . Poll on " World Police " On the other hand , " the study findQ. " the majority sentiment in public opinion polls favorable to military training of youth as part of its education in the duties and re  --  ponsibilitie ; of citizenship ions counter to any movement in support of disarmament . Moteover , there is wide agreement expressed in these polls in favor of American participation in some form of international organization endowed with power to maintain ( preserve ) peace . A poll on an international police force in September , 1943 , showed 75 per cent in favor . In August , 1939. the vote for an international police force set tip by the Allies was 46 per cent , a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , September . 1943 , it was 76 per cent . This increasing sentiment for measures which imply the use of armaments would seem to indicate no likelihood of support for disarmament . " A noteworthy feature of this movement of sentiment is that congressional ooinion in both House and Senate has run ahead of sentiment in the country at large . Congress voted over 80 per cent ( 83 in the House and 89 in the Senate ) for the Fulbright ( House ) and Connally ( Senate ) resolutions , both of which were resolutions for world organization coupled with power to enforce peace , while general popular opinion was 78 per cent for the House tone of resolution . Linked to International Law . " It is realized that expression of views through public polls is restricted to the exact questions put , In the polls tabulated pollees were not called upon to say categoi ically whether or not they wished disarmament : Since in all cases , however , they were in favor of the use of force as a pai t of any system of world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in favor of disarmament . And in one vote where they could have favored disarmament of the United States they were opposed 55 to 41 per cent ( 4 per cent undecided ) , although such disarmament was conditional on similar action by other powers . ' It is further obvious that the opinion polls have treated armaments as subsidiary to problems which are political in nature . The problems of armaments are those of political organizations to preserve peace , to defend order in a world resting on ' a system of so-called international law ; in no case are armaments posed as a separate question . While three-fourths of the pollees , as above noted , were ready to associate the power of arms with political organization to maintain an ordered world , only two fifths thought the United States should venture to dispense with the power of its aims , in any sort of a world . " 