@@709874

txt A doughty band of Cardinals , given all summer long to bounding. back from moments of great adversity with amazing resilience , still have a lot of bounce left . In fact , they had so much of it today they all but bounced their highly favored adversaries , the Red Sox , right out of their own ball park . They unleashed a devastating twenty-hit attack that tied a 25-year-old world series record and plunged Joe Cronin 's battered Bosox down to a crushing 12-to-3 defeat in the fourth encounter of the current classic . The result , which left the majority in a crowd of 35,645 in a complete state of stupefaction , deadlocked the series at two victories apiece . As only one more contest remains to be played here tomorrow , St. Louis tonight becomes assured of seeing a sixth and possibly a seventh game before the struggle is over . Beginning with a home run by Enos Slaughter that started a three-run demonstration in the second inning , Eddie Dyer 's aroused Redbirds , firing behind their own strapping righthanded pitcher , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world series competition since 1921 , when the Giants buried a Yankee team under twenty hits . Midway in the ninth , while the National Leaguers were putting on a final four-run splurge , Bobby Doerr , Bosox second sacker , had to leave the field because of a violent migraine headache . Needless to say he was not the only one with a headache in that utterly bewillered gathering which earlier in the day had tossed $143,886 in the series , still confident of seeing something decidedly different . Starting with Tex Hughson , flashy twenty-game winner who had hurled so well in the opener , Cronin in desperation tossed six pitchers into the fray to equal another world series mark shared by three other clubs . Hughson was bowled over inside of three rounds , by which time the Redbirds already had rolled up six runs . In Tex 's wake came five more , but not until Clem Dreisewerd , a lefthander , came on the scene to induce Slaughter to pop up for the final out did Cronin emerge with the right one . In addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singles for four hits in a game to match another world series record shared before today by twenty-two other players . Before the long afternoon was done Slaughter was joined by Whitey Kurowski , who hit two doubles and two singles , and Joe Garagiola , the Cards ' rookie catcher , who collected three singles and a double . Not to.vbe wholly outshone , the well-beaten Red Sox also came up with one four-blow batter in Wally Moses who reeled off four futile singles for the vanquished side . But aside from the veteran Moses , Munger had no great difficulty coasting to a comparatively easy victory - behind the blistering attack of his comrades . The big Texas righthander , who did not come out of the Army until late last August and did not pitch his first game for the Cards until Sept. 4 , gave up nine hits in his initial appearance in the series . Oddly enough , the four Moses wallops did him no damage . Doerr Four-Bagger Too Late In the fourth inning a very much awed and subdued Ted Williams singled and scored the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose pair of homers had won the clipped first and third games for the Cronin men . In the eighth Doerr larruped a two-run circuit blow over the left-field wall , but by that time the battle already had been hopelessly lost . Every man in the Cardinal lineup connected safely , the last being Terry Moore who singled home the final Redbird tally in the ninth . Add to this four ghastly Bosox errors and one can readily understand the epidemic of headaches that swept the stands . It was slightly warmer today and with the crowd still happily reflecting on the events of the preceding afternoon scarcely anyone was prepared for the three-run explosion which the Redbirds touched off in the second . Hughson very impressively had turned back the first three Card batters in the opening round without allowing the ball to go beyond the confines of the infield . But as Slaughter opened the second he more than rammed the ball beyond the infield . He belted it beyond reach of the outfeild as well as he sent a low , powerfully stroked liner streaking against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet away . End 14 Scoreless Frames It was the first Card tally in fourteen innings and , having tasted gore , the run-starved Redbirds tore into Hughson like a hungry pack of wolves . Kurowski hammered a two-bagger off the left-field wall . There was a momentary pause in the attack as Garagiola went out on a short fly to Dom DiMaggio , but Harry Walker , the famed Dixie 's brother and the fellow they call " the wrong Walker " in Brooklyn , drove a single into center . It sent Kurowski scampering over the plate and the Cards had two runs in with only one out . Now came a play which took a decidedly bad turn for Boston and doubtless had much to do with Hughson 's collapse that followed soon after . Apparently catching a hit-and-run signal and calling for a pitch out , the Red Sox looked to have Walker hopelessly trapped between first and second as Hal Wagner whipped the ball to Johnny Pesky . But with Walker a dead duck as he desperately tried to scramble back to first , Pesky fired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cardinal runner on third . Bringing Walker home was only the work of a moment as Marty Marion deftly pushed a sacrifice " squeeze " bunt past the bewildered Hughson and the Cards had three for the round which finally ended with Munger striking out . But the Cards , it was to develop , were only beginning to find the range . As the third opened Red Schoendienst rifled a single into center and when Terry Moore dumped a sacrifice bunt a badly flustered Hughson made a complete hash of it . Momentarily fumbling the ball , Tex recovered only in time to fire it wide of its mark and the damaging error put Redbirds on second and third . At this point it is quite possible that Cronin , at least in the opinion of most of the grandstand managers , could have acted with greater alacrity in coming to Hughson 's relief . But the Red Sox skipper decided to let Tex face one more batter and that only brought further disaster . Stan Musial here lashed a double into right center , scoring Schoendienst and Moore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son of Cleveland 's old Sarge , came on to put a brief check on the Redbirds , though not before Garagiola had clipped a single to center to drive in Musial with the third run of the inning . In the fifth the Cards opened fire on Bagby again and this time doubtless could have come up with another batch of tallies , instead of only one , had they not indulged in some rather reckless base running . For after doubles by Slaughter and Kurowski had produced one count , Garagiola and Marion weighed in with two singles , but each hit saw a Cardinal runner ' thrown out at the plate . The first came on a throw from center by DiMaggio , the second by Williams from left . But little things like this were n't disconcerting the Cards in the least . They seemed to feel they could ' pick up runs most any time they needed them and in the seventh they went to work again . Bill Zuber , former Yankee righthander , this time was the victim . He was cuffed for singles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a twinmotored engine , and a double by Garagiola . The Redbirds thus picked up another marker . Then , after taking a bit of a breather in the eighth , the amazing National League champions put on a final four-run demonstration during which they routed two more of Cronin 's hapless hurlers . The first to go was Mace Brown , a former National League relief flinger . Brown had managed to skim through the eighth safely enough , but he faced only three batters in the ninth and all three ? Slaughter , Kurowski- and Garagiola ? singled . That brought the first tally in and also Mike Ryba , 40-year-old veteran of the Bosox pitching staff . What followed must have heaped a lot of more years on Old Mike . After Walker sacrificed , Marion pulled a double into left for his third hit of the afternoon and two more counted . Then , after Munger had grounded into the second out , the inning at last appeared over as Schoendienst bounced one at York . But Ryba , rushing over to cover first base , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seemingly interminable struggle was still in progress . Moore 's Hit Ties Mark The Cards , at this point , had amassed nineteen hits , one under the record , and given one more chance to match it , they did n't fall down . Moore singled sharply to center , the fourth run was in and the world series mark equaled . But even then the Red Sox found themselves unequal to the task of stopping the astounding Redbirds . Musial walked , filling the bases . Again the harried Cronin bustled out of his dugout , waved to the bullpen and this time the left-handed Dreisewerd , used mostly as a batting practice pitcher , emerged . At long last it proved the correct guess . Slaughter , up for the Sixth time and perhaps over-eager to lift the Cards to a new world series record , lofted a high fly right in the middle of the infield . York froze to it as it dropped in his mitt and the Hub fans breathed a tremendous sigh of relief . As for the Bosox , they scarcely ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced their first run in the fourth , Cronin 's men had another chance in the sixth but ironically it was York himself who gummed up this rally . With one out and the bases full , the result of a pass to York and singles by Doerr and Pinky Hig-1 gins , Hal Wagner lifted a long fly to Slaughter in right . Leisurely York galloped toward the plate with what he believed a certain run . But he reckoned without Slaughter 's mighty throwing arm , which nailed Rudy for a double play . Nor was this the only fielding stunt the St. Louisans turned on in defense of big Munger . In the second , with Williams on first the result of a pass , and the Red Sox trailing by only three runs , York lashed out into right center for what promised to be an extra base blow . But Moore , whose aging legs may not get him over the ground as they did in the days when he ranked as the game 's greatest defensive fielder , plunged headlong for the ball and caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as any series conflict has ever known , the Cardinals find themselves on even terms once more and in a surprisingly strong position strategically . For tomorrow Dyer means to whip back with Howie Pollet , whose fine effort in the opener was topped only by York 's tenth-inning homer , while tonight Cronin was still undecided on his next move for the vital fifth game that could well send him to St. Louis tomorrow night one down . Exhausted after a day of endless pitching selections , Cronin indicated he would pitch either lefthanded Mickey Harris , whom the Redbirds toppled behind Harry Brecheen in the second game , or Joe Dobson , a right-hander who did one inning of relief work after Harris retired .                     