@@709242

txt Letters to The Times EDWARD H. CHAMBERLIN , HANS STAEHLE.WM . HOWARD DOUGHTY JR.ALFRED ROELKER. pg . E8 Letters to The Times would have to be considered . But it is quite evident that no one expects or desires the Government to play this role much longer . Therefore , the only question that needs to be considered is what will happen when the controls are taken off ? Could anything be more obvious than that wage demands are in fact exerting a powerful and steady pressure for price increases , and that , in the absence of the restraining hand of the OPA , substantially higher prices would already have solved most of our labor disputes ? It may be possible to prove arithmetically an ability to pay some particular wage without raising prices , without impairing what some one regards as a fair profit . But can anyone doubt that when price controls are lifted ? as inevitably they will be soon  --  the managements concerned will do their own computations and adjust prices , as they would have earlier had they not been restrained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential does OPA become to hold prices down , and the less likely is it to be allowed to continue in existence in order to do so . Theories of how wage increases may be granted without raising prices are up against the brutal fact of pressures which will soon lead either to the end of OPA or to the disruption of price controls through piecemeal concessions . In either case inflation is upon us . This is the immediate problem of wages and prices . EDWARD H. CHAINIBERLIN , HANS STAEHLE . Cambridge , Mass. , Jan. 30 , 1946 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent article in THE NEW YORK TIMES Magazine , Professor Hansen urges a thinking through of the " basic issues " as to wages and prices , and offers as a solution that " wages in general should rise in accordance with average overall gains in productivity . " He gives us first the historical perspective that prices were " roughly stable " over seventy-five years prior to World War I , while money incomes , including wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased , and refers to this movement of wages and prices as " the most desirable pattern . " This appeal to history has of late been so frequently used that it may be worth while to point out that the supposedly desirable pattern was approximately realized only in the period 1840-60 . Prices , which had risen violently during the Civil War , fell steadily from 1865 to 1896 , while wage rates showed a net gain of about one-fifth by the end of ' that period . Finally , from 1896 to 1914 both wage rates and prices rose nearly 50 per cent . Output a Factor These comparisons say nothing about output , which is also highly relevant to the matters at issue . In fact , aggregate production per capita in the whole population , a fair measure of the general welfare , rose fastest , not in the ideal period 1840-60 , nor when prices and wages were bpth rising apace in 1896-1914 , but in the years 1865-96 , which , in the whole period in question , Most closely approximate the opposite of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selective statistics , both Professor Hansen 's and ours , will prove nearly anything . Professor Hansen himself even cites the period 1920-23 , during which wages were relatively stable and prices fell , the reverse in both respects of his ideal pattern , as providing " a firm foundation for the high buying power of the Twenties . " Appealing to history , might we not as well conclude that stable wage rates and falling prices would likewise provide a " firm foundation " for the decade ahead of us ? Moreover , there are fundamental objections to raising wages solely in accord with the criterion of productivity . Example Offered Such a policy must be based upon the assumption that when production per man-hour increases , there is a corresponding increase in the total social product to be divided . But this is not necessarily true . For example , between 1929 and 1932 man-hour output in manufacturing rose 15 per cent ? faster than in any other three-year period between 1923 and 1929 ? yet during the same three years total output fell nearly one-half . Man-hour product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point overlooked by Professor Hansen has to do with the choice of alternative methods of production by business men . As labor costs rise relatively to capital costs , a premium is put upon substituting types of equipment and methods which will dispense with labor . A further premium is put upon setting scientists and other experts to work discovering new ways of doing things which will further cut down on the use of what has become a more expensive cost item . It follows that high wage rates may not increase total labor income at all , because of a smaller volume of labor used , and may furthermore play an important part in establishing on a more or less permanent basis a technological set-up which falls far short of being able to use all the labor which seeks employment . Understanding Invited This point is seldom understood . Witness Philip Murray 's . complaint to the TNEC that the steel industry had " taken away through technological changes ( that is by labor-saving methods of production ) the substantial contributions to national purchasing power " which the SWOC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in wage rates . Within two years , although output was the same , employment had diminished to such an extent that total wage payments in steel were virtually what they had been before the wage increase . Thus it appears that man-hour output is often raised as a result of wage increases by the adoption of methods of production which dispense with labor . In such a case , to raise wages still further merely leads into a vicious circle . The current demand for higher wage rates must be evaluated with reference to other standards . It has to be faced for what it is ? an immediate , shortrun problem . A decline in prices now is out of the question for the simple reason that the present price level is wholly artificial . The principal fact to be realized is that if controls were lifted , prices would unquestionably rise . They would rise because of the shortage of commodities relative to present incomes and reserve spending power . With wage increases they would rise the more . The present situation is indeed without precedent in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time restraining price increases by law . We are actually engaged in compulsory income setting . This opens up large questions , and if we really intended to embark upon a permanent regime of this sort they Army Must Have Men Service , Offering Advantages , Seen in Need of Help The writer of the following letter , a New York lawyer and a veteran of the First World War , is a former president of the Seventy-seventh Division Association and a member of the Military Training Camps Association of the United States . To THE EDITOR OF Tar NEW YORK TIMES : Your leading editorial of Jan. 25 has a true title , " Danger Ahead . " The War Department indeed faces a serious emergency , which should receive the ' public attention even more than strikes , inflation , atomic bombs and the UNO . For unless 1,600,000 men are in the Army on July 1 , 1946 , it can not perform its allotted functions . Then some , at least , of the gains wrung from this war - mast be abandoned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minor sacrifices of the people at home , will have been in vain . There is no need to question the number required , which General Eisenhower calls the irreducible minimum . If one stops to think , it seems all too small for the many tasks and distances to be covered . Roughly , one divides this force into 400,000 for the Pacific , 400,000 for Europe , 400,000 for the Air Force and 400,000 for recruits and reserves in the United States . How does that number compare with what other nations , Russia for instance , are preparing to contribute to safeguard the peace ? We can only guess that it is much smaller . The most serious question before this country at this moment is : How shall the Army recruit 1,600,000 men by July 1 , while the Navy at the same time recruits 700,000 more ? The problem can not , and will not , be solved by holding over men drafted for the war against their will . The American people will not stand for that . Draft Plan Oppose Can it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after its present date of expiration on May 15 ? The American people do not want Selective Service in peacetime if it can be avoided . With popular support of Selective Service diminishing , it is becoming less effective . We hear that of a monthly quota of 50,000 only 35,000 are procured . From Frankfort comes the complaint that " of 86,000 replacements for November and December only 48,000 had arrived , and that of 19,000 requisitioned for January only 8,000 arrived . " These are indications that the Selective Service Act may prove a broken reed for use in time of peace . Voluntary recruiting remains the ideal solution , but can it succeed ? For nearly six months the Army - has conducted a drive which has brought around 600,000 enlistments and has passed way beyond all previous records . In 1940 , with war threatening , it was not until France had fallen and the Selective Service Act was passed that the Army could increase its objective beyond 250,000 . But of the 600,000 now recruited more than two-thirds are veterans who have re-enlisted , and that source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathers , are new recruits , while the Army ' needs a million of them . To find them the Army needs help . It has so far looked for help largely to the schools , a most logical source . But evidently it needs more help , and the emergency is serious enough to appeal to Chambers of Commerce and similar organizations . Competent Advice Needed Nor need the business men hesitate to advise the youngster to enlist for his own good . Quite apart from any question of patriotic duty , the opportunities offered are startling : 1 . The base pay of $50 a month , with food , clothing , shelter and medical care , is computed to aggregate more than a civilian salary of $50 a week . 2 . The GI Bill of Rights offers over $5,000 paid by the Government toward an education after three years ' service . 3 . As an alternative for the man who makes the Army a career the retirement pay may run to over $150 a month , for which as an annuity the premium would exceed $84 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities for self-improvement . If he enlists for three years he cart choose his branch and theatre of service . The United States Armed Forces Institute ( USAFI for short ) offers correspondence courses as well as post schools . But all this is confusing to the inexperienced youngster . It requires explanation and advice from respected friends . Not every young man is so situated that he should serve three years , or even two , in the Army . His own judgment may well be biased by the sentimental considerations of youth . There is a great and pressing needc that the business men organize to help Ilsolve this " Danger Ahead . " ALFRED ROELKER . New York , Jan. 30 , 1946 . OPA Seen as Paradox Inflation Feared Regardless of Its Continuance in Power The writers of the following letter are , respectively , professor of economics and a former visiting lecturer on economics at Harvard University . Strikes Held Menace Politics Aside , Public Stake Is Viewed as Paramount The writer of the following letter is Emeritus Professor of Political Science at Williams College . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and the Average Man . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As far back as last July , and again in October , you published letters of mine dealing with the problem arising out of the tremendous growth of power in the hands of union labor . In those letters it was pointed out that back in the Nineties Government , both Federal and State , had found it necessary to intervene to restrain the selfish and irresponsible exercise of vast power by capital . It was then shown that today it is the possession and exercise of irre ? sponsible power by organized label that threatens a helpless public . Anc it was predicted that unless our Governments place effective restraint . upon such power the general welfare of the many would be sacrificed to the special interests of the few . That the country is now confronted with such a situation no thoughtful and unbiased person can deny . Literally millions who , as far as the existing controversies between management and union labor are concerned , are in the position of innocent bystanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with deprivation of essential foodstuffs , transportation , communications , light and heat . Millions who have no quarrel with their respective managements or employers , and wholly without fault , are threatened with incalculable financial loss because of shortages of raw materials essential to the conduct of their activities . Protection for Public Confronted with such situations certaM questions naturally come to mind . Has not the time come when our Governments , Federal and State , should again take effective measures to protect the public against the abuse of irresponsible power ? Is , or should be , the right to strike really a right to be used by union labor regardless of its effects upon the great mass ? How long is the public going to sit quietly idle and see those whose duty it is to protect its interests cringe before the electoral whip of organized labor ? How long will it be before this same inert public realizes that , as Mr. Truman said , it is capable of being the strongest pressure group in the country ? How long will it be before week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courage ? and it may be the political wisdom  --  to realize this , and boldly assume their proper responsibilities as servants of the many rather than the agents of the few ? The strike is a weapon , and there are few if any who will dispute the right of union labor to employ it in its legitimate skirmishes with management . But it is a dangerous weapon , and , like other dangerous weapons , one which , for the protection of the public , should be restricted in its use . Just where a restrictive line should be drawn is , of course , debatable , but if certain fundamental principles are followed , the task should not be too difficult . Paramount Principles These principles can be stated as follows : ( 1 ) Where a strike affects directly only the employer and is of slight inconvenience or injury to the public , there should be no governmental intervention . ( 2 ) Where , however , the strike results or is likely to result in serious injury to the public  --  injury to health ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be effectively outlawed . The welfare and the interests of the public are paramount , and it is the duty of those in public office to insure them . But this can be accomplished only if and when the millions of innocent bystanders  --  the " greatest pressure group in the country " ? will take the trouble and the few minutes ' time necessary to write their respective Senators and Representatives , Federal and State , insisting that they be safeguarded in their " pursuit of happiness . " WM . HOWARD DOUGHTY JR . New York , Jan. 31 , 1946.                     