@@705308

txt Emphasizing once again his stand for nation-al unity , Gov . Leverett Saltonstall led the Massachusetts delegation at President Roosevelt 's third inauguration today : but he was not the only New England Republican on hand . Gov . Sumner Sewall , of Maine ; Gov . Robert 0 . Blood , of New Hampshire , and Gov . William H. Wills , of Vermont , were in the national capital today lending their support to the Administration 's drive for greater and greater defense production and , at the same time , emphasizing New England 's place in the industrial picture . New England 's two Democratic Governors , J. Howard , of Rhode Island , and Robert A. Hurley of Connecticut were likewise on hand for the ceremonies . Sixth Place in Parade Governor Saltonstall led the Massachusetts delegation in the inaugural parade this afternoon , the three cars from the Common ; wealth occupying sixth position in the parade because this State was the sixth to ratify the United States Constitution . Since arriving in Washington yesterday morning with his official party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek a greater portion of defense business for Massachusetts industry . All six New England Chief Ex. ecutives attended a dinner last night given by William Knudsen , Director of the Office of Production Management at which Mr. Knudsen and defense officials described what efforts could be made in the States by local officials to speed up the defense program . Boston was represented in various ways at the inaugural . The City 's fire department brass band , 48 musicians strong , was in the capital . It serenaded Governor Saltonstall and Mayor Maurice J. Tobin at the Union Station yesterday ; both officials arrived on the same train . Seeks Governors ' Conference Four Boston politemen were sent to the capital for duty , assisting the Washington police . About 499 police from various cities came to aid in policing the national capital for this extraordinary day . John F. Fitzgerald , once Mayor of Boston , was one of six attend- Ing the presidential electors ' dinner last night . He has voted three times for Franklin D. Roosevelt . With the great majority of public leaders lit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for various activities not directly connected with the events of the day . Governor Saltonstall , for example , took advantage of the occasion to ask Gov . Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota  --  Chairman of the Conference of State Governors  --  to hold that organization 's annual meeting in Massachusetts next June . On the social side of the calendar , the Governors who participated in inauguration ceremonies had a full day yesterday , the Connecticut congressional delegation giving Governor Hurley a luncheon . Virtually every faction of the State 's Democratic Party was represented . Besides Mr. Hurley , guests were former Attorney General Homer S. Cummings . Former Assistant Attorney General Brien , State Democratic Chairman John McCarthy , Adj . Gen. Rex Delacour , Thomas E. Hewes of the Defense Advisory Commission , and Joseph M. Tone of the Labor Department . One of the chief problems facing Maine 's delegation was how to get something to eat during inauguration ceremonies . Several solved the problem with box lunches in the parade . Governor Sewall of Maine . Senators Wallace H. White , Jr. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for discussion in the Maine delegation that each member specialize in a subject of joint State-Federal interest such as fisheries , defense , Arm.v and Navy problems . The delegation probably will act on the proposal later this week . Governor Sewall was the guest at a reception yesterday by Representative Margaret C. Smith ( R ) of Maine , and later at a dinner by Marion E. Martin , of Maine , Assistant Chairman of the Republican National Committee . Other Bay Staters in Washington were Boston . Police Commissioner , Joseph A. Timiity ; Mayor Roger Putnam of Springfield : Mrs. Louis Howe , Fall River ; and John Sargent , Boston insurance man with whom James Roosevelt , another of the President 's sons . used to be in business . About 90 per cent of the Secret Service fore maintained by the Department of Justice in New England was called to duty in Wash- .... mgton for the inauguration . Harry L. Barker , supervising agent for the Secret Service , headed the party whose number was not disclosed . It is customary for large squads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but an unusually large number was reported on duty today in view of the times .                     