@@706441

txt Shoppers and retailers here took Federal control of retail prices in their stride yesterday . The General Maximum Price Regulation , establishing the highest March prices of retailers as the ceiling that will hold for the duration of the war , went into effect smoothly and quietly in the nation 's largest retail trading area . Functioning directly in the government 's anti-inflation drive , merchants in the metropolitan area displayed posters and sheets briefly describing and listing the March ceiling prices of thousands of merchandise items coming under the " cost-of-living " commodities category of the Office of Price Administration . In the expert appraisal of local retail officials , the day in stores in the major shopping areas appeared to be the " fairly busy " Monday variety . They declared no great buying rush developed despite the contention that many customers had been delaying their purchases in the last two weeks in order to size up prices under the ceiling . The actual decline in prices that took place was estimated at less than 1 per cent . Price Postings Varied The " cost-of-living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in the case of foodstuffs . Department managers and sales personnel reported that a comparatively limited number of customers inquired about the " cost-of-living " price schedule , and in no instance were there reports of large groups of customers gathering to inspect the lists . In explanation , it was said that most consumers appeared confident that the retail establishments were making the necessary price readjustments . However , one incident was related where the price listed on the merchandise itself through error did not conform to the posted list , and a shopper called this to the attention of store officials , who made a speedy correction . The methods used by the stores in posting the price placards or sheets varied considerably . In some establishments separate sheets were stapled to a poster in each department , while in others several price sheets , one on top of the other , were fastened together . In other instances , single sheets were placed in cellophane envelopes , while in still others the sheets were framed in wood and glass or placed on counters . Most furniture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selling floor . Considerable consumer interest in the new pricings was reported by both chain and independent food retailers . As required by the regulations , prices for tie more than 600 " cost of living " commodities were posted prominently and , in cases where the list was not immediately noticed , customers asked for it , the retailers said . Generally consumers appeared disappointed that prices were often no lower than they had been previously and many asked for ceiling prices on butter , eggs and cheese ? items specifically exempted . Chain stores reported that the new system was working smoothly , Of the cost-of-living commodities , one chain store executive reported that only 100 items , principally those affected by the wartime shortages , had been " rolled back . " About 80 other items in the list were being sold at lower than ceiling-prices , he said ; but-most of the products on which prices had been reduced were now " in the red . " Imposition of the ceiling order was a matter of apparent indifference to customers of retail liquor stores , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that volume continued small . The Metropolitan Package Store Association , Inc. , has requested a hearing before OPA to present the problems of its members . Men 's wear stores reported only casual interest by the public but expressed the opinion that in some cases business showed a definite improvement . Stores spent last week rolling back their prices to the March level and were prepared for the posting of the " cost-of-living " items list , which covers such merchandise as suits and coats . The OPA 's " army " of price wardens did not swing into action because the order creating the group has not been received from Washington and no volunteers have been accepted as yet . At the local OPA office , it was indicated that for the time being the main emphasis would be on instruction and education .                     