@@710305

txt 3 Football ' Fixers ' Are Sentenced ; Plot to Corrupt Sports ' Is Scored Prison terms of five to ten years for bribery were imposed yesterday by General Sessions Judge Saul S. Streit on David ( Pete ) Krakauer and Harvey Stemmer , while Jerome Zarowitz , the third " mastermind " behind Alvin J. Paris ' football bribery scheme , received an indeterminate penitentiary term for conspiracy . The three men were convicted on March 8 of the attempted " fix " of the National Football League professional championship game on Dec. 15 between the New York Giants and the Chicago Bears . Paris had been found guilty previously and had appeared as a witness against the three others . He will come up for sentence in General Sessions on Monday . Before announcing sentence , the court read an eight-page state ; ment in which the bribery attempt was described as a " planned and preconceived plot " wherein the defendants had sought " to destroy the faith and confidence of the public in American sports . " Judge Streit characterized the money offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hapes , as " no impulsive act . " " It was born in the scheming mind of Stemmer , nurtured in the cool , calculating brains of Krakauer and Zarowitz , and executed by the suave and polished Paris , " the judge declared . After he had reviewed the records of the defendants , Judge Streit said probation reports showed that Stemmer and Krakauer were gambling partners . The records also showed that Krakauer and Zarowitz held a sizable interest in the Elizabeth , N. J. , bookmaking establishment operated by Eddie Ginsberg , a gambler and Paris ' stepfather . Judge Streit asserted that there // " was more than a bribery statute involved in the case " because of the public 's widespread interest in sports . " The public , " the court continued , " youth and adult as well , has faith in its athletes , - and anyone who tampers with . this faith and corrupts an athlete or a sport , injures more than the athlete , and much more than the sport . He undermines the faith of young Americans and shatters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acter . " . Sentences Called ' Warning " Judge Streit said that the sentences were meted as " warning " that anyone who tries to bribe an athlete or fix a sports contest will be dealt with as major criminals . When the court clerk read Krakauer 's record , disclosing that the defendant had been convicted on three felony . charges , the prisoner at first refused to identify himself as the man mentioned in the ' record . After a conference by Krakauer 's attorney , Samuel Segal , with Judge Streit , the ? court declared that it had not been planned to sentence Krakauer , who is 42 years old , as a fourth . offender . Such a sentence would have meant a mandatory term of life imprisonment . When the defendant was informed of Judge Streit 's intention he admitted the record .. Krakauer , who had been taken from the prison ward at Bellevue Hospital , where he has been confined since his conviction , then was sentenced as a third offender to serve five to ten years in Sing Sing prison on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conspiracy convictions were suspended . Referring to Stemmer as the ' " most culpable " of the three , Judge Streit sentenced him to serve two and one-half to five years on each of the two bribery counts , the terms to run consecu- , tively . The 37-year-old prisoner , finished last Friday a one-year ' terra on Rikers Island for the bribery , of members of the Brooklyn College basketball team to . " throw " a game . Judge Streit ' recalledl Stemmer 's transitory status as a prisoner when he declared . that " through some nefarious - machinations he managed to come and go as he pleased and continue to practice his illicit trade . " Zarbwitz , who is 33 , received an indeterminate penitentiary . sentence , . but the maximum is three years . Judge Streit granted a motion by counsel for Stemmer and Zarowitz for a stay of sentence for two weeks pending the filing of motions for certificates of reasonable doubt . Also present in court was George P. Monaghan , Assistant District Attorney , who had prosecuted the case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Justice has been vindicated . " He added. : " At the very time that this man , ( pointing to Krakauer ) was conspiring to bribe these football players , he and his cohorts were attempting to bribe basketball players . I Can not go further than that at this time . " As sentence was being imposed , the 28-year-old Paris was appearing in Special Sessions for a trial on bookmaking charges . At the request of Leonard Newman , Assistant District Attorney , Presiding Justice John V. Flood adjourned the case until Monday . 