@@704873

txt Soldiers ' Leld was a billowing sea of flags yesterday . Eighty thousand cheering Americans who came to pay honor to the police and firemen trans. formed the third annu ? al Chicago Police and Fire Thrill show into a majestic display of patriotism . The police and tremen were given a thundering ovation when they paraded upon the field . Th f ! admiring throng 's enthusiasm - knew us bounds-when-the outstand ? trig fire and police heroes of 1939 marched in with a guard of honor to receive their awards from the heads of their departments . The heroes are Capt . Joseph Flahive of the fire depLritment , Patreiman Raymond Ira Prime of the Chicago park district police , and Patrolman William Phillips of the city police . Dramas Tell of Valor . It was a day of pageantry , a day of color , a day of marching men . The sum of a perfect July afternoon beamed down upon a field of green that was a striking setting for the scarlet of mighty fire trucks and the blue of uniforms and police cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps . were the dramas which told the valor and the glorious tradition of the men in blue . One was of the law 's triumphs over bandits. in which Chief John L. Sul- ' livan and Lieut . Kyran Phelan of the detective bureau directed the bureau men and Chief Roger F. Shanahan the park police . The other was of a battle against flames in a six story . building . in which great water towers and aerial ladder trucks were used by Commissioner Michael J. Corrigan and Anthony J. Mullaney , first deputy marshal , of the fire department . Crowd Stands at Attention . But the magnificence of the patriotic demonstration surpassed all else . It began when the great crowd stood in reverent attention while the American flag was raised over the tower erected for the fire drama . The field rang with applause after Marlon Claire sang " The Star Spangled Banner . " It was the patriotic pledge by the boys and girls , however . which sent the spirit of America welling over , Waving American flags which were presented to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pledge of allegiance to the colors , to good citizenship , and to the principles of safety and lawfulness which the fire and police depart . ments represent . Parents Join In Pledge . It was a pledge for youth . But fathers and mothers joined unbidden in the pledge . " Wave those flags proudly ! " urged the master of ceremonies , Philip Maxwell of THE TRIBUNE staff . And proudly the boys and girls waved them . Perceiving that their elders did not wish to be left out of the expression of patriotism , the master of ceremonies called thru the public address system : " Let the fathers wave their hats ! " Men waved their hats , Women waved their handkerchiefs . And cheer upon cheer echoed across the held . The thrill show was sponsored by the police and tire department and the park district , in cooperation with THE TRIBUNE .                     