@@706137

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. ** increased armament production by the United States in 1942 , fulfillment of lease-lend aid to Soviet Russia and some forward steps in the plan for an international defense of Singapore , particularly in the naval and air sense , were reported to have been agreed upon today in Anglo-American conferences at the White House . Separate conferences of the armaments-supply and militarynaval representatives of the United States and Great Britain were held with President Roosevelt attending both , and Prime Minister Churchill the second . Prime Minister Churchill will address a joint session of the Canadian Parliament , it was announced here tonight by W. L. Mackenzie King , Prime Minister of Canada , who arrived in Washington this afternoon to participate in the conferences here . Apparently Mr. Churchill 's visit to Canada will take place after the conferences are terminated here . Mr. Churchill will be the guest in Ottawa of the Earl of Athlone , Governor General , the announcement said , and will sit in at meetings of the Dominion War Cabinet . It was reported unofficially that one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ottawa would be intensification of the Canadian war effort and an explanation to the Dominion 's leaders of what has taken place in Washington . His speech in Parliament was expected to be his only public appearance during his visit . Beaverbrook Also Will Go - Mr. King said that Lord Beaverbrook would accompany Mr. Churchill to Canada and that he himself would escort them . Since the Canadian Parliament . is not in session , special invitations to attend are being sent to members of the Senate and Commons . The time of Mr. Churchill 's departure from Washington was not revealed . Present at the supply conference at 3:30 P. M. , which followed a Cabinet meeting attended by Mr. Churchill , were : Lord Beaverbrook , the British Minister of Supply ; William S. Knudsen , Director-General of the Office of Production Management ; Robert P. Patterson , Under-Secretary of War ; Robert A. Lovett , Assistant Secretary of War for Air ; Donald Nelson , OPM Director of Priorities and executive director of the Supply , Priorities and Allocation Board ; Leon Henderson , Federal Price Administrator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William L. Batt , OPM Director of Materials ; Harry L. Hopkins , Presidential confidant , and Vice President Wallace . Lord Beaverbrook , it was subsequently reported , made a strong I appeal for vastly increased American production of the sinews of war , including tanks , airplanes and other essentials , to find complete agreement with his views from the otherwise entirely , American delegation . An American armament production goal of about $40,000,000,000 in 1942 seemed a likely development from the conferences as the need for speed and more speed was emphasized . Attending the joint military-naval conference this evening besides the President and Mr. Churchill were Secretaries Knox and Stimson , Admiral Harold R. Stark , Chief of Naval Operations ; General George C. Marshall , Army Chief of Staff ; General Henry H. Arnold , Chief of the Air Corps ; Premier King , Lord Beaverbrook , Sir Dudley Pound , Admiral of the Fleet ; Field Marshal Sir John Dill , Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal and Mr. Hopkins . As a result of the second conference , some diplomats said , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at present fighting the chief campaign against Nazi Germany , not only would be carried out but that aid to Britain would be continued fullforce , at least as soon as American requirements for an allied strategical plan are fulfilled . With regard to certain aid required at Singapore , decisions were less clear , but there was every indication that conferences on this point were continuing . As Prime Minister Churchill made clear in his speech before Congress , the chief problem in the military and naval field for the time being is the proper allocation of still limited armaments and naval forces until the anti-Axis allies are in a position to take the offensive later on . As the first visitor this morning , President Roosevelt conferred with Maxim Litvinoff , the Soviet Ambassador , and informed him as to the progress of the conferences and the decisions taken thus far . Tomorrow , the Chief Executive plans to begin separate conferences with the envoys of Western Pacific allies , including China , the Netherlands , Australia and New Zealand . Prime Minister King arrived in Washington today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have luncheon with the President , but arrived late . As a result he first saw Secretary Hull and met with Mr. Roosevelt late in the afternoon . There were strong indications that the hope here was to deal with the British Empire as a whole , a course to which Prime Minister Curtin of Australia and others with a clear idea of the position Prime Minister Churchill has taken , are understood to have agreed . Stephen Early , Presidential secretary , said this morning in a press conference that Russian , Chinese and Dutch diplomats have been kept constantly abreast of discussions between Messrs . Roosevelt and Churchill and their supply and war councils . The dominions , at least until the arrival late today of Mr. King , were informed through Viscount Halifax , the British Ambassador . President Roosevelt plans to confer tomorrow with the South American and . Central American diplomats . Diplomatic circles reported , without definite confirmation , that one of the premises basic to the conferences was that Hitler 's Germany was the chief and , at present , perhaps the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checked at Singapore and its approaches , including the Philippines , could be taken care of later . Mr. King was met at the Union Station on his arrival here by a large delegation headed by Lord Halifax and including Major Gen. Edwin M. Watson , Presidential aide , and Breckinridge Long , Assistant Secretary of State .                     