@@707313

txt President Roosevelt put James M. Landis in charge of all American economic operations in the Middle East today , and gave him the unusual , if not unprecedented , status of Minister with equal jurisdiction over all of the countries in the Middle Eastern area . This was announced today as the President accepted Mr. Landis 's resignation as Director of the Office of Civilian Defense , to which position he was appointed about a year and a half ago when that organization was officially regarded as being in a somewhat chaotic state with Mayor La Guardia of New York as director and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt as assistant . Mr. Landis , who is on leave of absence as Dean of Harvard Law I School , will be " American Director of Economic Operations in the Middle East and principal American Civilian Representative at the Middle East Supply Center with the personal rank of Minister . " The White House announcement went on to say : " Mr. Landis will be assigned to our Legations in the Middle East as special assistant to the Minister to facilitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area serviced by the Middle East Supply Center . " Expected to Start at Once As Mr. Landis ' friends understood the assignment , he will be , in effect , the United States Minister for economic matters to the Middle Eastern countries , the present Ministers being supreme on political questions . He is expected to depart for his new post in about a week . By giving him a status somewhat comparable to a British Minister of State , having jurisdiction over - laze than oni couitry , the President went a. , far as he could in providing Mr. Landi- with a rank similar to that of the British official who will be his working colleague in the Middle East , R. G. Casey , former Australian Minister to the United States . In addition to being a Minister of State , Mr. Casey is also a member of the British War Cabinet , which gives him exceptional authority . The White House announced that Frederick Winant , brother of John G. Winant , United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James , who has been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been put in charge of " Middle East supply work in Washington . " In his letter of resignation , Mr. Landis , a veteran New Deal administrator , told the President that he thought he had " contributed to that office ' , OCD ) as much as I can give and that someone else can better further the interests of civilian defense for the months that lie ahead . ' It was learned that the President was considering more than one person as a possible successor to Mr. Landis . Praise From the President " You have done a fine job under great difficulties , " the President said in his letter of acceptance . " The measure of any performance during wartime is its contribution to the winning of this war . Civilian Defense has already more than justified itself in this respect . Nnd I agree with you that at home , as abroad , we dare not let down in effort to enable everyone to play his part , large or small , in the waging of this war . " The role of Civilian Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be overestimated , for it affords the means for welding our people into one army that will continue to do battle in the many ways that war demands on every front that they can find . ' That battle can never be over here at home until victory abroad is assured . " I hope that in your new work you will find the joy that these days can be found only in working as part of a nation determined to win against forces that otherwise would destroy everything that we have ever cherished . " The Middle East Supply Center . little known in this country until recently because of early operations which could not be disclosed to the public , was set up by the British in 1941 and the United States became a co-member in March , 1942 . It embraces the problem of supplying the needs of the 80,000,000 people residing in the ten countries of Turkey , Egypt , Syria , Iraq , Iran , Palestine , Trans-Jordania , Cyprus , Malta and Eritrea . In the event of the liberation of Greece , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center 's jurisdiction . The principal task of the center has been to get what it could of civilian supplies while at the same time not interfering with the heavy movement of war material into the Middle Eastern area . The Office of War Information reported in May that in the two preceding years MESC had obtained 1,600,000 tons of food , fertilizer and cotton goods for the people . While Mr. Landis 's function in the Middle East will be entirely one pertaining to civilians , he will of necessity have to work with American military commanders in that theatre , some of whom he has come to know well in his work at OCD . Mr. Landis has served as a member of the Federal Trade Commission , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , special trial examiner for the Department of Labor , and consultant to the National Defense Advisory Commission . While there probably never before has been a United States Minister to as many countries as Mr. Landis will be accredited , there are some ministerial posts where Ministers have been accredited to neighboring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States envoy to a number of exiled governments . Mr. Landis was a member of the class of 1921 at Princeton , while Mr. Winant , whom he succeeded and who will be at the Washington end of the Middle East economic operation , was Princeton , 1915.                     