@@711587

txt Britain and China , supported by France , strongly condemned today what they termed the Israeli Government 's failure to report progress in its investigation of the assassination of Count Folke Bernadotte , United Nations Mediator for Palestine . The two nations introduced a joint draft resolution designed to safeguard the authority of the United Nations , prevent further truce violations and hasten the apprehension of the killers . The resolution was based substantially on recommendations made in several reports by Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , Acting Mediator . In oral supplementary explanations before the Security Council this afternoon , he said that the absence of an escort had made the killing relatively easy . " In these circumstances , " he said , " I find the conclusion inescapable that there was in this instance negligence on the part of the local Jewish authorities in Jerusalem . With minimum precautions this crime could not have been committed . " Israeli Makes Defense Warren R. Austin of the United States , president of the Council this month , adjourned the meeting after Council members had heard an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Arael 's representative at the United Nations , and an equally impassioned indictment of it by Faris el-Khouri , Syrian delegate . No decision was taken nor is it known when another meeting would take place . Mr. Austin said that the date of a new meeting would depend on developments concerning other questions on the agenda . It was clear , however , that the purpose of today 's meeting was primarily to warn Israel that the United Nations would not let the death of its Mediator go unpunished and to impress both Israelis and Arabs with its determination not to countenance the repeated flouting of its authority . Should that tendency continue , Dr. Bunche told the Council , the " reasonable minimum of cooperation " necessary for effective truce supervision would be lost . It is expected that other attacks would be leveled at the Israeli Government at tomorrow 's meeting of the General Assembly 's Political Committee which is scheduled to begin discussion on the Bernadotte report . Israeli spokesmen announced this evening that they had asked the Secretary General for permission to attend the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , by Arab delegates to enlist the widest possible support for a Greek move to postpone discussion of the Bernadotte report in favor of the report of the Special Committee on the Balkans on aid to the Greek rebels by Yukoslavia , Bulgaria and Albania . Greek Foreign Minister Constantin Tsaldaris , who saw Israel 's Foreign Minister Moshe Shertok today , abstained from discussing this plan , probably because he had been informed beforehand that Israel would not agree to it , Israeli sources said . According to them , Mr. Tsaldaris wanted to see Mr. Shertok to obtain his consent so as to be able to announce at the Political Committee meeting that Israel favored also postponement of the discussion . Instead , the conversation , it was said , dealt . only with the situation in Palestine . . The United States delegation has given no official indication as to whether it would support actively postponement of the debate on Palestine . American circles said that the United States would take no initiative in this field . It was stated , however , that the mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would in itself indicate a preference for delay . At the opening of the Security Council meeting , Jacob A. Malik , the Soviet delegate , criticized Mr. Austin tor having called the meeting on what he said was very short notice . The agenda , however , was adopted by eight votes , with Syria , the Ukraine and the Soviet Union abstaining . Mr. Austin then invited the representatives of Egypt , Lebanon and Israel , as well as Dr. Bunche , to sit at the Council table . After the reading of several reports on the supervision of the truce and the assassination of the Mediator that Dr. Bunche had sent to the Secretary General , the acting Mediator received the floor . Giving a detailed explanation of the obstacles and difficulties put in the way of United Nations observers in Palestine , he listed six types of obstructionist tactics : restrictions on the movements of observers , refusal of access to ports , lack of cooperation with observers in the field , physical assaults on observers , failure by local commanders to carry out agreements often reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation by high Government Officials and sabotage of observers ' work at the " operational level in the field . " Mr. El-Khouri praised Dr. Bunche for what he termed the " wisdom and good judgment " shown in his reports , which , he stressed , would be " useful to enlighten the Council on conditions in Palestine during the assassination and later . " He assured the Council that Syria welcomed United Nations observers with " friendliness " and was not responsible for truce violations despite the fact that the " Mediator did nof perform his mission in accordance with justice . " The gravity of the situation was emphasized by Sir Alexander Cadogan of Great Britain who told the Council that what it faced now was not " a question of isolated infringements of the truce by Arabs or Jews but rather of a threat to the foundations of the truce and to the authority of the Security Council by which it is maintained . " Speaking of the " carefully organized murder of Count Bernadotte " he said , " I would have expected the vigorous pursuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the negligence of the officials responsible for the security of the Jewish sector in Jerusalem . " He added : " It may be , of course , that Mr. Eban will be able to tell us this afternoon that the leaders of the Stern gang have been arrested or that an inqurry is proceeding into the responsibility for the failure to afford any protection to Count Bernadotte on the day of his murder . If he is not in a position to give us this information now , then it is the view of my Government that the Security Council should call for it as urgently as possible . " Sir . Alexander announced that he had drafted a resolution that would afford protection of observers and implement the truce . The resolution was so worded as to facilitate its adoption by a unanimous vote , according to the delegates . T. F. Tsiang of China stated that it contained " nothing political or controversial " and urged its acceptance . In his reply to these attacks , Mr. Eban enumerated various measures that his Government had taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge that the United Nations had shown partiality for the Arabs by having concentrated a greater number of its observers in Israeli territory . He asked the United Nations support his Government 's proposal for direct peace negotiations with the Arabs as the surest way , in his opinion , to solve the Palestine problem . " Over 200 members of the organization believed to be responsible were rounded up and arrested and the Government adopted special emergency regulations giving it sweeping powers to take action against terrorist organizations , their members and accomplices , " he said . " The Security Council will be kept fully informed of all progress in this direction . " As a result of strong action and an unconditional ultimatum , the body known as Irgun Zvai Leumi has surrendered its arms to the Government and has ceased to exist as a military organization . The Stern group also has been effectively broken up and its leadership and direction are disrupted , and although a menace to public and private security may exist , the days of organized terrorism are over . " As to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We find that whereas there are seventy-Six observers stationed in Haifa and twenty-eight in Tel Aviv , there are only eighteen in the whole of Trans-Jordan and fourteen in , the whole of Egypt  --  although Egypt and Trans-Jordan are two countries in which the major Arab effort was based . "                     