@@705477

txt Strikes in defense industries caused repercussions today in both houses of Congress . The House directed its Military and . Naval Affairs Committees to conduct the shutdowns were described as " Red insurrection and rebellion " and " anarchy . " The warmest debate that has developed so far on the strike problem preceded approval of the resolution by a vote of 324 to 1 . The one ' dissenter was Representative Marcantonio of New York , who said that the two House committees were being set up as " strike-breaking agencies . " While the House was taking this action to ascertain the causes of defense strikes , with a view to recommendations for remedial legislation , several Senators attacked the Administration for what they termed . its failure to take adequate measures , and called upon the government to seize tied-up plants and operate them . Senator Connally of Texas called upon the government to operate plants where defense production is halted either by the acts of industry or by labor . Senator Byrd of Virginia accused Secretary Perkins of dereliction of duty in not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Administration also was attacked in the House . Representatives Smith of Virginia and Cox of Georgia , Democrats , demanded that the government shoulder its responsibility to stop the strikes . Mr. Smith , in supporting the resolution for the defense inquiry , said that few satisfactory results had been obtained by the government. , The resolution empowers the two House committees to subpoena witnesses and records and clothes them with the other powers usually granted in investigations . Representative Smith accused the leaders of the Allis-Chalmers , Ford and soft-coal strikes of being " dictators , " and demanded to know why the United States was spending $32,000,000,000 to fight dictators abroad and still , he said , let the same type run loose in this country . He called the Allis-Chalmers strike " Red insurrection and rebellion " and the situation at the Ford plant " anarchy . " " What are we , the chosen representatives of the people , going to do about it ? " he asked . " I say to you that the people are not going to be satisfied with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offend somebody 's delicate sensibili- : ties . " The people are not going to be satisfied because somebody tells the Congress that you ought to do nothing but take a ten-day vacation . " Just prior to this debate the House had asked the Senate 's permission to take an eleven-day Easter holiday . Chairmen Give Assurances Assurances were given to the House by the two committee chairmen who will conduct the inquiry that they regarded the labor sittiation as one of the most important phases of the investigation , which they are expected to start at once . Chairman Vinson of the Naval Affairs Committee said that if any member of the House had the idea that his committee did not interpret its assignment to include a comprehensive study of defense labor , he should vote against the resolution . Chairman May of the Military Affairs Committee said that he had no preconceived ideas on the subject , but that he believed defense strikes to be one of the most important phases of the inquiry . Representative Cox said " the time for pussy-footing and soft-pedaling has passed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he charged . " It is a national scandal . They are taking boys away from their homes and jobs while racketeers and gangsters are holding up production . The government stands paralyzed in the grip of these gangsters . " In calling upon the government to operate tied-up plants , Senator Connally asked the Senate to expand the Russell-Overton amendment to the Selective Service Act , so that it would permit the government to take over any plant in which capital or labor was responBible for hampering defense production . Senator Overton of Louisiana , coauthor of the amendment to the Selective Service Act which authorizes the Secretaries of War and Navy to take over industries refusing to cooperate with the defense effort , said he was willing to go further by supporting legislation to prevent striking labor from preventing non-striking labor from working . After the Senate session the , ma jority leader , Senator Barkley of Kentucky. , said that he did not ? believe labor 's side of the strike controversy had been properly pre- , sented . He said it was " entirely I possible that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the large industries " which have been defying the laws of the United States . " " Ford , Allis-Chalmers and Bethlehem have ' not had particularly good labor , records , " he said . The Ford company , however , was defended in the House by Representative Dondero , Republican , of Michigan , who called the strike there a " victory for Hitler , " with , he said , the tacit assistance of the -  - -  - President . He said the dictators could celebrate " a victory which was won without the employment of a- single Mutta bomber or a single regiment . " The strike at the Ford plant , he went on , was halting production of $164,000,000 worth of airplane engines and trucks for the Army . Representative Shafer , Republican , of Michigan , placed in the Record a statement saying that the President , " with one word , " could end every . strike in the United States " within five minutes . " He accused the President and " his utterly incompetent Secretary of Labor " of " purposely remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Says the States Should Act Representative Sumners , Demoocrat , of Texas , told the House that the States should call upon the Federal Government for protection , but should assume their responsibility for law and order . He referred to the appeal of Governor Heil of Wisconsin for Federal aid . He was asked-by Representative Rich , Republican , - of Pennsylvania , what the States were to do , since Congress had taken away the- National Guard . " What is the Governor going to use ? " Mr. Rich asked . " Brave men like you , " Mr. Sumner ; replied . In a speech that had no connection with the debate , Representative McCormack of Massachusetts , the majority leader ; told the House that industrial accidents had caused far ' more delay than strikes . He said strikes in 1940 caused a lose of 6,500,000 man-days of production , while accidents accounted for a loss of 25,192,000 man-days.                     