@@710306

txt An emergency bill empowering the Government to end by injunction such strikes as that now threatened on the national telephone lines was approved today , 16 to 3 , by the House Labor Committee . The measure , by Representative Fred A. Hartley Jr. , Republican , of New Jersey , chairman of the committee , won this overwhelming endorsement although Republican leaders of the House had stood aloof from it . The decision involved the first definitive vote taken by a labor committee in the Republican Congress on a basic issue . The only legislation directly affecting labor having been voted upon previously dealt with portal-to-portal claims and was handled through the Judiciary Committees . The New York Telephone Company and the New York headquarters of the A. T. &; T. long-lines department were reported laying in food and cots for supervisory employes in anticipation of a walkout of their unionized workers . The first joint conference between the New York company and four independent unions representing all classes of employes will be held at 2:30 P. M. today under the auspices of a Federal conciliator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the picture whatsoever , " the leader of 287,000 phone workers said , and the chief of the United . States Conciliation Service was equally gloomy about the prospect of averting a telephone strike at 6 A. M. Monday . Enactment Overclouded Any prospect of enactment of the measure was somewhat overclouded . The industrial crisis at which it was primarily aimed , the telephone walkout , is in prospect for next Monday and the plans of the House for a long Easter week-end left any action by that time . substan- I tially out of the question . Conceding this , Representative Hartley declared himself determined to press on so that the bill could be at hand , so far as the House at least was concerned , for use against any such strike after it had begun . He announced that he was serving upon the House Rules Committee a request for early hearings there , a requisite to taking such a bill to the floor , in spite of the momentary absbnce from the , , Capitol of the chairman , Representative Leo Allen , Republican , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be that of Mr. Allen and the Rules Committee if the requested clearance was not given . Mr. Hartley conceded also the widely held belief that the Senate Labor Committee , headed by Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio , was most unlikely to be hospitable to proposed legislation having the aspect of a deadline about it . But in this case , too , he suggested that a lack of action would carry this same " responsibility . " Inquiry among members of the Senate Labor Committee disclosed that no bill involving the approach of the Hartley plan was being discussed or was in prospect . Senator Taft himself , although not foreclosing the possibility of emergency legislation as a hypothetical matter in the event of anything approaching a national crisis , made it plain in answer to inquiries that he had no relish in principle for " emergency legislation . " Backed by Two Democrats His attitude under the p-esent state of affairs , he remarked , could be summed up as one not " e- ?  - -  isiastic " toward such legislation . Mr. Hartley 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all Republican members voting and with the backing of two Southern Democratic members as wen , Represent // natives 0 . C. Fisher of Texas and John S. Wood of Georgia . The three members voting " no " were Representatives John Lesinski of Michigan , Ray J Madden of ; Indiana and John F. Kennedy of , Massachusetts , all Democrats . They will lead a minority attack on the : bill . As finally cleared by the committee , the measure would strike ' , at one of the most politically sensi-. tive points in labor legislation by seeking to soften the Nbrris-La I Guardia Act forbidding the use of the injunction in labor disputes . Whenever a strike in interstate communications , transport or utilities injured or " threatened " to injure public " health , safety or interest , " the President would be au , thorized to have the Attorney GenI eral apply for an injunction against it . The injunction against a strike would be effective for two and a half months , the aggregate period that would be covered by o " coolin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would die at the end of that time . Democratic members asserted ' that this provision as originally ' drawn would have made injunctions " perpetual " even beyond the date of the expiration of the emergency act . This would be July 31 of this year , or on the adjourn-1 ment of the first regular session , of the present Congress , whichever ' was the later .                     