@@711953

txt As a vanguard of pickets carrying placards , crepe-draped flags of eastern European countries , and a few rosaries marched belligerently . outside the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , delegates to the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace assembled inside to meet the press . Everything went just about as could be expected . This is to say , the event3 surrounding the anticlimax to the week-end conference were characteristically bizarre and fantastic . Peace Held Lone Goal In the waldorf 's crowded Perroquet Suite , Dr. Harlow Shapley , chairman of the conference , and various spokesmen for the overseas delegations affirmed peace as their only goal . But the atmosphere both in the Waldorf and beyond seemed more bound up with the world 's ideo-. logical struggle than with the gentler pursuits of peace . Blasts and counterblasts from various quarters of the world continued to fill the air as the emissaries of Dr. Shapley 's peace meeting redefined their positions in generally lengthy statements and submitted to a few questions by reporters . The complex array of conflicts and ironies which have marked almost every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days were swept aside briefly and simply in a statement by a N'egro anthropologist from Africa 's Gold Coast , Dr. R. E. G. Armattoe . Dr. Armattoe is now director of the Lomeshie Research Center for Anthropology and Race Biology in Londonderry , Northern Ireland . The dignified anthropologist said that , since Christian missionaries had come to Africa to teach the people that killing and hating was bad , he thought it perhaps not inappropriate that he should reverse the process by coming here to remind others that murder is neither Christlike nor Christian . Political Tinge Denied While Dr. Armattoe touched obviously at the heart of a deep world problem , it seemed questionable how greatly the forensics of the coming week end could be expected to contribute to the stability of the world situation . Dr. Shapley , who is director of the Harvard College Observatory , took cognizance of the prevailing difficulties in his opening statement . The astronomer , rather a short man with an informally professorial manner , told the press ; " The Cultural and Scientific . Conference for World Peace is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who seek to contribute to the establishment of a spirit of peace at a time when there is heavy noise of great armaments and war . " The conference is independent of any political group or of any conference that has been held in the past , or is contemplated . It is an American conference to which have been invited a number of distinguished foreign artists , writers , and scientists from more than 20 countries . " Many distinguished speakers from all over our country will examine the peace problem objectively in an attempt to obtain constructive suggestions . and some others . He added that it . has long been on the program of the sponsoring group , the National Council of the Arts , Sciences , and Professions . A spokesman for the Waldorf-Astoria said " considerable pressure " has been brought on the hotel to oust the conference . He said the reservation was made nearly a year ago , and could not be canceled without violating a state law . East-West Amity Stressed After expressing his conviction that a better understanding between the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Shapley said he hoped the message of the forthcoming meeting would " get through the static that disrupts international messages . " After introductions by Dr. Shapley , statements were read by spokesmen for several overseas delegations : Alexander Fadeev , writer , for the Soviet Union ; Pawel Hoffman , writer and journalist , for Poland ; Dr. Jiri . Hronek , writer and journalist , for CzechosloVakia ; Prof. Olaf Stapledon , British'natural scientist , who described himself as " the only representative from my country or western Europe " : Jovin Popovic , writer , for Yugoslavia , and Juan Marinello , poet , journalist , and educator , for Cuba . Widespread Backing " The conference is not in any sense anti-American . It has been sponsored by more than 500 scientists , college presidents , artists , writers , and professional men and women . Naturally it has been opposed and obstructed by those who profit from war and war preparations , and by those who have succumbed to the hates that have prevailed since the end of the second world war . But movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are to choose civilization rather than savagery as the fate of mankind . " Dr. Shapley later told me that he had discussed the conference two years ago with Julian Huxley , Lillian Hellman , the playwright ,                     