@@708607

txt 300,000 Danes Spring toA rms on Liberation COPENHAGEN , Denmark , May 4 ( W ) ? The Danish people burst loose from the long , hard bonds of German occupation tonight with scenes never before equaled in Copen : hagen 's 800 year history . The ordinarily temperate Danes swelled into the streets , shouting , singing , crying . . . and fighting . In the midst of the celebration the Danish freedom council ordered mobilization of the whole resistance movement on what was said to be a direct order from King Christian X. Armed Men , Eyerywhere This put under arms an estimated 300,000 men in the capital alone . They seemed to be everywhere , carrying tummy guns , machine guns , and pistols , mostly of British and American make , and wearing arm bands in the Danish colors . Some of the members of the resistance movement immediately attacked the police building , main seat of the feared HIPO ( Danish Nazi auxiliary police corps , the Gestapo headquarters in St. Anne palace , and the headquarters of German Ambassador Werner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central square . They used light field guns , smaller weapons , and tear gas . Strangers Embrace The announcement that German troops had surrendered to Field Marshal Montgomery reached Den . mark in a BBC broadcast at 8:30 p. m. lDanish time and immediately the capital seemed to boll with jubilant , thankful humanity . Old and young , rich and poor streamed into the streets , bringing with them all they had in voice , laughter , flags and kisses . Strangers embraced each other and exchanged precious cigarets . Not more than two minutes after the announcement some one sudden . ly shouted : " To Amatienborg ! " The cry was taken up and Interspersed with : " To the king ! " Rush to Palace The crowds swarmed into the palace square . They were confronted by a Danish police guard behind barbed wire . One of the king 's aides came out and told them : " You must remember the king has been ill and is not quite a youth any more . He is 74 years old . He has just gone to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is the happiest day of his life and that he is deeply moved over the fact your first thought has been to come here to demonstrate your feelings . And when I now ask you to go home , you hear the king 's wish . I know you wo n't act against it . " The people drifted away . 