@@708980

txt American science has brought home Germany 's chemical secrets as prizes of war for American industry  --  when American industry gets to see them . U. S. chemical firms are eager to peck into the volume of hidden lore , even though they suspect it is mostly a typical thick German " Handbuch fur Getting Along Without a Petroleum Industry . " Interesting , but not the most appropriate gift for a nation that has the world 's greatest petroleum industry . Unfortunately , both the valuable and the merely interesting data are scattered in thousands of Army reports . The Washington persons who have the final say on such matters have shown no great desire to have these reports collated and cross-Indexed so industry can get at them handily . In some quarters there even appears to be active resistance to making them thus available . For this reason , Americans who wan : to see specific reports have even gone to London , where the British government has been making its copies of the same findings accessible to representatives of industry . Chenikits Seize Much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teams of experts tearing into Germany with advance troop units , in the hope of surprising some valuable military ideas . What they found along these lines , of course , is still largely on the secret list , but they uncovered a mass of information about German chemistry in wartime , which would he of great interest to ' American producers if they could get at it . The chemical warfare teams got into Germany so fast they were able to penetrate inner sanctums before prized equipment and documents could be destroyed . Some times ills chemical warriors had to interrupt their researches to accept the surrender of Nazi troops . Summed up , German wartime chemical economy was " ersatz " throughout . The Germans had little or no petroleunr , so they fell back on coal . They turned the coal . into acetylene gas , and from acetyl ( ne they made almost every chemical that America rne*:es from petroleum . Some of the ingenious methods of doing this are of the highest interest to mcr. ? producers , although examination so far has turned up little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones in any vital respect . In fact Germany , which fought World War 1 on its chemical industry and used to be considered the fountainhead of the science , apparently had no startling chemical developments , comparable to the atomic bomb , radar or penicillin in related gelds . In fact . American chemical producers believe German industry , even if the brakes are taken off its revival , will be handicapped a long time because its setup is based on noncompetttiveiy expensive processes . No one will really know , however , until it is possible to trace the synthetic raw materials from their manufacture to the finished product . This must wait upon the indexing of the Army 's data . At present , there may be half a dozen reports on discoveries at plants for making acetylene , another half dozen on plants for making an industrial raw material of the acetylene , and several score on processes for turning out the finished products that were finally made for use . Estimate of Use Awaits More Data Until these chains of manufacture can be traced , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from German ones and which was better in each case , the full benefit of the Chemical Warfare Service 's finds is just guesswork . Although significant details are missing , it is known that among the Germans ' replacements of scarce or non-existent materials were these : High-protein yeast to feed German soldiers , made from waste sulphite paper pulp liquors , which America throws away by the millions of tons annually . Seventy-five million tons a year of " soapless soaps , " detergents , better than many American detergents . These replaced scarce soap fats and oils . Hybrid poplar trees to provide cellulose for rayon , explosives and paper . These reach a diameter of eight or 10 inches in eight years . half the time it takes the ordinary forest conifer to reach pulpwood size . Stainless steel ribbons , to coat articles of cheaper steel for strength and corrosion resistance , saving the cost of alloying metals . A new chemical called poly-urethane. which can be spun into a textile fibre like nylon , or used to coat a rayon tire cord and greatly increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pioneers in synthetic rubber , their rubber was no better than ours , and the process of making it was cumbersome and involved . There again the basic butadiene was produced from acetylene , while the United States used alcohol and petroleum . Drug Chemists Little Help . ti Soldiers German drug chemists , who first found the sulfas and atabrine , which were so helpful to American soldiers , did nothing comparable for their ' own soldiers during the . war . Their chief accomplishment was creation of a synthetic blood substitute called Periston . This was injected like plasma , and reduced shock . Acetylene chemistry , based on the work of the famous Dr. Reppe , kept Germany 's war machine running in this war , just as the Haber process-1pr fixing atmospheric nitrogen for explosives made World War I look like a reasonable gamble . But in World War II , in spite of remarkable ingenuity , the basic handicap of scarce raw materials was never overcome . Acetylene. familiar to most people as the gas used in automobile headlights a generation ago , Is made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of coal and lime heated in an electric furnace . American petroleum chemists , setting out to make the same things the Germans made , would use ethylene , cheaply obtained from cracking petroleum . The Germans , where they had to use ethylene , made it from acetylene . Just as an exercise in chemistry , basic raw materials are considered not in terms of coal or petroleum , but of hydrocarbon moist miles . These can he obtained from coal , petroleum or alcohol indifferently and it should be possible to make nearly all organic chemicals from any of the three . Americans Can use Natural Substances Practically , the tremendous advantage the American had was that ha could start with ! the kind of molecules he needed for the job In hand . Ha has nothing but admiration for the clever expedients the German used , but all he can learn is the technique  --  the economics of German chemistry apparently would doom it in competition with the American . One thing the German learned which the American will be glad to know is how to handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high pressures and tern-1 , peratures necessary for some chemical reactions . Another German advance was the discovery of several new catalysts , those ' mysterious substances that make chemical reactions occur without taking part in the reactions themselves . Through these new catalysts the Germans made things from acetylene that Americans ca n't yet make . One important catalyst was silver acetylide , which helped turn acetylene into butadiene . Another was nickel carbonyl , which kneaded a carbon dioxide molecule into each acetylene molecule . This helped the Germans make acrylic acid4raw material for the plastic we call Lucite , as well as adipic acid raw material for nylon . Lubricating oil for the Luftwaffe , was made by turning acetylene into ethylene , then making polymers  --  molecules of the same ratio of elements , but more atoms ? of the ethylene . These polymers were the oil . All of which took a great deal more skill than just cooking natural petroleum in a still , and letting the resultant oil run into a tank to cool . Also , it took much more time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One useful chemical the Germans can make better than Americans can , is caustic soda . ? loch larger electric cells than are used in this - country turned out solutions as high as 70 ' , pure . Caustic soda produced by the best American methods is very dilute , and the water has to be boiled oft before the soda can be used . The American chemical industry thinks it 's entitled to a look at the chemical warfare service 's loot , but it expects to find more to admire than to emulate .                     