@@705274

txt The text of the measure introduced in Congress today to effect President Roosevelt 's plan of lending or leasing military equipment to " democracies " follows : A bill to further promote the defense of the United States , and for other purposes . Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 01 the United States of America in Congress assembled , that this Act may be cited as " an Act to promote the defense of the united States . " Section 2 . As used in this Act ( A ) The term " defense article " means : ( 1 ) Any weapon , munition , aircraft , vessel , or boat : ( 2 ) Any machinery , facility , tool , material , or supply necessary for the manufacture , production , processing , repair , servicing , or operation of any article described - in this sub-section : ( 3 ) Any component material or part of or equipment for any article described in this subsection : ( 4 ) Any other commodity or article for defense . Such term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsection : manufactured or procured pursuant to Section 3 : or to which the United States or any foreign Government has or hereafter acquires title , possession , or control ( B ) The term " defense information " means any plan , specitication , design , prototype , or information pertaining to any defense article . Can Order Production Section 3 ( A ) . Notwithstanding ing the provisions of any other law , the President may , from time to time , when he deems it in the interest of national defense , authorize the Secretary of War , the Secretary of the Navy . or the head of any other department or agency of the Govern-ment : ( 1 ) To manufacture in arsenal . factories , and shipyards under their jurisdiction . or otherwise procure , any defense article for the - Government of any country whose defense the President deems vital to the defense of the United States . ( 2 ? To sell , transfer , exchange , lease , lend , or otherv. - :se dispose of , to any such Government any defense article . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repair . outfit . recondition , or otherwise to place in good working order any defense information , pertaining to any defense article furnished to such Government under Paragraph ( 2 ) of this subsection. ( 5 ) To release for export any defense article to any such Government . ( B ) The terms and conditions upon which any such foreign government receives any aid authoi ized under subsection ( A ) shall be those which the President deems satisfactory , and the benefit to the United States may be payment or repayment in kind or property , or any other direct or indirect benefit which the President deems satisfactory . Transfers Barred Section 4 . All contracts or agreements made for the disposition of any defense article or defense information pursuant to Section 3 shall contain a clause by which the foreign government undertakes that it will not , without the consent of the President , transfer title to or possession of such defense article or defense information by gift , sale , or otherwise , or permit its use by anyone not an officer , employee , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of War , the Secretary of the Navy , or the head of any other department or agency of the government involved shall , when any such defense article or defense information is exported , immediately inform the department or agency designated by the President to administer Section 6 of the Act of July 2 , 1940 ( 54 Stat. 714 ) , of the quantities , character , value , terms of disposition , and destination of the article and information so exported . Section 6 ( A ) . There is hereby authorized to be appropriated from time to time , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions and accomplish the purposes of this act . ( B ) All money and all property which is converted into money received under Section 3 from any government shall , with the approval of the Director of the Budget , revert to the respective appropriation or appropriations out of which funds were ex- pended with respect to the defense article or defense nuorillation for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available for expenditure for the purpo-e for which such expended fund were appropriated by law , during the fiscal year in whikh such funds are received and the ensuing fiscal year . Section 7 . The Seeretdry War , the Secretary of t/-c 1a. y , and the head of the department or agency shall in all contacts or agreements for the dispo , ttion of any defense article ni defen-e information fully protect the rights of all citizens of the United States who have patent right : , in and to any such article nr information which is he : eby authorized to be disposed of and the payments collected for royalties on such patents shall be paid to the owners and holders of such patents . Section 8 . The Secretaries of War and of the Navy are hereby authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire arms , ammunition , and implements of war produced within the jurisdiction of any country to which Section 3 is applicable , whenever the Pre , ident deems such purchase or acquisition to he necessary in the interest , of the deien , e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President from time to time , prom 11 igate such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper to carry out any of the pi ( ) visions of this Act : and he may exercise any power or authority conferred on him by this Act through such department , agency , or officer as he shall direct .                     