@@711987

txt The Occupation Statute handed to the Parliamentary Council at Bonn by the Western powers this morning already is being sharply attacked in influential German political circles . Although leaders of the principal parties in Western . Germany have agreed to withhold all public comment for forty-eight hours , the statute is being greeted with comments that range from coolly critical to bitterly hostile . The newspaper Sozialdcmokrat , Berlin organ of the powerful , well organized Socialist party , whc delegation to the Parliamentary Council has blocked the passage of a constitution written according to Allied wishes , published a vigorous attack on the statute this morning . The newspaper charged that retention of Allied control of foreign trade and restrictions on scientific research were motivated by Western fears of German competition . Although the document has not been circulated generally , the newspaper evidently knows enough about it to offer detailed and bitter criticism . In this it appears to reflect the sentiment of party leaders . This correspondent learned today from a reliable source that Dr. Kurt Schumacher , head of the Social Democratic party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only confirms his intention not to make further concessions to the Allied viewpoint at Holm . According to one well informed British source , Dr. Schumacher is " perfectly willing to delay the Bonn proceedings for months until the Social Democrats ' aims are realized . " Meanwhile in Berlin United States Military Government officials declared that " whatever the Russians do as an answer to the agreement of the Western Powers on Germany , the United States , Britain and France will persist in the formation of a West German state . " Some IL.rnerican observers find such statements slightly ingenuous . Although it is probable no Russian diplomatic action would move the West to halt the proceedings at Bonn , the effect of such action might influence the Germans against further progress . An American diplomatic source admitted tonight that if the Soviet Military Administration were to lift the blockade of Berlin and the Soviet Foreign Ministry simultaneously ask for a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers on Germany the United States was " committed " to agree to the meeting . Such a meeting would certainly slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not wish to make further decisions until the meeting was over . For , although United States and British diplomats here do not expect that such a meeting would produce any changes in the present situation in Germany , German politicians may . Critical of Powers ' Rights The Sozialdemokrat 's criticisms of the Occupation Statute are directed at the rights retained by the Western powers , which it asserts are greater than were anticipated from the tri-power communique issued in Washington on Friday . The occupation powers , the newspaper declares , reserve the " right of decision in certain fields which in the opinion , of the Germans should belong to the German people . " Among these it names foreign trade , which it claims " can only be handled by t17- . Germans for the full satisfaction and benefit of the German people . " The editorial charges that the Allies reserved powers in these fields because they feared German economic competition and that restriction of scientific research sprang from the same motivation . The restriction of scientific research for the modernization and improvement of industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is pointed out , will not be able to compete on the world market if it is unable to develop the technique of its plants . The occupation powers , the Sozialdemokrat declares , have been generous in many questions , but " the above and other restrictions are reasons for sorrow about the economic and democratic development of the German people . " The editorial also appeared to confirm forebodings of continued Socialist opposition to the draft constitution . If no agreement is reached on the constitution , it charges , that fault will lie with the alliance of the Christian Democratic and Christian Socialist parties , which have " disavowed compromises agreed to by other parties . " It is up to these parties , the editorial declares , to bring the negotiations at Bonn to a speedy conclusion . Today at Nuremberg , Erich 01-lenhauer , second chairman of the Social Democratic party , declared that in the opinion of the party either a federal state with a uniform administration with some sovereignty must be established by a constitution or a constitution must be delayed indefinitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An editorial in The Telegraf , another Socialist newspaper in Berlin , echos the party viewpoint on the Occupation Statute when it declared that that document shows how far a West German Government would be " from real independence and Government sovereignty . " The only hope for the Germans , the editorial states , is for revision of the statute in a year .                     