@@704800

txt The Italian Ambassador , Don Ascanio dei Principi Colonna , protested to Secretary of State Cordell Hull today what he considered to be an unjustified effort to foment antiItalian feeling in the United States . The protest was directed specifically to the charges made in New York yesterday that the Italian Consulate General there , under orders of Premier Benito Mussolini , was seeking to promote fascism in this country by ideological propaganda . He also implied there were similar activities against Italy in other American cities . His concern was especially manifested over publication of these charges by newspapers . The fact that the New York charges were issued through Police Commissioner Valentine apparently was not mentioned . No reference was made directly to President Roosevelt 's Charlottesville address denouncing Italy . In making the protest , Prince Colonna declared that Italian consuls in this country restrict their activities to their legal functions and that Italian nationals in the United States are careful to avoid political activities and un-American acts . He added that the society headed by Felice Felicioni , which was mentioned in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , was a literary society of many years ' standing and that it was preposterous to consider it political . Its aims , he said , were similar to those of Alliance Franeaise and the English Speaking Union . Lb-Massy Gives Statement The Ambassador made his protest orally and then submitted a page of informally written notes in confirmation of what he had said . What Secretary Hull did or did not say in response was not disclosed . Mr. Hull made no public comment on the protest or the news reports that caused it . After Prince Colonna returned to the embassy the summarized points of his protest were placed in a statement to the press , as follows : " Some newspapers have today published reports concerning alleged political activities of Italian consuls and Italian nationals in the United States . In connection therewith the Italian Embassy has issued the following statement : " The Italian consuls have always strictly limited their activities to their legal consular functions and the Italian nationals in the United States have always kept the most irreproachable conduct , keeping themselves apart not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any political activity whatsoever . " The society headed by Signor Felice Felicioni and mentioned by the press as being an organization for subtle fascist propaganda is the literary society , Dante Alighieri , which has been known all over the world since fifty years as an association of persons interested in the Italian language and Italian literature , and it would be utterly preposterous to make it appear as an organization pursuing political purposes . Its aims do not differ from those of any similar association pursuing similar purposes , as the Alliance Francaise and the English Speaking Union . " Campaign Here Widened The campaign against subversive activities here widened yesterday on all fronts . Federal agents , police , private organizations and citizens joined to combat sabotage . subversive foreign propaganda and espionage . Mayor La Guardia confirmed reports yesterday that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was working with the Police Department in a concerted drive against overt acts aimed at the promotion of proFascist feeling in the city . Because of the delicate nature of the task assumed jointly by the Federal and city authorities , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even though it had been published in newspapers , the Mayor was reluctant to discuss its details at the World 's Fair City Hall yesterday . " It is just a routine operation , " he said . " The Federal Bureau of Investigation is cooperating with the Police Department , as it always does , and we are merely taking steps to meet the existing situation . There is nothing spectacular in this and nothing unusual about it . It is merely part of our general plan to be prepared for any situation which may develop . " The Mayor , it was reported , was fully alive to the need for care in dealing with the situation provoked by Mussolini 's alleged instructions to the Italian consulate in New York . These were said to call for spreading pro-Fascist sentiment in schools , through newspapers , over the radio and by other means . Earlier in the week the Mayor warned consular officials of all belligerent nations to stay within the limits of consular activity . If they did , he promised them complete police protection and said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mayor 's Stand Outlined The Mayor feels it is his responsibility to protect the general public against outbursts of nationalistic feeling arising from the European conflict . At the same time he feels that he must protect the rights of foreign representatives in the city . Italian and German consular offiicals here declined to comment yesterday on reports that the police and Federal agents had documents indicating dissemination of Fascist and Nazi propaganda through official and semi-official channels . At the office of the Italian Consul General , 630 Fifth Avenue , it was said all questions must be directed to the embassy at Washington . At the German consulate , 17 Battery Place , reporters also were referred to the embassy in Washington . Spokesmen for several Italian socities mentioned in the twenty-fivepage memorandum distributed to police officials Thursday morning with instructions to investigate and take necessary action , denied that they had engaged in spreading Fascist propaganda or in subversive activities . They insisted that the work of the societies was purely cultural and did not conflict in any way with American democratic ideology . At the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the offices of the German-American Board of Trade , representatives denied that Nazi propaganda was distributed . The spokesman at the board of trade said its function was to strengthen trade relations between this country and Germany and the organization was not concerned in the spreading of Nazi propaganda . " We send out our literature only on request and remove the name of any one receiving it from our mailing list , " the spokesman for the Library of Information declared when asked to describe the functions of the organization . He said literature regarding Germany is furnished , and this , he added , could not be considered in the slightest degree as propaganda for Herr Hitler or the Nazi ideology . Some WPA Workers Accused The documents in possession of the police point out that WPA workers here are getting Nazi and Fascist propaganda and that some are active distributors of this sort of literature . Colonel Brehon B. Somervell , local administrator said that a pending bill before Congress provides that Communists or Nazi Bund members should not be carried on WPA roll . He added that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , they too would be treated in the same fashion . Luigi Antonini , general secretary of Italian Dressmakers Union , Local 89 , International Ladies Garment Workers Union , with a membership of 49,000 Italian-born or of Italian extraction , sent a telegram yesterday to A. A. Berle , Assistant Secretary of State , asking for the quick recall of Captain Edward G. Bertolini , Italian consular agent of Yonkers , N. Y. , who last Wednesday issued a statement asking ItalianAmericans to remain faithful to Mussolini and to hope secretly for the defeat of the Allies . " Bertolini 's activities constitute a threat to peace of American citizens of Italian extraction , the majority of whom resent any question of their devotion to America and everything America stands for , " the telegram said . Lieutenant Governor Charles Poletti is scheduled to deliver this morning the first of a series of addresses by prominent Americans of Italian descent over radio station WEVD . He is expected to stress the loyalty of Italian-Americans to their American ideals , and opposition to Fascist and Communist propaganda in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through its chairman , Robert Appleton , asked Congress yesterday to enact as part of its national defense legislation a bill to fingerprint and register aliens in this country .                     