@@707320

txt WASHINGTON , Sept.14 ? Japan is constantly making peace overtures to China in an effort to unite Asia against the Western World , Dr. T. V , Soong , Chinese Foreign Minister , said at a press conference here today . Ile added that he did not think " any ' conscious political group " in China favored responding to Japan 's feelers . Dr. Soong said Japan 's offers grew more and more liberal as the war advanced , that the Japanese had promised to withdraw from China , although not from Manchuria , and that " they want us to go in with them . " " Naturally we want to recover all Chinese territories , but we have no designs on a single foot of foreign soil , " said Dr. Soong , citing in response to questions a broadcast he had made recently in England . The Chinese irredenta included Formosa , but not Indo-China or Korea , China hoping Korea would become independent , said Dr. Soong . He declined to say whether it included Hong Kong , which formed a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHINA SPURNS BIDS ON PEACE BY JAPAN // recently , said he did not intend to liquidate . Dr. Soong likewise declined to discuss China 's expectations regarding Outer Mongolia . Dr. Soong said the future of Thailand was a. question for the United Nations to decide ; and he expressed the hope that a United Nations authority would be formed before the end of the war with power to enforce its decisions . Regarding the prospective meeting of President Roosevelt , Mr. Churchill and Premier Joseph Stalin of Russia , Dr. Soong said China had not been asked to participate . He said he looked with satisfaction upon the proposed three-power conference . Discussing the announcement at Chungking that within a year after the war a National Assembly would be summoned to adopt a new Constitution for China to replace the rule of the Kuomintang party , Dr. Soong said the question of Federal and provincial powers within China had ceased to be paramount , since the war had demonstrated that China 's survival could be assured only by a strong central government . He said the new central government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible by universal suffrage , " which was at any rate the end in view . Dr. Soong said the proportions of the Communist problem in China had been exaggerated , that the number of real Communists was not large . He thought it fantastic to suggest that the government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek was immobilizing half a million troops to watch the Communists , and explained that in the northern provinces a large force had long been maintained for training and because supplies from Russia came that way before Russia was attacked by Hitler . That northern force was needed also for defense against a possible Japanese move . " Victory is now assured and the time has come to make it clear that the pledge of Sun Yet Sen will be redeemed , " said Dr. Soong , explaining that the war had postponed the realizatien. of Dr .. Sun 's democratic program . President Roosevelt spoke at ' his press conference during the day of the recently announced agreement between Dr : Soong and Admiral Emory S. Land , head of the War Shipping Administration , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duration of the war . This , Mr. Roosevelt , said , would put the Chinese flag upon the seas : The ships- would carry supplies for China to the nearest ports for transshipment by air or land , the President explained , adding that the American President Lines would handle the affair and that American officers would be in command of the ships for the present and until Chinese officers were available . The unlicensed crews will be Chinese .                     