@@708908

txt The British government will open negotiations tomorrow for 3 to 5 billion dollars of financial assistance for the industrial and commercial rehabilitation of Britain . A plea of poverty and a picture of ' economic chaos in the wake of British bankruptcy is to be offered by British officials in support of the demand of the empire which received billions of dollars ' worth of war aid from the United States . British . financial leaders are asking a gift of the billions , tancellation of lend-lease , cancellation of the unpaid World war debt , and return of money spent by Britain on Avar supplies in this country before lend-lease. 6 Billion Gift.PrOposed Unofficial British proposals would go even farther . It has been proposed that the United States give Britain 6 billion dollars so the United Kingdom can cut its , war debt in half , pay 50 cents on the remaining dollar ' With ' Ainetican money , and give IOU 's for , the rest . British Ambassador Halifax - flew here from London today to be on hand for the opening session of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance over a three year period . , John Maynard Heynes , special economic envoy from London , is already here . Four Main Topics ? The discussions here are to follow four main topics , as follows : 1 . The nature and extent of the aid Britain will demand . The British are seeking a gift rather than a loan . President Truman and State Secretary Byrnes reportedly are in favor of aid , but hold that a gift is out of the question . 2 . The end of lend-lease . The officials will discuss details of the termination of this aid . President Truman- has said he is ready to ipe the slate clean of obligations for the 43 billion dollars of aid sent to allies . 3 . Commercial policy . Discussions in this field are expected to cover cartels , British empire trade policy , the debt , and commercial relations of the two powers with each other and the rest of the world . Debts to Be Cited 4 . Disposal of surplus war property . President Truman is dispatching a mission to Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American property which will help world economy . At the conference British delegates are prepared to say that they are ending the war heavily in debt , with their export trade ruined , and with foreign investments reduced to a fraction of their pre-war strength . They will insist that America come to Britain 's aid to provide machinery , raw materials , and food to prevent mass immigration of England 's population and lowering of living standards . The British cry of poverty is an old one in Washington . In the early ' 303 Britain said it could not pay its World war debt in gold because it could not get the gold , nor could it pay in goods because American tariffs were high . 5 Billion Raised When the war started in 1939 Britain easily raised 5 billion dollars by liquidation of foreign investments . In this country Britain exhausted a 2 billion dollar balance in war purchases . After the passage of lend-lease Britain started rebuilding this balance to a figure far above the original amount . The British worked hard for the passage of lend-lease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of congress . During the critical days of passage It was said Britain would repay or return every cent . When lend-lease ended with the end of the war the first howls of complaint and indignation came from Britain .                     