@@706042

txt DETROIT , Nov. ** the isolationist forces of John L. Lewis , the fourth constitutional convention of the Congress of Industrial Organizations gave its support today to President Roosevelt 's foreign policy , with its program of all-out aid to Great Britain , Soviet Russia and China . The resolution was adopted unanimously , with the Lewis-controlled delegations from the United Mine Workers and the United Construction Workers abstaining from voting in the face of a direct appeal from Philip Murray , C. I. 0 . president . The endorsement of the Administration 's foreign policy came after the convention had received a solemn warning from President Roosevelt that the government would not tolerate interruption of defense production because of labor disputes . The President declared that sacrifices were necessary to insure the defeat of Hitler and that the labor movement was expected to share with every other element of the population in making these sacrifices . " We need guns , tanks , planes and ships , " the Roosevelt message said , " and we must produce guns , tanks , planes and ships without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their government are determined that we shall have them . " I have every confidence that your members , recognizing the imperative needs of the American people in the interest of American defense , will cooperate with all other American groups in the common and in the patriotic interest . Americans will demand such a contribution from management , from labor and from all other groups for the preservation of home , family , religion and nation . " The convention 's resolution called for war aid in quantities sufficient to accomplish the " military annihilation o Hitler 's regime . " It took a fling at Charles A. Lindbergh , // C. I. O. CONVENTION BACKS AID POLICY // declaring against " efforts to disunite the American people . " Its passage was accompanied by a declaration from Mr. Murray of the intention of the C. I. 0 . to press for greater economic gains for its members and to " fight every inch of the way against the enactment of labor-baiting , labor-manacling legislation " in Congress . The only voices raised to suggest that labor take cognizance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspirations for the duration of the emergency were those of followers of Sidney Hillman , associate director of the Office of Production Management and president oz leave of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers . Leo Krzycki , an Amalgamated vice president and chief spokesman for the Hillman group , and Sander Genis , regional representative of the Textile Workers Union in Minneapolis , brought into the open the misgivings felt by some of the convention delegates in extending unqualified support yesterday to the strike in the captive coal mines , but Mr. Murray left no doubt in his remarks that he was wholeheartedly in sympathy with the attitude of Mr. Lewis and the United Mine Workers on this question . The unanimity of the convention in its action on the foreign policy resolution provided dramatic evidence of the extent of the influence of Mr. Lewis within the C. I. 0 . had declined . A year ago the coalition of Mr. Lewis 's supporters with the left-wing unions , which opposed the Roosevelt policies until Germany invaded Russia , made it possible for the C. L 0 . founder to block any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michael J. Quill , president of the Transport Workers Union ; Joseph Curran , president of the National Maritime Union , and other left-wing leaders were among the most vociferous advocates of the pro-Roosevelt resolution . The delegates from the mine and construction unions , both of which are dominated by Mr. Lewis , found themselves isolated in their isolationism . Modification Move Dies Out In the resolutions committee John L. Lewis 's daughter , Kathryn , had argued for a modified resolutionunder which the principle of war aid would be approved but specific reservations would be made against American participation in the conflict . No effort was made to put this proposal before the convention today and no one- took the floor against the motion for all-out aid . Throughout a day in which the convention rose to its feet a dozen I times to signify its enthusiasm for President Roosevelt and Mr. Murray , the representatives of the two II Lewis unions remained in their seats , stonily silent . A. D. Lewis , brother of the former C. I. 0 . president , headed the construction union delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District 50 of the United Mine Workers , stayed away from the convention . Mr. Murray , who has been associated with Mr. Lewis in the leadership of the United Mine Workers for thirty years , took note en his appeal for adoption of the foreign policy resolution of suggestions within the mine union that his support of the Roosevelt administration represented an act of disloyalty to Mr. Lewis and the union . He electrified the Convention by disclosing that several sticks of dynamite had been planted around his home in Pittsburgh three weeks ago while he was in a hospital suffering from a heart attack and by charging that the explosives had been placed by some of his " defamers . " He said that he would take " particular delight " in squaring accounts with these defamers later on . In one of the most unusual addresses ever made at a national labor assemblage , Mr. Murray defended his record within the U. M. W. He said that he had been on every economic battlefield on which the miners had fought in the last thirty years , had led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the streets by the Pennsylvania State Police in 1927 , that his home had been ransacked and his family terrorized , all because of his devotion to the union . " So far as the present situation is concerned affecting the captive mines and the United Mine Workers of America , " he asserted , " I shall be at the beck and call of President Lewis and my union . " Never have I betrayed them , and so help me God , never shall I betray them , lending whatever support I can toward the constructive assistance of the president of my own organization , for whom I have the greatest affection , love and admiration . " As Mr. Murray halted , his voice choked , his face flushed , the delegates jumped to their feet and applauded tumultuously . But the representatives of the United Mine Workers and the United Construction Workers still remained seated and silent . A. D. Lewis leaned on his elbow and yawned . Most of the others in the delegations stared straight ahead without any sign of emotion . Increased labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for increased labor participation in the government agencies controlling production . A companion resolution to the one on foreign policy said that the best way to implement the program of all-out aid was to have the government adopt Mr. Murray 's plan for the establishment of industry councils , in which management and labor would have an equal voice in the determination of production policies . The resolution on industry councils acknowledged that " severe sacrifices " would be required of the American people if the defense program was to succeed . " However , " it added , " it is essential that no segment or group within our nation be unduly burdened . In addition , the enemies of democracy must not be permitted , under the guise of national defense , to destroy the basic liberties and institutions of America , which assure the whole-hearted participation of the American people in the struggle to destroy Hitlerism . " The divergence within the C. I. 0 . on the question of the degree to which labor should yield in its own special aims to advance national defense was reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , representing the Hillman viewpoint , declared that the future of democracy depended on whether ? . abor was willing to " shelve temporarily our selfish or our group interests " so that Hitler might be defeated . Production Is Called Key " There is no word that stands out so much as the word ' production , ' " he said . " We must make that word live and produce and produce and not stop producing and we must send the goods over there . We Americans must be willing to let up for the moment on some of the blessings that are ours and get the goods over there ? ' He said he had been with Jan Stanczyk , Minister of Labor in the Polish Government-in-Exile , last Sunday and he described the distress of the Polish labor leader when he read of the coal strike . " There is nothing so necessary to sustain production as the mining of coal , " Mr. Krzycki asserted . Labor 's eagerness to improve its status in a period of emergency had been a major factor in the downfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarreled , fought , sat down and refused to work in France because they saw an opportunity to get theirs while the getting was good . It is a sad story and it should warn us against merely giving lip service to the things we stand for . " Mr. Quill , whose sentiments were echoed by most of the speakers representing the left wing , said the workers of this country were prepared to make sacrifices , but that any surrender of basic rights would pave the way for " bringing about a Hitler state from within . " " We realize that Hitler is as close to Moscow as Flint is to Detroit , and that is too close . " he asserted . " We stand ready to give planes , tanks , guns  --  yes , to give our blood and our very life to defeat Hitler and to protect democracy . " The most extensive defense of Mr. Lewis and the captive mine strike was made by William Dalrymple , regional director of the C. I. 0 . in Oregon and a member of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service in the last war , he said that he and the miners would " not take lying down " any imputations that Mr. Lewis was a traitor to his country . Mr. Murray condemned as " a sorry mess " the situation within the OPM , saying that there was " bedlam , chaos and confusion " there because the same corporation executives who were seeking government contracts had received control over the defense progq.m . He expressed confidence that adoption of the industry council plan would lead to a united effort in behalf of maximum defense production by government , labor and management .                     