@@705800

txt Officials of most steel companies , both large and small , now favor a country-wide scrap collection campaign , or some such program , under government supervision , to increase the supply of scrap . Ohio is now being used as a " test state " by the Office of Production Management for increasing the supply of scrap iron and steel ny getting automobile wreckers to bring out the material in their " graveyards " Authorities admit , of course , that scrap collections will not be as easy as they were in aluminum . Whereas the latter is accumulated in pounds . Iron and steel scrap must he taken in tons  --  hundreds of thousands of tons . Four Sources of Scrap There are four sources , experts say , from which a vast quantity of iron and steel scrap could be obtained in any countrywide collection campaign . These are : 3 . Odds and ends to be found in back yards , barns , tool sheds , cellars and attics . Individual amounts obtained would be comparatively small . The aggregate , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for patriotic reasons volunteer work could be expected . There is no estimate of the possible amount so to he obtained . 2 . Abandoned spurs and short lines of some of the railroads . The rails could be obtained easily without much cost , and the scrap would be high grade for steel making . The one drawback here would he that the roads would have to obtain authority from regulatory commissions before discontinuing any service . 3 . Unused and abandoned street car lines . There are many of these throughout the country . where the lines have been replaced by buses Some of the tracks have been tarred over , but it would pay to remove the rails and repave the street . One steel authority estimates that this would bring out more than 000,000 tons of scrap . 4 . Motor car " graveyards . " Hundreds or thousands of tons of steel are rusting away in these cemeteries . It would make high grade scrap . The problem here would be the breaking up of old cars and obtaining the proper equipment for this operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished . No one is willing to estimate how much scrap would result , but experts agree that the tonnage would be huge . Results of Ohio Campaign Undetermined The test was started in Ohio at the beginning of this month and the program has been 13 operation too short a time to determine how much help will ultimately result . There are no figures available on the amount of additional scrap to come out thus far but scrap dealers in Cleveland state it has tended to increase the receipts from the automobile wreckers . There are about 1,000 auto graveyards in Ohio , according to estimates made when the program was started . With each car yielding about 1,500 pounds of scrap and around 300 old cars to the yard , a potential 223,000 tons are available from , this source . The relative importance is shown by comparing this potential supply with the current monthly consumption of about 50,000 tons of scrap in the Cleveland district alone . Aside from this automobile wrecking campaign there is no other state-wide program for the collection of scrap in Ohio . Government-Sponsored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently . Bur some steel authorities hold the view that a general campaign over the country should be started by the government . They believe there should be supervision over the collection as well as the delivery to the steel mills most in need of the material . Priorities for freight shipment probably would be needed . Some steel men , however , believe a wide drive would be more trouble than it would be worth . Two steel companies , the American Rolling Mill Co , and the Wheeling Steel Corp. , recently started scrap collection campaigns . Armco 's drives are at Middletown , Ohio , and Ashland , Ky while Wheeling 's efforts are directed in and around Portsmouth , Ohio . At Middletown the initial announcement by Armco of the seriousness of the scrap situation almost immediately uncovered approximately 1,000 tons which had been lying around . In addition a house-to-house campaign brought out about 125 tons in the first few days . More significant , however , Is the tact that the supply through normal sources was stimulated . Heavy scrap , other than household material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation , are seeing that this material is moved to the mills At Ashland , the Armco drive started August 4 and up to the beginning of this week more than 10,000 tons of scrap had been collected . In both communities the citizens aided in an effort to prevent interruption to Armco 's operations . Meanwhile , the scrap situation continues acute and this is one of the factors which could affect steel production for defense purposes adversely . The lack of an adequate supply is still the outstanding problem of the steel industry as well as various governmental bodies . Scrap piles are being steadily reduced . Few steel makers have been able to purchase a sufficient quantity recently to meet the requirements of their daily melt . Small steel companies are working one a hand-to-mouth basis . These mills depend almost entirely on scrap for their openhearth activities . But even the larger integrate plants are finding the situation difficult . These companies obtain about 30 tons of scrap out of each 100 tons of steel put through the finishing mills Despite this supply , and the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , they are cutting deeply into their scrap inventories .                     