@@707536

txt The Senate voted today to require labor unions and other non-profit , tax-exempt organizations to file financial reports with the Treasury . It acted after Senator Josiah W. Bailey , Democrat , of North Carolina , declared that labor organizations had gained so much power that the Government itself was in jeopardy . Both the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations have been carrying on a desperate fight to have this provision stricken from the tax bill . By a vote of 43 to 34 , the Senate defeated an amendment by Senator Bennett Champ Clark . Democrat . of Missouri , which would have stricken from the pending tax bill the requirement that labor unions , farm cooperatives and other nonprofit organizations file yearly reports on their fiscal affairs . Just before the vote it appeared that the provision might be stricken from the bill , but after Senator Bailey 's speech , twentyone Democrats joined with twentytwo Republicans to kill the Clark amendment . After the North Carolinan completed his speech , almost a dozen Senators from both parties congratulated him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself had given the unions power to tax the workers and that it was the Government 's clear duty to " force the issue " and get information about the fiscal affairs ' of the labor organizations . Referring to a statement attributed to Gen. George C. Marshall , Chief of the Army Staff , Senator Bailey said : " I am with that general , whose name has not been officially made known , who referred to the railroad strike , as the papers say , as a ' damned outrage . ' " Just a few days ago , Senator Bailey said , no one knew whether there would be transportation for Munitions and food for " our fighting men , " and " just before that there was not a man in the United States who knew whether the American people would be made to freeze this year at the instance of that modern Callline , unmatched by any Cicero so far , at the head of the mine workers . " Continuing , he declared the CIO had issued a political primer to educate its members " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C10 , " adding " they ca n't beat me , or any other Senator . The American people know what has been going on and how far things have been carried . " " The time has come when we must accept this challenge , " he added . " The time has come when we must say to all concerned , ' you can not threaten your country in time of war or be permitted to hold it up at the point of a pistol . ' " Senator Brewster , Republican of Maine , declared that the unions had become " big businesses " engaging in " political bargaining as well as collective bargaining . " No one attempted to reply to , Senator Bailey and the vote came within a few minutes . Previously , however , the issue had been de ' bated for several hours with only casual reference to the fact that labor unions would be required to file fiscal reports by the provision in the Senate bill . Senator Clark asserted the provision was aimed , not at labor unions , but at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chicago for the express purpose of undermining farm cooperatives which were competing with old line business and cutting down the profits of some concerns . He maintained that the real aim of those fighting the cooperatives was a Federal tax on the organizations and that this represented the first move in that direction . The provision , inserted by the House in the tax bill and approved by the Senate Finance Committee , would not place a tax on nonprofit organizations previously exempted , but would require them to file information on their finances . Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican of Ohio , said he would vote for the Clark amendment because the Treasury now had the power to obtain financial data from the cooperatives , the labor unions and other organizations exempt . from tax . Truman Votes for Amendment Senator Harry S. Truman , Democrat of Missouri , said he intended to support the Clark amendment , but that the time was coming when the labor unions account for their funds . " A labor leader with too much money to spend is just as bad as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he commented . The Senate defeated an amendment by Senator James M. Mead , Democrat of New York , to reduce the proposed tax on admissions from one cent for each five cents to the existing rate of one cent for each ten cents . Senator Mead said the increased admissions tax would go hard with the opera , the legitimate theatre and with competitive sports . Chairman Walter F. George of the Finance Committee accepted an amendment from Senator Arthur Walsh , the Democrat recently appointed by Governor Edison to succeed the late W. Warren Barbour , Republican , of New Jersey , which would authorize taxpayers to pay their unforgiven taxes in equal quarterly installments ? instead of two equal payments , as is provided at present . Senator George indicated , how ever , that the proposal might be rejected in conference . The Finance Committee was scheduled to consider the renegotiation provisions of the bill today but the meeting was postponed until tomorrow .                     