@@706507

txt Yesterday 's order by the office of Defense Transportation clamping war ? time restrictions . on the nation 's bus system , found operators in Chicago , the center of the industry , already in compliance with its major aspects . The order , issued in Washington , had been anticipated for six weeks . It said all express or " limited " bus service must be discontinued . This was done in Chicago six days ago . It also ordered the discontinuance of little used trips , those that show 40 per cent or less of seats are being normally used . Bus operators said last night all they have been waiting for was such an order . Private Charters Refused . The third section of the our order said service to places of amusement must be ended . The bus companies weeks ago refused private charters and are ready to stop all such services by the time the order is effective , July 1 . The ODT ordered that competitive services be pooled . Plans for the pooling of services and the consolidation of certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the order said all present routes must be frozen until new schedules can be worked out and approved . Bus companies in this area have added no new routes , except to carry war workers or members of the armed forces , for weeks . Slash in Civilian Service . Bus authorities said the principal effect on Chicago , which handles more bus traffic than any other city in the United States would be the slash , at a conservative estimate , of 25 per cent in the number of civilians carried in and out of the city . Wild rumors yesterday that the government had taken over the operation of all bus lines caused the terminals to be flooded by thousands of frantic callers . It was emphasized last night by authorities of the 22 lines that operate with Chicago as their center that the ODT order effects only the curtailment of nonessential bus service . The order has been received with satisfaction by the nation 's bus companies , " said Arthur M. Hill , president of the National Association of Motor Bus Operators , " as many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bus lines . " Saving in Rubber . The immediate effect , Mr. Hill said , would be a considerable saving in rubber . He said the companies have been discouraging pleasure travel for three months , Inter-city service Is defined in the order as not to include runs within 15 miles of the limits of a city , nor schedules on which the average fare is 35 cents or less . After July 1 no inter-city service may be operated to or from a golf course , athletic field , race track , theater , dance pavilion , " or other place conducted for amusement or entertainment . "                     