@@711511

txt Lieut . Gen. Leslie R. Groves , wartime chief of the Army 's atomic bomb development , , . indicated today that there ' well might lave : : been leapa of its secrets to Russia . The retired general , talking with reporters after a two-hour closed session before the House Committee on Un-American . Activities , recalled that the vast Manhattan Project , which he headed , employed more than 600,000 persons . " Security , " he observed , " depends wholly on integrity . You can not assemble 600,000 perfect people . " General Groves , now a vice president in charge of advanced research for the Remington-Rand Company , was subpoenaed to aid the House committee in its preparations for public hearings regarding an alleged atomic spy ring // suspected of funneling atomic secrets to the Soviet Union at the height of development of the Abomb . These hearings are scheduled to start next Wednesday . It appeared today , however , that they might have to be postponed . The committee , it was learned , has found that the testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . This multiplication of witnesses has concededly made time-tables subject to change without notice . General Groves would not reveal what he had told the committee , or even what its members had asked him . Nor would he disclose whether his status as a reserve officer had prevented his answering all questions . He was testifying , he explained , under the stipulations of a Presidential executive order concerning security of military information . He added , as more questions poured upon him , that a reading of the order would show it was so general that no specific directives as to testimony were necessary . The committee , however , appeared to appraise General Groves as a highly valuable witness . He had talked informally with the committee on previous occasions . Today , as the record was taken , he came under rigid subpoena . He emphs sized that the testimony he gave was in direct response to Congressional demand . Would Have Halted Shipments General Groves spoke freely , however , of the spark which Chas set off the House committee 's investigation . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John , Republican , of Pennsylvania , that uranium compounds and metal , though in small quantities , had been shipped to Russia " at the height of atomic research " in 1943 . General Groves said that he would not have approved such shipments " under any circumstances . " He said he did not know about any such shipments and did not know who authorized them , if they were made . He indicated that he would have stopped them , had he known of them . Mr. , chairman of the subcommittee looking into the alleged atomic spy ring , has implied that authorization of the shipments of these vital ingredients of the atomi  --  bomb was given by persons at high governmental level . General Groves said he did not know who these persons might be , but he suggested that a reading of the report on the Canadian atomic spy ring would perhaps supply " obvious conclusions . " " After all , " he said , " if you had more than 600,000 employes , are all 600,000 going to be perfect as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't have that many people and not expect something to happen . ' And there are many people high in the Government . Well , we 've had some people of whom we were n't particularly proud  --  put it ' that way . " The committee , it was learned , ' was focusing throughout the day on the Manhattan Project . Four of the five witnesses questioned in closed sessions had at one time or another been associated with that , project . Identities , except that of General Groves , were concealed . At prime issue on the part of the cohunittee was the security of American atomic secrets . General Groves gave another version today . " Security , " he said , " was of course a part of the work on the atomic bomb . But , at that tine , our major objective was to get the lbomb so we could end the war and save American lives . "                     