@@711487

txt The resignation of all members of Berlin 's Magistrat , or City Assembly , and Communist " rights " in Berlin 's Western sectors were demanded tonight by the Soviet-sponsored Socialist Unity ( Communist ) party and the German Economic Commission of the Soviet zone after a mass demonstration organized by the Communists had forced the postponement of a meeting of the City Assembly . A clamorous march of 5,000 persons , including members of the Communist party and its action committees , on the City Hall , situated in the Soviet sector , appeared to foreshadow the early end of the legal government of a unified Berlin , and the final division of that government between the East and the West . The City Assembly will attempt to meet at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning , its Council of : ! riders decided tonight . The Russian-inspired demonstration produced the largest and bitterest evidence of the antiCommunist feelings of the present crisis . 15,000 Defy Russians About 15,000 Berliners , most of . them from the three Western sectors , but including some from the Soviet sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shout defiance of the Russians and Communists and cheer politicians speaking for a free Berlin . " We have said ' no ' and we shall say ' no ' again until liberty and democracy have been regained for Berlin , " shouted Prof. Ernst Reuter , who was elected Lord Mayor of Berlin in the last elections but whom the Russians refused to accept for that post . " No matter how hard and difficult this winter may be , these powers German Communists and Russians must realize that our will and determination are stronger than they realize , " Dr. Reuter added and cheers rolled across the shattered blocks toward the Soviet sector . In Frankfort on the Main , Gen. Lucius D. Clay , United States Military Governor , placed the United States squarely behind the defiant Berliners by declaring that " no action committees are going to take over the 2,500,000 people for whom we have responsibility in the Western sectors . " Linked to Communist Pattern Although representatives of the Social Democratic , Christian Democratic and Liberal Democratic parties of the Western sectors are unanimous in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Berlin , today 's events indicated this would be difficult if not impossible . For the Communist demonstration around the City Hall was an integral part of the pattern of Communist domination . In this case the Socialist Unity party can not hope to win control of all of the city , but its members demonstrated their intention of breaking up the City Assembly and Council and establishing their own puppet government . An hour before the scheduled meeting of the Assembly the presence of at least 2,000 demonstrators outside the City Hall in Pero- : chialstrasse forced that body to postpone its meeting because the demonstration " gave no guarantee for an orderly meeting . " The demonstrators , bearing red ' banners with inscriptions , one of which " down with the bankrupt Magistrat Assembly " was typi= cal , chanted " The International " and repeated party.slogans . The crowd , at first orderly , broke into the City Hall shortly after 2 P. M. and Communist members of the Assembly demanded that the meeting take place . When no regular meeting developed , Karl Littke , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted a resolution demanding " this impotent City Council turn over its functions to a spe- cial committee consisting of nine City Councilors and nine citizens of Berlin who will immediately enter into negotiations with the German Economic Commission to secure sufficient supplies for Berlin . " A ten-man committee elected an the spot then presented six Communist demands to Dr. Ferdinand Friedensburg , Deputy Mayor . The demands called for : Removal of the West mark , " of black markets , " the unity of Berlin 's administration and currencies , assurance of work , professional education and food and ' clothing , and increased wages . Dr. Friedensburg , who looked ' shaken by the events , nevertheless told the Communist committee of ten that " real democracy is to submit to the decisions and will of the majority . " Earlier Herr Litke had declared that the Communists " know that the City Council intends to organize an illegal government in Schoeneberg " in the United States sector of the city . The German Economic Commission , most important German body in the Soviet zone , adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resignation of the entire City Council and the installation of ' democratic ' rights in the Western sectors of Berlin . " Simultaneously ADN announced that the Soviet Military Administration had ordered the discharge of two officials of the City Assembly in the Russian sector of the city . The men had discharged employes without the consent of the Communist Trade Union , it was claimed . The meeting of the anti-Communist elements this evening was the most impressive Berlin has seen , although it was no more spontaneous than the Communist demonstration at the City Hall . The United States radio station in Berlin interrupted its musical programs to summon Berliners of the Western sectors to the meeting , warning them that the freedom of the city was in peril . Under Russian pressure the three non-Communist parties have buried their differences . Kurt Landsberg , of the Christian Democrats , told the crowd that " we three democratic parties will stick together in this fight for the freedom a our city . " Other speakers , in addition to Dr. Reuter , emphasized that even if the blockade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian pressure . Ernst Scharnowski of the Western sector union organization called for " firmness and patience " through the winter " until we have won to the land of freedom . " But it was Dr. Reuter , Social Democrat , with his seamed heavy face and harsh voice , who produced the wannest cheers from the crowd . He said the Germans were not fighting against the Russian people or neighboring Slav nations " hut against totalitarianism . " " We are not fanatics of national hatred but torchbearers of freedom and democracy and understanding among nations , " he added . " This fight of ours for Berlin is also a fight for Europe and upon us , as the show window of democracy , the eyes of the whole world are turned , We shall never be disloyal to our task of rebuilding this city in freedom and democracy . "                     