@@705797

txt Half a dczen major matters wait on President Roosevelt 's desk for his return to the Capital following his historic sea visit with Prime Minister Winston Churchill , which took him away Aug. 3 . Foremost is the draft bill , which passed the House 203-202 , and which the Senate yesterday approved , with all the House changes , 37 to 19 . The bill authorizes extension of Army service by 18 months . Senate action in approving House changes makes a conference unnecessary and avoids a second House roll call . Another bill designed to freeze cotton and wheat stocks owned by the Commodity Credit Corporation , which ' deprives the Administration of weapons of price control , may li bring Mr. Roosevelt 's veto . This measure also waits on his desk , for approval or disapproval . Henry Morgenthau , Jr. , Secretary of the Treasury , and Claude R. Wickard , Secretary of Agriculture , have attacked the bill , whose enactment it is charged would make it difficult to curb runaway prices . Henderson Disapproves Price Administrator Leon Henderson also has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a presidential veto remains to be seen . Mr. Roosevelt 's new " Ministry of Economic Warfare , " under Vice-President Wallace , has met in his absence and outlined two undisclosed courses of economic action . Mr. Roosevelt 's final approval of this step , like many other matters . waits on his return . Mr. Roosevelt may be asked to intervene in the Senate 's rejection of an appropriation item of $1 , - 347,000,000 requested by the War Department for a reservoir of tanks , artillery , and self-propelled artillery mounts . The House approved the special ordnance item . Senate tax discussion is approaching a point where Mr. Roosevelt 's voice may have telling effect in the final decision . The House committee discussing price-control legislation , which many observers believe is an urgent necessity , has gone on a month 's vacation although Mr. Henderson declares the country stands on the " brink of inflation . " The committee apparently feels the country will wait on the brink till it gets back . Gas Rationing Up The question of gas rationing in the East and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt may have the final say . The President also may have strong feelings about the proposal to erect a new $36 , - 000,000 War Department Building over in Arlington , Va. , rather than in the District of Columbia , which the Senate has approved by an eight-vote majority .                     