@@710915

txt COMMUNISTS RENEW FILIBUSTER IN PARIS ; 7 DIE IN RAIL WRECK Assembly , 402 to 183 , Adopts First Article of Schuman Bill , Bars Curb on Strike Right LABOR STRIFE DWINDLES Subway Normal , Electricity Up ? =But Sabotage Is Indicated in . Fatal Train Derailment By HAROLD CALLENDER Special to THE NEW Yoax TIMES . PARIS , Wednesday , Dec. 3 ? The National Assembly was still in a weary battle at 7 A. M. today as the Communists continued their delaying attacks against Premier Robert Schuman 's emergency strike bill . The Assembly had got no further than the first article , which it had approved at 2 A. M. , 402 to 183 . The article suspends for three months certain provisions of the Penal Code in favor of harsher penalties for sabotage , incitement to strike and interference with the right to work . A Communist amendment to the effect that the proposed law would not be interpreted as a limitation of the right to strike was passed unanimously . The bitterness of the debate reached a climax at 6 A. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven persons had died in a derailment , a short time before , of a mail train from Paris to Arras . The locomotive had hit a torn-up track , M. Mayer said : A railway official said at least twelve were killed and forty injured in the derailment , according to The Associated Press . The Communists answered M. Mayer 's statement on the condition of the track with a shower of insults . Charles Tildon , a former I Minister , called M. Mayer " the despicable Minister of Rothschild " and declared he was " looking for blood . " With the aid of naval crews , officials restarted electric power stations in the Paris region that the police had seized from sit-down strikers Monday night . The Paris subway service was normal , while electric current approached its prestrike status . Railway service generally improved and postal deliveries became general in Paris for the first time since the strike began . However , railway service and in // dustrial production are expected to suffer from the accumulating coal shortage so that both may be tied up or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is one reason it seems premature to say , as some newspapers said today , that the Communist leaders had lost the strike battle . After having defied the rules of the National Assembly earlyyesterday by preventing the expulsion of a Communist Deputy who had suggested that the Army would refuse orders , the Communists took the fullest advantage of the rules last night to stage what they frankly proclaimed was a determined filibuster against the strike measure that Premier Schuman had urgently requested be adopted . While denouncing nearly everything American , the Communists praised the United States Senate , which they said had no cloture rule and permitted its members to Speak for days if they liked . The French Assembly has a cloture rule . But in spite of the urgency of the strike measure in the opinion of Premier Schuman and apparently of a majority of the Assembly , the Communists were permitted to hold the floor for hours in relays . The Deputies were weary after the all-night session that ended at 5 A. M. yesterday , when three white-gloved Republican Guards , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to surrender possession of the Assembly chamber , which they had held since 11 o'clock the previous night . Assembly President Edouard Herriot 's all-night hesitation to eject the Communists from the chamber , and the patience with which he and the majority of the chamber submitted to the Communist filibuster later , led many to emphasize the fact that in official circles opinions varied about the strike measure and its urgency . In a. broadcast last night , Leon Jouhaux , Socialist secretary of the Confederation of Labor and leader of the Force Ouvriere movement that seeks to put an end both to the strike and to Communist control of the Confederation , opposed the Government 's measure . He said the Government already had enough power to suppress crimes and that special legislation was incompatible with the Republic . In this view M. Jouhaux has the sympathy of the veteran Socialist leader , Leon Blum , and the support of Daniel Mayer , Socialist who sits in Premier Schuman 's Cabinet as Minister of Labor . Consequently , the opponents of the strikes and of the Communists disagree regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Schuman asks authorization to punish incitement to strike , and a stricter law against sabotage . M. Jouhaux said that the workers ' purchasing power must be assured and that this could be done only by " revolutionary economic measures involving the transfer of a part of the revenues of capital to the remuneration of labor . " Although it took possession of three electric generating stations in the Paris area . and restarted the subway , the Government was worried by a strike at Mareges , in Corraze , at one of the hydroelectric stations that supplied most of ' Paris ' current , and guards were stationed to protect the hightension line bringing electricity from Massif Central to the capital . From Metz came a report that metal workers in the Department of Moselle belonging to the Confederation had agreed to return to work . In Le Havre , dockers voted to continue their strike . The Socialist Minister of the Interior , Jules Moch , disputed the claims of the strike committee regarding the extension of strikes in the south , and the Minister of Justice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publishing false news against the Communist Paris paper , Ce Soir , for having said that the Toulouse police had struck Monday , The strike committee protested yesterday in its daily communique against " police brutalities " in ejecting sit-down strikers and in resisting demonstrations designed to spread the strike . In many places , strikers and the police fought skirmishes for the possession of railway stations and factories . At Amiens , a large crowd tried to recapture the Gare du Nord from the police , who successfully resisted . Several strikers were injured . The police dispersed strikers said to number 2,000 who tried to get possession of the Salmson automobile factory at BoulogneBillancourt , near Paris , by driving a tractor through a wall . Throe mobile guards were injured . At Bourges , strikers from an aviation factory seized the railway station and forced the engineers to put out the fires in the locomotives . The police held the station at Limoges against attacks , but the strikers occupied the roundhouse and switch towers . At La Rochelle some 500 strikers tried to invade a coal company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marines drove them off with tear gas . Police reports indicated that at several places in the Paris suburbs crorle had tried to stop buses by attacking the drivers , breaking windows and scattering nails . The official monthly weighted index of retail prices of thirty-four articles of common consumption in Paris indicated that in November those prices had risen , the index being 1,336 , as compared with 1,268 for October .                     