@@712454

txt New sharpness was given yesterday to the contest for United States Senator by former Gov . Herbert H. Lehman , the Democratic-Liberal candidate , who compared his wartime activities with those of Senator John Foster Dulles , the Republican nominee . " During the war , " said Mr. Lehman , " while Mr. Dulles was conducting a lucrative law practice in New York and was cautioning his employes that they could not count on their places being held open in his office when they returned from service , I flew the Atlantic eight times . " Mr. Lehman 's reference to his wartime service as director general of the United Nation 's Relief and Rehabilitation Administration , which took him to Europe and North Africa , was contained in his reply to a recent statement by Mr. Dulles that there might be an end to this country 's bipartisan foreign policy unless he were returned to the Senate . Mr. Lehman challenged , in a heavy day of campaigning from Columbia University to the southern reaches of Brooklyn , the descriptions of Mr. Dulles as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indispensable man " in Washington . He made the comparison of wartime activities in a radio broadcast over Station WCBS and a state-wide hook-up . The former Governor spoke last night at four Democratic meetings in Brooklyn . In speeches in the Brownsville , Crown Heights , Borough Park and Bensonhurst sections he contrasted Mr. Dulles ' views on foreign relationships with those of the late Wendell Willkie , thus bidding for the support of liberal Republicans . Overflow crowds greeted his appearance in Brooklyn . He was joined at one rally by Mayor O'Dwyer and at another by Borough President Jphn Cashmore . Both city city officials urged Mr. Lehman 's election as necessary to a sympathetic presentation of New York 's needs to the Federal Government . More than 8,000 persons attended the borough gatherings . The Brooklyn rallies were in - the Eastern Parkway Skating Rink , 1435 Eastern Parkway ; Public School 221 , Empire Boulevard and Troy Avenue ; Menora Temple , Fourteenth Avenue and Fiftieth Street , and Public School 96 , Avenue P and West Eleventh Street . Mr. Lehman told his Brooklyn audiences that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of social legislation as represented by his record as Governor and the national programs of the late President Roosevelt and President Truman on the one hand and , on the other , a reactionary Republican program that was antilabor and opposed to general welfare measures . However , said Mr. Lehman , he was compelled to talk at length on foreign affairs because of Mr. Dulles ' " effrontery " in saying that continuation of the bipartisan policy depended on his being kept in the Senate . The former Governor declared that Mr. Dulles ' " assumption of indispensability " was " an insult to all the men and women of both parties who in recent years have served their country so well in international affairs . " Quoting Governor . Dewey as having said that the heads of state in Western Europe depended on Mr. Dulles and wanted to see him in the Senate , Mr. Lehman declared : " Well , I think I know as many heads of state as either of my two opponents . And I have enough respect for them to know that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reviews Own Work Abroad Mr. Lehman recounted his work as head of UNRRA , mentioning his travels abroad , and added : " I did n't mingle only with diplomats and heads of state . Our work was directly with the people . And I learned through my own experience in those years what Wendell Willkie knew so well  --  that the aspirations of men and women everywhere are much the same . " Mr. Lehman told his radio audience that Mr. Dulles had been blind to the dangers of fascism and nazism in 1939 and had been silent about the dangers of communism long after Mr. Lehman had spoken out publicly against it . " The great foreign policy challenge of our time has been due to the rise of totalitarianism , " Mr. Lehman declared . " We faced the first wave of this challenge in the Nineteen Thirties . We face the second wave today . " Quotes From Dulles Book Mr. Lehman said the response to those two challenges constituted the test of statesmanship . He pointed out that Mr. Dulles , in his hook " War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had neither pictured the dangers of fascism nor warned the Western nations to organize in self-defense . " His book , " said Mr. Lehman , " Was dedicated to the thesis that the world was divided into two groups : the static nations , among which he counted the United States , Britain  --  and France ; and the dynamic nations , which included Germany , Italy and Japan . The dynamic nations , he said , were characterized by certain admirable qualities : ' energy , industry , clean living , thrift , efficiency , intelligence , willingness to forego present ease in the interests of future gains . ' " You might be surprised to find that Nazi Germany , for example , or imperial Japan was notable for clean liviqg , say , or for intelligence . But I am only quoting the great foreign- affairs expert , John Foster Dulles . " Mr. Lehman said that Mr. Dulles ' book had sought to place blame on Britain , France and the United States for failure to make sufficient concessions to Germany , Italy and Japan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " With the democratic world confronted with the first wave of the totalitarian challenge , " declared Mr. Lehman , " the Dulles solution was to advocate a policy of appeasement even more complete than that which had already resulted in the disgraceful surrender at Munich . " Noting also that Mr. Dulles had " not a word to say " about communism in his 1939 book , Mr. Lehman said : " May I remind you that this was long after the election of 1938 , in which I stated my opposition to communism in all its forms , and resoundingly repudiated Communist support . " 950 at Columbia Meeting Mr. Lehman addressed a noon meeting of 950 Columbia students in the university 's Academic Theater . William G. Thompson was chairman of the rally , which had been organized by a new campus group , " Students for Lehman . ' Mr. Lehman discussed issues , praised the students for their " militant interest " and said he was satisfied that they participated in public affairs whether they voted for him or not . Mr. Lehman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' expressed doubt that the former Governor would run next year for a full Senate term if elected Tuesday to the unexpired term of former Senator Robert F. Wagner . He said he would " cross that bridge when I come to it . " Mr. Lehman also addressed a Harlem reception of the Women 's Committee for the Re-election of O'Dwyer , Joseph and Impellitteri in the Hotel Theresa , Seventh Avenue and 125th Street . He Will carry on his campaign today in Nassau County and speak tonight at a rally of the Queens County Democratic organization in Lost Battalion Rail , Elmhurst.                     