@@710621

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 6 ? When Prime Minister Atlee in Commons today offered personal assurances that the forthcoming Anglo-American conferences to revise two clauses in the credit agreement between the two countries " would not cut across the Paris conference , " he was repairing one of the , strains that have arisen between Washington and London . There was feeling in high quartos ' here , - and it was conveyed to the Labor Government , that the British crisis was being handled by that government in the very way disclaimed officially by Mr. Attlee . Since the Paris conference , which began with Soviet Russia and its satellites abstaining from the discussion of the Marshall proposal  --  for which the conference was called , is a continuous session , Britain 's recent moves were giving this unfortunate impression to e.dministration officials and influential members of , Congress . And some were asking bluntly whether the United Kingdom was not trying to get priority on admission to the benefits of the Marshall proposal . An Idea Resented The Labor Government has appeared to certain high officials and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " deadlineitis . " Its decision to withdraw from Greece and Turkey was announced so suddenly to Washington that Secretary of State Marshall had only a few hours to devise a policy with which to - meet the situation before he left for Moscow . Congreso , it is true , ignored the " deadline " of March 31 , named by the British and suggested by the administration for action on the Greek-Turkish bill that.was the first --  -- and so far the only ? application of the Truman Doctrine . But the idea of so immediate a deadline was widely resented . Reminders From Washington The British , it is ' also felt by persons in authority and by unofficial experts , have been dwelling too much on their weaknesses and scarcities and not enough on their reserves and their strengths , fiscally and otherwise . Very little was said in official London about the gold reserve and the easy hours on the production line in Britain until the government there was sharply reminded of these things by visitors from Washington . And it was necessary to tell the British pointedly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Ruhr , had best wait on the immediate necessities of production . If or when the Washington-London correspondence on these subjects , and the notes made of conversations abroad by our officials , are published , it will be apparent , even to the most confirmed critics of the administration , that the State Department has followed a - firm admonitory course and other Federal units have not abated it . Meanwhile , a set of principles for the operation of the ' Marshall Plan is taking form . Some which this correspondent has seen derive from a memorandum given to the President by B. M. Baruch after his last visit to Europe . The central point of this general recovery formula  --  known to his intimates as " work and save " ? he gave in an address last Spring to the South Carolina Legislature . His memorandum remains a secret document , but it is probable that the following blueprint from which to construct the - Marshall Plan out of the Marshall Proposal , made at Harvard , follows rather closely what the administration and the leaders of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't bother about the past except as it may provide a lamp for the feet of the future . 2 . Find out what each claimant country in Europe really needs . 3 . Estimate what needs the United States can supply . 4 . Itemize how these countries managed their resources before World War II . 5 . Find out how many dollars these countries have spent for commodities , and how many securities they have cashed for the same purpose . 6 . Find out what they have been spending the dollars for , and if there is hoarding . 7 . Have the data assayed by experts wholly capable to evaluate them . 8 . Then offer to go to the limit of our capacity , adding that for a given number of years the United States will buy from anyone non-perishable raw material , even if it is non-critical. 9 . If Soviet Russia and satellite nations should inquire whether this is not " economic . imperialism , " or make that charge , reply : " No , it Is not , for you can come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Everybody , everywhere , " work and save . " Offer of Hope As a subfoundation of this recovery formula , its advocates propose three security strata for the United States itself without which the superstructure would crumble . These are military and economic strength sufficient to protect national security , and ethical strength , expressed in meticulous discharge of all national obligations and pledges . If all this were done , the world would not immediately be swept of perils or the Marshall Plan of difficulties . There is still the blocking tactic of Russia . There is still the agonizing issue of Palestine , which , until it is ameliorated by something like a U. N. and nonBritish trusteeship , will complicate many international relations . But the formula in-action would offer sound hopes of recovery in large areas of the earth .                     