@@710648

txt AIR POWER EXEMPT FROM BUDGET URGED TO KEEP U. S. SAFE Truman Advisers Say Nation Must ' Make It Unprofitable ' for Any Other to Attack FORCE SEEN AS ARM OF U. N. Board Opposes Single Operator of Civilian Routes Abroad as Danger to Progress Special to THE NEW Yoax Tarts . WASHINGTON , Aug. 18 ? President Truman 's Air Coordinating Committee declared today that the country 's security demanded a long-range program of aircraft construction not subject to the vicissitudes of year-to-year budgeting . In a statement rounding up the Government 's over - all aviation . policy , the committee of agency . experts also reiterated its strong opposition to a single airline for all American flying abroad . The " chosen - instrument " plan , subject of sharp exchanges between Senator Owen Brewster of Maine and Howard Hughes , California plane designer and builder , in recent Senate hearings , would not serve the national interest as well as the present competitive plan , the committee said . The committee went on record last spring as " unanimously " opposing a bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fly international routes for the United States . Further Survey Due President Truman at once turned the Government committee 's report over to his recently appointed Air Policy Commission , citizens ' group , which will make its own recommendations next January . The committee , headed by Garrisson Norton , Assistant Secretary of State , and James M. Landis , chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board , includes also John N. Brown , Assistant Secretary of the Navy ; William C. Foster , Under-Secretary of Commerce ; W. Stuart Symington , Assistant Secretary of War for Air ; John J. Gillen , Second Assistant Postmaster General , and J. Weldon Jones , Assistant Budget Director . Appointed a year ago by Executive Order of the President , the committee is a standing organization set up to coordinate air policy in the various executive departments of the Government , and to advise the President on aviation matters . The commission of private citizens to whom the report was sent was created last month to assist Mr. Truman in formulating an over-all national policy on aviation . It includes Thomas K. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cambridge , Mass. , vice chairman ; Palmer Hoyt , Denver ; Henry Ford 2d , Detroit , and Arthur D. Whiteside of New York . Plane Number Not Estimated On the subject of military aviation , the President 's committee said the United States should maintain power sufficient to " make it unprofitable " for another country to embark on a campaign of aggression against us . The committee did not say how many airplanes it thought ought to be built to keep our peacetime air power up to date and strong . A spokesman declined to comment on the 1945 recommendation of a predecessor Committee on Air Planning that this number should be not fewer than 3,000 planes a year . Neither did the report refer directly to Congressional appropria -- tions which will enable the Army and Navy together to purchase a total of about 1,400 planes in 1948 . The statement said the United States military power should be used in accordance with United Nations principles to assure peace and support its international obligations . " Ability to control the air and exploit that control by air weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which include the military air strength , the manufacturing industry , air transport , and reserves of trained personnel and equipment , " it continued . The aircraft industry could bet- , ter serve the country in time of emergency , the committee went on , if designing and construction were based on a ' long-term plan . It pointed out that military aircratt grow obsolete rapidly and that " several years " usually elapse between the first design and actual // production of a single fighter plane or a bomber . " Current limitations on the life of funds permit ordering only small initial production quantities , " the report continued . " This results in aircraft being built largely by hand methods arid without adequate production tooling . " Approval of long-range program requirements for contract authorization , subject to annual review , would result in : ( A ) greatly reduced aircraft cost ; ( B ) a more efficient and stable aircraft industry , and ( C ) a sounder base for industrial preparedness . " It was pointed out that production of military aircraft was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that procurement of war planes in peace time should be sufficient to enable the industry not only to produce superior aircraft , but also to carry on research and engineering developments of new types , and to expand to meet the requirements of a possible mobilization . As for commercial aviation at home and abroad , the Presidential advisers said the soundest and surest course of developments lay in existing policies of competitive enterprise . " Experience to date in both the economic - field and foreign relations warrants the continuation of competition among the United States airlines in the international . field , " the statement said , giving these reasons : 1 . Competition offers the greatest stimulus to development by the United States of new operating techniques and equipment . 2 . It was the only means of preventing " one small management group " from acquiring the power to " interfere in policies of great national interest . " 3 . National defense presented " no factors " making the " chosen instrument " necessary now . The committee asserted that Congress had set the broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an air transportation system . " It conceded , however , that international commercial flying , greatly expanded since the war , was still in an experimental stage in many regions , and that it might prove desirable to permit some mergers , the abandonment ? or reassignment of certain routes , or the liquidation of some carriers . Air mail , the committee said , should be fostered with the Postoffice looking forward to carrying all first-class mail by air at regular rates . but it should be on a sound economical basis and subsidies should be granted only to support air transportation serving a useful commercial need and national defense . The Civil Aeronautics Act now in effect does not authorize " indiscriminate " support for profitable operation of all services authorized to carry mail , it was pointed out . In the delivery of foreign mail present government policy is to use the air carriers of other countries when they offer services " superior " to ours , the committee said . It added that foreign countries would be expected to accord reciprocal treatment to homewardbound American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directions , and also to improve the service for all concerned . It said that the United States held that multi-lateral exchange of the privilege of flying civil aircraft through- another country 's air space and of landing to refuel or for any other non-traffic purpose " is essential to the fullest development of international civil aviation . " " The United States insists , however , that the right to fly specific routes should be negotiated bilaterly , since each route depends upon economic and other relevant factors which vary from country to country , " the statement added . While continuing to seek traffic rights in all countries through which our air carriers are certified , the United States was prepared to reciprocate by granting foreign carriers similar rights in this country , without however , the privilege of carrying traffic between points within the country . The committee said the country 's success in developing its air resources depended on a policy of enlarging operating facilities and standards of aviation . The Federal Government , within the means provided by Congress , had already made " a substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , additional " millions of dollars " would be needed to develop , install and run airways and services for safe all-weather flying . The report called for rigid investigation of accidents to determine their cause , and to probe the field of corrective measures .                     