@@711990

txt Two Fullerton air service workers , Bill Barris , 36 , and Dick Riedel , today set a new endurance flight record as they hit the 727 hour mark at 6:44 p. m. ( 8:44 p. m . Chicago time ) . an:1 flew on toward a goal of 1,000 hours in their single engine plane Sunkist Lady . The record of 726 hours was made Oct. 29 , 1939 , by Wes Carroll and Clyde Schlieper of Long Beach , Cal . Riedel and Barris had to fly an additional hour before they could be officially recognized as holders of a new endurance flight record . At 11:44 p.m. the new record had mounted to 732 hours as the plane headed inland for Indio , Cal. , 120 miles east , for the night to avoid coastal fog conditions . " Boy , this is a great day , " the jubilant Riedel said ' over his Harris Riedel radio phone as the team crtuseu over the Fullerton airport in their little Aeronca . A Long Time " And it 's the longest endurance record , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems like we 've been up here since we were small boys . " " Great going . fellows . Nice work . Congratulations ! " These were the greetings yelled up to Barris and Riedel by Carroll and Schlieper from a jeep that sped along under the plane . Carroll , now a captain with American Airlines , and Schlieper , associated with an air operations concern at Long Beach , shook hands from the jeep with the men who passed their 10 year old mark . The endurance nignt , sponsored by the - Fullerton Chamber of Commerce , has Cost about $10,000 to date . ' The business men of this little city of 18,000 a dozen miles southeast of Los Angeles chipped in to defray the cost . Fullerton wants better airport facilities and hopes this successful flight will point up their needs . After 1,000 Hour Mark " We 're tired , but we 're going after that L000 hour mark , " Riedel said . Riedel and Barris added a new twist to endurance flying , which became a rage in 1929 and tapered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , they went out to see the country . Their Aeronca is just large enough to sleep one hard by the control stick . It packs 81 gallons . of gasoline , enough for 12 hours of flying . Refueling is accomplished by contact with jeeps from which are hoisted small contain . ers . Food and water go up the same way . Riedel and Barris have a veteran refueling crew of three men who have driven to various cities to set up the important ground facilities for keeping the little plane aloft . This was the fourth attempt of the Fullerton men to crack the record . They tried twice last October . They appeared to be well on the way to a record last December when ; ice on the carburetor grounded them after 568 hours . 4 ' 7 minutes .                     