@@709541

txt All free and honest elections in Europe , from the first local ones immediately following hostilities to the latest national votes in France and Italy , have clearly demonstrated that wherever the European people have been able to register their will they have repudiated the extremists of both right and left and have chosen to follow the ways of democracy . To be sure , in many instances they have created a new kind of democracy , which has discarded old forms in favor of new ones , and which lays special emphasis on a social organization that must still prove its worth . But they are at one in. holding fast , at least in their great majority , to the traditional political and ethical values that have created modern European civilization . And the greatest of these values are liberty and the dignity of man . This choice was guaranteed to them by all the wartime pronouncements of the victorious United Nations , from the Atlantic Charter to the Yalta Declaration , and wherever the Western powers have any influence that guarantee has been redeemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is behind an iron curtain a broad band of territories stretching from the Baltic to the Adriatic and containing nearly one-third of Europe 's population , apart from Russia , as well as the great capitals of eastern and central Europe , where that is not the case  --  where , as in Hungary , the will of the people already registered is being nullified , and where instead of the promised democracy there are being installed new totalitarian police governments as tyrannical as those we fought to overthrow . This is in itself a danger to peace . There is no reason to assume that the people of these ancient states and nations are less eager for or less capable of democracy than are the peoples of India , Indonesia or Korea , or other hitherto dependent regions now seeking self-government . And there is even less reason to underestimate their stamina or their vitality . Though still suffering in part from the shell-shock of the war , they are bound to strain against their new shackles as they have strained against past ones through the centuries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are already astir , and are either in open conflict with the new regimes or are biding their time for a better opportunity to strike . There is no need for further proof that any European conflict has the tendency to . spread . But this situation is further aggravated by the fact , as Mr. Churchill emphasized , that this whole region is being ruled or actively directed by Russia , which has advanced her frontier to the Elbe and the Adriatic , and is sovietizing and integrating the regions east of it into her own political and economic system . It is this fact which is responsible for the deadlock in the peace negotiations , and which is spreading new anxiety throughout the world . The official spokesmen of the United States have often raised their voices against this development , and the foreign policy debate in the House of Commons has further illuminated its gravity . To spli . Europe into two separate camps , said Prime Minister Attlee , would be to follow the counsel of despair . And Mr. Churchill , with the new freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prophet proved right before , charged openly that it is in eastern Europe , if anywhere , that the seeds of a new world war are being sown , and sown by Russia . In uttering these words he merely voiced the fears of the whole Western world . In another week the Foreign Ministers of the Big Four Powers will meet again in Paris in a new attempt to break their deadlock . But as all their previous conferences and the work of their deputies demonstrate , there is little hope for a real European settlement unless they return to the principles proclaimed by the United Nations during the war  --  the principles which call for self-government for all nations on the democratic basis of free and unfettered elections everywhere . If these principles were applied in eastern Europe as they have been in the West , and if border issues were settled by the free choice of the peoples involved , most of the problems now delaying peace would disappear . No other method can possibly achieve enduring results . It is up to the Big Powers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledges are more than scraps of paper .                     