@@704530

txt Norway was accused today by Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain of failing in its duties as a - neutral and of displaying " complete indifference " to the use which the German fleet might make of its waters . Mr. Chamberlain told the House of Commons that Norwegian authorities three or four times failed to make the proper inspection of the German prison ship Alt-mark , from which 299 British prisoners were rescued by the British destroyer Cossack on Feb. 16 . Norway 's view that the Altmark was a " state ship " and thus not subject to search would legalise the German fleet 's use of neutral waters , setting a precedent Britain " could in no circumstances accept . " The Prime Minister described Britain 's seizure of the prisoners from the Altmark in Norwegian waters as " a very gallant affair , " and expressed confidence that the House of Commons would " want to congratulate the Royal Navy . " No Examination Made Mr. Chamberlain declared it now appears that the Norwegian authorities had made no examination whatever of the Altmark when she reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 326 British prisoners released from the Altmark , and that an inspection by the Norwegian Navy had failed to disclose the presence of the prisoners . The Prime Minister told a cheering House that " the Norwegian authorities have displayed complete indifference as to the use which might he made of their territorial waters by the German fleet . " He termed the statement of the Norwegian Foreign Minister , Halvdan Koht , that the Norwegian authorities did not know British prisoners were aboard the Alt-mark " most surprising , " since reports to that effect were published weeks ago . Not once but three or four times , Mr. Chamberlain said , Norway failed to carry out a propel investigation of the Altmark . It was not until after Norway failed to investigate Mr. Chamberlain said , " that His Majesty 's ships took action . " It is claimed that if they had not done so , the ship would have been allowed to complete her voyage without let or hindrance and without inquiry into the circumstances . " Speech Pleases Opposition The House cheered as Mr. Chamberlain said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German pressure , it is nevertheless in the view of His Majesty 's Government inconsistent with the active and impartial exercise of the duty of a neutral toward ourselves as belligerents . " Ml . Albert Victor Alexander , Labor , said that the Opposition was pleased with Mr. Chamberlain 's statement , and that it wished to be associated in praise of the action of the Navy in freeing the seamen . " Before His Majesty 's ships took any action against the Alt-mark , " said Mr. Chamberlain , " the commanding officer , acting-on instructions from His Majesty 's Government , proposed to the Norwegian naval officer on the spot that the Altmark should be taken to Bergen under a joint British and Norwegian guard in order that the matter might be properly investigated there by ' the Norwegian authorities . " This offer was refused . The British commanding officer then invited the Norwegian officer to accompany the British boarding party on board the Altmark , but he declined to do so . " Then , said the Prime Minister , the British Navy took action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Swedes sharing . What foreign aid is in prospect for Finland ? ? While military secrecy surrounds much that is being done to aid the beleaguered Finns , two major developments in Allied capitals disclosed a trend which may mean more effective assistance . In London , it was revealed that 500 Britons are enlisting daily as volunteers to Finland under the formal British approval . In Paris , mounting sentiment demanded increased French assistance as it was authoritatively learned that French munitions for the Finns are being sent in increasing quantity . In Sweden , the Royal refusal to permit formal aid to Finland was somewhat tempered by King Gustaf 's declaration that outright intervention would prevent Sweden from giving Finland the " not inconsiderable assistance which Finland now gets from us and greatly needs and which we also for the future are ready to give with warm hands . " In Washington , thousands of Americans have offered to volunteer for Finland , but are finding it difficult to surmount the restrictions by which the United States bars American citizens from travel to belligerent zones . But delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan to Finland as the House Banking Committee encountered new opposition . Meanwhile , Department of Commerce statistics disclosed that 90 per cent of Soviet Russia 's United States purchases since the Finnish attack began have been strategic materials and machinery essential for war industries . French Urge Aid By William Henry Chamberlin Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor PARIS , Feb. ** Finnish retreat from the advanced positions of the Mannerheim Line , and the growing recognition of the fact that the Finns during the last days preceding this retreat suffered losses which it is not easy to replace , have excited a new wave of sympathy for Finland in France . Demands that Finland should not be allowed to perish for lack of effective aid are becoming more articulate . For Finland 's plight has strongly gripped the imagination of the French people . It is the universal feeling that Finland has displayed a rare combination of two qualities which every Frenchman admires  --  heroism and intelligence . There is no element of class or party division in the demand that Finland should be helped to the limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are Conservatives , and one sometimes encounters expressions of apprehension in French Social* circles that the British Labor Party may izot have outlived ail its illusions about the character of the Soviet regime and therefore may not press energetically for help to Finland . Respect for Liberties Such apprehensions , however , have been largely dispelled since the return of Sir Walter Citrine and other British labor leaders from Finland . The French Socialist attitude toward Bolshevism was strongly phrased in an article which a prominent Socialist , J. B. Severac , contributed today to the party newspaper , Le Populaire , which concludes : " Naziism and Bolshevism from now on are synonymous . Both have equally deserved the condemnation of Socialist democracy because both al e sinister and false caricatures of our Socialism which can only be built on the basis of peace between peoples and respect for individual liberties . " The French pride themselves on being a realistic people and sometimes are impatient with British and Americans for what the French consider British and American unwillingness to face unpleasant but unmistakable facts , and realism has generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized that what Finland needs most in this crisis , when it is fighting against odds of 10 or 20 to 1 , is not expressions of sympathy or civilian relief , admirable and necessary though these are , but munitions , and still more , trained men . Finns Need Man Power The French people have learned with satisfaction during the last few days that help in the form of airplanes , cannon , and antitank guns has been sent to Finland , and that the Finns have an unlimited credit for certain older types of supplies in the French arsenals . However , there is growing recognition of the fact that munitions are not enough , that the Finnish Army may soon be faced , if it is not already faced , with the prob- lems of exhaustion and attrition , as a result of the Soviet tactics of throwing in reserves of man power without regard for losses . In view of the profound secrecy with which military decisions are enveloped it is impossible to disclose whether any concrete plans have been drawn for making trained French or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stubborn adherence of Sweden and . Norway to a conception of neutrality which forbids their own intervention or the passage of large organized units through their territory there are two ways in which pressure could conceivably be brought on Russia . The only way of affording direct aid to Finland would be to send an expeditionary force to Petsamo , the northern port of Finland which was occupied in the early days of the war by Soviet " troops . There would be difficulties and risks in such an expedition , but its success would shift the pressure on Finland . This would have an immense heartening effect on public opinion here . Finns Viewed as Allies For the Finnish war has crowded the inactive Western Front out of the places of prominence in the newspapers , and the average Frenchman definitely regards Finland as an ally whose defeat would be a blow to France . The other region where Russia is exposed to attack is in the south , in the Black Sea , and the Caucasus . It is generally recognized here that the great oil center of Baku @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the Soviet war system today is largely dependent on oil-driven tractors . In some ways the strategic advantages of a blow at Baku and ports from which supplies can reach Germany are more striking than those of an expedition to Northern Finland. - But Turkey in that part of the world occupies the pivotal position of Sweden in the Northeast . Large-scale operations against Russia would be impossible without Turkish co-operation , and while Turkey is prepared to resist Soviet aggression there is no indication as yet that it is prepared to anticipate such aggression by giving Gen. Maxime Weygand 's Allied forces in Syria permission to utilize Anatolia for a thrust agairAt Russia . Whatever political and military decisions may be made the French Government must reckon with the existence of a strong French public opinion in favor of giving Finland the maximum aid compatible with the larger strategy of the war .                     