@@706272

txt The House defeated by 218 to 14 today an effort to block a vote on a proposal by Representative Smith of Virginia to suspend during the war the work hour limitations found in seventeen Federal laws . Thus a ballot tomorrow on this proposal was assured . The House 's action came after a point of order raised against the Smith proposal was overruled by the presiding officer , Representative Cooper . The House immediately thereafter sustained Mr. Cooper 's ruling by the 218-to-14 vote when it was appealed by Representative Kennedy . The point of order , made by Representative Celler , was that the Smith proposal was not a germane amendment to the pending Second War Powers Bill , which gives new authority to the executive departments in fifteen different ways . Propriety of Move Upheld In making his ruling , Mr. Cooper said that the only relation between any of these authorities was that they were all designed to " further expedite the prosecution of the war . " This was the objective set up for Mr. Smith 's amendment , he added , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as he knew , he felt in the emergency it would be proper to offer a sixteenth proposal to the other fifteen . In the acrimonious debate Lich followed on the amendment it appeared that the members present were in a temper to accept the proposal . The War Powers Bill has been passed by the Senate and the legislative fate of the proposal , if it is approved , would have to be decided in conference . However , Representative Celler asserted that if fhe amendment were adopted President Roosevelt would veto the War Powers bill , needed as it is in prosecution of the war . " Labor Government " Alleged During the debate on the amendment an unsuccessful move was made to expunge from the record a shouted assertion by Representative Cox that " we are already living under a labor government rapidly headed for a labor dictatorship , which , if not checked , will soon run into a labor despotism . " This came during an attack by Mr. Cox on Representative McCormack , majority leader , for what Mr. Cox said was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Smith himself made the same protest when Mr. McCormack assailed the amendment as " an anti-labor proposal . " " We are in war and we do n't want to lose our heads , " Mr. McCormack continued . " I say that labor will construe this as an antilabor amendment , and that is an expression of opinion and no personal attack on the author , who is entirely too thin-skinned . This is a matter which should be left to the discretion of the President , for no one has shown more vision on how to handle difficult labor problems . And why should we seek to punish the 99 per cent of loyal , patriotic labor for what a mere I per cent may be doing ? This amendment , if passed , will have exactly the opposite result from what its sponsor seeks . " Cox Questions Leadership Mr. Cox leaped to his feet and attacked his party leader . " I wonder if it 's good leadership , " he shouted , " for our leader to attack a man who seeks only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor bill comes up here he rushes into the well to defend labor racketeers . I hope that some time he will speak for the majority of this House rather than for some one else . " The author of this amendment is not trying to punish labor ; he is trying to do something which must be done if this war is to be won . " This was followed by his reference to the " labor despotism , " which brought Representative to his feet with the parliamentary demand that Mr. Cox 's words be " taken down . " Speaker Rayburn was called to the chair as the House rose from committee to pass on the demand , and he promptly ruled that the statement was " only an expression of opinion which does not violate the rules of the House . " Earlier in the day Representative Cooper admonished Representative Kennedy to " proceed in order " when Mr. Smith protested the New Yorker 's characterization of him as " a long-time opponent of labor . " Tempers flared again when Representative Welch called attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cox 's home State of Georgia and in other Southern States before passage of the Wages and Hours law , the chief measure which would be suspended by the Smith proposal . Mr. Welch took the position that the proposal would repeal the minimum wage provisions of this law , as well as the eforty-hour week limitations . Points to Hours Laws In supporting his proopsal Mr. Smith said that many of the seventeen laws which he listed make it " absolutely unlawful " to work more than prescribed minimum hours . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act , he said , even makes it unlawful for persons to work more than thirty hours on relief projects financed by RFC funds . " Of course that was passed when we were trying to spread the work and was all right then , " he said . " But now we have more work than workers to do it . " In asserting that the bill would be voted if the Smith amendment carried , Representative Celler also predicted that if a record vote is had on it , " members with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be in a hot spot next November . " The President 's committee which drafted the pending war powers bill considered the Smith proposal and rejected it , he added . No record vote can be had in the committee of the whole , where the first vote on the proposal will come tomorrow . However , if it carries , a motion is certain to be made for a record vote in the House proper before action is completed . Hillman Assails Proposal Sidney Hillman , War Production Labor Director , attacked the Smith amendment tonight as a threat to speedy production of war materials . " The enactment of Congressman Howard Smith 's proposals would not expedite the necessary war production but  --  far more seriously ? would result in confusion and demoralization and a lowering of morale , with incalculable results to our war efforts , " said Mr. Hillman in a statement . " Wherever any substantial delay in production has been encountered it has been due primarily to a shortage or scarcity of materials . No delay in production has occurred by reason of the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The plain fact is that the issue of payment of overtime rates for work in excess of forty hours per week is not relevant in any way to the issue of productivity . " Workers are now putting in as many hours as the job of efficient production demands/ Furthermore , even if the statutory provision requiring overtime payment for work over forty hours per week should be abolished , it would not eliminate overtime payments . Moreover , work is performed under contracts voluntarily entered into between manager/16'A and labor providing for the payment of overtime for any work done in excess-of forty hours per week . " Move to " Repeal " Laws Denied Mr. Smith was asked today what chance he thought his proposal would have in the Senate , which has rejected or refused to consider other labor bills he has sponsored such as anti-strike legislation . He replied that " hope springs eternal . " The sponsor of the amendment denied assertions that it repeals any labor laws , declaring that it merely " suspends " them . But he conceded that its effect would apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norton , chairman of the House Labor Committee , later asserted that the proposal would " eliminate straight pay for overtime as well as extra pay , " but did not give any details on this . Prior to the consideration of the hours amendment Mr. Smith managed to get acceptance by a 128-to93 vote of his amendment limiting to $5,000,000,000 , the amount of government bonds the Treasury can sell direct ' to the , Federal Reserve Banks . The Senate bill removes entirely a 1935 prohibition against any such direct sales .                     