@@712334

txt The Soviet Government dropped Earl Browder , former chief of American communism , from its payroll at the end of July , it was discovered yesterday . As a result of the Soviet Government 's decision to dispense with Mr. Browder 's services as American publishing representative of its All-Union Council of Ministers , channeling " information both ways between the United States and the Soviet Union , " Mr. Browder wound up his business in a. hurry . He closed his tiny , $100-a-month one-room office on the seventh floor of the Bryant Park Building , 55 West Forty-second Street , called a moving van ' and had his desk and his voluminous library moved to his home at 7 Highland Place , Yonkers . He left the scene of his ventures in private enterprise without leaving a forwarding address , according to the building staff . Mr. Browder paid his rent and his telephone bill right up to the end , however . He notified the telephone company and the postoffice to forward his communications to Yonkers . This was discovered when an effort was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him before a Senate subcommittee in Washington . Mr. Browder was criticized as " an apologist for capitalism " when he was deposed as Communist leader in the United States in. 1945 and ousted from the party in 1946 because he believed that the United States and the Soviet Union , in spite of differences , could reach a modus vivendi and that Russia , . on American credit , could be a vast and useful market for American products . At first , in an effort to support himself , he founded an economic newsletter called Distributor 's Guide . Then , after a mysterious visit to Moscow in 1946 , during which he was put up in a luxurious three-room suite at the Moscow Hotel , normally reserved for favored delegations , he returned here as an employe of OGIZ , the United States Publishing House of the Council of Ministers . Since the Council of Ministers had managed to get along without a publishing representative here for a good many years , it was commonly believed that the ex-leader was merely being " put on ice " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recourse but return to the policy Mr. Browder represented . His enemies in the party spread the story that he had got himself a place on the payroll by threatening to tell all he knows about Soviet and Communist activities , but this lost credibility when Mr. Browder volunteered to testify on behalf of the eleven Communist leaders on trial here in Federal Court . ? Attacked in Daily Worker That the line on Browder , was shifting was indicated last March when The Daily Worker , Communist organ , for no obvious reason except as part of an inner-party discussion , published a series of articles by Gus Hall , national committeeman , attacking Mr. Browder 's theories . At the same time the Historical Institute of the Soviet Academy of Science in Moscow was convened to hear an attack on Mr. Browder as " a traitor to Marxism and Leninism " and to learn a new Soviet line on President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal . The line was that Mr. Roosevelt 's social policies represented an effort to solve the problem of class collaboration undertaken only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt nevertheless safeguarded the interests of " monopolistic capital . " An account of the session was not released until July 2 , a few weeks before Mr. Browder 's connection with the Soviet Government was severed . Mr. Browder confirmed last night that he had left the business . He did it , he said , " because there was ? no business . " Asked what he was doing now , he said : " I am unemployed at present and looking for a job . " He is seeking a job in his profession , accountancy , or as a business executive , in which , he pointed out , he has long experience , but he will gladly consider " anything at which I can earn my living . " He had no political plans at present , he said . He will give lectures when he has engagements , as he did for the last year , publishing the lectures in typewritten form , he added . But he is still " out of politics . " Registration Is Canceled Mr. Browder said he had canceled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of Justice . He had been obliged to register because , as an agent of the Council of Ministers ' publishing unit , he was the representative of all the Soviet publishing houses . After having been received by Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov , an honor rarely accorded foreign business men and never to book salesmen , he signed a five-year contract with OGIZ and two affiliates . This has two years to - run but to sue under the contract Mr. Browder would have to bring a case in the Soviet courts . Mr. Browder operated as " Earl Browder , Inc. , " and as the " Soviet Government Publishing House , " but the Council of Ministers ' books , such as the one by ex-Deputy Premier N. A. Voznesensky , " The Economy of the U.S.S.R. in the Period of the Great Patriotic War , " continued to be published without royalty payment by Soviet research agencies here and , in authorized editions , by International Publishers , the Communist movement 's publishing affiliate . Mr. Browder still has a large following in the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs , either on ideological grounds or because funds are short , and they are unemployed like their leader . Certain followers still have top jobs , but are trying to hold them by keeping their opinions to themselves . Exactly who his political friends in Moscow are  --  or were  --  was never discovered .                     