@@706496

txt June 6 ? Artillery preparation for an assault by infantry upon the enemy stronghold has begun . That is the meaning behind the R. A. F. 's mass air attacks upon German industrial centers , just as it was the meaning behind the Battle of Britain nearly two years ago . The British war effort survived that pummelling and the threatened invasion was never attempted by the Nazis . Whether history will repeat itself in reverse remains to be seen , but ! ! there is every reason to believe that the R. A. F. , with the assist- II ance of the United States Air II Force , backed by the vast productive capacity of American industry , has a quantitative as well as a qualitative edge on Goering 's Luftwaffe . The bomber force concentrated on this island is strong enough now to blot out one city after another in Germany as thoroughly as the Nazis smashed Coventry , and it will grow stronger . Fighter Forces Strengthened Fighter Command and ground defenses have been strengthened so much since those grim days in the Autumn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beating off any air offensive which Hitler might launch against them with his weakened and fully-engaged Luftwaffe . And so they have opened a new front in the only place they could  - -  in the air over Germany and German-occupied Europe . Ultimately its aim is to prepare the way for an invasion of the Continent but for the present it must be considered an end in itself . Judged on the basis of this immediate purpose , the British feel they have achieved an outstanding success . When 1,000 British planes roared over Cologne in the space of ninety minutes . and repeated the performance forty-eight hours later over Essen , it was no mere stunt . It was the beginning of a new phase in air warfare in Europe . No nation had ever attempted anything like it before . A couple of years ago the British could not have done it , even if they had had the planes . They lacked both the II organization and the experience for an attack on such a scale . If : ! they can approach an average of 1,000 planes daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will be conducting a real campaign . Their primary immediate purpose is to help Russia by crippling the Nazi war industry and by drawing some fire from the Luftwaffe here . Already they have succeeded to some extent  --  an extent which may be estimated to some degree from Russian expressions of enthusiastic approval and piteous complaints from Nazi headquarters , coupled with such reorganization of German civilian defense as are implied by placing Heinrich Himmler in charge of it . Already they have forced Hitler to keep 50 per cent of the Luftwaffe in Western Europe , when he would much rather have it free to use in against the tillery preparation before an assault upon a fortified position . . They know that before the war is won they will have to invade and occupy Germany and that anything that can be done now toward weakening the enemy and reducing his fortifications is a preparation for that day . The disruption has already overtaxed German communications systems , and it also is crippling Nazi war industries and shaking the morale of the people in Hitler 's Reich  --  all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Wehrmacht in the had to fight defensive actions . America , but mostly to their own efforts , they have achieved a sort of superiority in the air over Germany . The time has not arrived for them to pit their army against Hitler's. and their navy is fighting defensively on the seven seas , but their air force at last has taken the offensive . There trill be no surcease for the German people now until the war is won . The huge mass attacks that the , British have sent against Germany during the past few days should prove an effective answer to all those who think Britons are a race of bunglers , to all those who said this island was too small to serve as a base for an air force big enough to match Goering'a and to any who suspected that Prime Minister Churchill 's repeated warnings that retribution for Coventry would come one day was mere rhetorical boasting . Room for Expansion Experts here on the ground -- American as well as British- are convinced that limitations of space have not yet begun to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times , even four times , as big can and propably will be attempted before this war is over . and from bases on this island , too . There are ways of making one field do double duty . The only limiting factor that might conceivably curtail the large-scale operations now being planned is gasoline . Britain and the United States together control the best part of the world 's oil supply , but this country after all is an island . dependent upon sea transport for fuel for its planes as well as food for its people . Losses Of tankers off the American coast since the United States entered the war have caused some misgivings and have been reflected in curtailment of the basic gasoline ration to private car owners effective in a few weeks . Meanwhile it should not be forgotten that the " fumbling " British prepared and organized the biggest raids iii the world 's history entirely on their own . It was a plan devised by Air Marshal Harris and carried out chiefly by British pilots and British crews in planes manufactured in factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with German air ; ports from which fighters might have taken off , but every bomber that spread destruction through the Rhineland was British-made. his campaign now . Repeated large-scale air raids immobilize minions of fire watchers , rescue workers and police as well as hamper industry . When the warning siren blows factory workers who do not know whether ' it means that one plane or 1 ? 000 : are approaching are inclined to ? drop their tools and take shelter . It is not only the factories that are smashed but the millions of men that are interrupted in their work as an aftermath that has to be ! considered in assessing the grand total of results achieved by these massive bombings . Way to Salvation A mass exodus of workers from the threatened industrial areas is I one of the objectives of the British I bombing . They have been warned ' over and over again that only by taking refuge in the country can they escape the wrath to come . The same message has been dinned ! iinto the ears of French artisans in aircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1Wehrinacht . But , above all , the ! lesson which the R. A. F. is trying to teach the German people is that ' ultimately their only salvation is ! to get rid of Hitler and the Nazi Iregime . Naturally the British do not ex- I pect to win the war by air attack alone . Rather , they look upon the present phase of the war as a mill ! tary commander looks upon the arA TASTE OF THEIR OWN MEDICINE ( 111 , Q litingerfuril in The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Do Yog litt  --  IK ( 464sy MiGwr 13r t1CeAVATN6 rot A StcomPrgogr .. , Soviets east , which would make possible an invasion from the west . Aside front the obviously greater devastating effect of mass raids on a scale of 1,000 or 2,000 planes a night , the British have learned from long experience that in numbers there is also comparative safety . Their losses on two nights when they sent 1,000 planes against Cologne and Essen were proportionately lighter than earlier raids when they sent a couple of hundred against other strongly defended enemy positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " saturation of defenses . " That means that if there are 500 antiaircraft guns , as there are believed to be , around Cologne , a dozen or more of them can aim at one plane if the attacking force is light , but if there are 1,000 or more raiders there are two targets for every gun . Likewise searchlight crews have a harder time coordinating their work with the gunners . Merely a First Step There is such a thing as a saturation of civilian defenses as well . For instance , fire-fighters may be able to cope with incendiary bombs dropped from a hundred planes , but the amount than can be carried by 1,000 planes scattered over a hundred square miles , like the Cologne area , will start fires that are bound to tax the fire-fighting apparatus and water supply of almost any city . The British started this war with Preparation for Invasion by Land Now , thanks partly to help from                     