@@706907

txt With threats already directed here against the Reciprocal Trade Agreement Pact as Congress prepares to reassemble tomorrow , Republican members held their fir@ party caucus today to determine whether they will make defeat of the President 's power to negotiate such pacts a party issue , as in other years . or leave the matter to the decision of individual members . On this decision probably hinges the life of the Reciprocal Trade Act which was continued in 1940 by a bare majority of only five Senate votes . With increased Republican representation in Congress the proposed three-year extension of the Act , which has always split Congress on party lines in the past , probably depends on Republican votes . President Roosevelt in his annual message Thursday will make a strong recommendation for continuation of his power , it is believed , on the basis of international accord , and the effect on postwar settlements and international good will of rejection . Unless continued by Congress , the Act expires June 12 , though the 25 Hull agreements now in effect will not be automatically outlawed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject to six months ' notice of termination by the respective countries . Test of Postwar Sentiment However , authority to write other agreements will be ended including presumably three now under negotiation . The issue is looked upon as the first test of postwar sentiment of the new Congress . Another congressional item touching international affairs is the proposed investigation of Lend-Lease bookkeeping , and a possible attack on the continuation of the program . Those advocating the public investigation are largely members of the group which sees in the present itemized Lend-Lease bookkeeping practice a promise that the United States will be repaid in cash by Britain , Russia and China after the war , and who therefore want to stake out a definite claim to another batch of war debts now . It was the " war debts " issue which largely alienated the United States from Britain and France after World War I and caused the countries to go their separate ways , winding up in a new war . British officials urge that Lend-Lease debts be not regarded as a form of charity , but as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule of equality of sacrifice . Here is another touchstone of sentiment on postwar co-operation likely to find a quick test in the new Congress . Martin Smooths Way Representative Joseph W. Marton , Jr. , of Massachusetts , House Republican Leader of a party that has jumped from 165 to 208 , pledged himself not to battle the Democratic majority over war measures . Mr. Martin is former Chairman of the Republican National Committee . He will make a more comprehensive program statement follo wing the party caucus . Democratic Speaker Sam RayCon burn and House Majority Leader John W. MacCormack , also of Massachusetts , both served notice that the Administration will fight to the utmost to continue the Reciprocal Trade Agreements and the Lend-Lease Program . The House passed the three-year Trade Pact Renewal in 1940 by 218 to 168 . It was the most controversial legislation of the year affecting foreign economic relations , and only five House Republicans voted for it while 146 voted against ; it squeaked through the Senate , 42 to 37 , with all 20 Republicans voting against . Gives Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewed , gives the Executive authority to make reciprocal tariff pacts . Existing pacts , though mostly ineffective at present , act as a brake against precipitate trade wars and stand as a pledge of good will , advocates assert , in postwar planning . The Canadian Agreement , for example , superseded an era of tariff bitterness finding expression in the impregnable Hawley-Smoot barriers of 1930 , and the retort of the Ottawa Agreement two years later . Added to these affronts was the " rider " inserted in the 1932 U. S. Revenue Act imposing so-called excise taxes which were really tariffs on four vitally important commodities , coal , copper , pertroleum , and lumber , and passed by a log-rolling political combination . Such embittering practices have yielded to a Hull reciprocal pact which has brought the countries close together and made war cooperation infinitely easier . " Congressional repudiation of the Master Act under which such pacts are negotiated would make foreign countries throw up their hands and refuse to play ball , " one official advocate of the system declared here . " The act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be simply - devastating . " Say Congress Inadequate Sponsors of the system declare it is a historical fact that Congress is incapable of carrying through extensive tariff reductions with foreign countries . Most notorious example were the so-called " Kasson treaties , " which were pigeonholed by the Senate after it had authorized their negotiation and after elaborate international efforts had been written out . Logrolling combinations under the constitutional two thirds majority , required for treaties , rules out hope for trade pacts arrived at in this way , it is agrued . On the other hand , opponents of the Hull system charge that it takes power illegally and by subterfuge from the Legislature and gives it to the Executive . The Parent Act has been renewed twice , but each time by a diminished majority . White House Secretary Early said today President Roosevelt would probably confer with " a good many " congressional leaders before his message on the State of the Union is completed . The bulk of the budget message which the President will send to Congress Friday already has been sent to the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wendell L. Willkie in his speech , Nov. 21 , declared there would be no peace , no real development , no economic stability " unless we find the method by which the trade barriers hampering the flow of goods are removed . " It is hinted Mr. Willkie 's influence may be enlisted in the big congressional fight looming ahead .                     