@@710647

txt The cosi-of living bounced to a new high in . Tune , with no prospect of a drop indicated in the near future . This new all-time high cut the purchase value of the American 's dollar down to 64 cents , compared with what it used to buy in 1935-39 , as the Bureau of Labor Statistics figures it . An Associated Press survey disclosed that the value of the dollar in relation to the necesaries of life is now 50 cents by 1939 prices . I In terms of the BLS Consumer Index , the cosi of living hit 157.1 in June which topped the previous all-time high of 156.3 recorded last March . But so far there appears to he no sign that the peak has been reached . Since June , the cost of steel has gone up , a price increase which may be reflected in nearly half of the nation 's manufactured goods . Pressure Still On Numerous inflationary pressures are still to be felt , and as far as food costs go , Agriculture Department authorities see no prospect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least . There are in prospect at least , three things which , it . has been , predicted , will have a decided impact on the nation 's economy . 1 . The cashing of terminal-leave bonds on Sept. 2 which will release some 81,800 ; 000,000 buying power into the market exerting a definite pressure on prices . 2 . The termination of Government . controls on installment credit , on Nov. 1 with long-term buying expected to be considerably stimulated by easier terms . Credit buying already has zoomed in the last year to nearly $11,000 , - 000,000. 3 . The operation of the Marshall Plan which will boost the nation 's export program providing another prop for prices . Wolcott Sees Drop The only nfficiat so far to see any prospect of a price decline under these conditions is Representative Jesse P. Wolcott ( R ) of Michigan , Chairman of the House Banking Committee , who believes prices have reached their peak and sees " a genera ! price decline corning . " His prediction was made as an argument against any reinstatement of price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Over at the United States Employment Service , Director Robert C. Goodwin , endeavoring to look on the brighter side of higher prices , predicted that they might provide a temporary stimulant to employment . He believes that retailers and wholesalers may rush to stock up inventories in anticipation of price increases and that may provide a brief increase in jobs . By fall , however , he predicts a drop below 60,000,000 , with possibly only 57,000,000 working by the end of the year . Regardless of the wide employment enjoyed by the nation 's workers , the cost of living pressure is being felt to an increasing degree in every American home . To eat cost 11.4 per cent more on . Tune 15 than it did on May 15 , it was found in the analysis of BLS figures . That rise , if maintained , is at the rate of 18 per cent a year . Many Alhericans are being forced to shop for cheaper cuts of meat and cheaper lines of food in order to keep the family food bill within reasonable limits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita is expected to be lower this year than last , due not so much to costs , however , as to the high birth rate ( babies consuming less than grownups ) , and to the fact that there are fewer persons this year consuming military supplies , according to BLS deductions . Consumer resistance of prices appears to be building up in some lines at least , Department store sales for the week ended Aug. 9 were reported 3 per cent lower than for the corresponding week in 1946 . In some few instances where consumer demand has fallen off in the face of high production , and where the foreign market does not enter into the picture in any noticeable degree , prices already have started down , as in the case of radios and some types of electrical equipment . Seasonal sales in furniture are also in full swing , with fur values already well deflated. 1939 dollar worth about 50 cents now : Page S. 