@@705280

txt Holding that labor disputes In plants producing national defense materials affect the public interest , the Michigan Labor Board has ruled that 30 days notice must be given the board before strikes can be called in such plants . By invoking the " public interest " clause or the state labor mediation laws , the board has lengthened the waiting period required between the filing of a strike notice and the actual strike to the same period required in disputes involving public utilities . Previously , only a five-day notice to the board had been required from workers in general manufacturing plants . The waiting period is designed to give the board an opportunity to mediate the dispute . Should the ruling of the board be upheld by an official opinion as to legality by the state attorney general , whose assistant already has indicated approval , and withstand the court test that labor leaders are believed certain to initiate , the chances of loss of defense production due to labor trouble would be considerably reduced in Michigan 's highly organized plants . Michigan industry as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders for armament needs . May Extend to All Industries Implicit in the Mediation Board 's invocation of the public interest clause is the inclusion of factories which have the role of subcontractors to those fabricating tanks , machine - ? - uns , military trucks , etc . This would affect " hundreds of factories which do not hold direct government contracts , and ultimately , might affect practically all industry in Michigan . Now pending before the board are approximately 100 strike notices , including about 20 involving plants working on arms orders . Wherever possible , the board explains , it will attempt to separate the workers or plant departments directly employed on defense production from those working on regular production . In cases where the defense activities of a plant are not separable frRm its regular output , a proposed strike In any part of the plant will require the 30-day notice rather than the 5-day notice , it is stated . Effectiveness of the board 's efforts to mediate labor trouble rests more upon the backing of public opinion than upon statutes : under the mediation law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of the law has never been used , however , inasmuch as the board has felt that this might weaken therespect it commands from the public at large as well as from workers . Governor Appoints Board In disputes where 5-day notices have been filed , the board itself attempts to conciliate the differences between management and labor : in the industries where 30-day strike notices are required , or . in other words , when " the public interest " is involved , the law authorizes the governor to appoint a board of impartial citizens to mediate the dispute . The present ruling was made after members of the International Association of Machinists , an AFL union , became involved in a dispute with management of Duplex Printing Press Co. of Battle Creek . That company is working on a $6,000,000 army order for gun carriages . The union filed notice with the board that it proposed to seek a strike authorization from its international headquarters . The board returned the notice with the ruling that 30 days notice of any intention strike would be required under the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after union walk-outs had paralyzed important puplie utilities plants in the Saginaw River valley and brought involuntary suspension of production in dozens of plants employing thousands of workers , the 30-day clause of the labor law consequently has effectively prevented any repetition of that situation . In general , industry believes that the law and the board it crated has been a steadying influence on labor relations . Organized labor , however , has only a luke-warm regard for it at best . In the absence from the city of leaders of the United Auto Workers-CIO , which is the union that would be most affected by the board 's ruling , no comment from labor circles was available last night . A union challenge of the ruling , however , is believed inevitable in view of previous UAW-CIO statements of policy in similar circumstances .                     