@@706692

txt Nine leading glass container concerns and 61 individuals were convicted in Toledo , Ohio , of violating the Sherman Antitrust Act . The South Carolina Office of Petroleum Co-ordinator announced that the plantation pipe line which passes through the western part of South Carolina would be extended from its northern terminus at Greensboro , N C. , to Richmond , Va . In Detroit , Sir Walter Turner Monckton , noted member of the English Bar , told the American and Canadian Bar Associations in joint session that the task of carrying " the eternal torch of liberty and justice " had been committed to those who uphold the democratic Anglo-Saxon law . Details : Page 3 . New York Republicans unanimously nominated Thomas W. Wallace , Schenectady District Attorney , for Lieutenant Governor running mate of Thomas E. Dewey . Europe : Quisling Tries to Ease Church Revolt Conciliatory speech by Vidkun Quisling indicated Nazis may have abandoned efforts to suppress opposition clergy in Norway in interests of military expediency . W. Averell Harriman , President 's representative at the recent historic Churchill-Stalin talks in Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortly to Washington to report to the President . He said the United States was a full partner with Britain and Russia in any decisions which were made at the conference . Nazis executed six men in Belgium  --  four Frenchmen , a Pole and a Belgian  --  on charges of having killed a German soldier , Belgian sources in London reported . The 2,500-ton French destroyer , Audacieux , which was seriously crippled in the Dakar naval battle in 1940 , steamed into Bizerte , French naval base in Tunisia , under its own power , it was reported from Vichy . A French freighter , the 7,202-ton Conde , reached Marseille after sailing from Tamatave , Vichy-controled port in Madagascar , in alleged defiance of a British order not to leave the dock , Vichy newspapers reported . Collection of winter clothing for Hungarian troops fignting in Russia , was started throuout Hungary , it was reported from Budapest . A projected tour of England by nine Swiss newspapermen was reported blocked when Germans canceled French visas which had been issued to them . Japan 's Minister to Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tour of Spanish and French Morocco , it was reported in Berlin . New England : Sugar Ceiling Set at 61/2 Cents A new alternative maximum price of 63i cents a pound for refined sugar sold at retail in 10 North Atlantic seaboard States was established by Price Administrator Leon Henderson . Massachusetts had its first " black market " case in connection with gasoline rationing , with three dealers involved . Page 5 . Boston 's proposed " teen-age curfew " still hung fire , with indications that the plan may be quietly shelved . Page 2 . Washington : New Zealand Premier on Way Prime Minister Peter Fraser of New Zealand arrived on the Pacific Coast en route to Washington . United Nations grand strategy in the Southwest Pacific was seen as an obvious subject for discussion with President Roosevelt . Viscount Halifax , British Ambassador just back from England , was scheduled to see the President today . Five million women will be added to the roster of war workers by the end of next year , according to Miss Thelma of the War Manpower Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A victory for women workers and for advocates of fair wage policies has been achieved in the nanel recommendation to the National War Labor Board in the General Motors case requiring the same wage rate for women as men doing the same work , states Mary Anderson , director of the Women 's Bureau in the Department of Labor . First payments to dependents of enlisted men went out from the Navy in checks totaling $17,435.80 , sent to beneficiaries in 35 states . In the Senate , controversial amendments to the bill permitting servicemen to vote by mail , and the lack of a quorum , bogged the measure down for the third time . A September quota of 35,500 new passenger automobiles for rationing was announced by the Office of Price Administration . Labor Unions asked for a greater voice in the war production program . High ranking leaders of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations , opening a two-day closed meeting with.the War Production Board , said they should have " a place at the top in the formation of policies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of crude , reclaimed and scrap rubber and latex in civilian products , effective Sept. 1 and set up machinery to restrict the use of rubber in products made on military orders . Americas : Brazil Gets Nonbelligerent Rights Argentina , Bolivia , and Paraguay joined other American Nations in granting nonbelligerent rights to warring Brazil . Seventeen Axis ships and three banks were confiscated by Brazil as war measures . Details : Page 9 . Mexico 's General Staff announced that 10 new light bombers arrived from the United States to be added to the Mexican Force and that " others " may be expected this week . The Japanese Cabinet devoted its session to " the political especially considering Brazil 's declaration of war " against and Italy , according to Berlin . Nearly a quarter million have settled in the big South American republic . The War : Latest developments on the world 's battle fronts are summarized on                     