@@712207

txt General critics of the North Atlantic . pact consolidated their forces today behind a 38 word reservation specifying that ratification would carry no " legal or moral " commitment to supply arms to foreign nations . This new threat to administration efforts to keep the treaty free of qualifications came as former State Secretary Henry L. ' Stimson appealed to senators to adopt the treaty as is . " If this treaty is beaten , or if its great meaning is befogged by reservations seeming to proceed from fear , we shall not soon be able to repair the damage , " Stimson said . Taft Leads Move The senate , due to vote on the pact and all reservations ' Mrsday , prepared to debate for the 11th day today , but an early recess was taken in memory of Supreme Court Justice Murphy who died early today in Detroit . Off the floor , Sen. Taft ( R. , 0. ) led the latest move to close opposition ranks behind the noarms-for-Europe reservation . lie , and Senators Watkins ( R ? Utah ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new reservation , which says : " Nothing contained , in article 3 creates a legal or moral obligation on the part of the United States to furnish arms , armaments , military , naval or air equipment or supplies to any other party or Parties to said treaty . " Watkins had offered a reservation earlier ruling out any arms commitment in any section of the pact . The new approach , to which he reportedly agreed , would confine the reservation to article 3 , which says ; " In order more effectively to achieve the objectives of this treaty , the parties , separately and jointly , by means of contmious and effective self-help and mutual aid , will maintain and develop ' their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack . " Plan Finfher Fight This , and two other reservations by Watkins stipulating that this country will not use military forces to defend a pact member without a prior declaration of war : by congress , will provide the greatest test of strength of the ' opposition . Treaty proponents - firs isted " they ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this happens , reserva- , tionists plan to renew  --  with per- , haps better chances of success ? their fight later when the adminis  --  ration 's I billion 130 million dol- , lar arms aid proposal comes up : for debate , Former Secretary Stimson 's plea , for ratification without reserva-1 tion was contained in identical : telegrams to Senators Ives and . Dulles , New York Republicans , Stimson was President Hoover 's secretary of state and President Roosevelt 's secretary of war . H e said he was " much troubled " by press reports that the pact " may be in some danger " from , its senate opponents , Refusal of the senate to ratify , or its insistence on reservations " requiring the hazardous and disheartening process of renegotiation , " he asserted , " would be a disastrous repudiation of the traditional American effort to maintain and advance human freedom and peace in the world . " Defines Commitment Stimson said he is unable to ' understand the argument that the treaty " commits us to military aid which we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if we ratify : the treaty , to a policy of elf-help , and mutual aid . This means that we shall be committed to give ' military assistance whenever we honestly recognize that the coM- : Mon purpose of the treaty requires such assistance . " 