@@711356

txt Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin has told the House of Commons that there is " a delicate state of affairs " in Berlin . He described the transport situation as " serious " and referred to unsuccessful " demonstrations apparently designed to overawe the City Council . " " I am glad to say that the Berlin authorities and population are displaying great calmness and show no sign of being intimidated. " he declared . By J. Emlyn Williams Central European Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Berlin The struggle for a balance of power in Berlin has become so sharply defined that the issue now is one for the four powers concerned , not simply for their military governors here on the snot . The consequences of events of the past few weeks , culminating in complete isolation of this city from the Western Zones except for air transport , now must be faced squarely . Latest developments included : Soviet blocking of the Berlin-Helmstedt rail line over which western supplies have been reaching the former German capital . Stoppage of food deliveries from the Soviet zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric power supplies for the western sectors . Introduction of the Soviet mark with the claim that it represented the only valid currency in all four sectors of Berlin . Hitherto there have been brave words from the west : " We intend to remain in Berlin . We shall have to be driven out before we go . " And from Washington and London have come official statements to much the same effect . The Berliner assumes that .. ? hen the western powers say they intend to remain here . it means they will stay as three members of the quadripartite control organization with the same rights and privileges as the Soviet Union for the administration of this city . Should they stay on merely by keeping token forces here and allowing the Russians to run the city , the Germans say , then the western democracies would be merely condoning the undemocratic processes they so often have condemned , and they would have to abandon hope of any support from the westward-looking people in this city . Much more than the question of prestige is involved for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would be an exaggeration to say that the loss of Berlin would mean the loss of all of western Germany . But there certainly would be a marked slump in the conviction west of the River Elbe that the western allies could consolidate and hold that area against later Soviet Communist intrigues . German confidence also might be shaken in the ability of the West to overcome the temporary economic depression which might accompany the first phase of the currency reform in their zones . The American , British , and French Governments , on the other hand . now in the process of weighing their attitudes toward the whole Berlin problem , must decide whether they are prepared for the full consequences of any resistance to Russian policy . Food Supplies LowFood supplies in the American sector of the city are estimated as sufficient to last a little over a fortnight . After that the situation would become acute for the German population . About the same estimate applies to the British sector , should the Russians continue their ban on transport into the city from west Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and mail , are piling up at Hannover and Brunswick , which are near the British-Russian zonal frontier . Will the Americans , British , and French decide that these supplies must enter Berlin even at the risk involved in using military pro-tection ? Money Com  | i cations Meanwhile in Berlin . tension naturally runs high with apprehension of clashes between the four powers somewhat diverted by the more immediate practical problems connected with currency changes . The absence of any quadripartite agreement on a fixed exchange rate between the old reichsmarks and new deutsche marks make business impossible for the time being . Even travel on the city transport systems is complicated by the tact that in the Russian sector 10 old pfennigs still have a value of 10 pfennigs , whereas in other sectors they are worth only one ( new ) pfennig .                     