@@706173

txt The navy tonight announced the destruction of an 8,000 ton American ship by an enemy plane in waters of the Netherlands East Indies , while the nation awaited word of a renewed at . tack upon the gallant defenders of the Philippines . The vessel was the Ruth Alexander of the American Presidents Lines . She was formerly owned by the Pacific Steamship company and was once In regular passenger service he . tween Los Angeles and Seattle . Abandoned as Total Loss . One member of the crew was killed and four others were injured . The remainder of the ship 's personnel was declared to be safe In a friendly port . The air attack apparently did not sink the vessel , but inflicted such damage that she had to be abandoned as a total loss . The Ruth Alexander 's crctc is given as 143 77101 in the merchant marines register . A Dutch communique on Jan. 1 reported that an American freighter was attacked and set afire by planes in East Indies waters and that a Dutch naval flying boat had rescued 48 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The navy said last night it did not know whether this ship and the Ruth . Alexander were the same , but added that front available information this was assumed to be the case.1 Tlw navy , In tuldition to nnnouncing the destruction of the American liner , added that operations against Japanese submarines in the central Pacific were continuing , and that off the west roast of the United States the activities of undersea raiders had been reduced . The navy 's communique said an investigation of reports of an enemy sabnitt  --  ine off the N e w England ( feast had produe.fti nothing definite . Prepare for Another Assault . Meanwhile . the weary fighting men of Gen. Douglas were steeling themselves in the Philippines to withstand another savage Japanese effort to drive them off their rocky , grimly held peninsula and into the sea . The enemy obviously was gathering his strength and forces for a major attack , moving fresh troops and equipment into the areas of direct assault . The actual lighting had reduced itself to sporadic jungle skirmishes , the apparent result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least gave the American and Filipino defenders an opportunity for the thing which , in addition to airplanes and ground reenforcements. they needed most  --  rest . The day brought the first direct word since Dec. 31 from Associated Press correspondents in the Philippines , and disclosed that Clark Lee of the Manila bureau Is at Fort Mills . on Corregidor Island . His dispatch was a brief account of how three American soldiers cut off by Japanese forces played dead for 28 hours and eventually rejoined the main body of American troops . 