@@705255

txt ASCAP , RADIOCHAINS TO BE PROSECUTED AS MUSIC ' TRUSTS ' Arnold Plans Criminal Action Against Composers ' Group and N.B.C . and Columbia SEESPOOLING , " BOYCOTTS ' ASCAP and Broadcasters ' Unit Pictured as Battling to Control Copyright Music By TURNER CATLEDGE Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Dec. 26 ? Attorney General Jackson today authorized criminal proceedings under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act against the American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers ( ASCAP ) and two of the leading broadcasting chains , following failure of efforts to settle a dispute between the two groups over the use of music controlled by the former in radio broadcasts . The authority was given by the Attorney General to Thurman Arnold , assistant attorney general in charge of anti-trust law enforcement , and proceedings are to be brought in Milwaukee soon after Jan. 1 . Both ASCAP and Broadcast Music , Inc. , a rival organization set up by the broadcasters , will be named defendants , as will the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System . Eight Violations Alleged As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General 's actions , the prosecutions will be based on the following charges : 1 . The illegal pooling of most of the desirable copyright music available for radio broadcasting in order to eliminate competition and to monopolize the supply . 2 . Illegal discrimination against users of copyright music . 3 . Illegal discrimination against composers who are not members of ASCAP or Broadcast Music , Inc. 4 . Withholding music from publication in order to exact fees not permitted by the copyright laws . 5 . Illegal price fixing . 6 . Restraining composers in their right to bargain for the sale of their own music . 7 . Requiring users of music to pay for tunes on programs in which no music is played . 8 . Mutual boycotts by ASCAP and by the broadcasting chains ( through Broadcast Music , Inc. ) in an attempt by each of these conflicting groups to obtain for themselves control over the supply of music by depriving the others of control , which boycotts threaten to restrain and obstruct the rendition over the radio of about 90 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department 's decision to institute criminal proceedings , Assistant Attorney General Arnold said : " For a number of years the antitrust division has received constant complaints against the activities of the American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers . " The original purpose of ASCAP was one which the department recognizes to be legitimate , i. e. , collective action to protect its members from piracy of their copyrights . Activities which further this purpose have not been questioned by the department , and are not attacked in these proceedings . " However , the department for many years past has frequently called to the attention of ASCAP practices which went far beyond the necessity of protecting its members in their copyright privileges ? practices which were designed solely for the purpose of eliminating competition in the furnishing of music , and securing a monopoly control over the supply . " Recently , through Broadcast Music , Inc. ( an association controlled by the major broadcasting chains ) , the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System have engaged in , and threaten to continue on a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department charges were illegally instituted by ASCAP . It is claimed that these activities were necessary to protect the broadcasting chains from the illegal activities of ASCAP . " The department is not concerned with the question as to which organization was the aggressor . Each of these groups today is charged with using illegal methods to wrest the control of copyright music from the other . " The threatened conflict is already in its first stage . The mutual boycotts already begun will hamper and obstruct the rendition of all copyrighted music over the radio and deprive the public of the privilege of hearing that music except on terms dictated by the victor in the contest . In such a struggle the public is in the position of a neutral caught between two aggressive belligerents . " This depai tment can not sit by and see ASCAP and the broadcasters engage in a private war at the expense of the public , using violations of law as their weapons in order to fight fire with fire . We have tried to obtain voluntary agreement to form the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow the associations of composers to continue their legitimate function of protecting their members from piracy . Those efforts , which a few days ago appeared to be on the verge of success , have failed . Now we have no choice but to proceed with a criminal prosecution to protect the interests of the public in orderly competition in the distribution of music . " It should be added that complaints have also been received against tin- Society of European Authors and Composers , commonly called SESAC . These complaints are now being investigated . " Surprised by Warning Both ASCAP and the broadcasting officials informally expressed surprise that the Department of Justice should take such pains to warn both factions of its intentions to file a criminal action instead of doing it directly . In some quarters it was believed that Washington was " waving the big stick , " as it was put , in the hope of forcing some adjustment of the involved differences prior to Jan. 1 . Despite the inclusion of the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System in the contemplated action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an admitted disappointment to ASCAP , which has long regarded Wisconsin as an " unfriendly State " legally . The Wisconsin Federation of Musicians , a strong A. F. L. affiliate , has contended that more of its members could receive employment were it not for the fees demanded by ASCAP . According to the society , The Milwaukee Journal , which operates WTMJ in that city , has also voiced strong criticism of the composers ' group . An action has been pending for some time in Milwaukee against the society and considerable evidence already adduced , a fact which was understood to have prompted the department 's choice of that city . The omission of the Mutual Broadcasting System from the department 's contemplated action was ascribed heer to the fact that it is NBC and CBS , but rather a group of independent stations working on a cooperative basis . Chains Deny Illegal Practices Neville Miller , president of the National Association of Broadcasters , speaking in behalf of the National Broadcasting Company and the Columbia Broadcasting System , made the following comment on the proposed prosecutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track in bringing criminal charges against the American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers . For many years broadcasters have sought relief from the grip of this illegal monopoly . It is a fact that the department has had pending an anti-trust suit against ASCAP for more than six years and it is also true that for many weeks now the department has been dickering with ASCAP for a consent decree which would have eliminated the monopolistic practices of which the broadcasters complain . This consent decree would have established an open and competitive market for music which once more would give broadcasters access to the great supplies of music controlled by the society in a monopolistic pool . " It is significant of the justice of the broadcasters ' complaints against the society and of the propriety of the Department of Justice 's pressing for a consent decree on the part of ASCAP that only two days ago three justices of the Federal Court in Washington unanimously held that ASCAP was an illegal monopoly in the restraint of trade . " It is most unfortunate that the department appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfectly legitimate effort of broadcasters to create an alternative competitive supply of music . Broadcast Music , Inc. , is not the creature of NBC and CBS . It was formed by mandate of the National Association of Broadcasters in open convention , and more than 600 stations are the owners of its stock and the users of its music . It was at the urging of many of these stations and of myself that the networks cooperated in the formation of BMI , of which they together own only 17.1 per cent of the stock . Broadcasters throughout the country set up BMI after they had found it impossible to deal with ASCAP on any basis other than paying a tax on all programs whether they used music or not . In forming BMI , we had competent legal advice and are confident that it is in no sense violative of the law . " The statement issued by the Department of Justice shows that the department does not understand the set-up of Broadcast Music , Inc . This is not surprising in view of the fact that the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with broadcasters , nor has it pointed out to us any ways in which it believed we were violating the law . Certainly if it believes that broadcasters are attempting a boycott , they are completely misinformed . For weeks the Department of Justice discussed a consent decree with ASCAP and , when it failed to get one , it suddenly accuses practically the whole broadcasting industry , represented in BMI , of criminal practices without giving us any opportunity at all for a similar discussion . The reason for this unusual behavior is not at all clear to me , and I hope that before the department carries out its announced plan , it will be willing to give at least as much consideration to the broadcasters as it has given to a society which it has itself branded as a law violator over an extended period of years . " Gene Buck , president of ASCAP , issued the following statement : " Assistant Attorney General Arnold 's announcement to proceed to indict ASCAP is regrettable but does not come as a shock to me or my associates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to the power and influence of the broadcasters since the birth of radio . The only new feature of the government 's announcement is Mr. Arnold 's declaration to also indict the Columbia Broadcasting System , the National Broadcasting Company and their company union , Broadcast Music , Inc. , for which he receives our sincere congratulations . " This is the first time to my knowledge that the Attorney General 's office has addressed itself publicly to doing something about the monopoly , the power and the activities of our opponents . Heretofore our society has been singled out as the big bad wolf by the government and all the big guns have been aimed at the society , we who I create the music and the songs of the nation . " The Assistant Attorney General 's announced proceedings to finally go into the entire structure of the monopoly of the air and its affiliations should be welcome news to every one concerned  --  the public , the Legislatures , the judiciary throughout the nation and my associates in the society . Court Decisions Recalled " The breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on his insistence that we accept a decree requiring the society to do business as prescribed by certain laws which the broadcasters succeeded in having enacted in Florida and Nebraska , as well as in other States in 1937 . The State statutes were declared invalid by eleven Federal judges sitting in three States and upheld in one State , namely , Washington on Christmas Eve by three judges . " The Supreme Court has agreed to review two of the decisions . The cases will be argued the latter part of next month or the early part of February . In view of the desirability of obtaining an authoritative ruling on this important question from the nation 's highest tribunal , the society suggested that discussion of these matters be deferred until the Supreme Court decision . " The importance of the matter to the authors and composers of our nation 's music seemed to justify this request . The slight delay necessary was felt to be inconsequential when viewed in the light of the government 's inaction in this matter for a period of five years since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case which it brought against the society in 1934 . " We have offered and are still willing to meet the broadcasters any time , any place , anywhere to negotiate and settle our differences , but all the efforts of those who have tried for over eight months , including ourselves , have been unsuccessful . The broadcasters have evidently decided to go through with their plans to boycott our music and no one , it seems , including the government , can induce them to change their set course . " Leonard David Callahan , counsel of the Society of European Stage Authors and Composers , declared that there must have been a mistake in the statement of the Department of Justice that his organization , too , was being investigated . He said that SESAC was enjoying friendly contractual relations with the broadcasting industry , that there had been no hint of any complaints and that the department had turned to the society for information regarding ASCAP . The SESAC was founded ten years ago by Paul Heinecke to represent publishers chiefly concerned with serious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Callahan.                     