@@705323

txt AGORDAT CAPTURED Italians Lose Rail Town in Eritrea , Suffering Severe Losses ALSO DEFEATED IN SOUTH 8,000 Fascisti in Full , Flight in Ethiopia as British Push Ahead on All Fronts Wireless to TRIO Haw YORE Tnns . CAIRO , Egypt , Feb. 2 ? After , several days of progressively intensified fighting , British and Indian troops aided by the Royal Air Force broke the last Italian defenses at Agordat yesterday morning and completed the capture of that important mountain railroad town in Eritrea . The British took many hundreds of prisoners as well as guns and trucks , and destroyed eleven Italian tanks and fifteen guns . Italian losses in dead and wounded were reported to have been heavy . By dusk the British advance troops were closely pursuing the Italian force , which was withdrawing toward Cheren , forty miles farther east along the railroad and fifty miles northwest of Asmara , Eritrea 's capital . The retreating Italian force was the bulk of one division , probably the same men ' who had retreated from the Kassala area of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian defenders still held Barentu , where heavy fighting was in progress . The Fascist garrison there not only faced the danger of defeat but also was in constant peril of being I cut off and captured . The Barentu defenders , also numbering about one division , are the troops who retreated from the Tesenei area near ' the Sudanese border . Another Town Captured Still farther south the British finally caught up with Italian units fleeing from Um Hagar and Attacked them at Biacundi , thirty miles east of Urn Hagar . Biacundi was captured , together with a large number of prisoners . In Ethiopia , just over th- southern Eritrean border , the Italians were forced to withdraw from the Walkait district and to abandon most of their mechanical equipment . They were trying to make their way eastward along mountain tracks . Both the fleeing Um Hagar garrison and the Italians from Walkait were being harassed by Ethiopian patriots . Meanwhile , Italian resistance collapsed in the Metemma region of Ethiopia , and approximately 8,000 Italian troops were in full retreat eastward along the Metemma-Gondar road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcing back Italian advance units . Despite reverses on every East African front , the Italian troops have been fighting desperately and are continuing stiff resistance . The withdrawal from Agordat toward Cheren , although hasty , is not a rout and another stand by the Italians is expected soon . British Task Is Difficult The British face a formidable task , for their communication lines now are nearly 110 miles long . This is a handicap , as is the increasing ruggedness of the terrain , In many places the mountain passes in Eritrea are scarcely wider than the road , making it possible for a few men with machine guns to delay a large force . There is a mud fort at Cheren , but there are few other prepared defenses . However , Agordat held out for several days with the aid of quickly constructed fortifications . But despite Italian resistance , it seems unlikely that the way to Asmara will be blocked permanently , and Asmara is the key to the port of Massawa and to most of Eritrea . Although of comparatively slight importance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ethiopians ' participation . The Ethiopians made a mistake in 1935 by massing and attempting to meet the Italians in the open . Now , carefully coached by the British , they are confining themselves to guerrilla warfare , in which they are experts . When the Italians began to retreat they found that every road was a hornets ' nest of snipers , who , like the American patriots on the road from Lexington , utilized every tree and every stone as cover from which to pour fire on the hapless Fascist columns . Similar sniping was encountered by the stronger Italian forces in the Lake Tana // AGORDAT IS TAKEN ; BRITISH PURSUE FOE // area , together with obstructions such as felled trees placed in the road by the Ethiopians . This force of Italians also is expected to make a stand , probably at Wakne or at Chelga , small posts along the road from Metemma to Gondar , 100 miles away . Gondar is the most important Italian center in the Lake Tana region and it is not apt to be abandoned without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italians have an army of approximately 200,000 men in East Africa and could bring in reinforcements in the present battle . Yet it is probable that the natives seriously hamper all troop movements and make it necessary for the Italians to keep all garrisons at fun strength . Hence large concentrations of troops seem unlikely . The Ethiopian rebellion is bound to affect the Italians ' nerves , for those who remember the methods of the conquest probably do not relish the thought of reprisals in kind . Such reprisals may be attempted if the patriots gain sufficient strength . The South African Air Force continued to bomb Italian outposts and truck concentrations in Southern Ethiopia and Italian Somaliland . Stores and dumps were hit in an R. A. F. raid on Assab , Eritrea . In Libya there were no major developments . The British Army 's advance west of Derna toward Bengazi continued unchecked .                     