@@707617

txt President Roosevelt made public today the Bernard M. Baruch blueprint on how to arm the domestic economy for peace while winning the war . The report said , however , that nothing should come before early defeat of the Axis . The voluminous document , representing a four-month study of the " gigantic " problem of demobilization , of which " nothing comparable has ever been known before , " set policy standards touching virtually every aspect of post-war adjustment . The nation 's economic future was pictured in bright colors and the American free enterprise philosophy stated in strong terms , but Mr. Baruch , who was head of the War Industries Board in the first World War , emphasized the human as well as the dollar side of adjustment problems . President Roosevelt did not commit himself regarding the report , stating that he had had time to read only half of it . It ran fortyfour pages , the letter of transmittal five pages , and there were seventy pages of supplemental detail . Calls for a Work Director The report criticized the scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It recommended : Establishment of a work director in the Office of War Mobilization to coordinate all policies relating to the welfare and employment of those returning from the war , and demobilization of war workers and related problems . His sphere would be " the whole human side of demobilization . " That Congress set up a committee to work continuously with the work director on " the human problems of demobilization . " In addition , the report recommended that a surplus property administrator be created in the OWM , with a surplus property policy board , which would use existing war agencies to dispose of war plant surplus materials and war products held by contractors . The administrator , who is expected to be Will Clayton , assistant to Secretary Jesse Jones in the extensive operations of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and its subsidiaries , would have " full and final authority , " but would be advised by the board . Represented on the board would be the RFC , War and Navy Departments , Maritime Commission , War Production Board , Bureau of the Budget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , State Department and the Foreign Economic Administration . Would Use Existing Agencies The Food Administration would dispose of surplus foods , the Maritime Commission of surplus ships , etc. , so that the agencies that wound up the war economy would help unwind it . So long as the war lasted , however , the services would determine where surpluses existed , but the report urged them to continue re-examination of their procurement policies . Announcement of the appointment of Will Clayton was expected soon , but no informed official reached knew who the President might have in mind as work director . Mr. Baruch got his assignment as adviser to the OWM on war and post-war adjustment early in November . His principal aide has been John Hancock , who worked with him on the old War Industries Board and is now a member of the Lehman Brothers banking firm . Mr. Baruch held a " seminar " this afternoon for about 100 newspaper men and women . Sitting on the edge of a table he answered a few questions , emphasizing that although final determination of policy on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was unalterably opposed to it . Acting the school-teacher role , he replied to one reporter : " You did n't read the report ? you get a bad mark . " Would Extend Price Control The report emphasized the primary importance of victory , of liquidating war controls when their usefulness has ended , getting the Government out of business , tightening up war industry and Government administration of the war program , extension of the war-time authority to control prices which will soon expire ; to control the flow of materials through priorities , and to requisition . It recommended the maintenance of a " shelf " of public work proj : ects to be used only in case of a depression emergency , urged the reduction of the public debt as soon as possible , the lowering of taxes to free business enterprise , and proposed that a tax bill be made ready now for use after the war . Although the magnitude of the reconversion task is suggested by the fact that some 00,000,000,000 of current production is going directly into war , the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the nation 's industrial capacity involves a physical change-over problem . The report repeatedly struck out at selfish " pressure groups , " calling them " the greatest danger that our nation faces . " Mr. Baruch submitted a preliminary report in January , which provided a uniform contract termination clause for war contracts and a standard cost determining system for war contractors . He elaborated on this in the " report today , emphasizing that swift conversion is the key to warding off post-war inflation or unemployment . Prompt Payment Is Advised He asked for prompt 100 per cent payment of contractors and subcontractors , and for working capital loans where needed . He supported the Senate postwar committee 's recommendation for a central demobilization authority to the extent of providing for the two new officials in the OWM , but rejected the idea of a new Office of War Demobilization on the ground that it would unnecessarily duplicate present Federal agencies and would slow down reconversion by virtue of its inexperience . Legislation was urged to permit the Smaller War Plants Corporation to make loans to small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberalization of the Federal Reserve System 's industrial lending power to supplement private credit sources in providing risk capital . To avoid unpreparedness for a sudden collapse of Germany , the armed services and WPB were urged to draft immediately an 1 " X-Day " reconversion plant to be ready for use at ? any time . . The report spoke strongly against strikes , saying it was " unthinkable " that a. manufacturer would stop war production for a higher profit any more than a worker would stop producing urgently needed arms for a higher wage . Mr. Baruch rejected the insistence of the Controller General that any contract settlement be reviewed by him prior to payment . This , the report said , would bring " unemployment by audit " and " quibble the nation into a panic . " Ample protection was afforded , the report said , by the Controller General 's post-payment audit for fraud , requirements that contractors keep their records for at least three years and by the naming of the Controller General and Attorney General to the Joint Contract Termination Board . Warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized by putting the Department of Justice on the Surplus Property Policy Board , but the report also urged that " nothing will do more for monopoly or to deter the creation of new enterprise than excessively high taxes . " The report recommended not only that the services should constantly re-examine their procurement programs in the interest of economy , but that they should do so with a view to releasing items needed by the civilian economy . Full publicity by the Government to keep the public informed of the progress of reconversion was also advised . " The bloat " of excess stocks and excess production should be reduced now , the report said , for nothing would be worse for the nation than to be lulled into a sense of false security after the war by possessing great quantities of obsolete arms . The report looked with bright hope upon the post-war world . " There is no need for a post-war depression , " it said . " Handled with competence , our adjustment , after the war is won , should be an adventure in prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are our chief concern . No pressure groups or self-seekers will take our thoughts from the duty we owe them . " It was emphatically stated that we do not want to approach the returning veterans with charity . One place should be established in their home communities where they could go to learn of all of their rights and opportunities . Unless proper coordination on the human side is achieved , said Mr. Baruch at his seminar , " they will be greeted with curiosity and charity . " Sees Great Opportunity in Peace " It is our conviction , " the report said , " that we will emerge from the war with the greatest opportunities any people ever had . A post-war depression is not inevitable . Onehalf of the world will need rebuilding . Enormous demands , put aside during the war , and added to prewar demands , await satisfaction . Much depends on the settlement of the peace . "                     