@@706483

txt Forty-eight hours after the British made their tremendous raid on Cologne they sent another thousand bombers over the Ruhr Monday night , during which Essen was the principal target , the Royal Air Force revealed yesterday . To be exact , there were 1,036 planes , all built in Britain , in the bombing raid on Germany and an unspecified number of others engaged in diversionary activities , bombing enemy airports and protecting the roads in and out of Germany that the big bombers followed . Of all the planes on all the missions , only thirty-five failed to return  --  about 3 per cent , which was less than the loss in the Cologne raid . Thus in three days the British have put 2,166 bombers deep into the heart of Germany 's great industrial and transportation area , with a loss of seventy-nine , or less than 4 per cent . The R. A. F. was believed to have followed up yesterday 's big assault with another large-scale attack on Germany early today , a United Press dispatch from London said . British coastal watchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dawn , it reported . A Reuter dispatch from London said the German news agency , D. N. B. , had reported that the R. A. F. bombed towns in West Germany last night and that , according to reports " thus far available , " twelve bombers had been brought down . Whether or not United States pilots went on the raid was not announced : But it has been announced that the United States Air Forces will soon join the British in such raids as these , and it would appear only wise for the United States fliers to get all the experience they can in advance of their operations . The latest raid was so astonishing that it left even the aviators gasping . It was planned for Sunday night but was called off because of unfavorable weather . Thus the Royal Air Force had the planes , pilots , bombs and staff organization to put 1,000 planes over Germany two nights running , and in fact did put them over the two nights out of three . The R. A. F. did it by utilizing some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that sank home in the British mind was that they were able to repeat it so soon . It is , perhaps , a fact that much of the organization and staff work that laid the basis for the Cologne raid was also used on the Essen attack . Nevertheless , it remains in the British view a magnificent piece of organization , and every one from taxi driver to Prime Minister was lost in admiration . It touches the people on this island , who have so long stood on the defensive , that now they are hitting back with such power . After the Cologne raid one universal remark was , " When can we do it again ? " The question aroused hopes that were sternly suppressed as " wishful thinking . " That is the bugaboo of British life today . And then came the great news . It was even greater news than that of the first raid , and if it occasioned less public rejoicing it sank home deeper . Monday night 's raid , though on much the same scale as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different tactically , because it covered a wider area . And , to prove that the R. A. F. does not need perfect moonlight for a raid on this scale , it was carried out in rather bad weather conditions , with a ground mist and clouds hampering bombaimers as they peered through the sights and called directions to their pilots . Although some fires were visible as far away as the Netherland coast , there was no question Monday night of going in on a great sea of flame that made the target as clear as day . It took careful navigation to get the planes in for their run . The duration of the raid was not given , but it was probably much longer than Cologne 's ninety minutes of terror . The night all over the Ruhr and particularly over Essen must have been full of the roar of British planes as moment after moment a new plane came in to add its load of heavy bombs and incendiaries to the devastation created by its predecessor , which had roared out only a few seconds before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whistle and crump of bombs , is one of the hardest things for a raided area to bear . Of course , what effect the two raids have had is not yet known accurately and will not be for some time . But Essen could hardly be bombed with such intensity without hitting the manmouth Krupp works . What interior protection these works have and what proportion of their essential war industry has been moved to other places is not known . But the whole Ruhr area is one mass of factories and industrial cities and there is a maze of railroads and canals . However , similar tactics of " saturation " of defense and diversion of night fighters by planes of the fighter , coastal and army cooperation commands were used by the British in order that the path to the Ruhr and return should be freer for the bombers . One pilot of a big four-engined Lancaster who left the Ruhr toward the end of the raid gave a pilot 's picture . This man was over More than 1,000 R. A. F. planes attacked Essen ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Oberhausen had been raided , but did not mention Essen as one of the targets . the area for thirty-seven minutes and reported that while there was no huge blaze such as there was at Cologne , " great buildings were alight and streets were marked by dark lines around the burning area . " Other pilots told of a careful search for their targets , some of them cruising over the area in the face of some of the hottest " flak " in the world . Some of these searches lasted upward of an hour . All night fighters were not immobilized , for the returning pilots reported several attacks and claimed a Messerschmitt-109 , Focke-Wulf-190 as certainties and a Messerschmitt110 and a Junkers-88 as probables . The British crews had story after story to tell of their adventures . One flight sergeant , navigator of J. Halifax plane , was stunned by shell splinter , yet guided his plane home with a bleeding cut on the head . One rear gunner of a Stirling got eight scalp wounds from anti-aircraft fire but remained conscious and cheerful all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps most impressive of all were the scenes of joy at the air stations when the boys realized that they were being " briefed " for another Cologne-type raid . Earlier some of them told reporters that they would like nothing better , than another party like Saturday 's whenever it could be laid on . Czechs with memories of the recent German shootings in Prague were in the Cologne raid , it was announced today , and one Polish squadron went both to Essen and Cologne , doubtless , to use Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's words , " not without a certain relish . " And hardly had the day dawned yesterday when Spitfires and Hurricane bombers thundered over the English Channel in a big sweep over the Gravelines-Ardelot area . Last evening another strong force of the R. A. F. flew over to France . 