@@712076

txt Hard work , thrift , and good neighborliness combined today to give 12 boys and girls from Raymond , Maine . a three-day " graduation present " visit in Boston . The young people arrived in Boston by bus , undaunted by a torrent of rain . as guests of the Arlington Parent-Teacher Council . For the eighth-grade boys and girls of the tiny Maine town , this trip mark ! a high spot in their school careers . They are about to end their formal schooling . School days stop with the eighth grade in Ray-mond . The town - has no high school , and the nearest city with such a school is beyond their reach . Accompanied by two teachers , the Raymond junior high school graduating class was welcomed by a delegation of Arlington PTA officials . Like Old Friends Although the two groups never had met before , the greetings at the Park Square bus terminal were like those between old friends . Both groups had been looking forward to this visit for weeks . After prelimitary greetings , the visitors took their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be assigned to rooms . The Arlington Elks had arranged for their hotel accommodations . By the time the young people return home Sunday , they will have visited major sightseeing points not only in Boston , but in Lexington and Concord as well . This , however , is jumping ahead of the story . Because the account of how the visit came about is a valuable example of how much can be done to link young people in distant school systems . Started in Arlington A former resident of Arlington . Mrs. William Hayman , Jr .. who now resides in Raymond . heard about the eighth graders , and thought the situation might give Arlington an opportunity to get to know these hard-working Maine young people . So she wrote to Miss Doris McCarl-v , a teacher in Arlington 's Junior High School West . Miss McCarthy in turn contacted Mrs. James R. Boyd . president of the school 's parent-teacher association , who started wheels moving . Arlington parents , teachers , students , and townfolk work together on a number of civic projects , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lc %on went back to Raymond fi all Arlington young people . setting dates for the visit . A number of merchants and organizations in Arlington and Boston became interested in the visit . In Maine , meanwhile , members of the graduating class of the Raymond school  --  which also in- eludes East Raymond  --  set about preparing for the trip in their own way . They put on a play in town to earn part of their bus fare . Eager as they were to make the journey , they wanted to have a direct part in paying for it . A busy schedule is ahead of the Maine visitors . Harvard was listed as the first stop , to take in the glass flowers at the Botanical Museum and the art treasures in the Fogg Museum . The historic bridge battle site at Concord , and the rolling green turf of the Lexington battleground were also high on the list as was a tour of the Christian Science Publishing House . Sight-Seeing Parade Tonight , the Raymond students will be guests for dinner at Arlington 's Junior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , get to know better some of the Arlington boys and girls , talk over matters of mutual interest ! and , probably . discover that young people share pretty much the same hopes regardless of what the name of their home town happens to be . Tomorrow will add more sights to their list , including a visit and , lunch at the Museum of Fine Arts . Weather permitting . they 'll take a subway ride to the Public Garden for a ride in the swanboats . From there they will see a Tributary Theater presentation of " Heidi " as guests of musician Leo Litwin . Sunday . they will visit churches of their own choice , and then , with box lunches . will board a bus for the trip back to Raymond where they will bring their school studies to a close .                     