@@711731

txt The Federal Court for the Southern Diotrict of New York is so seriously undermanned that its Senior Judge , John C. Knox , has informed Administration and Congressional leaders that he does not know how the court will be able to carry on much longer without assistance . Judge Knox , who was appointed to the court by Woodrow Wilson , outlined yesterday in an interview a court situation that includes a constantly increasing calendar load , additional duties given by Congress , aging and overworked judges and a serious shortage of judicial manpower . The jurist gave the interview , in the presence of Bar Association officials , in the hope of getting public support for a bill to be introduced in the new Congress by Representative Emanuel Celler . The bill calls for three additional Federal judges for the district , which includes New York , Bronx , Westchester and eight other Hudson River Valley counties . A bill that would have carried out a quiet bipartisan agreement for the appointment of two judges , one a Democrat and one a Republican , died in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if they waited a Republican President could appoint all Republicans to any new places created . Judge Knox said that he had no interest in the politics of the appointments made , that what the court needed was judges , and it needed them badly . He did , however , throw a bouquet to two recent appointees named to fill vacancies caused by death . The judge said that he would be more than satisfied if he got three more judges of the caliber of Sylvester Ryan and Samuel H. Kaufman . Both were organization Democratic appointments . Judge Knox , to bolster his case , noted that the Southern District of New York , with 6 per cent of the nation 's district judges , handled roughly 25 per cent of the load of civil cases filed in Federal courts throughout the nation . In addition , he said , it handled a disproportionate load of the most time-consuming cases . such as anti-trust litigation . The Aluminum Company of America case lasted for three years before Judge Francis G. Coffey , now retired . The case was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is there again , Judge Knox noted . The court 's calendars were jammed in part because cases involving injuries to seamen during the war had to be tried as admiralty cases in the Federal court . Tremendous pressure was said to have been applied to get financial relief for orphans and widows or crippled seamen themselves : The court in addition handles 33 per cent of the deportation cases , 38 per cent of the trademark cases and 68 per cent of the cases under the Jones act . Judge Knox pointed out that Congress recently had passed a bill requiring a Federal judge to go to the home of a person seeking citizenship and to perform the naturalization ceremony there if the would-be citizen were too ill to go to court . The jurist remarked wry-1 Iy that he had spent considerable time climbing tenement steps re- , cently . There are districts in the country where a Federal judge spends a relatively quiet and comfortable existence , Judge Knox said . In the New York district , he declared , one Federal judge , the late John Bright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the judges is almost unknown . Judge Knox reported that he had played two games of golf last summer but otherwise had been chained to his desk in his double role of trial judge and chief administrative bfficer of the court . The request for additional judges in the New York area has ' been endorsed by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts in Washington and also by the Judicial Conference , which consists of the Chief Justice of  --  the United States and the presiding judges of the ten Circuit Courts . The district court has twelve judges , compared to thirteen that it had in 1943 when John M. Woolsey died and the judgeship that he held expired with his death . Judge Knox since then has been seeking to have the Woolsey seat revived and two additional ones created , bringing the total to fifteen . The judge 's stand was endorsed at the conference by Samuel M. Lane , chairman of the committee on courts of superior jurisdiction of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , and William G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts , as well as the two subcommittee members , W. Mahlon Dickerson and George S. Collins . Judge Knox has been in touch recently with Congressional and Administration leaders and particularly with Representative Cellar , who is slated to be chairman of the House Judiciary Committee in the Eighty-first Congress .                     