@@710440

txt In signing the Greek-Turkish aid bill yesterday , President Truman emphasized again that this is an important step in the building of the peace , and that in responding to appeals for such assistance we demonstrate that we are willing to support the purposes of the United Nations not only with words but with deeds . It is clear today , especially after the findings of the great majority of a United Nations Investigation Commission , that the chief threat of aggression in Europe comes from Russia 's Balkan satellites . And this gives particular significance to the statement of British foreign policy just issued by the ruling British Labor party , which reluctantly comes to the conclusion that a dictatorial and expansionist Russia has embarked on a sustained offensive to eliminate Great Britain as a . European and Middle Eastern Power , and that Britain therefore has no choice but to work with the United States for the maintenance of peace . If the Labor statement has some strange undertones , it is necessary to understand that it was written with an eye on the internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to power with a double-barreled program of socialism and pro-Sovietism which , among other things , was to facilitate agreement with " socialist " Russia . Now the British people have suffered the same disillusion on that score that has come to many others . But left-wing rebels within the Labor party still see their best chance for power in the propagation of more socialism and more pro-Sovietism , and they are cheered onward by left-wing elements elsewhere . They are to make their bid for leadership at the Labor party 's annual conference , beginning Monday , and this statement is the present leadership 's answer to their attack on Mr. Bevin 's foreign policy . For that reason , and despite its doctrinaire tenor , we on this side of the Atlantic can welcome the statement as a new expression of Anglo-American solidarity in the defense of peace . If it declares that Britain must refrain from an exclusive line-up with America , surely that has also been and still is the traditional policy of the United States regarding Britain . If the statement sees the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join in the new dedication to democratic methods which permit each nation to choose its own economic system . And if the statement holds that " the United States is about to take the weight of Russian expansion off British shoulders , " so that Britain can pursue a more neutral policy , we must suspect either a sop to the " rebels " or a misunderstanding . For the success of America 's policy , which forces nothing on other people  --  neither loans nor military aid , unless requested ? depends entirely on cooperation between the United States and Britain as well as all democracies . Such minor differences in emphasis aside , the statement is further evidence that in all the things that count the United States and Great Britain are still pursuing closely parallel policies . Both stand for peace , for democracy , for support of the United Nations , for opposition to all aggression , each within its means . The two nations have demonstrated this parallelism during two world wars , and they are demonstrating it anew in Greece and Turkey , in Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development and control of the atomic bomb , and in disarmament . This parallelism needs no alliance to make it effective , for it rests , not on treaty paragraphs or schemes for mutual gain which inevitably lead to a later break , but on the fact that both nations subscribe to the same moral and political , if not always economic , philosophy , and that this philosophy has reached a development which repudiates war , conquest and aggrandizement in favor of peace and freedom . As long as both nations see eye to eye on these fundamentals they need not worry about efforts to drive a wedge between them .                     