@@712421

txt Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower trained his sights on the Pentagon 's big battle over unification , and in a bare 15-minute appearance before the House Armed SerVices Committee helped dispel . the tensions and'bitterness stirred up by navy-air force bickering over bombers and carriers and roles and missions . His swift , extemporaneous , air-clearing talk , given in the calm , precise , perceptive , tones of an elder military statesman , helped lift official thinking above the fierce service ' animosities that flared up anew after Gen. Omar N. Bradley 's hard-hitting attack on the " Fancy Dans " in navy blue and gold whom he charged would n't play ball with the army and air force if they could n't call the signals . Response is Applause For the first time since the so-called B-36 inquiry got under way , a witness drew forth applause from the combined galaxy of " brass " from the four service branches , admirals and generals of army , air force , and marines alike . 1 That was the test and that was the real measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , disheartening debate which has publicly breached the nation 's highest defense councils since the inquiry opened in midsummer . , Swiftly and in characteristically 1 crisp and incisive phrases , the Columbia University president Fred Flout From Black Star General Eisenhower pointed to what he believes is the root of the trouble in the Pentagon , It 's dollar trouble . he told them . It 's the struggle with deficits in a democracy , The quarrel stems out of the division of the defense dollar , because each service " wants into that pile " with his shovel , General Eisenhower said . If in a democracy , " we 're always dealing with deficits , " the committee was told , then " remember , our armed services are defending a way of life , " which . however , " we ca n't afford to lose " 1 by spending too much on arms . General Eisenhower called Russia " our only possible enemy , " warning that maintaining " a decent defense establishment " to match that of a military dictatorship like Russia 's was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , and " unified , this country can lick the world . " Refuses to Take Sides The soldier-educator refused to take sides in the terrific interservice fight that has been going on right out in open hearing . " We 're dealing with distinguished Americans , " the committee was reminded . Never in all his army life , he said , had generals who had been buddies for 30 years given him more cooperation than the navy did while he was supreme Allied commander in Europe . " A human is not so constituted that he bows easily to a boss , " the general pointed out with reference to the unification row , particularly " somebody who is making out his efficiency report . " " Here have come my friends , " said the witness feelingly , admirals as well as generals , " same with complaints  --  arguments and counterarguments . " Go Right Ahead , General ' The man whom Congress has honored on behalf of the grateful nation by voting him an active soldier for life said he . did not wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , " I 'm going to try to cast my mind ahead . " Turning his steady , blue-eyed gaze amiably upon the congressmen crescented around the ornately carved dais , General " Ike " observed that if " in the tradition of old soldiers " he grew " too garrulous , I trust the chairman will bring me to the point . " " Go right ahead , general , " drawled Chairman Carl Vinson in his coastal Georgia accent . Committee heads bobbed affirmatively . " Go right ahead , general . " Forrestal Own Choice He told them a story . He let them in on something not many Americans ever knew , When the unification bill was up in Congress , General Eisenhower related , he told . the President that if the bill was enacted , he should make Navy Secretary James Forrestal Secretary of Defense and Fleet Admiral Chester Nimitz , Chief of Staff . Otherwise , the general recalled , he told the President he would n't testify in favor of the bill , The reason he did that , he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that time . Here was a witness who was talking about all the armed services and talking about friends . Unification did n't work so well , the witness went on , Secretary Forrestal did n't have all the help he needed . " So he called me back . " Being a soldier for life , the general added he would always be ready when called . He said he tried to work out a formula for reconciling the disputes in the joint chiefs of staff . He tried " a formula , " he said , " to keep me off the train nights , " commuting from Columbia to the Pentagon , But it did n't work . Nothing that ever happened in working out those top-lever leadership disputes ever " smacked of coercion , " the witnes said . Army chief refutes marines ' charges : Page 9.                     