@@706696

txt The bespectacled , neatly dressed defendant , who displayed little emotion during the six days of his trial , dropped his head and swallowed hard when the jury of six men and six women announced its verdict at 6 p. m . There was no recommendation of mercy . The charge carries a maximum penalty of death or imprisonment up to 30 years . Appeal Is Expected . Frederic M. P. Pearse , Bahr 's court assigned counsel who had asked the jury not to " visit the sins of the apostates of that German race on the head of this young man , " ' sald an appeal would be taken . Mrs. C. M. Schmidt of Elizabeth , a gray haired housewife who was Jury foreman , disclosed that Bahr 's failure to disclose his Intended mission to this country as soon as he arrived was the deciding factor in the verdict . Bahr 's wife collapsed In a federal building elevator tonight as she was leaving to return to her home . When revived she said she had planned to divorce Bahr , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week all my love for him came back and now I 'll fight my hardest for him . " . Seized on Drottninghohn . Bahr , who came to this country at the age of 13 , returned to his native Germany In 1938 as an exchange student in engineering and was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation early last month after several days of questioning aboard the diplomatic exchange vessel Drottningholm at Jersey City . On July 6 and 7 he authored before two FBI agents in New York a lengthy statement In which he described his dealings with the German gestapo . Thru 11 hours of examination , Bahr held steadfastly to his story that he intended from the beginning to turn over to the American government all Herbert E. F. Bahr. information he had acquired while being trained as a Nazi spy . He said he had accepted the schooling and led the gestapo to believe he would carry out their instructions only because he wanted to get back to the United States . He delayed revealing the details of his mission after his arrival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around " and because he feared reprisal by German agents in the United States . Customs officers testified they found a supply of invisible ink and $1,700 in Bahr 's belongings . The government contended the money was Intended to loosen tongues to gain war information for the axis and that the Ink was for use in sending reports to Nazi agents thruout the world .                     