@@707967

txt Plans for the establishment of between seventy-five and 100 vocational counseling and rehabilitation centers in colleges and universities throughout the United States , to help disabled war veterans who may wish to go to school or learn a trade , have been prepared by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with educational institutions . Veterans with a minimum of 10 per cent disability incurred or aggravated by war service and constituting a vocational handicap are eligible for the training . Tuition and supplies necessary for training will be paid by the Federal Government , in addition to maintenance pay of $80 monthly . Those with families will receive larger alLowances . Through this program it is hoped to bring disabled veterans into contact with the best qualified vocational counselors in the country . Creation of centers in different areas will bring these services nearer to the veterans ' homes , and will prevent a " bottleneck " from forming in the handling of applications . Two Centers Open Two centers have already been opened  --  one at City College and the other at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute . Conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other institutions . Veterans Administration officials explain that the colleges are to be selected with care , as " we have to be satisfied that each college is prepared to do an adequate job . " The centers are to be used immediately , but the greatest amount ' of work will fall on them during the postwar period . For that reason , the administration is stipulating with each institution that the program is to be continued after the war ends . Just how many veterans will receive vocational rehabilitation through the colleges can not be estimated at this time , although the number will be substantial . At present 3,000 disabled veterans are in the co , leges or are receiving training on the job . According to Brig . Gen. Frank T. Hines , Administrator of Veterans Affairs , selection of the educationa. institutions as centers for vocational advisement and induction into training will not limit the training of disabled veterans to courses in those colleges . Veterans may receive- training in a variety of occupations or trades  --  professional , technical , managerial . agricultural , clerical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and semi-skilled  --  in colleges , trade schools , on the job in shops or in industrial plants . Vocational advisers will assist disabled veterans to select ' a specific occupational objective ; training officers will assist them in utilizing the best educational opportunities that may help overcome their vocational handicaps and attain employment . A veteran will not be assigned to City College , R. P. I. or any of the other centers soon to be established unless he and the vocational adviser agree that the particular institution provides the most suitable training courses for the occupation he has selected . " If the employment objective agreed upon can be attained most effectively by training-on-the-job , the training officer will arrange with an employer to provide such training in accordance with a program agreed upon by the Veterans Administration , the training establishment and the veteran , " it is explained . Training Near Home Although training will be provided in the veteran 's own community wherever possible , when the selected occupation is one for which adequate training facilities are not available , the instruction will be given elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vocational counseling at the colleges and furnish transportation and medical services while the disabled Veteran is at the center . Veterans are to receive a series of vocational and aptitude tests to determine their abilities and interests . This will guide the counselors in planning for their future and in analyzing the individual cases . In this way the veterans will be guided into occupations " for which they are best fitted by nature and acquired knowledge , in order that the handicap of the disability may be successfully overcome , and the men restored to the status of a proficient workman . " The trained vocational counselor , by helping the disabled veteran explore his interests and abilities , may help to make him conscious of occupational abilities and aspirations which have been neglected because of lack of proper encouragement or opportunity for development . The Veterans Administration hopes to enable the veteran to choose the occupational field in which his particular pattern of assets will be the most useful and appropriate for carrying on his life work . Using Modern Techniques " Plans have been prepared with great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted modern techniques in connection with the counseling to be done at the Veterans Administration centers in the universities and colleges , " officials explained . At Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , typical of the way the program will operate in colleges throughout the country , offices have been set up on the campus for R. P. I. staff members , officers and assistants of the Veterans Administration . A large number of applications are already on file . R. P. I. staff members will interview all veterans and ascertain their vocational interest , ability , achievements and special aptitudes . After interpreting and evaluating the results , they will recommend to Veterans Administration officers the kind or level of training for which the men appear best suited . The men will then start their educational or training program , either at R. P. I. or some other college or institution . With the best scientific and educational care available , the disabled veterans will receive the highest type of guidance attainable in this country today . The colleges and universities are ready to do their share in this important cooperative program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            