@@704834

txt Platform in Retrospect Some Words in the Republican Program Are Viewed as Ominous To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With the words " We are still suffering from the ill effects of the last World War , " the Republican platform invites us to turn our thoughts back twenty-odd years . I trust the following reflections will not be thought impertinent by the hewers of that platform . Following the Treaty of Peace a League of Nations was created to settle amicably such disputes as might thereafter arise among nations and to prevent a minority of nations arming to the point that they would become a menace to a peace-loving majority . A Republican Senate chose instead a path of supposed isolation . It did not wish involvement in Old World disputes . Let us tally up the cost of following the advice of that Republican Senate . During the intervening twenty years the United States has spent , in round numbers , about twenty ? billions of dollars for armaments . The other nations who joined the League , but were also none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upward of two hundred billions of dollars for a supposititious security . On the credit side of the ledger we may now note that the machines of war thus purchased will function with at least fair efficiency . Millions of Chinese lives have been lost . Another million Japanese have been killed . Germany has suffered at least half a million casualties , and France probably about the same . Ethiopia , Norway , Denmark , Holland , Belgium and France , not to mention lesser States , have lost their national sovereignty . Cities and countrysides have been laid waste , proving effectiveness in armament design , but also entailing for restoration many more billions over and above the two hundred and twenty billions already noted . Further , on the credit side , Japan has obtained a precarious foothold in China , and Germany has acquired enormous monitorial responsibilities in Europe . As for the few remaining would-be secure nations , including the United States , the future looks blacker than ever before . The proof of a pudding is in the eating and the test of a Senatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we , the civilized nations , show value received for this expenditure of two hundred and twenty billions of dollars and millions of lives ? Certainly , we have obtained little that could be called security  --  and as for the United States , certainly little that could be called isolation . So what of the next twenty years ? Shall they be patterned after the last twenty , except that the scale of expenditure for armaments will necessarily be more vast ? The words of the Republican platform have an ominous import . They imply that its authors are no wiser than were their predecessors in 1919 and 1920 . Perhaps the Republican candidate if elected , and if presented with an opportunity commensurate with that which existed in 1919 , will have the courage to practice unfettered the art of interpretation . Perhaps , too , mankind will be willing to transfer sorrie of its trust from armaments to human organization . Surely , if no more than 1 per cent of the world 's two-decade outlay for military equipment were devoted to study and experimentation , it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orderly methods of controlling international relations . ROBERT W. KING . Short Hills , N. J. , June 28 , 1940 . World War Battle Recalled To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Italian Military Attache ' Gives Some Details of Vittorio Veneto To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have read in Tire NEW YORK TIMES of June 25 the article " Vittorio Veneto Recalled . " Allow me , just for establishing certain historical facts , to call back to ' mind the following points : 1 . In October , 1918 , after the Russian debacle , the Austrian Army was wholly concentrated on the Italian front , with a total of seventy-three divisions . It was opposed by fifty-seven Allied divisions , of which fifty-one were Italian , three British , two French and one Czecho-Slovak , plus an American regiment . 2 . The morale of the Austrian Army was weakened , especially after fortyone months of warfare on the Italian front ; but the army itself was in full military efficiency , as shown by its vigorous resistance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Austrian commanding officers . 3 . The Allies , though trusting in an ultimate victory , did not believe the war would end before the Spring of 1919 , according to the opinion expressed by Marshal Foch to the Chief of Staff of the American Army in October , 1918 : 4 . The battle of Vittorio Veneto remains in military history a typical example of a strategic smashing drive . From Oct. 24 to Oct. 27 fierce fighting was sustained on Mount Grappa to attract the Austrian reserves to that sector ; from Oct. 27 to Oct. 30 the enemy 's center was shattered ; from Oct. 30 to Nov. 3 the Italian Army , breaking through and invading the enemy lines , caused the collapse of the whole front . The extent and violence of tP e combat are indicated by the high casualties , the Italian dead and wounded totaling. 30,000 , the other Allies 2,000 . The Austrians asked for an armistice on Oct. 30 ; the next morning an Austrian commission , presided over/by General Weber , met at Villa Giusti the Italian commission headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' council at Paris , were signed at 3 o'clock in the afternoon of Nov. 3 , with the clause that hostilities would cease twenty-four hours afterward . These historical truths and the immense sacrifices made by Italy during the World War should not be distorted today , were it only out of respect for ' the memory of Italy 's 680,000 dead , 675,000 disabled and over a million wounded . Brig . Gen. ADOLFO INFANTE , Military Attach ? , Royal Italian Embassy . Washington , June 26 , 1940 . Quick Work on Navy Urged Prompt Provision of Extra Protection Against Bombs Advocated Though a two-ocean navy may wen defend American interests in some future world crisis , it would be folly for us to shield ourselves behind any such huge projected increase as a protection against a possible Nazi attack upon this hemisphere in the near future . The new ships will not be ready for several years , and we can not expect Hitler to wait for us to complete our program , especially if he defeats Britain and gets her navy . A matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every step toward giving the ships we now have all possible and practical extra protection against bombs . A number of ideas have been advanced : that the decks be curved , that they consist of a double shell , or made of tougher steel than any known when the ships were constructed , or , if the deck construction can not be changed , that heavy steel nets be hung at a steep pitch over the funnels , the bridge , and other vital sections between the fore and aft gun turrets . Regardless of how utterly impractical these particular suggestions may be , it would seem that a few million dollars , if needed for the purpose , would not be money wasted in testing every idea that has any reasonable possibility of adding bomb protection to the ships we have right now . The problem is for the experts , but it is to be fervently hoped that these experts will not agree with those Navy men who still minimize the military value of airplanes , and also that they will be less hampered by the gods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who " considered " the then Colonel Parsons 's tank recommendations of 1930 as fantastic . I wish the public might have some bare assurance that all such experimental work is being done on an adequate scale by the best brains available in the country , both in and out of the Navy , and that it be given to us by a disciple of air power . It would be presumptuous to ask for this assurance if it were not for the known shortsightedness of many Army and Navy bureaucrats in recent years in regard to the vital importance of tanks and planes in modern warfare . PHILIP G. NORDELL . Philadelphia , June 27 , 1940 . Department of Defense Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES of June 23 Major Gen. William C. Rivers suggested the idea , which has been in my mind for some years , of correlating all three armed branches , the Navy , Army and Air Corps , under a single Department of Defense , with a Secretary , reporting directly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea is sound and easily adaptable . My idea was to suggest that Congress change the name of the War Department to the Defense Department , adding a Secretary of Defense ; keeping all three armed branches just as they are except that their immediate supervisors would be assistant secretaries , responsible to the Secretary of Defense . It would be the duty of the Secretary of Defense to cooperate fully with the President and see to it that the armed forces are well equipped at all times . FREDERIC G. Faose . Washington , June 24 , 1940 . For Pushing Boycott of Japan To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A few publicists are calling for negotiation of a new trade agreement with Japan , a policy that has found some support in the United States Senate . Japan would willingly accept an American agreement giving her control of China , but this is no time for appeasement of the Japanese aggressors . At this stage there is no hope of Japanese withdrawal by agreement . Japan is now dependent upon the United States for carrying on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of certain key materials , such as machine tools , needed by the United States ; there will probably be an embargo on scrap iron in the near future , and her purchases of American cotton , copper and other materials have already dropped sharply . Gold and silk have paid for five out of six dollars of her purchases here . Her gold supply is practically exhausted and the introduction of nylon has been a sharp blow to her . According to information given out by the State and Commerce Departments , Japan is approaching economic exhaustion . By intensifying the boycott of Japanese goods our people can help materially toward cutting off American aid to Japan and hastening the end of her . invasion of China . MARY E. WOOLLEY . Honorary Chairman , American Boycott Against Aggressor Nations . New York , June 24 , 1940 . Auditorium Plan Protested To THE EDITOR . OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Board of Higher Education has approved a budget for 1941 calling for the expenditure of $5,757,000 for new buildings and improvements . The largest single item is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I ol  --  ject to this expenditure for Brooklyn College . I object as a taxpayer and as a mother of two elementary school children attending P. S. 152 , one block from Brooklyn College . There is an urgent need for an addition to the elementary school building in this part of Flatbush , where apartments are rapidly replacing one-family- dwellings . I suggest that the college double with the high school in the use of the new , enormous and expensive auditorium being completed now for Midwood High , using it on occasion as a local town hall . BEATRICE A. RAPIN Brooklyn . June 28 , 190.                     