@@706082

txt ANTI-WAR GROUP TURNS TO POLLS America First Committee Will Work for Every Candidate Pledged Against Conflict PARTY TO BE DISREGARDED By LOUTHER S. HORNE CHICAGO , Dec. ** in 1942 , the America First Committee will carry to the polling places of the nation its fight to keep the United States out of the war . Except in the South , it will mobilize its supporters in a drive " to return to Congress only those Representatives and Senators who faithfully execute the people 's trust " and who " oppose further steps to involve us in war . " Party lines will be ignored in the campaign . Such is the new policy of the America First Committee as announced by its national directors in Chicago this week . It is the committee 's challenge to those who freely had predicted that it would perish with the repeal of the Neutrality Act . Defeat on Neutrality Act The committee fought hard to save that act . Even some supporters felt that its repeal would make futile  --  and perhaps unpatriotic ? further opposition to intervention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , declined to recede . The committee explained its new position in a statement in which it asserted that America was drifting toward fascism , that Congress had abdicated to one-man rule and that the Administration had deceived the people on war questions . Until now , the committee added , it had not endeavored to influence public elections . But from now on the committee will throw its strength into the many Spring primaries and Summer and Fall elections . It will not , however , attempt to form a third party , but will , instead , work along the lines of the old Anti-Saloon League . The only issue will be the positions of various candidates on the nation 's foreign policies . Before the committee may enter the political arena it must change its legal structure to comply with the Hatch act and other national election laws . This will be done , it is stated . In preparation for the 1942 campaign , workers are organizing chapters in neighborhoods and in crossroads towns , heretofore neglected , the hope being to carry the issue to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said that thirty-one chapters , mostly small and mostly in the East and the South , have been formed since the Neutrality Act repeal ; that New England is entering the anti-intervention fold and that the South is showing more sympathy . Members are now being recruited throughout New England , especially in Maine , the committee reports . The Middle West remains , of course , the committee 's biggest anchor . Committee leaders assert that Illinois , Iowa , Michigan , Indiana , Wisconsin and Minnesota are all considered their strongholds . Among individual States , however , they rank New York second in America First strength . In all , the committee lists about 550 key chapters , many of which , they say , have from twenty to seventy sub-chapters . The unofficial membership is given in the " millions " by committee members . The committee has , of course , lost some members , among them General Hugh Johnson and Lessing Rosenwald , but has gained new ones , among them Irene Castle , the former dancer , and former Governor W. H. Murray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee 's financial reservoir . From individual members the committee draws its money . How much money has been received and expended is not publicly known , the committee holding that to publish a complete list of donors might cause some local persecutions of the givers . As a prelude to the 1942 campaign , from now until just before Christmas big rallies are scheduled in twenty cities from the seaboard to Oklahoma . Charles A. Lindbergh , who is to talk in Boston Dec. 12 , heads the list of speakers , which includes Senators Nye and Clark , former Governor Murray , John Cudahy , a former Ambassador , and a number of members of the House .                     