@@709574

txt A House Foreign Affairs subcommittee , reporting on a tour last year of Europe and the Near East , called today for an end to " our unwise appeasement methods " in dealing with Russia and recommended a meeting between President Truman and Premier Stalin for a " frank , across-the-table exchange of sentiment . " The forty-one page report , printed for private distribution among members of the full committee , which will decide tomorrow whether officially to make it public , reflected a considerable degree of alarm over Soviet activities in countries under USSR domination and over growing Russian influence in other nations . It also criticized activities of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration for creating " hopeless confusion " and said that the United States ' recognition of the present Polish and Yugoslav ' regimes was too hasty . Signatures Divided Representatives Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota and Frances P. Bolton of Ohio , Republicans , signed the entire report while two other members of the subcommittee , Representatives Thomas S. Gordon of Illinois and Joseph F. Ryter of Connecticut , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had been unable to complete the tour , which was made in August , September and October of last year .. All four members subscribed to the recommendations for ' immediate abandonment of any semblance of appeasement " toward Russia and for a Truman-Stalin conference . A " stiffer attitude " toward Russia , the report asserted , is necessary not only because appeasement harms the United States ' influence in the world but also because , " when we yield to Russian positions unjustifiably we discredit in Russia the high-ranking leaders of the Kremlin who in their own party councils argue that only a policy of complete reciprocity with , the United States will bring en-1 during results for Russia . " The purpose of a Truman-Stalin meeting , it was stated , would be " to determine what policies and problems of each country seem to hold Russia and America apart , " and what can be done to bring them closer together . The subcommittee , in other recommendations dealing with Russia , urged " complete reciprocity " between the two countries ; an " unequivocal determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of the Russian Government toward the countries now either absorbed by or under the control of the U.S.S.R. , " as a guide for United States policy toward Russia ; and improvement of cultural relations between the two countries by exchange of persons and information . By " complete reciprocity " the committee said it meant that " no greater privileges should be extended to Russians kn the United States than are extended to Americans in Russia , " and that " since the United States engages in and encourages no type of political activity in Russia that the U.S.S.R. should exercise the same restraints in the United States . " Critical of Poland All four members of the subcommittee were also highly critical of Soviet activities in Czechoslovakia and Poland and of ineffective American effort to counter them . In Poland , their report stated , freedom of speech is " unknown " ; freedom from fear is " a mockery " as a result of exmembers of the Red Army 's " plundering , raping and living off the country as they go " and " each man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The report told of large num bers of armed Soviet soldiers in Warsaw streets and of " Soviet arrogance toward the population . " The subcommittee heard " numerous tales of pillage , rape and torture at the hands of both the NKVD ( Soviet police ) and the Russian military , " it was stated . " The committee feels , " the report stated , " that our Government has acted too hastily in granting even conditional recognition to the present Provisional Government . It strongly believes that the indulgence of our Government has been greatly abused and the action presented to the Polish people in an utterly false light . " UNRRA in Czechoslovakia , it said , was described " as almost entirely a ' Russian show , ' " with the United States receiving very little credit for its substantial contributions . UNRRA In Yugoslavia UNRRA was further criticized in the portion of the report signed only by Representatives Mundt and Bolton . Reporting their observations on Yugoslavia , they said : " From our conference with the Russian director of UNRRA , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our conviction that those who are not contributing substantial percentages of supplies to UNNRA should have no position in the directorate of its operations . " They said that " inefficiencies " and " maladministration " in Czechoslovakia , Poland and Yugoslavia had caused " hopeless confusion . " Marshal Tito and his government " are ruling Yugoslavia today as completely as the men of the Kremlin rule Russia , " they asserted . The situation there , as in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Rumania and Bulgaria , " reflects the vicious harvest which comes from the appeasement policies which the United States has followed with regard to Russia ever since the days of Yalta and perhaps before . "                     