@@708227

txt DEMOBILIZATION BECAME the main topic of debate in Parliament this week al- ; though everyone fully realizes that no re- ' leases can take place until Germany is beater0 What the drafted men and women want to I know is where their place in the queue is going to be and if the government 's plan is clear and fair , as far as it is humanly possible . The principle of age and length of service as the first priorities for demobilization with special releases for key men to reconstruct industry , seems to be generally acceptable both to the troops and the M. P. 's . Where the shoe pinches hardest is the refusal of the government to add its pledge that men with the longest overseas service would get home first : Churchill says it is impossible to make this promise . The breakup in family life caused by long overseas absence is reflected in the heavy increase in divorce , and there is the added fear that these " forgotten ' men " will find it difficult to resume peace- ? time occupations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightly refused to accept the endless proposed modifications which would have tangled the whole scheme in red tape and left no flexibility of administration . Th. , govern- ' merit 's intentions are good , but the test will come when they are put into practice . ? THE GOVERNMENT 'S white paper on reallocation of manpower into civilian production rounds off demobilization plans . This project , like that for demobilization of the armed forces , can not be started until Germany is defeated and , even then , its operation will depend on demands for manpower and materials needed to beat Japan . these will have first priority . But within these limits there must be some let-up in emergency powers regulating labor and some replenishment of the British standard of living which has been drastically reduced by the needs of war production and by enemy action . The first civilian priority must be new homes and their furnishings . The troops are demanding this before renewal of the export trade . Because of the necessity of repairing blitzed homes , ri6 mew houses have yet been Some : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40.000 going into building equipment industries . When this task is completed , building new houses must , as Churchill says , be treated like wartime business . TO MEET D-DAY NEEDS British citizens were subjected to the highest degree of mobihzation  --  almost from the cradle to the grave . Hundreds of thousands were compulsorily shifted about , often to jobs at lower rates of pay . Trade unionists willingly accepted these controls while they saw the necessity . but as soon as the military situation eases , they will expect labor controls to be modified . That is what Bevin promises although the unwinding process must necessarily be slow to avoid chaos . When the works order is modified workers will be gradually brought home and engaged in peacetime jobs in their own communities . A new scheme dealing with juvenile labor under 18 is also being worked out in conformity with the program for raising the school-leaving age . The Trades Union Congress . which has been jibbing re- , cently over the continuation of labor controls . is likely to accept the new plan as a reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MOTORING TAX problem will be the subject of a statement in the near future , Chancellor of the Exchequer Sir John Anderson has promised . Meanwhile , auto firms are preparing to get modified 1940 models into production as soon as factories are released from war work . Austin has announced a complete range of models from 8 to 16 h.p. ; Morris expects to be able to deliver a thousand autos a month within three months after the war ends , and Standard will shortly announce its program . But plans for new post-war models are still beta up by the pending decision on fuel and horsepower taxes . ? ? ? M P. 'S ARE AWAITING the King 's speech at the new session of Parliament with more than the usual expectancy . A heavy legislative program is anticipated , but the members of Commons want to know how many of the government 's recent hood of white papers will be put into bills . Should the new session place on the statute book acts embodying social insurance , workmen 's compensation and national health service , the coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a substantial program of ? social legislation before it dissolves into party strife . ? ? ? LONDONERS ARE DISAPPOINTED that their 4:00 p. m. winter shopping curfew wo n't be abolished during the Christmas holiday season . It is n't the enemy but the lack of transport that makes relaxation of the rule impossible . There are hardly sufficient drivers or conductors to run the normal schedules , let alone increase them during the rush hours from 4:00 to 6:00 p. m . And sickness this winter may possibly further reduce manpower . ? ? ? THE BAN ON ICE CREAM manufacture has been lifted , marking another step towards normality . However , not much will be available until next summer . Then , with the freeing of seaside resorts ? tom the ban on visits to coastal areas , some townsmen may expect to enjoy this delicacy on sand cleared of barbed wire and mines and perhaps without fear of being doodlebugged or rocketted.                     