@@705675

txt Defense officials indicated today that President Roosevelt might send a special message to Congress within two weeks requesting specific price control authority for the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply and proposing legal punishment for price violators and profiteers . OPACS took further steps today under its present powers to prevent increases in the prices of automobile tires and tubes . Mr. Roosevelt did not plan to attach any prepared legislation to his message , it was said , leaving to Congress the drafting of a measure which would regulate rents and commodity prices . OPACS officials , headed by Leon Henderson , administrator , and David Ginsberg , general counsel , are ready with specific suggestions for Congress and have taken into se-r count the British experience with price-fixing laws . Britain 's price problems have been discussed with OPACS leaders recently by Arthur Goodhart , a Cambridge University law professor who is an Englishcontrol expert , and Benjamin V. Cohen , New Dealer who now is legal adviser to Ambassador John G. Winant in London . The decision to press for statutory price control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation had refused Mr. Henderson 's request that it rescind price increases of $10 to $53 on new automobiles . Mr. Henderson said that Chrysler 's attitude threatened the whole structure of voluntary cooperation for price stabilization and made it necessary for him to take from the industry control of automobile prices . Mr. Henderson announced today that he would issue a price ceiling early next week , reezing the wholesale and retail prices of automobile tires and tul -5 at the levels prevailing on June 17 , 1941 , and forbidding changes in the construction and quality of tires without prior consultation with OPACS . The rubber order is designed to prevent price advances resulting from an OPM priorities decision to reduce the current rate of rubber consumption about 25 per cent in the next six months in order to build up reserve stock piles to guard against a shortage due to shipping uncertainties in the Pacific Ocean . Rubber industry and trade representatives were called to conferences with OPACS officials to work out details of the rubber price order which will regulate sales of more than 50,000,000 automoile tires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embody these major points : " 1 . The ceiling prices on new or newly retreaded tires and new tubes sold by producers and wholesale distributors will be those charged on the most recent sales prior to June 17 , 1941 , of tires and tubes of the same size , design , quality and make . " 2 . The ceiling prices for retailers will also be those charged on the most recent sales prior to June 17 , 1941 , of similar new or newly retreaded tires and new tubes . However , provision will be made that retailers may charge more than the ceiling prices up to a limit to be specified , in order that dealers who were selling below the prevailing general level of prices prior to June 17 , 1941 , may adjust to the local plane of competition . " 3 . Every producer and wholesale distributor of tires and tubes will be required to file with OPACS a list setting forth the price as of June 16 , 1941 ( or date of most rerecent sale prior to June 17 , 1941 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tire and tube offered for sale by him . " 4 . Every retailer of tires and tubes will be required to draw up a list setting forth the price charges as of June 16. 1941 ( or date of most cent sale prior to June 17 , 1941 ) , for each size , design , quality and make of tire and tube offered for sale by him . This list must be sworn to by the retailer and posted in a conspicuous place on his premises . " 5 . Customary quantity differentials will continue in effect . " 6 . The schedule will provide that no seller may attach as a condition of sale of tires or tubes at the ceiling prices any requirement that the buyer purchase additional merchandise or services from him , or that the buyer pay any consideration of any kind in addition to the ceiling price , except that the seller may continue to impose any previous requirement of the turnin of old tires or tubes . " 7 . Manufacturers will not be permitted to make any changes in construction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply . . " Among the problems confronting Administration officials in considering price control legislation is the question of whether to include wage controls . Such a step probably would alienate labor unions , the wage demands of which have recently been based more on increases in profits than on advances in the cost of living . But some Southern members of Congress have made it plain that they believe wages should be regulated if farm prices are going to be subject to controls . Some New Dealers insist , however , that wage rises should not be restricted until excess profits are taxed more drastically . It was understood that the price control law favored by OPACS officials would be a simple statute which would provide for court injunctions to restrain first violators , and fines , or possibly jail sentences , for persistent violators . The present indirect legal sanctions available to Mr. Henderson for punishing price ceiling violators are considered both too drastic and too cumbersome . He could , for example , recommend to the President that transportation be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price order , or , as allocator of civilian supplies , he could stop the flow of raw materials to an important manufacturing concern which would not cooperate . But either of these steps would throw thousands of employes out of work in the case of a major manufacturer and would cause great economic loss , observers stated .                     