@@706996

txt ABOARD A WARSHIP IN THE wardrooms of the first big battle SOUTHERN PACIFIC , Feb. 25 ? of Oct. 11 off Russell Island in the Southern Solomons . They talk of Although the ten-day running sea the constant patrolling of Solomons fight in the Solomons beginning , at waters , with the frequent and the end of January was followed costly submarine attacks and air raids  --  those breath-taking runs almost immediately by the end of northward to intercept the Japanese resistance on Guadal " Bougainville express , " with its canal , the fighting is even yet not reinforcements for Guadalcanal. entirely at an end . There are They still remember the highly many hundreds of Japanese still on dangerous night sorties , with a few the island . They are scattered picked ships , to shell the Japanese through the jungles and the moun airbases on the islands flanking tain districts away from the Hen the " canal " on the north and west . derson base . These men will never forget the The Japanese have a base at epic run to Guadalcanal waters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 13 , when they northwest of Guadalcanal. which realize that this was to be a suhas been strongly reinforced . New preme test against a vastly SUbomber strips have appeared on the Japanese New Georgia air field at Nunda some 200 miles away in the direction of Bougainville . Moreover , Japanese submarines operating to the south and east of Guadalcanal as commerce raiders are still a menace to the sea routes leading to the United States bases . These threats need liquidating before Guadalcanal can attain its full value as an advanced operating base for naval fighting ships . However . the end would seem to be in sight , and some hints arcappearing as to the pattern of the final victory in the Southern Pacific . Victory an Important One The end of organized Japanese resistance on Guadalcanal is undoubtedly a major victory . From the decks of this advanced striking unit of the Pacific fleet -- a medium-sized warship which has played a major part in the success  --  the struggle is considered to have been neither excessively costly nor unnecessarily long drawn out . The men aboard this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced to share in gaining the victory . They still talk in the perior Japanese naval force . which was moving southwards to retake the Henderson Airfields . Through the Fire This ship not only played a major part in breaking up the attempt , but helped to sink an important element in the Japanese fleet . They can not erase the memory of plunging at express speed through the dark into the midst of the Japanese force . After that came the long drawn out tension , when the squadron was watching and waiting , uncertain whether a large force of Japanese ships was planning an all-out final plunge to retake Guadalcanal , or was merely covering the final stages of the evacuation . The campaign which began last August means the consolidation of the defense of the United States bases in New Caledonia , the New Hebrid'es and the Fijis , and it has paid well . Many ships whose only experience had been of patrol work , have learned for the first time the valuable lesson that they can meet and master superior Japanese naval vessels . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . The mans naval engagements around the Solomons have converted America 's peacetime navy into a powerful fighting machine , aware for the first time of its own fighting potential ? as well as of its limitations . Kinks in the battle maneuvering have been ironed out in the revised methods of ship and air defense , and valuable pointers drawn from Japanese fighting tactics have been catalogued for future use . Americans Prove Superior American air pilots , who have sunk nearly 800 Japanese Zeros , bombers and flying boats around Guadalcanal , have found the Japanese plane and pilot far from invincible . A handful of Grumman Wildcat fighter planes can usually be relied on to break up a vastly larger group of Japanese planes and sink them in a ratio of as high as four to one . Limitations in the American plane operations , discovered during the Guadalcanal fighting , are already well on the way to being dissolved by new designs . On land , the Marines , who are highly specialized fighters , but who nevertheless had never fought against the Japanese so-called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were forced to revamp many of their methods , such as communications at the front . They refused to yield to superior numbers , adopted many Japanese stratagems , and they outfought , outmaneuvered and outstalked the Japanese veterans from Malaya , the Philippines and East Indies , killing 50,000 of them . Guadalcanal has taught that the Japanese land fighter , like the sea and air fighter , can be defeated  --  a priceless lesson for combatting the still prevalent belief in Japanese invincibility.                     