@@706933

txt Postmaster General Frank C. Walker was unanimously elected today to succeed Edward J. Flynn as Chairman of the Democratic National Committee at a meeting marked by denunciation of opposition in the Senate to confirmation of Mr. Flynn as Minister to Australia . A telegram was received from President Roosevelt attesting his friendship for the retiring chairman and commending his services to the committee and the party . In a speech of acceptance broadcast nationally tonight , Mr. Walker voiced his championship of the two-party system . It wad viewed as his answer to some leaders of his party who have contended that politics should be adjourned for the duration of the war . Mr. Roosevelt 's telegram was read by Edwin W. Pauley , secretary of the committee , in the midst of the attacks on the anti-Flynn bloc in the Senate , which were characterized in resolutions as " a dastardly , treasonable plot to hamper the Commander in Chief by seeking to destroy confidence in the President " Unity of Nation Stressed Noting that the committee was meeting " to receive the resignation of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's telegram continued : " I am sure that all members join me in expression of gratitude to the retiring chairman , my old friend , Ed Flynn , for all the services he has rendered not only in recent years as chairman but for Many years before . " I see by the papers that his successor will probably be another very old friend of niine  --  one who has worked long and intimately with me in the cause of sound liberal government . Please extend to the chairman my best wishes for . his usual success in whatever he undertakes . " Americans of all parties are , of course , subordinating all considerations of partisan politics to the single task of these days  --  defeating the enemy and establishing a better future for ourselves and later generations . " Where the safety and welfare of our country are concerned there will be no division or political lines . But even in times of war , democracy as we know it , continues to rely upon sound , honest , strong political parties  --  all bound together in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Charged Denunciation of the attempt to block confirmation of Mr. Flynn was voiced by Eugene Casey , one of the assistant secretaries to the President . Referring to those directing the Senate investigation of Mr. Flynn and otherwise opposing the President as " embryo Presidential candidates in both parties , " Mr. Casey added ; " The fight being made on Flynn by the opposition and the anti-Roosevelt press is not so much against him personally as against your party and the President . " He urged the committee members to " be alert " and arouse the people against this " insidious and by-pass method aimed at destroying the President . " Mr. Casey said that his anger knew no bounds as he witnessed Democrats , who " owe their positions to the Democratic party and the President , " combining to block the progress of the Administration . Support of President Pledged Mr. Casey 's remarks were made the basis of a resolution prepared by former Governor E. D. Rivers of Georgia . As adopted , it asserted that the Administration 's enemies do not dare attack President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are seeking by indirect subterfuge and chicanery to accomplisl ? their purposes by a campaign of falsehoods and vicious newspaper propaganda . " Another resolution , presented by Senator Joseph Guffey of Pennsylvania , expressed the committee 's faith in President Roosevelt 's ability to bring the country and the rest of the world through the stress of war . The committee also declared its complete confidence and faith in Mr. Flynn . In his resignation statement Mr. Flynn disclosed a pre-election fear that the party would lose control of Congress . Pointing out the responsibility of national committeemen in shaping party policies , he said : " I believe it was their counsel and influence which made possible continuance of our Democratic control in Congress , when many of us doubted that such continuance of control was possible . " Mr. Flynn said his appointment by the President " to a post which will bring me the opportunity of service to the nation in a different field is my only reason for resigning " After Mr. Flynn 's resignation had been accepted , former Governor Culbert L. Olson of California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Walker , " he said , " with the reforming of our lines for victory in 1944 , and without any recession whatsoever from the basic philosophy of the New Deal . " The Postmaster General was cheered as he - was escorted to the platform . He said that while some were suggesting that this was no time for politics , he did not propose " to let the opposition name the issues . " In ' his broadcast speech of acceptance tonight Mr. Walker said that he felt it a duty in taking his new office to make clear his own philosophy of government . " I am a firm advocate of the two-party system which has grown to be more than a tradition in the United States , " he said . " The very foundation of a democracy is the opportunity afforded its people to determine the will of the majority by open debate , by conflict of opinion , by criticism . " The debate should be conducted on a high plane and governed by fair rules and a proper sense or ethics . The conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be constructive in character . " He said that future campaigns of the Democratic party would continue to emphasize the " human ' itarian ideals " of President Roosevelt , whose emergence as a national leader he termed providential . Describing Mr. Roosevelt 's past tenure as " a glorious decade , " he said that Republicans would not be permitted to justify " destructive criticism " as essential to the war effort . " No doubt , they would gladly forget our record for the past decade , " he said . " The American people will never forget it . " To Retain Cabinet Post Mr. Walker plans to continue in his Cabinet post to which he was appointed in 1940 . He was born in Plymouth , Pa. , on May 30 , 1886 , spent his boyhood in Butte , Mont. , where his father operated a copper mine , and was educated at Gonzaga University and the Law School of Notre Dame University . He was a first lieutenant of the Army in the First World War . He began practicing law in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel of Comerford Theatres , Inc. , he is one of the wealthiest members of the Cabinet . He helped in financing the 1932 Roosevelt campaign and since 1933 has been one of the President 's right-hand men .                     