@@707195

txt The unprecedented shoe-buying spree that began on Friday and grew over the week-end found many retail stores in the city closing shop for varying periods yesterday afternoon and refusing to make sales . This provided breathing spells for gasping salesmen as holders of shoe ration coupon 17 descended in droves on the shops . Stuart Brooks , Inc. , a chain of eight stores , closed from 4:30 to 8 P. M. when the clerks became too exhausted to continue serving customers . Various other stores did likewise . Today 's rush is expected to be even greater than that yesterday , as the coupon will become invalid after midnight . Beginning tomorrow , coupon 18 will be good for four and one-half months . Arthur Steinberg , counsel for the Shoe Retailers League , composed of more than half the chain and retail stores in the city , said stocks in all shops were sadly depleted last night . He commented that yesterday was the first time in the recollection of any member of the industry that crush of business had necessitated closings because of exhausted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has never been witnessed in the history of the shoe business in this city , " Mr. Steinberg declared . " Stores closing fora period of hours was simply unheard of . " Rush of Returns Seen Reports from a cross-section of about 1,000 stores , he added , indicated that there would be another type of rush later , as women hurried back to exchange shoes that they had snapped up heedlessly to beat the expiration deadline for the coupon . Department stores reported a virtual stampede at noon as thousands of office workers in their lunch periods joined the morning crowds . At the Macy , Gimbel , Wanamaker , Bloomingdale and other easily accessible stores the jams were particularly large . Fifth Avenue stores , catering to the Higher-priced trade , were swamped as much as those selling footwear at lower prices . Various store managers said they expected to be completely out of stock before closing tonight . They agreed that no Easter rush ever had been so hectic . Even play shoes , which are not rationed , were snapped up , they reported . Additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra help , but many stores wee unable to add to their staffs . In department stores , it was said , more men crowded shoe departments than usually were to be seen throughout the stores during the morning hours . Comfortable shoes were the most sought after , . wilt style secondary , clerks observed . Lines stretched in front of most stores and managers tried to handle the crowds by admitting only a limited number of persons at one time . As they were served , others were allowed to enter . A shoe concern with stores in Passaic and Paterson , N. J. , displayed an appeal to the public urging : " Do n't buy what you do n't need . " Newark also reported a last-minute rush that left clerks worn out . Crowds formed outside shoe shops in Newark long before doors were opened In one department store clerks were pressed into service to police hundreds of women who strove to get near the shoe department . " They took anything they could get , including last season 's styles if we had ' em @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surge of buyers at flak 's Fifth Avenue became so great that ropes were extended around the shoe department . As women alighted from the elevators they were instructed to remain outside the ropes until their turn to be served . At one time 300 women were outside the ropes .                     