@@704726

txt King Leopold today assumed command of the Belgian armies and is directing the resistance to the Nazi invasion as Allied forces are being rushed to their assistance . While Belgium was gathering her forces to resist this lightning attack , Brussels , Antwerp and numerous other points in the country had to withstand air raids . Most of these attacks were directed against airports , but in most cases Belgian aviation had foreseen the attacks and the planes had been removed . The exception was the capital , which , according to an announcement by the government , contains no military centers . This little country , twice invaded by German armies in the last twenty-five years , went methodically about insuring its defense and quickly became part of the Allied defense . The government issued an appeal to the population to preserve calm and assist in that way the military measures for defense . The people were asked to spot German sabotage and German troops in Belgian and Allied uniforms while mobilization is taking place . Bridges and roads were being blown up to prevent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flooding were being put into service . BRUSSELS , Belgium , May 10 UP ) ? The Belgian Army , with King // Leopold at the front as its active commander , declared tonight it had halted the land forces of Germany 's attack against the Low Countries all along the Belgian defenses . Traps , barricades and blown-up bridges and roads stopped this army of Nazi invasion , the Defense Minister , Gen. Henri Denis told a cheering House of Deputies , while behind the lines Belgian troops " dealt with " parachute troops dropped from German planes . In addition , an official announcement said eight German planes were shot down . Even the waves of German bombers , which killed at least forty-one persons and wounded eighty-two in greater Brussels were cheated of a mojor portion of their objective because the Belgians had cleared their airports of planes . Four airraid alarms were sounded . Thus , General Denis said , only two planes were destroyed , although many buildings were damaged . While street crowds cheered the arrival of French and British liaison officers conferring with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an alert defense had gone far in robbing the German attack of its surprise value . Belgian authorities heard of suspicious German troop movements at 9 o'clock last night and immediately placed the army on guard . The Foreign Office said the bombing of Antwerp at 4:30 o'clock this morning opened hostilities . The first German troops , preceded by waves of bombing planes , crossed the border at Gemmenich , near Aachen , close to the point where the first German troops invaded the country in 1914 . " I am convinced the Germans failed to obtain . their first objective and failed to gain the initial success they expected , " General Denis told the House . Then , referring to the Belgian appeal for Allied assistance which was followed six hours later by arrival of the British and French officers , he said : " Our soldiers are comforted in knowing that our friends are coming to their aid . " After this morning 's raid on Brussels , in which two children were killed and fifty ' persons wounded , while one bomb struck close to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and once anti-aireraft fire could he heard in Brussels . Twenty-seven German planes were reported over the Province of Limburg , adjoining the Netherlands frontier , and later nine more over Herenthals , twenty miles east of Antwerp , and others over Gembloux , twenty-eight miles southeast of Brussels . LEOPOLD 'S PROCLAMATION King Tells Belgians of Confidence in Victory BRUSSELS , Belgium , Saturday , MO 11 ( UP ) ? In a proclamation to his people King Leopold said today : " For the second time in a quarter of a century Belgium , an honest neutral in her conduct , has been attacked by the German Reich , which treats with contempt the most solemn pledges . " The Belgian people are fundamentally peace-loving and have done all they can to avoid this fate . But when it is a question of sacrifice or dishonor , the Belgian in 1940 will hesitate no more than his father did in 1914 . " To my valiant army and to my courageous soldiers I give greetings from the whole country . In them , the worthy heirs of the heroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They will fight , foot for foot , the enemy 's attempt to dash across our land and to reduce the amount of our soil violated by the invader . " Thanks to the efforts made by the country , our powers of resistance are infinitely greater today than they were in 1914 . " The struggle will he hard and the privationa.will be considerable , but there can be no doubt of our final victory . " I - shall remain faithful to the oath I took under the . Constitution to maintain the independence and integrity of my country as my father did in 1914 . " I have placed myself at the head of the army with the same faith and confidence in our cause . " Belgium is innocent and with the help of God shall triumph . "                     