@@710902

txt The printers union is on strike against the newspapers of Chicago . The printers voted last night at a meeting at Plumbers ' ' hall , 1349 Washington blvd. for an immediate walkout . The vote : yes , 2330 , no , 61 . The strike is confined , to the composing rooms . The publishers ' contract with the Typographical union expired on Oct. 21 . Efforts to renew it have been fruitless because of the union's. refusal to make a contract . The other crafts -- among them the engravers , stereotypers , , pressmen , and mailers -- remain at work , loyal to their contractual obligations . With their help , we intend to continue to publish THE TRIBUNE , daily and Sunday . The other Chicago newspapers likewise intend to'continue publication . So far as THE TRIBUNE is concerned , we should not undertake the , task if we were not convinced that we can turn out a firstrate newspaper , with a solid and comprehensive news report , and all the features , including cartoons and photographs , ' which readers of our newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be easy . The new methods are somewhat less flexible than the old ones , and for that reason we shall not be able , at first , to publish as many editions as has been our custom . We are confident , however , that with a few days experience to guide us , we can overcome many of the handicaps . The greatest difficulty will be found in providing very late news . With this in mind , W-G-N and the other radio stations are preparing to supplement the printed papers . The radio stations will have access to the material gathered by our own reporters as well as by the Associated Press and other news services . We expect to handle a very substantial volume of advertising ; both display and classified . Our salesmen and telephone ad-takers will keep our clients informed of what we can do for them and of changes . in deadlines . Every regular employe of THE TRIBUNE . who reports at his desk or bench arid does his assigned work will remain on the payroll , of course . ? In'appearance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novelty . Much of the reading matter , if not all of it , will be reproduced from sheets prepared on a new and improved typewriter . The columns will be eminently legible . In news coverage , and service to the reader . and the community , tomorrow 's newspaper will be worthy of THE TRIBUNE . We have met and . overcome a great many obstaclesin a century of publidation . We think we can take this one ' in our stride . "                     