@@706982

txt Temperatures that fell below zero early today marked the beginning of what the Weather Bureau predicted would be a new cold wave in the city and the metropolitan area. * Forecasting continued near-zero weather through this morning , ' the bureau reported a drop of 12 degrees in five hour. , from 25 at 4 P. M. to 13. at 9 P. M. , with the mercury still falling . By 3 A. M. the temperature had dropped to 1 degree below zero . ( Hourly temperatures for the day are tabulated on Page 29 . ) A high wind added to the general discomfort . Reports from up-State also told of plunging temperatures . It was 8 below zero in Buffalo at 10 P. M. , according to The Associated Press . Albany and Rochester reported 5 below at 8 P. M. and it was 1 below in Syracuse . High winds and unless really unusual conditions ensue . " OPA officials and spokesmen for the petroleum industry agreed that snow aggravated conditions in the latter two cities . Fuel oil users in the city got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which said that supplies on hand and those arriving daily in this area should enable them to cope with the cold snap " without any great difficulty . " An office spokesman added , however , the optimism was based on the theory that temperatures would not remain abnov molly low for an unusually long period . " As long as there is rationing , " the spokesman said , " nobody will get all the fuel oil he would like , but we have now struck a balance between supply and coupon demand which we believe can be maintained the kerosene situation was worse than that with respect to domestic No. 2 fuel oil . The users of kerosene for space heaters and for cooking were said to be the most likely to suffer from the cold wave . In Connecticut Governor Raymond E. Baldwin recruited fifty tank trucks to make an immediate trip to Albany for " up to 250,000 gallons of kerosene " for distribution in the State 's fuel-less areas . The Governor revealed the arrangements for the truck convoy . after discussing Connecticut 's fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ler , who , he said , authorized the release of the fuel . A critical fuel oil shortage in Buffalo has occurred during the last few days , and Mayor Joseph J. Kelly disclosed yesterday he had appealed to the OPA in Washington to increase the value of current PeriodLi coupons or issue special emergency allotment of coupons . Traces of Saturday 's three-inch snowfall , rain and overnight freeze remained on New York 's streets yesterday . The Department of Sanitation announced it had placed sixty of its sand and salt spreader trucks in service to make thoroughfares safe for pedestrians . Icy streets in the suburbs caused many injuries during the day . In Teaneck . N. J. , police reported that fourteen persons had suffered broken legs , ankles and back injuries in tumbles during a twentyfour hour period .                     