@@711373

txt President Truman , now completely confident of his own nomination , wants Associate Justice William 0 . Douglas of the United States Supreme Court as his running mate , it was learned on unimpeachable authority . The President has let his views become known to strategically placed Democratic leaders who are here in Philadelphia to carry out the wishes of the White House at the 1948 . National Convention next week . Douglas May Accept It seems quite possible that the Associate Justice will accept , that he is willing to step down from the highest bench to share in what now looks like an almost hopeless political campaign . Although Mr. Truman 's intimates have no direct word from Mr. Justice Douglas on this point , he is quoted today as answering a telephone question from the Philadelphia Inquirer on whether he would accept the Vice-Presidency , by saying : " That 's a more realistic question . " He had just denied flatly that he would he a candidate for President saying : " 1 am not a candidate ( for President ) , never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate . " As to accepting a draft for the Presidency , he replied " No comment at this time . " He then made his statement that the Vice-Presidency was " a more realistic question . " He would make no further comment . The President , it can be said with knowledge . is prepared to intervene personally to persuade Mr. Justice Douglas to accept the vice-presidential nomination . Eisenhower No , No . No . With the flat , final , unequivocal " No " which has come for the third time from Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , who said he would n't accept even if nominated , and with the recalcitrant pro-Eisenhower Democratic bosses , Jacob Arvey of Chicago , and Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York , finally lining up behind the President ? as James Roosevelt , California State Chairman , is expected to do when he gets here ? Mr. Truman 's spokesmen now feel free to set about to swing the vice-presidential candidate whom the White House wishes and whom it believes will most strengthen the 1148 ticket . pf , the concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern Wit . sbjr Watering down the civil ' rights plank , the President 's friends say they are confident the uth will accept Mr. Justice a , s as the vice-presidential tio-c ; .14. : , - b44g , ilft to Mr. Truman to get Mr. Justice Douglas ' consent and then it will be left to his aides here to negotiate the consent of the convention . Three Qualifications Mr. Truman has set down these three qualifications as productive of the best possible running mate for himself : 1 . A candidate as liberal possible . 2 . A candidate as young possible . 3 . A candidate preferably from the East . Mr. Justice Douglas is viewed by the President 's friends as effectively meeting this formula . He an articWate and outstanding New Deal ** with a brilliant Mind and a good record of administration as Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to going to the Supreme Court in 1940 . He is mature but youthful , 50 years old . Though a westerner by birth and residence  --  his home is in Yakima . Wash. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has j spent most of his adult years as ! a lawyer in New York , as a teacher at Columbia and Yaie and as a Government official in Washington . He was one of President Roosevelt 's " bright young men " in the early days of the New Deal . although his first Government work was undertaken for President Hoover , for whose administration he made a study of the causes of bankruptcy when he was Yale 's Sterling Professor of Law . If , for any reason , Mr. Justice Douglas does not emerge as the vice-presidential nominee , then Mr. Truman faces an acute shortage of running-mate prospects who would fit his stated equation . Fail to Meet Test Automatically Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky and former Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas would be eliminated as too well along in years , Senator Millard Tydings of Maryland would be eliminated as too conservative . And there is a further inhibitalion which Democratic leaders have mentioned frankly to correspondents . They say that they are hesitant to nominate a Roman Catholic , feeling that such a nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Catholics themselves . If this limitation prevails , it would eliminate such prominent prospects as Senators Joseph C. O'Mahoney of Wyoming , Brian of Connecticut , Francis J. Myers of Pennsylvania , J. Howard of Rhode Island , and Representative John McCormack of Massachusetts . Such names as Gov , Preston ner , Jr. , of New York , and James Lane of Maryland , Robert Wag-Roosevelt of California are mentioned occasionally , but few see how such a vice-presidential nomination would strengthen the ticket . This leaves such other candidates ' as Wilson Wyatt , former Mayor of Louisville and former Housing Expediter ; Oscar Chapman of Colorado , Underseceretary of Interior ; W. Averell Harriman , roving ambassador for the Economic Cooperation Administration ; Attorney General Torn Clark of Texas ; Senator William J. Fulbright of - Arkansas ; Ellis Arnall , former Governor of Georgia ; Gov . Mon C. Wallgren of Washington , and Senator Warren G , Magnuson of Washington . Campaign Is On Truman spokesmen believe that the lack of a compelling argument for any of these prospects heightens the case for Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to win sufficient support for his nomination will be on in full force here this week end . While a frantic , last-gasp fight to " stop Truman " is still visible under the leadership of Leon Henderson , Chairman of Americans for Democratic Action , Administration forces appear to have acle , quate control of the convention . Mr. Henderson may say , as he does , that " Mr. Truman is repudiated : that fact is unchanged by the latest words of individual political leaders , " and he may continue to crusade for Mr. Justice Douglas as the presidential nominee . But the real opposition to the President has disintegrated , and Mr. Truman now emerges as the top man in Philadelphia . The nomination is in his hands and he will approve the platform before it is sent to the floor of the convention .                     