@@712209

txt In order to maintain control over its German zone , the Soviet Military Administration has been relying more and more on " government through fear "  --  and a vast network of spies and undercover agents , and the concepts of justice which is common to totalitarian states . - This is nothing new . But it has come prominently into the open again with the recent allied publication of a list of 300 Germans alleged to be agents of the MVD ( SOviet secret police ) , in the east sector of Berlin and the eastern zone of Germany . List Publicized This spy list , the original of which is said to have disappeared from the Brandenburg headquarters of 111VD some months ago , has now been made public through the British-licensed press , while the United States Military Government radio station RIAS has been doing its bit by exposing alleged local German spies in Soviet-zone towns and villages . The names of these persons , their , professions , addresses , and cover names , are all publicized . The Russians , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaching the public . But in this case they have been unable to beat the grapevine system of communications . And unless they impose a ban on radio listening in general . they can not do much about RIAS broadcasts . The effect of the western campaign has been to increase German animosity not only against the Soviets but especially against their puppet v the Communist - dominated Socialist Unity Party . Police officials , members of the professions , tradesmen , and so on , are included in the list , which gives some indication of the widespread extent of spy activities . On the other hand , it must be added that not always has it been possible to adjudge the trustworthiness of such lists of alleged spies . For the Soviets appear to work in a rather naive way . They may summon a person for interrogation , and before he is allowed to go away he will be compelled to sign a document in the Russian language which he does not understand . Only later does such a person discover that he is now on the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears that the Soviet officials often work on a system not unlike piecework , where they have to report so many new additions to their list each month . Former army officers and ex-members of the Nazi Party are especially sought ( when not already in the police force ) . The general method of approach , if any difficulty arises , is this . The future spy is reminded that something unpleasant in his past may be brought out unless he agrees . Even pastors of churches are known to have been intimidated into spying on members . There is no such thing as the right of habeas corpus , and law is administered by people whose first qualification is that they are obedient to political demands . Many of the so-called people 's judges ( Volksrichter ) and people 's lawyers have had only nine months of training . Technical knowledge , one of them said recently , " can come of itself . " About 60 per cent of all judges are of this sort . Such a judge may obtain his office simply by the vote of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , as happened in Schwerin some months ago . The chairman of the lawyers ' association in Rostock , for example , is a former welder by trade . Police Kidnaping The Soviet zone police is also untrustworthy . It exists not to defend the rights of the citizens but to carry out political orders . At present , a trial is proceeding in western Berlin of an eastern zone policeman charged with kid- , naping for the purpose of murdering a German from the western sector . During cross examination the fact was established that this policeman was ordered by his superiors to carry out this murder . All this took place last May ? not years ago . Moscow Premier Joseph Stalin 's reception , July 18 , of the new British Ambassador , Sir David Kelly , has stirred speculation on a possible postive turn in Anglo-Soviet relations . The half-hour talk at the Kremlin , at which Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishmsky and British Minister Jeoffrey Harrison also were present , reportedly took place in a " pleasant " atmosphere . The Soviets have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all western countries , and conversations with Britain , France , and Italy to this end have been making headway . 31oment Seen Opportune The present moment is regarded here as especially opportune for urging expansion of Soviet-British trade on a reciprocal basis in view of the current British dollar crisis , which has been extensively reported here along with alleged " collapse " of the Marshall Plan . Increased trade with the Soviet Union , it is argued , could contribute substantially to reduce Britain 's present dependence on dollar markets , It is further believed that growth in trade might favorably affect Soviet-British political relations . The press of late has featured all evidence of Anglo-American friction in the political field as well as the economic field . Currently , the papers here are carrying a story attributed to the London Daily Telegraph 's Washington correspondent to the effect that the American Congress wants to further restrict the already limited exchange of atomic information with Britain . It is suggested here that the pro-American orientation of the Bevin foreign ' policy is unpopular not only with a substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large section of the trade union rank and file . The latter , it is said would welcome a rapprochement with the Soviet Union , especially if this would relieve irksome shortages . Bes in Gets Text By Reuters Moscow A full code record of what was said in talks between Premier Joseph Stalin and British Ambassador Sir David Kelly July 18 has been cabled to London for the personal attention of Ernest Bevin , British Foreign Secretary . This was learned from authoritative British sources , who added that British Minister Jeoffrey Harrison had had consultations at the embassy with William Barker , head of the embassy 's Russian secretariat . The talks between Stalin and the ambassador , which lasted about 30 minutes in the Kremlin , were described as general in character , and conducted " in a pleasant atmosphere . "                     