@@708679

txt Letters to The Times Fraternization Is Recalled To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Right Rev. Bishop Sherrill is certainly right when he says that you can not educate a people unless you have some dealings with them . And it may be true that in Italy the best ambassadors of the American way are the American soldiers , who can never resist giving candy to the children . But I doubt if they would be fit to do missionary work with the German children . It would be tedious to repeat at length the well-known story about the thousands of German children who were taken to the Scandinavian countries after World War I , fed and nursed back to health and normal childhood . In the Netherlands they cared for more than ten thousand . And they were not little fiends , like the Nazi brat in the movie , " Tomorrow the World " : most of them were sweet , affectionate children . When they returned with the armies of occupation , a few refused to fight against the countries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve as guides to the soldiers who moved to take our fighting units from the rear , as interpreters . at Gestapo questionings , in the management of industrial and business enterprises which were now to serve the German war effort . When their former foster-parents shut their doors to them , they felt hurt and cruelly misunderstood . They accused us of having betrayed them when we arose to defend our countries , for the kindness of the Norwegians and the Danes , the easy-going atmosphere of our schools , had made them expect we would accept our fate as conquered nations tranquilly . Parcels Sent to Germany During the years when Goering told the Germans to choose between guns and butter , and then made the choice for them , we were flooded with letters from our German acquaintances who lamented their dire distress . So we sent them money and " Liebesgaben , " five pounds a month of butter , cheese and candy . Norwegians whose .. ons or daughters had studied in Germany sent to the families with whom they had lodged ; authors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their German colleagues . Thousands of parcels went to Germany every month . At least since 1931 , when I met some on Iceland , all over Scandinavia thousands of German " Wandervoegel " hiked with a rucksack and a camera for luggage and ten marks ( two dollars and a half , approximately ) in their pockets  --  all the funds they were permitted to take out of Germany . They expected us to give them free lodgings , free rides on buses-and in cars ; to feed them and help them out with clean shirts and underwear . They relied on some friendly cobbler or farmer out in the country to sole their boots when necessary . We did . And they made camera studies all over the country . They were spies , probably every single soul of them . But they felt hurt and double-crossed when we , who had seemed so friendly , did not quietly accept our place in their New Order . German Translations As to fraternizing , the young people of Germany today may know nothing about the way of life in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to Hitler did . Probably their theoretical knowledge of democracy was much more extensive than the average American 's or Englishman 's . They were all over Europe as tourists . From all European countries , a : - I I think from America too , young people went to Germany to study at the universities and technical colleges and medicals schools or with music teachers . The Germans translated more books from foreign languages , bought and read more books than any other nation in the world . My German publisher once told md that , for instance , Upton Sinclair had a larger sale in Germany than over here . Thomas Wolfe was a craze with the Germans , so was Sinclair Lewis . Only , one day they decided they did not really like these things after all , and they felt an emotional relief in throwing to the flames the books they had praised a short while ago . Or so a number of young German intellectuals told me . Since they have a word for it in their language , I suppose the Germans have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Anglo-Saxon or Scandinavian people 's . So , a well-wisher of America can only say , may you never incur German gratitude . SIGRID UNDSET . Brooklyn , May 29 , 1945 . Dbjects to Naming Carrier Iwo Jima ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE NEW YORK TIMES of this late appeared the story of the impending launching of the U.S.S. Sarsfield and the description of Commander Sarsfield 's heroic conduct , which well warrants the perpetuation of his name ) y7 this proper traditional means . A few weeks ago the announcement was made that a carrier of the United Rates Navy is to be named Iwo Jima. t is inconceivable that a Japanese lame could ever be given to an Ameri:an ship or that men of the United Rates Navy could be expected to serve In a ship so named . We still have many an unsung hero n the Navy , and if ever that list should ) e exhausted , there are many thousands ) f Army and Marine heroes to draw on : or inspiring names . JOHN J. CUNNINGHAM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomenclature for ships folows this general rule : battleships lamed for States , carriers for great ) attles or noted early naval vessels , cruisers for cities , destroyers for naval heroes , fleet oilers for rivers , submarines for fish . The rule was broken for carriers when one was named fog President Roosevelt . A carrier named for a Japanese island would be a reminder in days to come that we had fought the bloodiest of all our wars against the Japanese. ? Editor , THN TIMES . United Nations Air Force Voluntary Group Is Advocated to Enforce International Law To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : The United States of America was first established under the " Articles of Confederation . " It failed because it overzealously guarded the sovereignty of the thirteen States . Each State had one vote and it was necessary that nine out of thirteen States should approve any measure . The United States could not directly levy taxes or raise armies . So , after ten years , the Confederation was scrapped and a convention was called in 1787 to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Constitution under which the United States has ever since lived and thrived . It granted the Federal Government much sovereignty at the expense of the States , which included the vital power to levy taxes and raise armies . The Covenant of the League of Nations is exactly in the same stage of political evolution that the Articles of Confederation were in 1777-87 . It failed for precisely the same season ? namely , because the League of Nations had no power to carry out by force its decrees , force being left to the initiative of the member states . And when Japan invaded China , and Italy Ethiopia , the League members refused to carry out their obligations under the Covenant . The League did not fail . Its members did . Comparison With Constitution I have been in San Francisco ever since the opening of the United Nations Conference on International Organization . The conference is now trying to retrieve the failures of the League as the American Constitutional Convention retrieved the failures of the Articles of Confederation . But San Francisco can take the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chapter 8 of the Dumbarton Oaks proposal states : " In order to enable urgent military measures to be taken by the organization , there should be held immediately available by the members of the organization national air force contingents for combined international enforcement action . " There is nothing in this statement to prevent the proposed air force to be handed completely over to the United Nations , as the beginning of the longhoped-for " international police . " Volunteer Air Police As the United Nations will not be a sovereign world state , it could not conscript an air force . But it certainly could call for a voluntary air force . There must be thousands of young men in all the nations who would gladly volunteer to take an oath of allegiance to the United Nations and serve in a contingent whose sole purpose is to use force to maintain international law . Of course , there would be a proviso that the individual airman would not be called upon to fight if his own nation were to be punished . Such an air force would naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations flag and wear the United Nations uniform . It would he a visible and inspiring symbol of the United Nations and give it power and prestige as nothing else the San Francisco Conference would do . As Thomas Jefferson said when the statesmen of his day objected to this or that clause in the proposed Constitution they were framing , " We must be contented to travel on toward perfection step by step . " HAMILTON Hor.R . San Francisco , May 29 , 1945 . Reportorial Work Praised TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Mr. Drew Middleton 's article dated from St. Laurent-sur-Mer , Normandy , on the cemetery of our heroic men who died in the first wave of our unforgettable assault on Hitler 's Europe is a masterly , moving article worthy of the style immortalized by Lincoln . I feel that this article is worthy or being included in an anthology celebrating our heroes . There are sentences in it that ring true and tug at the very strings of our hearts . Referring to the memorial ritual , he says : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the winds that blow steadily from the Atlantic will whisk away the words and the sound of shots and bugle notes . " And on the supreme sacrifice of our men , Middleton achieves perfect expression . " Dying , they won a foothold of Europe , and the men who came on after death had tapped them on the shoulder plunged further eastward to the Seine , the Rhine and the Elbe and victory . " M. J. BERNARDETE . Brooklyn , N. Y. , May 30 , 1945.                     