@@711961

txt The ideological conflict between East and West , with its possibilities of war or peace , came under sharp , searching scrutiny yesterday at the second day 's sessions of the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace . Pickets marched before the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and Carnegie Hall , where the conference gatherings were held , but solid opposition came not from them but from a rival meeting . The Americans for Intellectual Freedom met at Freedom House , 20 West Fortieth Street , and denounced the peace conference as " Communist inspired . " In the morning the " keynote " of the three-day congress of intellectuals , which has been deplored by the State Department , was set at a rally in Carnegie Hall . Speakers , among them Dr. Harlow Shapley , conference chairman , attacked American foreign policy , warned against war hysteria and pleaded for a betterment of Soviet-American relations . Dr. Shapley censured both East and West for ' ignoring " each other 's " shortcomings . " He pointed out , too , that Americans did not carry " identity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech and assenfbly . Detaining of Canadians One ilnportant development of the day was the disclosure that at the conference 's opening dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria Friday night Federal agents had seized three Canadians for questioning about alleged " Communist activities . " They were Mr. and Mrs. Barkley Fairley of Toronto and John Goss of Vancouver . Mr. Fairley is a visiting professor of German for the spring session at Columbia University and Mr. Goss is an actor and theatre director . The three were taken into custody by agents of the local office of the Immigration and Naturalization ' ' ervice , who refused to discuss the case . Last night Mrs. Fairley and ** Goss were released but ordered to return at once to Canada . Mr. Fairley , who was described asi vice president of the Canadian Council of AmericanSoviet Friendship , was allowed to remain here to finish his Columbia term . - Peace Stressed by Panels Highlight of the peace conference 's afternoon program was a series of six panel discussions on culture and science . Speakers among them intellectuals froth many parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the need to further international cooperation and world peace . At an economic and social science panel the speakers asserted that the Marshall Plan eould not revive post-war Europe and that Western Europe 's only salvation was through socialism . Other speakers at a panel on religion and ethics warned against an apparent trend to make " peace " a subversive word . Dmitri Shostakovich , the composer , and Alexander A. Fadayev , the novelist , took part in a writing and publishing panel , exhibiting a rare directness in answering questions . Mr. Fadayev denied that he had attacked American culture , saying he attacked " those forces in America working against peace . " Mr. Shostakovich , replying to the question as to what benefit he derived from government criticism of his music , said : " the criticism brings me much good . It helps me bring my music forward . " Dr. Shapley , win was moderator at a building and planning panel , declared that the general aim of the Truman plan was good , but that the plan itself was inadequate . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning ' board as the only way to assure general employment and economic security . Dr. John J. DeBoer , Professor of // Education at the University of Illinois , told 400 persons at an educational panel that America was on the road to war and faced a threat from within by Fascists . A vigorous defense of the democratic base of Soviet science was made by A. I. Oparin , a leading Russian biologist , at a science panel , and Henry A. Wallace criticized " the spirit of intolerance " in both capitalism and communism . Speakers at most of the panels were extremely cautious concerning their mention of the Soviet Union . At the Carnegie Hall session some of those who spoke placed some share of the blame for world unrest on Russia , but in the main devoted their criticism to this country 's failures here and abroad . Twenty-seven hundred persons filled the hall to its capacity . Among those in the audience were Gerhart Eisler , now out on bail on deportation proceedings , and Anna Louise Strong , recently ousted from Russia . Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Areedom was " sorely restricted " in the East , adding that we " deplored " curbs on individual freedom . 0 . John Rogge , former Assistant United States Attorney General , received heavy applause when he remarked that the " ferocity " of the attacks made against the conference reflected the " importance those who reject peace attach to our gatherings here . " The conference will end tonight with a meeting at Madison Square Garden .                     