@@709381

txt Like the oceanic earthquake that precipitated a tidal wave , the war continues to send out waves of disturbance . It will probably continue to do so until the political vacuums it has created are filled and the world has settled down again to a real peace . But the events of the last few days , which found their climax in the flare-up and the provisional settlement of the RussoIranian dispute before the Security Council of the United Nations , have provided genuine indications that the waves are beginning to subside and that the political forces at large in the world are beginning to find a new equilibrium . For this much progress the world can give thanks , and hope that new gains will continue to be made until the patterns of conflict that still dominate men 's minds have been replaced by patterns of stimulating but peaceful rivalry and cooperation for the good of all . The most encouraging , perhaps even decisive , step in this direction took place in New York last week when Russia acknowledged the authority and the jurisdiction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yielding to the overwhelming sentiment of the Council as the representative of the United Nations , agreed to withdraw her troops from that country without further conditions . In doing so she did honor to herself . But in. abandoning unilateral action in the face of virtual world unanimity against her , she also averted a crisis within the United Nations which might have had tragic consequences , and helped instead to establish the United Nations as the supreme authority in the settlement of international disputes . To a degree which the League of Nations never attained , the United Nations has already vindicated the principle of collective security , which Russia has always espoused , and has thereby become the guardian of the peace of all nations in a still turbulent world . But the proceedings before the Security Council were not the only hopeful developments of the past week . Throughout the world , military force is on the retreat . Millions of men are , figuratively speaking , converting their swords into plowshares , in some places so rapidly as to create the danger of a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , over an increasing area of the world , discussion , negotiation and the political processes of self-government , based on democratic elections , are beginning to replace outworn forms of arbitrary rule . Russian troops are leaving not only Iran but also Manchuria and Bornholm , thereby helping to stabilize the situation in Europe , in the Middle East and in China , in all of which places much stabilizing is still to be done . Concurrently , the United States and Great Britain are withdrawing their troops from many outlying bases to which the exigencies of the war had sent them , though their final security requirements as pillars of the United Nations are still to be determined . And the new forces aspiring to democracy throughout the world are not only finding expression in the numerous elections in Europe , of which the Greek election is the latest example , but are also obtaining new recognition everywhere , as demonstrated by the British offer of independence to India , the forthcoming negotiations with Egypt , the new status of the native states in Indo-China and the progress of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hope that similar processes can be extended to other trouble spots . But even while these favorable developments are taking place , a new specter makes its appearance which could imperil all present gains , and that is the specter of famine now haunting large parts of the world . Men made desperate by hunger are all too prone to cast democracy aside and yield to tyranny in the hope of surviving even at the expense of their fellow-men . While this specter was sired by the war , it has been nurtured by the quarrels and the follies of the victors , which raised it to its present proportions and threaten to prolong its existence . For that ver reason it behooves the victors mor than ever to speed the peace . For the alone can release the energies neces sary to banish the specter , and there by make sure of the fruits of victory .                     