@@705453

txt Three to Four Million New Workers Must Be Enlisted to Do the Job 33. y YACVW.TI . WASHINGTON , March 22 ? All agencies of the government and the defense authorities are gearing their programs to cope with probably the most extensive labor recruiting task ever undertaken in the nation 's history . A total enlistment of between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000 persons for the defense industries in the next year is a " conservative " estimate of the skilled , semi-skilled and unskilled workers required for the " all-out " effort for Britain and the American program , according to Robert P. Patterson , Under-Secretary of War . The labor requirements top by a considerable margin the Selective Service requirements of 600,000 new recruits for the Army by July . Labor Department sources estimate that some 2.000,000 persons are today working on defense projects . What 1942 may bring is a matter of conjecture , but employment will then be at its peak , with the shipyards , airplane factories , machine shops , tooling plants and other defense organizations working at their full capacity . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men by the end of next year . According to A. Ford Hinrichs , acting chief of the Bureau of Labor Statistics , half a dozen of the defense industries including aircraft , shipbuilding , machine tools , copper and brass will absorb an additional 500,000 workers by the end of the year . William S. Knudsen , associate director general of the Office of Production Management , estimates that the 18,000,000,000 man-hours demanded by the current defense program will be stepped up 60 per ! industrial peaks will arise two years hence , requiring greater employ-1 ment than ever before . As Mr. Hinrichs puts it the size of the collective draft on man power " indicated that labor is going to be one of our most precious resources . " Despite the tremendous increase in employment due to the defense program the " hard core " of unemployment has not been plumbed . ) As employers revise their age hiring limits and other standards additional men will flock into regular pursuits , out of their WPA jobs and off the home relief rolls . The effect of the defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drained the work relief rolls of a large percentage of skilled men of certain ages . The WPA has been left with few types of skilled men who are now most in demand . Geographical Distribution The call for workers from WPA has been rather spotty geographically as most of the defense contracts are in areas where WPA has a minimum percentage of persons on its rolls . In the industrially concentrated : areas , however , there has been a considerable movement of WPA workers toward defense work , especially among the younger group who may be trained . In some sections the WPA load has been cut 50 per cent by this exit , which also accounted for many young whitecollar workers , leaving behind the middle-aged and those without any skills whatever . As of March 12 there were 1,763,889 on WPA as compared with 2,318,914 on March 113 , 1940 . Systematic efforts are under way to meet the unremitting demand for labor . During the last war the Federal Employment Service languished for lack of funds and Prescent so that the demand for quick delivery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfilled . Those in charge of the labor sup- ' ply program are trying to apply the lessons of the World War , when la bor supply lagged woefully behind ' labor demand , when armies of skilled workmen left jobs to travel long distances for better ones , when employers , too , roamed the country scouting for skilled labor and disorganizing the labor market by failing to work through existing public employment agencies . Comparison With 1916 So far as skilled men in the metal trades is concerned , the present period is somewhat like that of 1916-1917 when the nation moved into a definite shortage . Then , too , the problem of training arose as a crucial factor in the war effort . However , in the earlier period the employment market was less susceptible to a rapid training program than it is at the present , when there is a larger reservoir of millions of persons who may be trained for new occupations requiring semi-skilled operations . The last war found no such large reservoir of labor at hand among young people as today . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor market for the armed services during the last war and this tightened the labor market . The current shortage of skilled and semi-skilled men is due in the main to the unprecedented depression of the post-1929 period . Employers did not take on their usual quota of apprentices , trained men went into other jobs , the normal mortality tables accounted for a large loss of skilled workers . However , in the last six months the nation has been catching up with the record peaks of employment in industry after industry . From now on most of those who will be added to the ranks of industry , especially in durable goods , will be new recruits who have been trained for their tasks . They will work in new plants and at expanded facilities in older plants . New Industrial Peaks ? This year will account for some 900.000 additional employes in the durable goods industries which will reach a maximum employment next year , according to . present estimates . As these estimates are being revised every few months , always upward , it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson was unable . to do more than have unskilled labor recruited from this source . Today , this service , with 1,500 full time and 3,000 part-time offices is being utilized in a nation-wide registration of two groups of workers , those who are idle and who may be available for work or training in defense jobs , and every person with an urgently needed skill which is not , being used in his present job . Skilled workers are especially urged to register if they have the following skills and are not using them : In aircraft manufacturing , in shipbuilding and in machine shops and machine manufacturing . Mr. Knudsen and Sidney Hillman , his OPM associate , have issued urgent appeals to employers to utilize their local labor market fully through the public employment offices and to refrain from labor scouting and widespread advertising for labor . Hundreds of thousands of trainees in industry are attending vocational study classes in connection with their shop duties , large numbers are being trained " on the job , " many are being " upgraded , " and plants are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last decade .                     