@@706635

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. ** is apparent that the creation of a British-American High Command is now being seriously considered by responsible officials in both Washington and London . This does not mean the appointment of a supreme commander of all the forces of the two nations , but probably the formation of a Supreme High Command made up of the United States and British Chiefs of Staff , who would sit together , probably in London , directing the broad strategy of the war . No decision has been made . The High Command idea is being opposed by some high officers in both capitals , and it is unlikely that anything will be done about it in the next few weeks unless the Middle East should fall or the Russian resistance collapse . But it is now freely admitted that the Combined Chiefs of Staff Committee has not fully succeeded in combining the military efforts of the two countries and will have to be changed before any major offensive is attempted . The raw materials crisis has in , creased the discussion of a High Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical shortage of some raw materials will almost certainly make it impossible for the United States to meet President Roosevelt 's program of 185,000 airplanes , 120,000 tanks , 55,000 anti-aircraft guns and 18,000,000 deadweight tons of merchant shipping in 1942 and 111943 . Therefore , officials in both countries are now faced with making new decisions on how the limited supply of raw materials available to both nations is to be divided and on what weapons these materials are to be spent , and it is now generally admitted that these decisions can be made most effectively by a // MATERIALS LACK STIRS UNITY MOVE // High Command that is directing the armed forces of both nations with one general plan of strategy . Several facts indicate that this unity of command , which was the goal of the Combined Chiefs of Staff Committee , has not been achieved . While the officials of both nations have talked repeatedly of the need for standardizing equipment used by the United States and Britain , in many cases the bombs we make in this country will not fit the British bomb racks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bomb racks on the planes we have in Britain . Under the present system , if the Germans should get into a convoy carrying bombs to Britain for our planes , many of our ? machines might have to lie on the ground until a new convoy could arrive . Similarly , while the standardization of all equipment has been accepted in principle but not always put into practice , the proposal of unity of command has also been accepted in principle but not always put into practice . - For weeks there has been considerable difference of opinion between the British and many high American Army officers about how our forces should operate in the British Isles . Many of our officers have taken the view that under no circumstances should American bombers be used until all our ground crews and service men were on the scene to service the craft and keep them operating , and that they should operate more or less independently of the Royal Air Force . Some other American officers opposed this view , on the ground that it would take valuable months before thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They pointed out that this would result in valuable time being lost in bringing the full combined weight of the two air forces against the Germans , and that this weight could be most effective only if it were directed by a High Command which would represent both nations . Churchill Discussed Issue This desire on the part of some of our high officers to defy the lessons of the last war and create a more or less autonomous military establishment in Britain was one of the main reasons for Mr. Churchill 's last visit to the United States , but events since his departure have not indicated that the problem was entirely solved during that visit . A few days ago , without the approval of the combined Chiefs of Staff Committee , the War Department , on its own initiative , issued a new priority order demanding that equipment for United States troops receive top priority , despite the obvious fact that most of our troops are still in this country and that the equipment ordered was badly needed by the Russians and the British in the Middle East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an equal priority to similar equipment needed in the eastern battle fronts , but the incident is significant of the fact that many War Department officials are still holding out against the unity of command they support in speeches about the United Nations . These problems have been discussed behind the scenes in Washington for weeks , but as in the last war , when the Foch-Haig fight was going on , little has been said about it in public on the theory that discussion of the problem would embarrass officials of both nations . There is apparently unanimity in high places in both London and Washington on the wisdom of creating a high command and appointing a sole commander in chief of operations in the European area and in each of the other major areas of operation . But at the same time there is an almost fatalistic acceptance of the notion that the Allies will have to go through even darker days , as they did in 1917 , before they can overcome the personal difficulties involved in making such fundamental changes . The fact that the High Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials and that these officials have gone so far as to discuss the name of a commander of both United States and British forces in Britain indicates that some progress is being made . It is also true that until General George C. Marshall had time to build up a strong United States Army , as he has now , it was difficult for him to talk with the British , as he has in recent days , about this problem . But the feeling among officials who have been observing the attempts at coordinating the war efforts of the two countries is still that the progress toward a High Command is not rapid enough to match the severe military situation that is bound to face Britain and the United States ' in the next year . These officials are not severely critical of the combined Chiefs of Staff Committee . They point out that such a committee was essential as a means of giving General Marshall and Admiral Ernest J. King an opportunity to work with British officers . But at the same time they point out that this committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . The British members who sit on the committee here in Washington are merely delegates of the men who actually direct the British war machine . Therefore , when any major topic comes up for discussion they can state their views and listen to the views of Admiral King and General Marshall , but beyond that they can merely send a report of the meeting back to London with a request for the views of the Chief of Imperial General Staff and his colleagues . The proposal now is to see that the men who are charged with directing the war effort of both countries actually sit together and do that job of planning and directing and nothing more . In the opinion of most people here General Marshall has got far enough along with his job of building the United States Army to enable him to do that job , and that Admiral King and General Arnold could also free themselves to concentrate on the job of deciding where , how and when the United Nations are going to make their great stand , and to direct the limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will fit into that strategy . It must be emphasized that nobody is suggesting that the United States Army should be swallowed up in the British Army or vice versa or that the United States Air Forces should become a part of the R. A. F. Under the scheme now being discussed here and in London each army would retain its separate identity , but the direction of both armies would be the same and in each major theatre one man would be in command of all operations the High Command determined should be carried out . The principles involved in the proposed changes are the same as those outlined by Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill on several occasions . These are the principles of unity of direction in building the weapons of war , unity of direction in how and where and when these weapons are to be used and unity of command in each major theatre of operation .                     