@@708916

txt ALLIES TO RECALL GERMANS ABROAD Control Council Tells Neutrals to Return Officials , Agents and Some Individuals By GLADWIN BILL By Wireless to Tin Nsw YORE TIMES . BERLIN , Sept. ** Allied Control Council , which has largely been marking time during the formation of its subordinate fourpower organization , swung into stride in its fifth meeting today and delivered several significaxt decisions . The council , headed this month by Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery , declared that all German Government officials at the time of the capitulation and all German " agents " and their families were " hereby-recalled from the neutral countries of Afghanistan , Eire , Portugal , Spain , Sweden , Switzerand , Tangier and Vatican City . " The council said that it " looks to the countries concerned for assistance in returning these as // well as other obnoxious Germans whose presence abroad constitutes a danger in view of the possible future renewal of the German war effort . " It is presumed that this notice will be communicated to the Governments involved by the concurrent action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regular diplomatic channels . The initial notice will be in this general form , although the action is based on a large collection of documentary evidence now in the ministerial records collecting depot in Kassel , which will furnish the basis for specific lists of individuals wanted that may be served on any countries harboring them . There is no idea how many people the measure may involve . Argentina in Separate Group It was noted that it did not cover some principal refuges of Germans like Argentina , which is not neutral . These are considered a matter for separate action . There was no indication what action , if any , might be taken against neutral governments that did not provide the " assistance " mentioned but the measure will at least provide formal grounds for pressure on them . Something of a milestone in fourpower collaboration was passed with an agreement in principle on free inter-zone trade . It was decided that " each zonal commander , while preserving his prerogatives to prohibit transfers to other zones of commodities in critically short supply , be requested to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible all unnecessary restrictions on normal inter-zonal trading in commodities , goods and services . " This is largely theoretical now , since all zones are short of most commodities , transportation for private trade Is lacking and financial and other limitations virtually prevent Germans from trading . It is obvious also that any transactions will be contingent on permission from both parties ' zone commanders and any zone commander could block trading by declaring a commodity in short supply . Nevertheless , the Council 's members have been cautious about underwriting agreements in principle , even though they are often susceptible of subsequent circumvention . This indicates an encouraging candor and as such it is considered by the occupation authorities a forward step worthy of some note . Transport Restoration Another broad measure involving basic occupation policy was an agreement that in effect Germany 's transportation facilities should be restored on a truncated basis , just as the Allies plan to do with industry , to eliminate the marginal war potential . The formal wording of the measure was " German inland transAort by road , rail and water and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to satisfy the demands of the forces of occupation , other Allied demands and the needs of the accepted German peace economy . " The Council decided that commercial highway traffic should be confined to short-haul freight and passenger service that can not be carried by water or rail ; such inland water and coastal shipping as might be allocated to meet Germany 's needs should be used as much as possible , and rail traffic should be limited to that necessary to supplement inland waterway and coastal shipping in supplying the total transport requirements . This is also mainly academic now , since one of Germany 's greatest problems is the shortage of all kinds of transport . It is also indefinite , since the extent of the re-establishment depends on the extent of the re-establishment of other aspects of the economy , which has not yet been clearly defined . Nevertheless it is significant in its evident intention to subordinate the railroads , the arteries of war , and in view of a certain background of facts . Certain Germans have already shown Inclinations to try to hoodwink the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German railroad expert had the effrontery to contend with a straight face that certain railroad " loops , " built around critical railroad yards during the war to detour trains in case of bombing , had been installed and should be maintained for use when snow congested the yards . The Council referred to its subordinate coordinating committee for investigation the matter of the control of considerable migrations of Germans between zones and the settlement of large numbers of German emigres from Poland , Czechoslovakia and Hungary . It also approved extensive technical arrangements by the Council 's railroad directorate to facilitate American , British and French railroad supply traffic into Berlin that necessarily moves over Russian-controlled tracks . The arrangements provide for a new joint traffic-control organization in Magdeburg and Helmstedt , the beginning of the bottleneck into Berlin , and for the passage of at least sixteen American , British and French trains daily into Berlin . The extent of the Council 's work today -- after several weeks that produced little tangible legislation  --  and the aplomb with which the negotiations settled questions of broad implication encouraged authoritative observers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agreement on free inter-zone trade might be the first step in the gradual elimination of zone demarcations and the treatment of the four segments of Germany as a unit by the four-power management . This would be a radical development , but it was recalled that though not so long ago the four-power management of Berlin as a unit , with free circulation among sectors , had seemed out of the queestion , it was being accomplished .                     