@@706842

txt Chairmen of five special Senate and House groups investigating the conduct of the war on the domestic front ( all of them supporters of the New Deal ) joined today in a drive for legislation to force a unified control of the non-military economy of the country by putting production , manpower and supply " under one civilian roof " and in command of a single director . Risking a clash with the White House , Senator Pepper , chairman of the Education and Labor subcommittee on manpower , called for the opening of hearings early next week on a jointly sponsored bill to create an over-all Office of War Mobilization which would absorb , among other agencies , the War Production Board , the Selective Service system , the Office of Economic Stabilization and the procurement divisions of the War and Navy Departments and the Maritime Commission . Truman Backs the Drive Giving their support to the movement to write into law the conclusions reached by three of the committees involved are : Senator Truman of Missouri , chairman of the special Senate committee investigating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Truman committee 's special subcommittee on technological mobilization . Representative Tolan of California , chairman of the special House committee on national defense migration . Senator Murray of Montana , chairman of the special Senate committee on small business . Senator Pepper predicted that legislation would be ready for Congressional action " before the first anniversary of Pearl Harbor . " Decision to proceed with legislation in the face of indications-by President Roosevelt that he would ask for no Congressional action this year was spurred , frankly , on the part of some of this unofficial steering committee , by the election returns of Nov. 3 . " The people , " said Senator Pepper , " have expressed dissatisfaction with loose organization . " " We anticipated the feeling of // CONGRESS LEADERS ASK ONE-MAN RULE // the people by preparing this legislation in advance of the election , " said Mr. Tolan . " Something along the lines of this bill will have to be worked out , " added Mr. Truman . Plea for Centralized Rule Observing that there had been great demand for a unified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more a unified control and direction of our nonmilitary economy engaged in production , supply and manpower mobilization . " Senator Murray telegraphed from Montana his " unqualified support . " Under the legislation , introduced late last month in the Senate by Messrs . Pepper and Kilgore , and in the House by Mr. Tolan , there would be a single $20,000-a-year production director , responsible to the President and the Congress , having full authority over the " non-military parts of this war . " It would be his job to centralize and coordinate the war effort . Special permission is given in the measure for the appointment of Vice President Wallace to the post , if the President should desire to do so . Whoever would be put into the directorship , Senator Pepper said , would be charged with getting from the military establishments their lists of requirements and to " undertake to deliver the goods . " " He must decide which agency is to do the job , " Mr. Pepper added , " and ' flake it stick . He must have at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives to make his decisions stick . " Under this director there would be a single production and procurement office combining the War Production Board and the Army , Navy , Maritime and lend-lease procurement staffs . Under him also would be a single manpower office merging the Selective Service and the War Manpower Commission so that they might work in harness . Next , there would be a single office where the scattered technical and scientific resources of the country would be mobilized for the fullest use of processes and techniques in fighting a war of machines . Finally , there would function , under the bill , the recentlyestablished Office of Economic Stabilization headed by former Supreme Court Justice James F. Byrnes . Denies Need of Superman " With a single responsibility for the home front , " Mr. Pepper said , " we will need no superman to run the war job . Ordinary mortals with the courage to make policy and stick to it can do the job . " With such a reorganization and centralization the dollar - a - year men now serving at hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the picture or take government salaries and give up all private business and industrial connections . The measure provides specifically that no one in the organization could receive other compensation than that which he received from the government . " We must stop turning out planes without propellers , " Senator Pepper said at a press conference called by the group to reveal its plans . " We must stop building tanks without replacement parts . We must stop inducting men with irreplaceable skills . We must stop drafting a mass army without plans to feed and supply it . " Not Enough " to Stop Mistakes " But stopping mistakes is not enough . In the absence of an integrated organization , partial changes are bound to fail . " The " partial changes " of which the Senator spoke referred to indications given by the President that certain alterations of the present set-up were under study and might be effected without recourse to the Congress . The new move , its sponsors let it be understood , had as much of its purpose the injection of Congress definitely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as legislation would permit . In some quarters , however , the new drive , to be opened with the taking of testimony in closed session from officials of twenty-five of the big companies now holding an estimated 50 per cent of the war production contracts , was interpreted more as a spur for a larger-scale White House reorganization action than was now indicated . The sponsors of the centralization program are making it appear at least that they are following in great detail the program of Bernard M. Baruch , chairman of the War Industries Board in the first World War , who recently has been reported much interested , if not officially active , in the manpower situation . It is reported widely , however , that Mr. Baruch is more inclined to oppose this particular legislation than to support it . At the press conference , at which the joint plans were set forth , mimeographed excerpts from Mr. Baruch 's book , " Taking the Profits Out of War , " were distributed and Senators said they were " following his advice given on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus far , sponsors of the legislation said , there had been no consultations with President Roosevelt , and none with Mr. Baruch . No indication was given that a meeting with the President would be sought . Mr. Baruch would be consulted later , , Senator Pepper said . Yesterday Mr. Pepper sent telegrams to officials of the twentyfive large-scale war production companies , inviting testimony " in executive session unless you prefer otherwise " on the basis of their experience with production and procurement of supplies , occupational deferments and manpower . The companies involved are : Bethlehem Steel Corporation , Curtiss-Wright Corporation , General Motors Corporation , Consolidated Aircraft Corporation , Glenn L. Martin Company , Douglas Aircraft Company , Inc. ; Boeing Airplane Company , New York Ship ! . building Corporation , United Aircraft Corporation , Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company , Lockheed Aircraft Corporatior United States Steel Corporation , E. I. du Pont de Nemours &; Co. , North American Aviation Company , Inc. ; General Electric Company , Seattle-Tacoma Ship-1 building Company , Chrysler Cor-1 poration , Bath Iron Works Corporation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford Motor Company , Bell Aircraft Corporation , Electric Boat Company and the Bendix Aviation Corporation . Complaints on Production The witnesses would be heard , Mr. Pepper said , as they responded or engaged time in advance . A complaint registered against the War Production Board was that it was able to act " only as an umpire " over continuing conflicts arising from an absence of over-all organization and planning , it was stated . " The new controlled-materials plan of WPB , " Mr. Kilgore said , " represents no fundamental change in our procurement and production organization . It is only a more elaborate system of umpiring conflicts in the distribution of materials . " C. M. P. still divides authority over the use of men , materials , machines and the letting of contracts . " It freezes the present system , which is based largely on salesmanship and divided procurement powers . It is the death warrant for thousands of little businesses , over whom C. M. P. increases the control of the hundred companies with 80 per cent of the contracts . " Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months to see whether C. M. P. will work . In eight months we can have the enemy at our mercy if we will overhaul the war production program now . " Jointly , Messrs . Pepper , Kilgore and Tolan charged that we were operating now on a " patchwork program , " marked by constant breakdowns of production schedules . There was hoarding at one plant while another went without materials , they held , asserting that skilled machine-tool builders were being drafted while airplane plants needed machine tools . " We have the War Production Board unable to find 20,000,000 tons of lost steel , 300,000,000 pounds of mislaid copper , and we have the armed services and their contractors jockeying with each other over men , machines and materials , " they asserted in a formal statement . " In the face of the African operations , " they added , " the WPB can not expect us to wait eight months to see whether or not the new Controlled Materials Plan is going to work . " This measure would put milltary , farming and industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that every person serves , his country where he can serve best  --  whether in a tank , on a tractor or at a turret lathe . " It would free the military for the planning of the global strategy this war demands , and leave it up to civilian production forces to deliver the food and weapons needed . "                     