@@706608

txt Great Lakes oil tankers are rot only taking care of ordinary requirements of cities on the lakes , but are also moving about 50,000 barrels of petroleum products daily for shipment to the eastern seaboard via the New York state barge canal . If the petroleum were available at lake terminals , vessel men estimate these tankers could transport about 30,000 additional barrels for eastern users . This indicated only 621i% of the potential maximum is being utilized . Mayor LaGuardia of New York City has estimated an additional 100,000 barrels could be shipped by lake for the east . Petroleum moving from the lakes east represents a reversal of the usual traffic flow . Ordinarily , practically no petroleum moves east from the lakes but a fairly large quantity is transported by boats in the opposite direction . When normal tanker deliveries are being made from the Gulf coast to the Atlantic seaboard , oil shipments from the latter district to lake points east of Cleveland cost less than those from Chicago or other western lake terminals . Oil Pool Not Supplying Funds The main reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the eastern states is that funds from the eastern oil pool . created to reimburse oil companies for increased transportation costs , are not being made available for this movement over the Lakes . according to officials of tanker firms . Transportation Director Eastman recently said the Government may step in to control movement of tankers on the Lakes and barges on the New York state barge canal in an effort to increase petroleum deliveries to the east coast . While this undoubtedly would help , shipping men engaged in the tanker trade point out that shipments could be increased simply by making the petroleum available on the Lakes . Another suggestion that has been advanced is taking tankers out of the Lakes and putting them in the coastwise service to increase the shipments of petroleum to the east coast . Lake vessel officials say that if this were done it would place an additional burden on railroads which would then be required to service the cities and Industries now obtaining petroleum products by lake . They point out that lake tankers are especially built for short-haul lake work and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . They are of the opinion that the lake tankers can do more good right ' . where they are . Bland() Facilities Held Inadequate Opinions vary on the capacity of the barge canal for moving petroleum east . Some authorities say that the facilities in Buffalo for ' Finding petroleum , and the equipment that Can operate In both the canal and on the lakes , would n't take care of over 80,000 barrels daily . The movement of petroleum on the lakes this season , particularly that destined for the east . Is being speeded up by more careful scheduling of boats so less time will be lost in port . Several vessels have been increased in size within the pant few years . in comparison with total requirements of the east coast , the 80,000 barrel ' a day that could be moved over the lakes is n't large . But water shipments would free railroad equipment now being used for transporting oil . From the opening of navigation on the lakes , to the end of June , 4,032,068 barrels of petroleum products were shipped by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were 765 , - 772 barrels in April ; 1,603,415 barrels , or about 51,500 barrels daily , In May ; and 1,662,881 barrels , or about 55,000 barrels daily , In June . July Shipments to Show Decrease In July , 1,242,900 barrels are scheduled for shipment to the east , or about- , 40,000 harrela daily . Actual shipments will probably be greater than the scheduled amount but are expected to fall short of the totals in May and June . The decline will be chiefly due to lack of petroleum available for shipment , vessel men say . - ' Last year , 68,948,523 barrels of petroleum products were moved via the lakes and Shipments through the New York barge canal amounted to over 15 million barrels , Practically all this canal traffic in petroleum , however , was moved to the lakes . There were 67 tankers engaged in the movement of petroleum products last year , accordMg to the Lake Carriers ' Association . Of this number , 34 were . Canadian vessels . Of 33 American boats , about 20 operated only on the lakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the lakes . These boats were of such size as to be able to carry petroleum through the barge canal . The first oil tanker appeared on the lakes in 1910  --  the " Imperial , " a boat brought from England by the Imperial Oil . Co. of Sarnia , Ontario . Standard Oil Co. of Indiana was the first United States company to enter the lake tanker field , when Its " Renown " was placed In service in 1012 . The growth in the tanker fleet has continued since . It Included ten vessels in 1920 , 26 at the end of 1931 and 67 at the close of 1041 . In addition to these two companies , others operating tankers include the Allied 011 Co. , Inc , Texas Co. ; Socony-Yacimm Oil Co. : Pure Oil Co. : Lake Tankers Corp. ; Gulf Oil Corp. ; Great Lakes Transport . Corp. ; Shell Oil , Ltd. ; and British American Oil Co. , Ltd.                     