@@705042

txt MEETING IN BERLIN Accord Said to Affect Course of the War as Well as ' New Order ' TOKYO 'S INCLUSION HINTED Rome Press Says Japanese Share ' Heroic ' View of Life Animating Axis Peoples By The United Press . BERLIN , Friday , Sept. 27 ? Ger . many , Italy and Spain will sign a document of " historical importance " at noon in Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's new chancellory , it was stated early today by a reliable Nazi source : , The document 's contents were not disclosed , but it was hinted that it would have great bearing on the " final phase " of the war against Great Britain and future phases of the Axis 's " new European order . " The document , it was said , will be executed by the German Foreign Minister , Joachim von Ribbentrop ; the Spanish Minister of Government , Ramon Serrano Sigler , and the Italian Foreign Minister , Count Ciano . An important Japanese-German agreement will be announced today in Tokyo and Berlin , according to a message telephoned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ censor interrupted the conversation , but the Tokyo bureau was able to answer " no " to the question whether the agreement meant that Japan was becoming a belligerent in the European war . ) The representatives of the three nations , in addition to discussing the future course of the war in Europe , also are expected to take up its spreading ramifications in the Far East . Count Ciano , now en route to Berlin , will return to Rome on Saturday after attaching Italy 's signature to the new document , it was said . Secrecy Is Maintained For days , since the arrival of Senor Serrano Surier in Berlin and his talks with Chancellor Hitler and Herr von Ribbentrop , the Nazi press has been saying that Spain is " approaching the hour of great decision " with broad hints that Generalissimo Francisco Franco might be on the verge of entering the war . Great secrecy was maintained as to the contents of the predicted " historical document , " but it was emphasized that the tri-power talks in Berlin today would be of unquestioned far-reaching importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continuation of the Italo-German talks in Rome last week , saying " it always has been the method of British politics to proclaim impending great actions by the enemy and then claim a victory when they did n't occur . " The general attack " against the entire way of living forced upon the world by the British Empire " is occurring at the same time that the Axis statesmen are working out " a. new European and African order , " the newspaper continued . " London knows very well that this new prder does not involve a copy of British imperialistic methods of the past century , but a general plan reaching far into the future of European humanity in which we aim not only at the possession of some territories or gold and sources of supply , but at the securing of Germany 's and Italy 's positions of domination in a fully and newly ordered healthy Europe . " Rome Is Expectant By HERBERT L. MATTHEWS Wireless to TER NEW YORE TIMES . ROME , Sept. ** Minister Count Ciano left for Berlin by train at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alfieri , Italian Ambassador to Berlin , and Hans-Georg Viktor von Mackensen , German Ambassador to Rome , and by an exceptionally important group of high foreign-affairs officials . Since Ramon Serrano Sufier , the Spanish Minister of Government , is still waiting in Berlin after his conversations with Chancellor Hitler and Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop , it Is taken for granted that a foremost item of discussion upon Count Ciano 's arrival will be Spain . The talks , however , undoubtedly will cover other perhaps even more important topics , notably the Balkans , Russia , France and Africa . With Count Ciano are Leonardo // MEETING IN BERLIN TO SIGN PACT TODAY // Vitetti , director of the Bureau of General Affairs ; Dino Buti , Director of the European and the Mediterranean Affairs Bureaus ; Andrea Ceresia di Vegliasco , Chief of Protocol , and other members of the Foreign Minister 's cabinet . This group includes Italy 's foremost experts on treaties , so it would seem that some sort of accord is going to be drawn up , if not signed . Certainly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation would not have gone to Berlin . Moreover , it is authoritatively indicated here that his stay will be short , which again suggests that everything is ready for a settlement . There is a possibility , however , that the final accord may await a meeting of Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini and perhaps Generalissimo Francisco Franco . Newspapers here and in Berlin keep hinting so insistently of " new , imminent and most important contacts " that one must suppose such a conference is under consideration . The Giornale d'Italia 's correspondent at Belgrade , Yugoslavia , believes there is a serious possibility of a Balkan conference in Rome in the near future and links the recent trip to Ankara of the Turkish Ambassador to Rome to such a possibility . Virginio Gayda writes today that " the new phase " in the war that started with Herr von Ribbentrop 's visit to Rome consists of " widening of the sphere of action . " He , too , stresses Spain , saying : " It is natural that friendly Nationalist Spain , who has already found Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the two imperial democracies , should again align herself with the two Axis powers in this war . " Signor Gayda points to the Dakar incident as a threat to Spain and , like other commentators , ridicules the British failure which , he says , " confirms Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's constant misfortune when it comes to debarkation " and which " probably will cause the liquidation of General Charles de Gaulle . " The customary " political circles " this morning said that the British , " not knowing how to explain this new and hateful action against the French , are playing on the sympathy of American public opinion by pretending that move was made on behalf of the American Continent . " These sources assert there are no Axis military forces at Dakar and speak of the rumored Axis plan to attack the Americas as " grotesque . " The way Japan 's activity in the Far East is merging increasingly into the framework of the European war or , from the Italian viewpoint , the way the European war is spreading into a world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their Et comments primarily take the form of explaining the necessity in Africa for European autarchy and supporting Japan in all her moves . " The Japanese are against Washington 's and London 's encirclement , " declares the Tribuna in a typical editorial . " Like Italy and Germany , Japan refuses to recognize the hegemony of the plutocratic forces directed toward suffocating the life of her growing population . " In different terrains these great nations , which have an heroic conception of life opposed to the AngloSaxon mercantilism , are unleashing their offensive against objectives idealistically identical . " The Corriere de Padano has this interesting thought today : " The new order that will come out of the Italo-German victory will be an armed order for the new Europe and will not be that idyllic terrestrial paradise of which misguided people are dreaming in hopes of defending their comfort . "                     