@@705423

txt LIGHT - VOTE IS SEEN IN ELECTION TODAY 17th District Seat in House to Be Filled  --  Final Pleas for Candidates Made Voters in the Seventeenth Congressional District go to the polls today to elect a successor to the late Kenneth F. Simpson . Although more than 110,000 are eligible to vote , political managers do not expect more than 30,000 to do so . Representatives of each of the candidates are pinning their hopes for success on their ability to get out their party vote . All three candidates brought their campaigns to a close last night with a series of rallies . Wendell L. Willkie , last Republican Presidential candidate , was a major speaker at a closing rally for Joseph Clark Baldwin , the Republican candidate , in the Riverside Plaza Hotel . Former Postmaster General James A. Farley , Lieut . Gov . Charles Poletti and Representative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts , House leader , appealed for the election of Dean A. Alfange , the Democratic candidate , at a rally in Pythian Temple . Eugene P. Connolly , the American Labor party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polls Open From 6 to 6 Polls open at 6 A. M. today and remain open until 6 P. M. While voting is in progress all liquor stores in the district must remain closed and no liquor may be served at bars and grills . Special police details have been assigned to polling places during voting hours . Mr. Willkie , appearing at the rally for Mr. Baldwin at the Riverside Plaza Hotel , said that it was President Roosevelt 's responsibility with the passage of the lease-lend bill to administer the law " without partisanship or political advantage . " Calling for national ' unity behind the aid-to-Britain program , he said that it was not sufficient that this policy be supported by the Democrats but that it was equally important for the Republican party to give its support . Mr. Willkie condemned the activity of Administration Democrats on behalf of Mr. Alfange and alluded to the fact that Mr. Farley was in South America during the period the lease-lend bill was under consideration . " Does this Administration want to say , ' Every man in Congress , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote On every measure all down the line or out he goes ? ' " he asked . " Is that the fine symbol of national unity that Winston Churchill brought to England when he took // LIGHT VOTE IS SEEN IN ELECTION TODAY // into his Cabinet labor leaders and let all the members of the Labor party in England continue in Parliament and in public office ? I believe in national , unity so much that there is ? no sacrifice I would not make to bring it about . But the people I want to bring into unity are those recalcitrant members of the Democratic party and those recalcitrant members of the Republican party so that we can have all of them join in a grand chorus to make America united . " At the outset of his talk Mr. WMkie said it was his belief that the preservation of democracy rested on the speed with which American supplies , released under the lease-lend bill , can reach Great Britain . Mr. Farley , who has just returned from a trip to South America , urged the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that never within his memory had it been so important to elect a Representative who would uphold the President . Mr. Farley said he believed in an opposition party but that partisanship should be set aside because of " the importance of the defense program . " Mr. Poletti , whose speech was read by Mrs. Poletti , urged support of- Mr. Alfange because " long before he dreamed ' of being a candidate , he supported vigorously aid to Great Britain , Greece and China , " while Mr. Baldwin , he said , was an " isolationist up to a few weeks before he was nominated for Congress . " " The Republican candidate has taken delight in mocking and condemning the President and the foreign policy of the President and Secretary of State Hull , " he continued . " But now suddenly he proclaims he is for the lease-lend bill . What are we to believe ? " Mr. Alfange also attacked Mr. Baldwin for his late support of the President 's foreign policy , declaring that " he switched his position because it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared ' the election would be " scanned by Europe for evidences of a trend for or against our present policy of national defense , based on aid to Britain and nations resisting aggression . " Representative McCormack said the election of Mr. Alfange " would be a message to the country and to the dictators of the world that the leadership of President Roosevelt is supported in this contest . " He assailed the attitude of Republicans in Congress on the President 's foreign policy and the lease-lend bill . The election of a " Congressman whose support of President Roosevelt is uncertain is not the best way to obtain national unity , " he said . The Seventeenth district usually has been represented in Congress by a Republican and is generally known as the " silk stocking " district . It covers most of the midtown area . The boundary line starts at West Eighty-sixth Street and the Hudson River , runs east to Central Park West , up to Ninetyninth Street , then across Central Park to Lexington Avenue , down Lexington to East Seventy-third , east to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turns west to Lexington , wanders north to East Sixty-second and then west to Park Avenue , which it then follows to Fourteenth Street , where crosses to the . West Side again . The western boundary goes up Seventh Avenue to Thirty-eighth , Street , west to Eighth Avenue and then north again to West Fiftyfifth , west to Ninth Avenue and up Ninth and Columbus Avenues to West Sixtieth Street , then to Amsterdam Avenue , which it follows to Sixty-second Street . It goes west on Sixty-second to the river and . follows the shoreline back to its starting place . Laborites Turn on Mayor Both branches of the American Labor party turned on Mayor La Guardia yesterday because of his appeal for Mr. Baldwin 's election . The left wing , supporting Mr. Connolly , said it would have no effect .. The right wing , backing Mr. Alfange , asked party workers to instruct voters to disregard the Mayor 's stand . Both Mr. Baldwin and , Mr. Alfange pledged support in their campaigns for the aid-to-Britain program . Mr. Connolly was the only candidate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to be known by 8 P. M. Two special  --  xelections are being held today in Brooklyn . For the vacancy in the ' State Senate , Fifth District , caused by the death of John J. Howard , the Democrats have nominated . William Kirnan , an Assemblyman who resigned his present post to run . The Republican candidate is John A. Thompson . In a special election to fill Mr. Kirnan 's Assembly seat in the Seventh District the candidates are Matthew Simpson , Republican ; John J. Furey , Democrat , and Edward Quinn , Square Deal .                     