@@705720

txt Is Britain preparing to take advantage of Germany 's occupation in Russia , and launch an invasion against the European Continent ? Today there are two slender but important straws blowing in the military wind : 1 . Germany , as disclosed in a Vichy communiqu ? , has ordered all holiday-makers to leave the French coast resorts this week . They are to be out by July 20. 2 . A foreign radiocast over BBC by " Colonel Britton " declared that there is to be a special reason for intensifying the well-known campaign of " writing on the wall . " This campaign , as recorded in The Christian Science Monitor last April , involves the use of the cryptic symbol " V " in the occupied countries as a sign of victory and resistance to the Nazis . Military circles here express the view that land operations in the war have become a race between the Germans to complete a big offensive , and the British Empire to initiate one . Surprise Essential To justify the difficulties and hazards entailed , to exert any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comply with fundamental and strategic laws an Allied effort of this kind would have to be launched at an unexpected time and place by concentrations of troops hurled in strength at a relatively weak spot . Right now the time apparently is opportune for such a move , if it is feasible , because whatever may be the exact truth about " The Battle of the Communiqu  --  s " there is no doubt but that a high proportion of Nazi military power is pledged in the attempt to subjugate Russia . Britain has two main concentrations of troops large enough to launch and sustain such an offensive under propitious circumstances  --  one is the Army in the Middle East , newly augmented by well-trained divisions from the Army in India and by formations released at the conclusion of East African operations against the Italians ; the other is the Army at home here , chafing at the leash after many months of training in repelling mock invasions . It has been stressed all along that these millions of defenders have been prepared on lines calculated to make them first-class attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been waiting for is an opportunity to play this more acceptable role , as their fellows on foreign service already have done with no slight success in Africa , Syria , and Iraq . Already the preliminaries to military moves against the Nazis from the West may be said to have Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . started . For day and night bombardments by the Royal Air Force constitutes a creeping barrage of unprecedented ferocity . Now the Germans have been shaken into fresh precautionary action by the suggestion of pseudonymous " Colonel Britton " that something unpleasant is in store for the Germans next Sunday . Colonel Britton is sponsor of a campaign , designed to promote the writing and Morse-coding of this letter " V " as a symbol of the resolve for victory and freedom , in all sorts of places where the Germans are overlords . He was to have initiated an intensification of this campaign on Monday " Le Quatorze Juillet , " anniversary of the fall of the Bastille Prison at the outset of the French Revolution . But instead , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , saying : " The reason for this change I am not at liberty to tell you . If I did , I should be giving the Germans some information they want . " This generally is considered here as being too obvious a threat to connote a major move , but whether it foreshadowed raids on continental coasts or whether it was just a disturber for the Germans , the latter apparently have taken it with some seriousness . Meanwhile , as Gen. Sir Henry Maitland-Wilson implied by his remarks after initialing armistice terms in Syria , Britain is moving up from defensive to offensive positions in that region . The commander of the Imperial forces there said : " The negotiations in which we have been engaged should insure for us a bulwark of defense against the : , Germans and a well-placedposition from which to deal with him . Reports doming through Ankara , Turkey , tell of concentrations of augmented British military strength on and near several fronts . Steady Flow of Ships With news that United States technicians , British soldiers , and Egyptian dock laborers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to empty the closely packed holds of American freighters arriving in steady sequence at the Red Sea , there have come reports , also from Ankara , that the British Army in Iraq isbeing reinforced by Indian troops of the caliber of those who have given such a spectacular proof of their exceptional fighting ability in East Africa and that garrisons on the Iranian border have been strengthened , too . The first British offensive move is anticipated in this strategically important region , being a drive to eliminate pro-Nazi elements from Teheran , Germany 's main pay window to agents in the Arab world . The British are reported to have demanded expulsion from Iran of anti-British Arab leaders , and now , with the British and Russians allied in a common cause , the Turkish press voices the opinion that Iran soon will have to choose between collaborating with the British or resisting them actively . The Nazi decision to forsake Syria militarily and to attack Russia makes it far easier for the Germans to answer the new British move with words instead of deeds in this region . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragoon Iran and Afghanistan into active and open partnership with the Axis . Success along this line would bring about the establishment of an anti-British corridor all the way to India from Russia ready for exploitation if Nazi operations against the Soviet should be brought to a successful conclusion from the Nazi point of view . Fresh Opportunities Every day during which the Nazis ' main military effort is directed against Russia give the British Empire and its Allies fresh opportunities for attempting to take the initiative in some direction or other in a big way before the Germans are able to extricate themselves from their grapple with the Soviet bear . In the Mediterranean , as in the North Sea and English Channel , the Germans have extensive occupied coastlines to guard , vulnerable to an assault by any power that has naval superiority and can obtain local superiority in the air . Many persons hold to the opinion that progressively fierce bombing from the air of German key centers can end the war without prior invasion of Germany , and that in such a case the German tentacles would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That does not alter the fact that , in the military view , the Russians will have served the Allied and their own cause very handsomely if they keep large numbers of Germans entangled long enough for the British Empire and its associates to prepare and launch a heavy blow with land forces at one or several places .                     