@@711637

txt si'eeial to Tax NEw 7081 TIMES . BERLIN , Nov. ** most heartening basic development in Germany this year has been the dramatic spurt in industrial production of the American and British zones of occupation following the introduction in June of currency reform . Although increases in output have been accompanied by less satisfying developments , notably the boom in black market activity , measures are being taken1 to halt these , and production gains remain the basis for the economic and political hopes which Western Germans and Military Government officials entertain for the coun- ' try 's future . The outlook for political sta-1 bility of the West German state , which , it is hoped , will take form early next year , depends very largely on the economic prospects of that state . And these , in the light of production figures , are good  --  far better than even the ' most optimistic economic planners envisaged when currency reform went into effect . And they are still rising . Good Steel Production Ingot steel production for October was 610,000 metric tons , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pig iron production for last month was up 40,000 metric tons to a new postwar record of 509.000 metric tons . Production generally has increased 34 per cent since June in Bizonia , and it is now about 70 per cent of the level of 1936 . This spurt in output has been accompanied by a general rise in the standard of living , although , owing to the large number of refugees who have entered the two zones from Eastern Germany and Eastern Europe since the end of the war , an over-all production higher than in 1936 will be needed to insure a living standard at prewar level in the area . Commerce and trade are booming . New enterprises are taking shape and Western Germany ap .. pears to be laying the foundations of future prosperity and political stability . Rapid Recovery The status of Western Germany has been changed in five months from that of the improvident poor neighbor of Western Europe to a bustling entrepreneur , able to promise and make good on its promises . Although Western Germany 's recovery still lags considerably behind that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mechanical skill of its people and their industry ' , foreshadow a return to the European economy of one of its strongest components . But changes such as this do not come about without raising new difficulties and posing new questions for statesmen and economists . Some of these have appeared already and are being dealt with . Rise in Living Costs ? The first of these to become apparent was a rise in living costs in Western Germany , with prices for unrationed food and clothing leading the way . As prices rose the black market , which had been in the doldrums during the summer , boomed anew , and German speculators began to buy up food and clothing stocks for resale when prices rose even higher . This process will be arrested , as far as food is concerned , by a recent order of the Bipartite Control Office in Frankfort , which instructed the three highest German economic groups in Bizonia to retain . both rationing and price controls on basic food commodities to prevent supplies furnished by the United States and Britain from falling into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect of the West German boom : the United States and Britain are furnishing roughly half the food supplies of the people in the two zones , and news of r prosperity is perhaps more artificial than is generally realized . The Military Government wants to prevent a small group of wealthy speculators from buying more than their share of imported food . German economists recently have been debating the end of rationing and price-fixing in the agricultural field . As a result , a considerable percentage of farmers has been withholding food deliveries either for sale to speculators or to hoard against the removal of price ceilings and higher prices . Currency the Key The starting point for the new prosperity of Western Germany is the currency reform of last June . As soon as the new Deutsche mark which had value appeared , food and consumers ' goods long hoarded appeared in shop windows . And , when the worker realized that his wages , although smaller , would buy something , labor 's per capita output rose , especially in the basic industries of mining andiiron and steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now just about spent itself . But although output in Bizonia will now increase more moderately each month , it will still increase . The series of trade agreements with foreign countries is expected to contribute to this steady rise by bringing in raw materials for subsidiary industries not yet participating in the general boom , and by importing consumers ' goods which will add to labor 's incentive . From the political standpoint , two most important results of the production'rise are the promise of economic stability for the new West German state , mentioned above , and the creation of an economic magnet An Western Germany whose attraction will be felt in the Russian zone of occupation . There conditions are the reverse of those in the Western zone . Production , never good since 1945 , has fallen off since the imposition of counter-blockade measures by the Western powers shut off key raw materials , and Russian political aggression in Germany killed the workers ' initiative . West in Better Position When eventually all four occupation powers withdraw from Germany , the West German state will be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its citizens than the stripped and scarred Soviet Eastern zone , even though the latter may boast an " all-German " Government . Even today there is no comparison between the output of consumers ' goods in the two zones . According to refugees from the Soviet zone , production of consumers ' goods for Germans is minute , although some ' quantities are being produced for shipment to the Soviet Union , and there are promises  --  a commodity in which Russian economists specialize ? of vast quantities of clothing , household goods and footwear in the future . The per capita output in the SoIviet zone , never high , has fallen as scarcity of consumers ' goods increased . In the Western zones the opposite has been true . Production of textiles and clothing now amounts to 63 per cent of the 1936 level , glass and ceramics 94 per cent , and leather products 60 per cent . As more goods become available , per capita output rises . Because the Russians regard industrial production figures either as military information or a source of deep embarrassment and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present industrial output of the Soviet zone compared with 1936 . However , it was learned recently that the over-all production in the zone is only just over 60 per cent of the planned production ; and this , in view of widespread removals throughout the zone , can not approximate the 1936 production figures . In Bizonia production of electricity and gas , electrical equipment , rubber and all mining save coal is now above the 1936 level , while other industries are approaching that level .                     