@@712067

txt Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper , Republican , of Iowa , charged today that another Communist has received a scholarship of the Atomic Energy Commission  --  and that the commission let him have it after its own investigation showed his background . Senator Hickenlooper told a reporter that it was a $3,600-a-year science scholarship and that he had protested to the commission . But , he said , so far as he and other members of the Senate-House Atomic Committee could learn , the award has not been cancelled . It was the second case in a week cited by a member of Congress of a commission scholarship going to a student described as a Communist . In the previous case the recipient readily acknowledged his membership in the Communist party , and said he " did n't think " he 'd " change my mind . " His scholarship was for $1,600 . Declining to identify the student in today 's charges , other than to say that he is enrolled at an eastern university , Senator Hickenlooper said he was prepared to document his charge when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission 's fellowship fund . Senator Hickenlooper said that when the commission first started its fellowship program ? on which it plans to spend $23,378,000 in the year beginning July 1 , security checks were made of all applicants for aid funds . About forty such applicants were investigated by the FBI , and reports were made to the commis- Sion before it changed its policy so as not to require future investigations of this sort , he said . The student to whom he is ob. : jecting ik-as included in this group of forty , Senator Hickenlooper said . " The investigation records of the commission show beyond any shad- , ow of a doubt that the student is a Communist and was known to be a Communist when the fellowship award was made , " Senator Hickenlooper said . " I think it is ominously dangerous to help educate people with public money who are subversive and are known to be subversive , " he continued . " The commission must accept the responsibility for this and other cases . It can not hide behind the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the applicants . The final decision on who gets the awards is the commission 's . " No Check in Some Cases The commission has explained that it does not require advance security checkup of a student when the course involves no atomic secrets . It asserted this would menace " freedom of inquiry and education . " It said , however , that a full investigation was required if the program of study proposed by the applicant involved access to , secret data . The scholarship program , intended to combat the shortage of scientists , is administered by the , National Research Council and the ' commission does not interfere with ) its selections , the commission said . Its chairman , David E. Lilienthal , has noted that all who are employed by the commission must pass security tests . Senator Hickenlooper said that , some of those being aided by Federal funds therefore could not bet employed by the commission . He I said that the student he was talk-1 ing about fell in this class . A corn- , mission spokesman declined corn-I ment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of North Carolina graduate student , who was awarded a scholarship , acknowledged he was a Communist after this was disclosed to the House by Representative W. Sterling Cole , , Republican , of New York . School ' officials said Mr. Freistadt 's course ' is of nonsecret nature . He is an Austrian by birth who was naturalized in 1946 . Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat , of Georgia , joined Senator Pat McCarron , Democrat , of Nevada , in agreeing that it might be wise for the Senate Appropriations Committee to limit the Atomic Commission 's use of its fellowship funds unless it agrees to screen out Communists from the program .                     