@@706551

txt Special Cable to Tim New Yoars TIMES . SOMEWHERE IN NORTHERN IRELAND , June ** the first review of its kind since the United States entered the war American troops here have just given King George VI and Queen Elizabeth an impressive demonstration of the grim efficiency and growing might of Uncle Sam 's fighting power . The sovereigns , who came here several days ago on their first visit to Northern Ireland since the war began , saw a typical crosssection of the greatest army ever built up by the United States . They saw thousands of highly trained doughboys going through strenuous war games in deadly earnest , using all types of the most modern equipment with the easy familiarity of seasoned veterans . The King and Queen talked with officers and men assigned to the European theatre of war , who are ready and eager for their actual baptism of fire . They had luncheon with buck privates and their superior officers in a flag-draped mess hall at one encampment , while the regimental band outside played Army tunes . The royal visitors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more closely guarded than usual on this occasion . They were accompanied by a party of civilian dignitaries and high military officials , including United States Ambassador John G. Winant , Premier John M. Andrews of Northern Ireland , Minister of Home Security Herbert Morrison ; Major Gen. Russell P. Hartle , Commander in Chief of the American Expeditionary Force in Northern Ireland , and Major Gen. Harold E. Franklyn , Commander in Chief of the British forces in Northern Ireland . King George and Queen Elizabeth witnessed every phase of the American Army at work and at play . Arriving at the camp under an escort of speedy American tanks the visitors found a battalion of infantrymen awaiting them on the parade ground . To the tune of a Sousa march the soldiers marched past the reviewing stand , which was flanked on either side by the Stars and Stripes and the Union Jack . Amid , an array of khaki-clad officers Qonueen the , reviewing earing her stand favor-smiling ite shade of powder blue dress , stood out prominently . After the march past the sovereigns drove to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I They saw light , medium and heavy I tanks and took special interest in the type known as the General Grant and used in Libya . They looked over " tank buster " guns , mortars , field wireless ambulances , repair cars , supply cars , jeeps ( in which they later went for a spin ) , anti-aircraft guns and Garand rifles . After the luncheon respite , during which more than thirty privates enjoyed roast beef , canned tomatoes , peas and cherry pie , American style , in the same mess hall with the guests , the royal party drove to a peaceful valley where again the doughboys showed that they could fight as intensely I as they could laugh and play . From a knoll the visitors watched the realistic mock battle in which almost every piece of equipment they had inspected in the forenoon came into vivid play . The King watched the spectacle attentively through field glasses , noting the infinite details with which the manoeuvres were executed , and occasionally he took his eyes . off the actual progress of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " wounded " under I fire . When the din of battle had died down , guns ceased roaring and the smokescreen had been dissipated a number of the Army officers were presented to the King and Queen in front of the marquee where American orderlies later served afternoon tea . After tea the King and Queen drove off in jeeps , apparently enjoying the ride despite the bumps . It was then for the first time that four sergeants got their first opportunity to relax . Armed with loaded Thompson submachine guns the sergeants acted as bodyguards for George and Elizabeth and hovered constantly around the royal couple . The sergeants were Frank Hrbek of Higganum , Conn. , Kenneth Satterfield of Fairmont , W. Va. , Jack Dwyer of Chicago and George Sprankle of Detroit . Morrison Praises Troops Although the King and Queen did not express to newspaper correspondents the impressions they gained , Mr. Morrison , speaking as a member of the official party , voiced superlative praises . He said the efficiency , smartness and " good looks " of the American men and their officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Home Security said : " They are a smart looking lot of fellows who have the right stuff in them . " And he was sure that they and their British colleagues " would get along well . " The King and Queen came to Northern Ireland aboard a British cruiser and were greeted upon landing by civil , military and naval authorities . Before touring the American Army camps they inspected civilian defense and war workers . Also they received a widow named Mrs. Bridget Murphy , whose husband , a police constable , was shot and killed by I. R. A. elements last Easter . The King presented to Mrs. Murphy a police medal .                     