@@708675

txt Letters to The Times Europe 's Health Outlook Doctor Disagrees With Report  --  Urges International Fight on Disease TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Gladwin Hill writes an article from Paris in THE NEW YORK TIMES for May 22 , 1945 , on health conditions in Europe . Mr. Hill 's report originates from a news conference held by Major General Draper , Chief of Allied Supreme Headquarters ' Military Government Public Health Branch . The statement by Major General Draper that health in liberated Europe and occupied Germany approaches peace norms is of considerable interest in the light of detailed information published recently in certain medical and health periodicals , such as UNRRA 'S Epidemiological Bulletin , the Journal of the American Medical Association and others . The information published in these journals is in fact quite contrary to what General Draper 's statements seem to imply , as reported by Mr. Hill . General Draper supports his statements with certain statistics on general and infant mortality in the case of France and Belgium . It is true that variations in mortality figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by General Draper indicate an increase in mortality in France and Belgium from pre-war years to the occupation periods . Mortality statistics form , however , in any case , but one of many important expressions of the state of health in a nation . To evaluate on a broad basis the status of health in Europe under Hitler , it seems therefore pertinent to analyze the morbidity statistics and the epidemiological information at hand . No better authority can be quoted in this connection than the chief of the Epidemiological Information Service of UNRRA , Knud Stowman , well known from many years ' work in this field while with the epidemiological intelligence of the Health Section of the League of Nations . Rise in Epidemics Noted In the Epidemiological Information Bulletin of UNRRA for Feb. 15 , 1945 , Mr. Stowman emphasizes that the epidemiological outlook for Europe is not favorable for the first years of the transition to stable peace . He emphasizes that , with World War II in its final stages in Europe , civil administration must necessarily be in a fluid state , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact of the epidemic situation in Europe is that practically all common infectious diseases have doubled or trebled during the war on the European Continent in those countries for which statistics are available . To illustrate this the following table is quoted : CASES OF CERTAIN EPIDEMIC DISEASES REPORTED IN TWELVE CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN COUNTRIES 1928-1993 1943 Incidence in Units of Average Cases Pre-War Disease 1928-1938 1943 Level ' ERROR? 2.561 7,996 3.1 Poliomyelitis 4.546 11.292 2.5 Typhoid fever 28,681 44.316 1.5 tDysentery 10.965 23.110 2.1 Diphtheria 168,354 501,911 3.0 Scarlet fever 176,275 566,398 3.2 ' In fifteen countries . tin eight countries . Diphtheria has been the leading epidemic disease of the war as cause of both morbidity and mortality in Germany and in other European countries . The rise of diphtheria in Germany has been steady , with almost 300,000 cases reported in 1943 . There were 15,000 deaths from diphtheria in 1942 . In Norway and the Netherlands the increase of diphtheria during the occupation was explosive , attaining in 1943 respectively twenty-four and fourteen times its pre-war level . Mortality Rates Increased Syphilis has , according to available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even in the Scandinavian countries , the last named highly reputed for their achievements in this herd before the war . Skin diseases , like scabies and other parasitic infections , have increased tremendously . In Norway the increase was more than sevenfold , from 9,600 cases in 1938 to more than 62,000 cases in 1944 . Tuberculosis has increased in both morbidity and mortality in several countries  --  for instance , Belgium , the Netherlands and Hungary . In France the Minister of Public Health has published a report covering the evolution of the tuberculosis situation during World War II . With supporting valuable statistical material , one of the conclusions drawn is as follows : . " The war has brought about a definite aggravation of the tuberculosis situation in France . New cases have been more numerous . They have likewise become more serious . The mortality has increased . All age classes are affected , but adults more than children , men more than women . " On the basis of such information and other available morbidity data from several countries , it seems that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace norms , as suggested by General Draper . Energetic work in the field of public health seems called for , both on national and international levels , in order to rectify these conditions . It must clearly be one of the tasks , on the international level , that the coming health organization under the World Security Organization make possible further advance toward our goal : Freedom from disease , to the benefit of large and small nations alike . T. GUTHE , M. D. , Assistant Surgeon General , Norwegian Public Health Service . Washington , D. C. , May 24 , 1945 . Adoption of War Orphans Asked To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Hundreds of thousands of little children in Europe have become orphans through this war . I 've just had a letter from my sister in Eindhoven who tells me that she has adopted a war orphan . She can afford to do this . But this is an exception , and , on the whole , people in Europe will be unable to take care of these war orphans through private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a black market in children for adoption in this country ; there just are not enough infants to go around . Furthermore , adopting an American child is a cumbersome job ; there are many difficulties to overcome and requirements to be met , and one has to wait a considerable time to get a child . Why could not the Red Cross act as a go-between for prospective fosterparents and establish centers both here and in Europe for the purpose ? Such foster-parents could register here , and after thorough investigation could be permitted to select a child from among the European orphans registered abroad  --  perhaps by means of photographs . Obviously , the children would have to be examined first to protect the adopters . But that should not present insurmountable difficulties . These children should not be allowed to grow up in orphanages and start their lives under a handicap when there are in ' America thousands of childless couples and other couples who want their children to have playmates . Conditions in Europe will continue to be grim for years to come , and America can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At an impressionable age a child will soon forget its tragic past and grow up to be a healthy , sane person . BART H OLD FEES . New York , May 25 , 1945 . Disagrees With Book RevielA Verbatim Testimony Believed to BE Most Fascinating and Intriguing To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In reading your review of de Is Tourre 's new book I was struck by a phrase you used ? so much so , that I an moved to express my unqualified dis ? agreement with your obiter dicta . You write : " The verbatim testimony of courts of law rarely makes good read ? ing , no matter how intriguing the case involved . " In my opinion the complete opposite of that statement contains the truth I have always believed that Q. and A. ( as the newspaper men term it , meaning of course , the verbatim questions and answers ) were the very heart 's blood of interest in a criminal trial . It represents the play of mind upon mind ; the conflict of will against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a series of questions , which , after all , is a primary process of many of life 's relationships . For myself I ask no greater enjoyment than to watch the skillful , curlning , deep development of plots and strategies to trap the unwary , who , by being trapped , usually brands himself a liar . It is thrilling and fascinating ; it is a sort of mental manhunt . Of course , such questioning may be carried too far and the answers become unimportant , but that is rarely true in the big cases . In point , I direct your attention to the " Notable Trial Series , " edited , I think , by Filson Young and published in England . Most of the contents consisted of questions and answers . One of the best in that series was the story of Dr. Hawley Harvey Crippen . The examination was conducted by R. D. Muir , K. C. , for the Crown , and the defense was directed by A. A. Tobin , K. C. , with part of the preparation given to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presided over by the then Lord Chief Justice of England , Lord Alverstone , who frequently engaged in questioning . Look at your own paper 's record of the Snyder-Gray case ? the crossexamination of the woman Ruth Snyder , and her paramour and fellowmurderer , Judd Gray . A few years before that , read the cross-examination of Bald Jack Rose , who , with his accomplices ( Bridgie Weber , Harry ValIon and Sammy Schepps ) , turned State 's evidence against Acting Police Inspector Becker and the four gunmen who killed Herman Rosenthal ( Lefty Louis , Gyp the Blood , Whitey Lewis and Dago Frank ) . And you might look at Sidney B , Whipple 's exceptionally fine " The Trial of Bruno Richard Hauptmann . " Page after page is given to the Q. and A. and not a line too much ! You see , I take Mr. Prescott and " Books of the Times " seriously . When he makes a pronouncement that is so opposed to my own view , I seek to discover which of us is right . I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I am willing to explore the possibilities . Perhaps others will agree with him . I should be Surprised if that were So . HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE , New York , May 29 , 1945.                     