@@706088

txt The northeastern seaboard got a faint taste yesterday of what an air raid alarm  --  even a false one  --  can do to industry and finance . Stocks slumped to the accompanying dirge of the first air raid sirens New York City ever has heard . ( The Securities and Exchange Commission , it was stated in Washington , assumes no responsibility for " black out " securities markets resulting from either realistic Sir fake air raids on the ' United States While the Commission last night remained officially silent , privately the position was taken that the " phoney " air raid on New York yesterday , which tumbled market prices . was the responsibility of someone else Stor3 on Page 4 1 Bethlehem Shipbuilding sent its workers home : lost hours of vital war production Mayor Burgin of Quincy . Muss asked that that city 's industrial plants remain shut until 7 a. m today ? " until the Army gets settled " Radio programs were dislocated ; telephone switchboards were clogged with Ca.lLs . For a time operators in New York had to refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airliners were grounded . Civil aeronautics authorities shut down the directional radio beacons ( Story on page 4 Some New York banks rushed cash and securities to vaults , although employes kept at work . But the most positive reaction came from the sensitive stock and bond markets . Rad News Piled Up The financial markets had a cumulative background of bad news Early reports had stressed that damage to the Pacific fleet might have been much greater than first announced . Monday night 's " air raid " on the Pacific Coast did n't help . Then came official air raid warnings all up and down the northeastern seaboard , and the market really skidded . Stocks moved up again with the " all clear ' . rallied sharply when word spread that the " raids " were either a dress-rehearsal or , as one War Department spokesman said , the result of a " phony tip " During the height of the alarm ( when planes were expected " within 10 minutes " and New York 's acting Mayor . Newbold Morris announced the imminence of at least a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was no panicky selling , the market moved down by eighths and quarters  --  and at all times there was a steadying demand At its lowest point the market . as measured by the Dow-Jones industrial average , stood at 107.56 , off nearly five points from Monday 's close . Stocks and bonds closed rallying , the industrial aye/age ' . finishing at 109.27 , off 327 on the Volume rose to 2,560,000 shales , the biggest Stock Exchange trading since May-21. 1940 . Small Ins estor , Heas-3 Sellers A check of leading brokerage houses showed that the great bulk of the selling yesterday , came from small investors ; with the large institutions buying steadily . In the bond market , the nervous tension was apparent shortly after the opening . Treasuries moved off fractionally ; the new 21 issue went down to par . As the session progressed there was some evidence that the Federal Reserve was buying to stabilize the market . Air raid warnings had a particularly disturbing effect on the municipal bond market . which under ordinary circumstances moves ponderously . Prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city s traction bonds down 212 points at the height of the raid . This decline however , was nothing comparable to the slump which hit bonds of Pacific Coast cities . Bonds of San Francisco , Los Angeles . Seattle and the State of California closed off 12 to 13 points from their levels of late last ueek . Bonds of corporations located on the Pacific Coast declined sharply . Portland General Electric bonds were off more than seven point , and Pacific Gas Electric issues ranged from unchanged to 312 points lower . The PaeIfie Coast Situation Industrial dislocations on the Pacific Coast . which Monday night got the first dose of air raid alarms . were far more pronounced tnan those resulting from the comparatively brief and false alarm in the east Monday night s blackout in the Los Angeles area resulted in complete cancellation of the third shifts at the Vultee and North American aircraft plants . There was a 45-minute blackout at Douglas ' plant : but workers stood by and then returned to work . Shipbuilding and all other plants in the harbor region were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco was busy with plans to maintain night work in industrial plants under blackout conditions . The Paraffine Cos foresightedly had large crews of workmen busy on Sunday . light-proofing essential sections of its plant . As a result its night shifts were not disturbed . Preparing for More Blackout , . Other developments . as the Pacific Coast prepared tnr more blackoutsPacific Greyhound night buses are to contame running even in a blackout . but at slow schedules . At shipyards night shifts are to continue subject to halt on a blackout order and resump ? Lion at the all clear signal . Railroads are operating full schedules . but traffic is being complicated by numerous unannounced troop movements . Warnings were broadcast to outlying areas yesterday advising persons and truckers driving to the city to make early starts to arrive before darkness . While it was felt that continuance of the blackouts might somewhat disrupt the flow of fresh vegetables into commission markets ( normally conducted heavily by truck at night ) , no shortages were anticipated . Dairy truckers also may be affected to some extent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused additional sale of newspapers and sharper attention to news tickers . Commercial air lines continue under conditions of short period control from the Army . The weather bureau at San Francisco announced it was abandoning a Summary of Pacific Coast weather , normally issued in conjunction with its forecast , because of war conditions . 