@@708603

txt Jubilant Denmark , tree of the 1 Nazi yoke worn for five years , was reported already forming a new government today with a view to taking a place among the United Nations . Dispatches from Copenhagen told of shouting , singing , crying , and fighting as the ordinarily temperate Danes thronged streets on receipt of the news of the German surrender . King Christian X was reported to have ordered mobilization 01 the whole Resistance movement , putting an estimated 300,000 men under arms in the Capital alone . They appeared everywhere , carrying tommy guns and other arms , mostly of British and United States manufacture . A free Danish police brigade of 6,000 , which was trained in Sweden , was scheduled for transport to Denmark by ferry from southern Sweden early today , it was officially announced . Some members of the Resistance movement attacked the headquarters of the Danish Nazi Auxiliary Police Corps , the Gestapo headquarters in St. Anne Palace , and the headquarters of Nazi Ambassador Dr. Werner Best at Dagmarhus on the Raadhus Plads , central square of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said 20 persons were killed and 70 wounded in the clashes . A British radiocast at 8:30 p. m. last night brought the news to Copenhagen that the German troops had surrendered to Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery , and immediately the streets boiled over with happy , laughing , thankful Danes . There was a shout : " To Amalienborg ! " With one impulse the crowds broke toward the palace square . The throng would not disperse until one of the King 's aides came out of the palace and said : King 's Message " You must remember the King is not quite a youth any more . He has just gone to bed . But he has asked me to tell you this is the happiest day of his life and that he is deeply moved over the fact your first thought has been to come here to demonstrate your ' feelings . " And when I now ask you to go home , you hear the King 's wish . I know you wo n't act against it . " The people milled into other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kept moving into the night . Blackout curtains were ? torn down and lights blazed from win- ' dows . Bonfires burned in the streets . Handbills ? were distributed ! showing " peace and freedom " and the Danish flag on one side , the Danish liberty song on the other . Some of the biggest stores in Copenhagen suddenly drew aside their window curtains , disclosing lighted displays of Allied and Danish national colors . One book ! seller arranged his window with Allied literature . Danish newspapers prepared to issue their first free editions since April 9 , 1940 , when the first Nazi troops invaded the country . Spotlights illuminated the town hall square all through the night . A lone white pigeon circled over the square in the glare of the spotlights . The milling thousands cheered lustily this traditional harbinger of peace .                     