@@705922

txt Making the keynote address for the celebration of the first anniversary of the signing of the Axis alliance , Vice Admiral Teijiro Toyoda , Japanese Foreign Minister , declared today that the aim of the alliance was the creation of a " new order " in the world , but he also emphasized that the new order was to be constructed by Germany and Italy in Europe and by Japan in the Far East , " respectively , " and that while the three powers cooperated in that aim the purpose of the pact was to limit and not to spread the scope of hostilities . Speaking at the luncheon that he gave to the Axis diplomats , Admiral Toyoda said : " During the year following the conclusion of the three-power pact the situation of the whole world has undergone a great change . " Then he recalled the mission performed by the pact in this year . " We think it is of great significance , " he said , " that the pact has been further strengthened through the successive participation of those countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Italy , are willing to cooperate for the construction of the new order , such as Hungary and mania . Holds Axis Has Helped Peace " The next point is that Japan , Germany and Italy are steadily making great strides toward the construction of the new world order , respectively , in Europe and East Asia . Constructive efforts of Germany and Italy in Europe and those of Japan in East Asia will still be confronted by many difficulties , and , therefore , increased efforts will be required . However , I am firmly convinced that the accomplishments which the three powers , - making the pact the basis of their respective diplomacy , have made in cooperation in the brief period since the conclusion of the pact will play a great role in the history of the world . " Thirdly , the three-power pact has the lofty mission of preventing the extension of the dispute as well as to prevent the spread of hostilities as far as possible . I have no doubt that in the past year the pact has also accomplished a great deal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-power pact is the accomplishment of the noble mission of mankind , and , needless to say , mutual cooperation , trust and patience are essential in order to achieve this ideal . On this day of commemorating the first anniversary of the conclusion of the pact , each signatory power should renew its attitude in regard to this point and the determination to surmount whatever difficulties there may be in its path . " Dr. Nobufumi Ito , president of the Information Board , last night broadcast an interpretation of the pact , in which all emphasis was laid on its peaceful character . Dr. Ito also stressed Japan 's determination to seek " ultimate " realization of a new order in the world . Thus Dr. Ito took issue with Yosuke Matsuoka 's interpretation of the pact as an automatic obligation on Japan to plunge into war if the United States entered a " shooting war " in the Atlantic . Dr. Ito also was in conflict with Adolf Hitler 's declaration in " Mein Kampf " that " an alliance whose aim does not embrace the inten-tiorr to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia , he declared , Japan has been fighting Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek , catspaw of countries clinging to the old order , " for four . years . For a like purpose , he went on , Japan recognized Wang Chingwei , mediated the border dispute between Thailand and French IndoChina and made a peaceful advance into French Indo-China . In conclusion he declared ; " We are determined to exhaust all peaceful means possible , in accordance with the spirit of the pact , and if there is any interference by a third power to dispel it resolutely and go forward with steady steps onward for the ultimate realization of a new world order . The spirit of the threepower pact constitutes the keynote of our diplomacy and will not be affected in the least by attempts of third powers to alienate the three countries from each other . " day . The Imperial Rule Assistance Association and Tokyo city authorities will sponsor a mass meeting today . All other public rallies are banned . Various nationalist organizations plan to hold " commemorative lecture meetings " and Nichi Nichi announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance " at the Music Pavilion Sunday and the distribution of records of these songs as well as a pamphlet written by one of Nichi Nichi 's commentators . War Minister Eiki Tojo And General Gen Sugiyama , Chief of the General Staff , cabled congratulaitons to Reichsfuehrer Hitler and Premier Mussolini through the German and Italian military attach ? s and General Ikutaro Inouye , president of the Japanese Reservists Association , cabled to General Reinhardt , president of the German war veterans ' organization , expressing admiration of the German victories and pledging to " go ' hand in hand with the German organization in the present crusade and to share the laurels between us . " The government spokesman , Koh Ishii , entertained Axis correspondents last night and emphasized before them the " defensive " nature of the Three-Power pact .                     