@@709389

txt The 80 day strike at 10 plants of the International Harvester company in Chicago and other cities was ended early today when company and CIO , union leaders reached final agreement . End of the strike will mean the return to work as soon as operations can be resumed of at least 30,000 members of the United Farm Equipment and Metal Workers ' union , who left their shops and benches Jan. 21 in a demand for higher pay and other- benefits . John W. Gibson , assistant secre ? tary of labor , who had sat with company and union representatives every day for the last 10 days , hailed the settlement as a boon to farmers , who desperately need farm tools and equipment , as well as to workers and employers . Will Meet in Chicago Following Gibson 's announcement , Gerald Fielde , secretary-treasurer of the Union , said conference delegates would go to Chicago as quickly as they could get transportation , and . meet there to complete the formalities of ratification as speedily as possible. - At the same time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers would be notified by their local plants when to return to work . Four of the struck plants are In Chicago , involving 15,000 workers . ' The others are in Auburn , N. Y. ; Richmond , Ind. ; Davenport , Ia. ; and East Moline , Rock Falls , and Rock Island , Ill . Details of today 's settlement were not disclosed , but wages were not an issue , since an 18 cent hourly pay boost , recommended by a fact finding panel , previously had been proffered and accepted . When negotiations were begun here 10 clays ago the Prin. principal issues concerned rates for piece workers during work delays due to machinery breakdowns and other causes , vacation allowances , and questions of managerial employes doing shop work . Both Sides Satisfied Both sides obviously Were satisfied with the results , which need only the formality of union ratilica ? 1 Lion to become official , and there was no doubt In the minds of union leaders , they indicated , that . such ratification would be forthcoming . All the negotiators appeared happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it " a major break in the strike situation in the farm implement field . " Gibson expressed hope that strikes at four plants of the J. I. Case and one of Allis-Chalmers company would now be settled . The Harvester strike was opened with a CIO demand for a 30 per cent wage boost , amounting to 34 cents an hour , but this figure was trimined almost in half by the rec. ommendations of a fact finding board . 