@@707190

txt DRAFT OF FATHERS OFF TILL OCTOBER 1 , NEW RULING HINTS Induction of Childless Men and Recall of Many of Those Rejected Are Now Planned NEW REPLACEMENT POLICY Those of 18 to 25 in Job Deferments Must Go on Such Schedules Within 6 Months By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , June 14 ? The drafting of fathers may be delayed a couple of months , it was indicated today , as Selective Service took steps to speed up the induction of childless men now deferred because of their occupations . By saying that the fathers ' draft would begin " at least by the last quarter of this year , " as the supply of childless men was exhausted , a Selective Service announcement hinted that the calling of men with children might be held off as much as two months beyond the date last mentioned officially , Aug. 1 . Selective Service issued revised instructions for the preparation of replacement schedules by employers which , when approved by State Selective Service directors , will set up timetables for replacement of draft-eligible workers in key posts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new instructions require that schedules filed after July 1 must provide for the release of occupationally - deferred childless men between 18 and 25 years of age within six months unless their jobs are exceptionally important to the war effort and extremely difficult to fill . Hershey Testimony Stressed The belief that the fathers ' draft will be delayed was strengthened by testimony before a House committee that many of the more than 2,800,000 men previously rejected for physical reasons may be inducted because standards are now lower . The testimony was given by the Selective Service Director , Maj. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , at an appropriations hearing last month and was made public today . He said adoption of lower physical standards by the Navy might postpone the induction of men with children . Paul V. , chairman of the War Manpower Commission , testified that by the end of this month the armed forces would have 9 , - 200,000 of the 10,900,000 men they planned to have by the end of this year , and that after next December inductions into the Army might be reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and General Hershey said that before the war ended the " great majority " of physically-fit fathers might be in uniform . Recognizing that the drafting of fathers was inevitable , the Selective Service instructions issued today provided that men in this class , hitherto omitted from replacement schedules because they were safeguarded by paternity deferment , be listed on such schedules filed after July 1 unless the proposed deferment would expire " before Oct. 1 . " See the Young Easier to Replace Officials said that the new limitations on deferment of childless men specified those of the age of 18 to 25 because few men that young were likely to hold jobs so important that they could not ' be replaced . Replacement schedules may request occupational deferment for listed key men for periods ranging from two months to more than a year . When Slate draft directors approve them , they stamp their approval on forms to be sent by the employers to local draft boards asking deferment of each man in accordance with the schedule . The local boards have authority to refuse deferment for any man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in practice they seldom do . The boards must review within six months each deferment they grant , but they usually grant renewals to men for whom longer deferment is suggested in replacement schedules . Although ' all " essential " employers may file the schedules , Selective Service headquarters said , , , that only about 6,000 had done so , // DRAFT OF FATHERS SEEN OFF TILL OCT. 1 // listing something over 3,000,000 employes . The instructions included this advice : 1 . " Generally speaking , those who will be replaced first will be those in occupations having the shortest training and replacement time . 2 . " Due consideration should be given to previous and existing periods of deferment. 3 . " Where men are equally re placeable , single men should be listed for release before childless married men , and the latter should be listed for release before fathers . 4 . " Where men of the same family status are equally replaceable , they should be listed for replacement by order ( draft-call ) number with the lowest order number first . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has his way , there will be very few men in the new class 3-D , the extreme hardship classification of the draft . Asked during hearings on the Selective Service appropriation bill concerning what would be a case of " extreme hardship , " the general told the committee : " I would say that would be the case of a man with two or three children whose wife is an invalid and who has nothing except what he earns , and who , when he went home , had to take care of his wife and children , get the meals and wash the children 's clothes early before he went to work . "                     