@@708086

txt Fir ? t. experiment . in the application of military government to occupied German territory is working fairly well , so far , but has already revealed the serious problems ahead in directing civil affairs within tha Rairh The main difficulty is finding any local German to whom authority can be entrusted . Another major problem is that of determining who are the agents left by the Nazis . Here in Rdtgen a military government detachment of the United States First Army has been functioning since Sept. 15 . The unit is under command of Capt . John M. Tapers of Tallahassee , Florida . It expects to move shortly to Monshau , administrative center of this district . When Riitgen was taken , it was found that many of the 1,800 inhabitants had fled . In particular , all Nazi Party members , as far as could be ascertained , had evacuated the district . Evacuation Ordered The Gauleiter of Cologne ' Aachen Gail had ordered evacuation of the entire civil population , and documents have been I found indicating that the Nazi Party which planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot to anyone refusing to obey the order . Despite this pressure , many - civilians did not leave their homes in the frontier region , both around Rtitgen and farther to the north and east near Aachen . This independence appears to show a sig- ? nificant weakening of the Party 's power in the last stages of the war . The fact that all avowed Nazi Party members had left the district simplified the civil affairs task in one sense . But great difficulties remained . No Serious Violations A Civil Service veteran who has remained was appointed temporary Burgomeister at Riitgen and is still serving in that capacity . Although civil authorities are ruling the town , the surrounding district is under strict military government . Curfew requires the entire populace to remain indoors between 8 p. m. and 6 a. m . They are , of course , forbidden to make Germans during the first week of ' this first military government is described as passively hostile . There is no open hostility , no open resistance . But it could not be said that there is anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i of Rtitgen . In fact , if Rtitgen proves a typical sample of what is going to be encountered later , then civil affairs may have to rule for a period in occupied portions of Germany as a sort of absolute military authority . Civil affairs authorities hope , however , that later on they will find some Germans capable of giving aid genuinely in the tasks of government .                     