@@712253

txt Asserting that contented workers would be poor subjects for " demagogues and isms , " a New York management consultant said here that " job satisfaction " would prevent the spread of communism and the welfare state . Roscoe C. Edlund , former president of American Trade Association Executives , put it this way in a discussion prepared for session of the Northeastern Institute of Commercial and Trade Association executives : Twin Essentials " The best antidotes against subversive propaganda and against expecting the state to do everything for everybody are , first of all , satisfaction in each individual 's experience with the way the free-enterprise system affects him , and , secondly , a clear understanding , in terms of his own experience , of why and how the system operates as it does . " When Joe Doakes and Sally Smith hold jobs which really interest them : when they like their bosses , their company , and the conditions under which they work ; wl ) en they feel that the wages they receive , the stability of their work , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily fall prey to demagogues and isms . Call for Teamwork " Especially will this be true if they feel that their company acts and speaks with the welfare of its employees at heart , and takes the pains to explain clearly and constantly how their jobs were created . how they are financed , and how the competitive success of the company depends on the everlasting teamwork of every blooming soul . " Some 300 trade association executives and chamber of commerce personnel are attending the institute , held at Yale University . In another address strikes were called an " obsolete weapon " by the president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . Strikes Too Costly " They will have to go , " said Herman W. Steinkraus , who is head of the Bridgeport Brass Company , in addressing the association . ? " Strikes are a device of a past era , " Mr. Steinkraus declared , " and they are incredibly costly to labor . management , and the community . ' They are not necessary and no small group , for power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment . " Strikes are a bitter luxury for everyone , " he went on to say , " and , as workers come to assume a greater part in controlling their own destinies , they will increasingly see that , although strife is easy , yet in the long run the harder way  --  moderation ? is most beneficial of all . "                     