@@708165

txt On all the fronts in Europe , as in the Far East , the tide of battle continues to roll in our favor . Aachen , the " impregnable " bastion of the Siegfried Line , which Hitler proposed to make the German Verdun and Stalingrad that the Americans should not pass , has fallen after a siege of thirteen days . The garrison , like the city which Hitler sacrificed to German arrogance , has been destroyed , and Aachen 's ruins , like the tears of its captured commander , are symbolic of what is in store for a Germany that continues useless resistance . From the east , Russian armies have penetrated some twenty miles into East Prussia , the Junkers ' breeding ground , and other Russian armies stand on the Danube on the way to Austria and Germany 's vulnerable southern flank . Yet it is also plain that , unlike the last war , which the German generals ended when it was lost , to save the German nation , this war will have to be fought to the bitter end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inch all the way to Berlin . There will be no bargaining with the present German leaders which would leave the way open for a new Hitler to resume the war in another generation . These leaders must therefore be expected to fight as long as they can control the German population . There were two chances during the last few months which might have ended the war quickly . The first was the attempt of German generals to repeat the events of November , 1918 ? to depose or kill Hilter and surrender ? which Hitler crushed on July 20 . The second was the gallant but not quite successful effort to vault across the whole Rhine barrier at Arnhem and thus blast a way open for an invasion of the North German plains . These chances have now passed into history . The war must still be won the hard way . It is for this that the Allies ' armies are now preparing . All along the front in the west the American and the British armies are increasing their sledgehammer blows against the German Westwall  --  denting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its communication lines and supply centers by air attacks , exhausting and decimating its garrison , until the whole fortification belt , like the German defense positions in Normandy , becomes ripe for the grand assault and break-through . They are building up tremendous reserves of manpower and supplies . They are clearing the ports , especially Antwerp , to replace the artificial beach ports now threatened by the approaching winter gales . A similar situation confronts the Russians . Though they have penetrated into East Prussia along the route which General Rennenkampf took in 1914 , they still have on their flank the German stronghold of the Masurian Lakes , where another Russian army was annihilated that same year . It is unthinkable that the present battle-wise Russian generals will fall into a like trap , but not till they have ousted the Germans from these treacherous lakes will they be really on their way to Berlin . But this way is now being opened up from west , east and south . Under these circumstances , there is only one possible danger that could threaten complete Allied success and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frederick the Great , Hitler still hopes to split the coalition against him . It is therefore as gratifying as a major victory that the conferences between Marshal Stalin and Prime Minister Churchill have ended in such a large measure of agreement that , in the words of the Moscow press , the basis has been laid for even closer cooperation among the Allies to accelerate German defeat . Victory will present its own problems in a torn and devastated Europe , but without complete victory there can be no solution for them .                     