@@706999

txt The town of " black sheep " of the Commonwealth and sole remaining bankrupt community holdover from the business depression in Massachusetts , heard the first faint rumblings of a possible resurgence of its , one-time industrial activity at a legislative hearing in the State House . Ostensibly the Ways and Means Committee was considering nothing more than a routine matter of getting new industries into a backward community close to the Rhode Island line . But behind the resolution of the Massachusetts Industrial Commission . seeking to remedy residential and industrial defects in Millville , the very life of a town of slightly more than 1,000 people was at stake . And farther in the background was the sharp challenge to the I business genius of the State to rid itself of a financial liability costing nearly ** a year to carry . Ten Years a " Ward " Ten years as " ward " of the Commonwealth is the stagnating record of Millville following the loss of its one-time single industry , a branch of the United States Rubber Company . Today , Millville was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ High School , with no drinking water nor sewerage system , no industries other than the storage facilities of the former rubber property and with 535 of its 617 employed citizens working in industries outside of the town itself . No wonder Millville has ceased its efforts to lift itself by its own bootstraps , the Commission opined . But it saw no reason why the State should continue under the depressing illusion that Millville must remain a permanent liability . While volunteering no legislative measures the Commission suggested definite invitations to business men to locate in Millville where property sites can be bought cheaply and the Blackstone River provides potential water power . This was envisaged by the Commission as the neat important step in a 10-year-old period of State controlled finances in Millville during which the town 's lunded debts have been wiped out and the tax rate reduced from $75 to $39 . Others on Their Own Several other communities such as Palmer , standing on the threshold of bankruptcy several years ago , it was reported , are engagea in a war production boom of lasting benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with no indications that they will ever again need state assistance . Millville , however , was cited as the State 's community economic problem number one . It presents a picture of inadequate or lacking water supplies , organized civic enterprise , sewerage , fire protection and general community facilities resulting from 10 years of industrial inactivity . Inducements necessary to the invitation of new industries are necessarily beyond the resources of the town itself , and hence become A State responsibility , the Commission stated . Thus the rehabilitation of Millville was boiled down by the Commission to a co-operative venture between the State and the townspeople , the former to promote industrial occupations and finance community projects , the latter developing a unified community spirit and organization to avoid mistakes of the past .                     