@@711003

txt - No more important legislative business faces the present session of the Eightieth Congress than that of Universal Military Training . This newspaper believes Universal Military Training should be adopted . We believe it must be adopted if Congress is not to fail in its duty to the citizens of this country in providing for their security and is not to fail the peaceloving people of all the world in serving notice that the United States intends to remain strong in a military way until such time as threats of national aggression no longer exist . President Truman has repeatedly urged the establishment of such a system of training , and may confidently be expected to renew this recommendation when he addresses Congress today . ' The decision whether U.M.T. will be adopted at this session rests on the Republican leadership in Congress . Every opinion poll of the people for the last three years has shown an overwhelming majority in favor of some program ' of compulsory military training . Newspaper analysts of Congressional attitudes believe that if Congress is given the opportunity it will pass such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Republican nomination for the Presidency  --  Dewey , Warren , Stassen , Eisenhower and ? have unequivocally supported U.M.T. As matters now stand in Congress , the House Military Affairs Committee has approved a bill establishing a compromise training program which is not so good as was hoped for , but which has been approved as adequate for the time being by the Army leaders who would have to direct it . This bill , however , is now blocked in the Rules Committee , which is controlled by the Republicans . Without the committee 's approval it is unlikely even to reach . the floor of the House . There is no bill before the Senate and none in iipmediate prospect . That , too , is a Republican responsibility . Senator Gurney , a Republican , heads the Armed Services Committee and Senator Taft decides the order of consideration of bills in the Senate . Senator Taft in the Senate and Speaker Martin in the House , and their fellow Republican policy-makers , will he gambling with the national security of the United States and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to block debate of U.M.T. Yet it is being freely predicted that at-1 tempts will be made to do this . Mr. Taft has put himself on record as against U.M.T. ? for reasons which do not stand careful analysis  --  while Mr. Martin is said to be lukewarm toward the proposed program . This is no time for partisan division on questions of national security . It is no time for any small group of men , no matter how honest their motives , to decide in a caucus room that they will not permit debate on a question which the majority of their colleagues and a majority of their countrymen apparently favor . Two and a half years ' ago , in his final report as Chief of Staff , the now Secretary of State warned that " the timing of our decision on Universal Military Training is urgent " " The officials of the State Department , " Mr. Marshall said then , " have been strongly of the opinion that a decision in this matter prior to - the final peace negotiations would greatly strengthen the hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization to handle international differences . " , The question is no less urgent today than it was on June 30 , 1945 . Two and a half years of a strained peace have not lessened the necessity that this country retain its military leadership . Any sign of weakness on the part of the United States , any indication that we are not ready to assume our proper responsibilities in maintaining the peace of the world , can only be an invitation to aggression , as it was in 1914 , as it was again in 1939 . Quick consideration and passage of a strong training bill would- do much to assure world peace . A. militarily strong United States would not be an- invitation to war . It would be a guarantee against it .                     