@@705771

txt GASOLINE CURFEW EXEMPTS TRUCKS Curb Beginning Tonight Will Not Affect Commercial Cars ? Stations May Stay Open Commercial vehicles , including trucks and taxicabs , were exempt-1 ed yesterday from the curfew on gasoline sales that becomes effective throughout the Eastern seaboard at 7 o'clock tonight . The ruling excluding such vehicles from the twelve-hour ban on sales was announced in a telegram received here from the office of Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes , Federal Petroleum Coordinator . Secretary Ickes 's office also made clear that gasoline stations need not close , but could remain open to repair pleasure and other cars and sell merchandise other than motor fuel to any motorists as well as gasoline to any commercial cars . Motoring week-enders who plan to return to New York tonight will need to have their gasoline tanks filled before 7 P. M. From tonight on , no sales will be made to the drivers of ordinary pleasure cars from 7 P. M. to 7 A. M. Some motor club officials , as well as others in close touch with the situation , expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resort to compulsory rationing . Police Caution Motorists Police officials in New York and adjacent areas expressed the hope that motorists would have the foresight to provide themselves beforel 7 o'clock with enough gasoline to reach their destinations . Otherwise , they pointed out , some extreme traffic difficulties might result . The ruling excluding commercial vehicles from the curfew on gasoline sales was obtained by the Liberty Commercial Corporation , 135 Broadway , which finances repairs and equipment at about 1,000 New York service stations . " Does your oil station closing recommendation mean , " the corporation asked Mr. Ickes in a telegram , " that station personnel can not do auto repairs at night or sell tires and other merchandise , clean automobiles , etc. , during the closing period , or does it merely suspend sale of oil products ? This is a vital question for station operators . Please wire answer . " The reply , signed by John W. Frey , director of marketing , read : " You may sell motor fuel to commercial vehicles , including trucks and taxis , and you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sell merchandise other than motor fuel . " An official of the corporation said that this reply had cleared up " a very vital question " that had faced station operators who were willing to cooperate with Mr. Ickes 's curfew request . Motor Vehicle Commissioner Carroll E. Mealey , who was recently appointed State Petroleum Products Conservator by Governor Lehman , announced that he would hold a meeting in Albany Tuesday to outline a plan for voluntary conservation of gasoline by motorists . Representatives of the affiliated clubs of the New York State Automobile Association will attend the meeting , which will be the first in a series designed " to arouse the public to a consciousness of the gravity of the gasoline situation . " Subsequent meetings will be attended by automobile dealers and representatives of corporations operating fleets of trucks and passenger cars . " Commissioner Mealey stresses the point that he is not contemplating any compulsory measures , " said an announcement from the Commissioner 's office . " He states that an immediate practical way for passenger-car drivers to conserve gasoline is to practice slower driving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is particularly in favor of this action because it would help eliminate accidents . " Mr. Mealey issued ten rules for conservation , approved by the State Council of Defense : 1 . Proper carburetor adjustment ? be sure that your carburetor is adjusted to give you the most economical mixture of gasoline and air for efficient operation of your car . 2 . A properly tuned-up engine . Have your service station carefully go over your car to make sure it is operating at full efficiency . Clean spark plugs are important . 3 . Drive carefully  --  the most efficient speed for low consumption is from thirty-five to forty miles per hour . Gasoline consumption mounts rapidly with increased speed . At sixty miles per hour you consume thirty-three and one-third more gasoline than at thirty-five miles per hour . 4 . Avoid " jack rabbit " driving . Do not try to be the first away from a traffic light . Sudden bursts of speed use up gasoline unnecessarily . 5 . Avoid over-use of the choke at starting . 6 . Avoid unnecessary use of first and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 . Do not let your car idle at the curb . Shut off the engine . 8 . Watch your tire pressure . Under-inflated tires put an extra drag on the motor . 9 . Take an extra passenger with you  --  doubling up on trips will often save large quantities of gasoline . 10 . Have your car correctly lubricated  --  crankcase , chassis and gears for maximum efficiency . The New York City representative at the Tuesday meeting in Aloany will be John R. Crossley Jr. , vice president of the Automobile Club of New York . with offices at the Hotel Pennsylvania . Mr. Crossley said that his organization and its members were willing to " comply to the fullest degree " to the voluntary conservation scheme but he predicted that " it will be rationing sooner or later . " " One thing we anticipate is the end of the long week-end trip , " Mr. Crossley said . " Short weekend trips may continue , but not the extended ones . " Other Automobile Club officials said that a demand already had developed for gasoline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to be stored by motorists at their homes . Nervous Motorists Buy More Indications at many stations were that motorists , apparently made nervous by all the attention that has been centered on the gasoline situation , were buying fuel in greater quantities than usual . The order of the day was " Fill her up " instead of the previously most common request for five gallons . Notices of the impending curfew appeared on many gasoline pumps . Sobol Brothers District of SoconyVacuum Oil Company , Inc. , which operates eighty - three stations , placed at its headquarters , 110th Street and Fifth Avenue , a red , white and blue sign , 5 by 7 feet , reading : " To aid national defense gasoline will not be sold at this station from 7 P. M. to 7 A. M. " Similar signs were ordered for all stations of the chain . Organizations of garage owners advised their members to comply with the government request for the twelve-hour closing  --  a request that has no law with penalties behind it . Charles Moore , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could not predict how effective the advice to comply would be . Nathan Handelman , chairman of the gasoline committee of the Metropolitan Garage Board of Trade , said he doubted that men would have to be laid off by garages as a result of the conservation scheme . His group has as members 1,200 garages in Manhattan and the Bronx , selling about 1,000,000 gallons daily . " I do n't think it will amount to anything , " said Mr. Handelman , discussing the fear that men would lose their jobs . " We will still keep the establishment open twenty-four hours a day to carry on the same service as before , which will necessitate the retention of the same personnel . " An opposite view was expressed by John Dressler , president of the Bergen County ( N. J. ) Gasoline Dealers Association . He asserted that if gasoline consumption were cut one-third , as Federal officials hope , some 300 of the 800 stations in his county would close and about 1,000 workers would lose their jobs . In Boston the Automobile Legal Association advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that " unless we cooperate voluntarily compulsory rationing seems to be inevitable . "                     