@@711681

txt In an outright reversal of its long-time stand for taxes on oleomargarine , the National Grange at its convention here voted for the removal of all such taxes . This decision , taken at a closing session of the big farm organization , proved the big surprise of the Grange 's 82d annual meeting . The dairy people of the North Who wanted to keep the taxes greatly outnumbered the cotton members from the South , who sought their repeal . The dairy forces came to Portland expecting to win again  --  and they did come out on top in the first struggle in the committee on agriculture . Yet , at the finish of the convention , the supporters of oleo unexpectedly won , and how they did it puzzled many a Grange member . Prevent Deception ' The resolution presented by the committee on agriculture headed by Dorsey Kirk , master of the Illinois State Grange , called for the Grange to " reiterate its opposition to the removal of present taxes and regulation on the sale of oleomargarine . " Instead , the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes on oleomargarine if and when effective means are taken to prevent deception in its sale in imitation of butter . " This switch in policy was regarded as the more remarkable because the large majority of the 800,000 members of the Grange have some dairy interest , according to Grange leaders . On the other hand , the Grange is weak in the South , where the movement for lifting of the taxes centered . Inclusion or farmers in the social security system was also given a strong boost by the National Grange . Farmers now make up one of the largest groups omitted from social security coverage . but included in President Truman 's plans for extending the social security program . Social Security Sought The Grange declared that this seemed the time for changes in and expansion of the social security law to make it more workable and applicable to all American citizens . It termed the Grange a logical organization to offer such plans for farmers , and authorized the appointment of a committee to mak6 a study . Then it reaffirmed its position of a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer and farm worker , so far as it applies to old-age and retirement benefits . Other benefits , the Grange added , should be extended to farm operators if and when a practical means can be found to make them work . " We are finding our best and most stable labor is going to industry where workers can get the protection of the government 's old-age and survivors insurance , " Albert S. Goss , national master of the Grange , said in an interview , " As long as we have a social security program in our whole economy , we feel that the farm workers should be included . " If a practical way of covering self-employed labor can be developed without too much cost and too much detail . the Grange would like to see this done , he pointed out . Jobless Aid Opposed But the extension of unemployment compensation to aired farm labor , he felt , would open up too many difficulties to be practical . There is now too much abuse of the system of paying unemployment insurance to factory and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be more abuse than ever if agriculture were brought in . " For one thing , agriculture is so seasonal , " he commented . " We I do n't see any way on earth of working it . " Going into labor-management ' policy , the Grange reiterated its philosophy of abundance , which has been given its fullest expression at this convention . The farmers held that free enterprise and democracy depend upon an economy of reasonably full production . They said that industry should place high output and reasonably full employment above , high prices and profits . They also felt that organized labor had most to gain by adopting as its primary objective the maintenance of an economy of full production . The farmers also granted that labor unions have a useful place in the nation , and upheld the right to strike and to organize on an industrywide basis . Place for Injunction However , when a strike or threatened strike becomes a serious menace to public health , safety and the general welfare , they deem the use of the injunction and compulsory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor with the recommendation to unions to adopt a parity wage automatically adjusted semiannually to the cost of living . This would be supplementary to collective bargaining and any resulting wage gains . Resolutions coming from the committee on agriculture which were approved the final day included the following recommendations : Limitation of shipments of farm machinery abroad to minimum needs for foreign necessities until the requirements of this country are more adequately met ; Continuation of government purchases of surpluses of dried fruit and cut dried fruit products for foreign relief ; Opposition to contracts between the United States Forest Service and large lumber companies which will exclude smaller timber operators from acquiring timber lands covered by such contracts ; Appropriation by Congress of sufficient funds to push needed flood control and kindred projects to , completion .                     