@@704695

txt Supporters of the WheelerJones farm credit bill yesterday held out little hope for final passage of the measure at this za. , a2rinn of Con 2-re-ss. at least in its present form . Opposition to the proposed legielatio : from within the Deinocratic ranks , coupled with strong objections to certain of its provisions by Republicans in both houses , make it appear unlikely that the bill as now drawn can successfully negotiate its way to the statute books before adjournment , although passage by the House of Representatives is possible . Prospects of even House action . however , were impaired yesterday when the agriculture committee decided to recall Secretary of Agriculture Wallace and Farm Credit Administrator A. G. Black for further questioning , particularly with regard to alleged " lobbying " activities by those officials . The proposed farm credit measure would establish a interest rate on Federal Land Bank mortgage loans , eliminate the requirement that farm borrowers must purchase stock in the land banks , and provide for federal government guarantees of land bank bonds . Opponents claim that it would leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arive private lenders out of business . Decision of the house committee to reopen hearings on the measure , officially closed more than a week ago , was caused largely by a circular letter distributed to stockholders of the National Farm Loan Association by Mr. Black , in which he enclosed a memorandum from Secretary Wallace advocating changes in the farm loan system . The distribution of this memorandum to farm stockholder-borrowers was severely criticized in some congressional quarters as an attempt to " lobby " for the Wheeler-Jones bill and " destroy confidence in the present land bank system . " Several committee members indicated yesterday that they would question Secretary Wallace and Mr Black as to the exact effects which the suggested legislation would have on the farm mortgage business . These members said they feel that the bill is a political , move to subsidize farmers and would eliminate participation of private capital , by insurance companies and others , in the farm mortgage field . Whatever the outcome of these additional hearings , however , they certainly will result in further delay by the committee in reporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration itself is not strongly urging passage of the bill at this session . In the first place , as it now stands it does not satisfy Mr Wallace or the other Administration officials interested . In fact , the Secretary 's recent te-stunony , while generally favorable to the bill 's aims , was far short of a complete endorsement In the second place , as a political talking point for farm voters the bill would be much more effective unpassed because it could then be held out as one of the measures to be put through by the Democrats if they remain in power .                     