@@710076

txt ' Topics of The Times Hollywood producers , as reOrders ported in this paper a few of days ago , are now looking Merit forward with hearts more or less palpitant to the annual Academy Awards , the greatly coveted " Oscars . " The poet Browning complained about the poet Wordsworth that just for a handful of silver he left us , just for a ribbon to stick in his coat . Inasmuch as it has become a habit to credit the movie industry with strictly practical motives , the first impulse is to suspect that Hollywood regards Oscar as something more than a ribbon to stick in its coat . A great . many handfuls of boxoffice silver are supposed to accrue from an Academy Award for the best film of the year , the best actor , the best plot , the best director and the rest . Yet this interpretation may Medals , be unjust to the Hollywood Prizes , industry . The prizes and ciAwards tations are really valued for the honor and distinction they confer . It is not always easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the longing for prestige , but a difference there is . Hollywood is so large a part of the American scene that it would be surprising if the motion-picture industry had remained immune to an interesting change , now several decades under way , in the national psychology . In this period the American people have become medalconscious , prize-conscious , award-conscious . From a severely demoPrestige cratic people with a miliWith tent distaste for the ribProfits bons and stars and garters of European caste and feudalism , we have developed a pretty taste of our own for a ribbon to stick in one 's coat , even if it is the recognition of fine achievement and real merit . Authors and publishers and Broadway producers have by no means outgrown a liking for the substantial rewards of a best-seller book or a smash-hit play . But we have also developed a real appreciation of a Pulitzer Award or an annual certificate of merit from the theatre critics or , in Hollywood , an Oscar ; which honors after all bring only handfuls of silver compared with the profits that roll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ =-Stars worthy of a sustained reand search in the growth of Ribbons American mores . Is it a sign of advancing national maturity to have acquired a liking for the formal accolade of a prize or an award or an honor ? The thing is suggestive of the royal birthday honors or New Year 's honors in Great Britain , or the passion for a Legion of Honor Ribbon that is supposed to burn so strong in every French heart . Analytically and chronologically it would be interesting to know how far the trend has been shaped by the aforesaid Pulitzer Prizes , now a generation old , or by the much older All-America football teams brought into being by Walter Camp in 1889 . Once set into motion , it would be inherent in the American temper to carry things to extremes . There is seemingly no field of endeavor without its annual set of honors conferred by recognized agencies after the manner of the Pulitzer Prizes , or the Hollywood Academy Awards , . or the less formal drama critics ' annual honors , or the All-America football team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's sports editors , or the most useful baseball player of the year chosen in the same way . In addition to such instituThe tional and group selections Upper the'practicing newspaper men Tens . reserve the right to announce at the beginning of a pew year their individual roll of honors ? the book reviewer citing the ten best books of the old year , the motion picture editor the ten best films , the sports editor the athlete of the year , the horse of the year , perhaps even the game and the thrill of the year . After the scholarly investigator , as proposed above , has compiled- his full stock of data on what we have " ventured to call our new medal-conscious America he should give us the psychological analysis . This emphasis on medals Fuss " and prizes and awards and and honors and distinctions ? Feathers ? does it mean a real change from the old equalitarian America which would have naught of such gewgaws but insisted that every man is as good " as anyone else and a bit better ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's coat only a surface manifestation beneath which the old democratic individualism persists ? It would be odd if the first alternative turns out.to be true , and precisely in these last dozen years of an intensified American social democracy we had learned to prize the " recognition " that comes by letters patent from on high , or something in that line. ,                     