@@711846

txt The word " oriental " always has conjured up mystery . Its very sound seems to speak of dark , exciting , and intriguing secrets . Yet the Oriental institute , a dignified . collegiate Gothic building on the quiet , scholarly campus of the University of Chicago . at bstn st. and University ay. , looks anything but exotic . Still , within its doors , the mysteries of ancient civilizations spill out their secrets and pages are added to the history of the past , Here is the most lascoating story of all time , the story of man 's rise from the primitive , animal-like existence of the Stone Age ' to a rich culture that flourished in grandeur , only to die and be buried in the sandy wastes of time . Recover Missing Chapters It was to recover these early chapters , missing from the story of man 's progress towards civilization , that the Oriental institute was founded exactly 30 years ago by a keen , curious scholar , Dr. James Henry Breasted at the University of Chicago . Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study of the ancient Oriental field , and is the only one that combines three facets in complete cooperation  --  archaeological expeditions to acquire new material , publication of historical findings by an expert research staff , and teaching . It specializes in collecting , restoring , and studying the relics of ancient Egypt , Palestine , Syria , Turkey , Iraq ( then Mesopotamia ) , and Iran ( then Persia ) . Bridge Gap In Civilizations In these lands there sprouted. a civilization that was 500 years older than that of India , and 1,000 years older than that of China . It bridged the gap between 6,000 B. C. , when nowhere was there anything resembling a culture , and the days of the highly developed Grecian civilization . For many years it remained a mystery . And it still is being painstakingly rediscovered by scientic expeditions . The objects that have been gathered in the Oriental institute thru purchase and excavation ? weird , wonderful utensils and decorations of a fabulous day ? draw a picture of that early , cultured man that is not at great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Too They envision a man , somewhat shorter than his present day counterpart , but a man wise in commerce and trade ; a man who was clever in his use of propaganda , who traded on an interThe Oriental institute national scale , who worshiped gods and hoarded treasures , who was vain and used cosmetics , who gambled and drank intoxicating liquors , and yet withal was sensitive and artistic A tour of the institute 's museum , which covers five halls , can take a day , a half day , or a half hour , depending on the time one can afford to spend . But no matter how short the visit , a spectator . is not left untouched by the wonder and the awe of the ages . A privileged tour is one accompanied by either of two noted scholars  --  Dr. Thorkild Jacobsen , director of the institute , professor of social institutions at the institute , and . dean of the division of humanities at the university , or Dr. John A. Wilson , noted Egyptologist , former . full time and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Curtain Both of these men are as enthusiastic about happenings in 3,000 B. C. as tho they were occurring today . Perhaps , they are more so . Certainly their words withdraw a curtain and set a stage for the past . " See this bed ? " Dr. Jacobsen . inquired yesterday . " It is a pretty good example of a type of Egyptian furniture around 3,400 B. C. See the legs ? Like many a design in a later day , they copy the fore and hind legs of an animal .. . here a bull . The uncomfortable head rest , which looks somewhat like a vise , permitted an elaborate coiffure to be undisturbed . The bed is smaller than those of the present day , but then the Egyptians of that day were smaller and they slept with their legs drawn up in an almost embryonic fashion . " Forty Tons Of Propaganda Small tho he may have been , this early man knew the power of the huge , the massive . According to Dr. Jacobsen , the Assyrian king Sargon 11. used colossal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khorsabad in hag , as propaganda Weapons of his ; rower . Dominating the eastern wall of the Egyptian hall in the institute is one of these colossi , a winged , human headed hull . 16 feet high and weighing 40 tons . It flanked the court yard to the throne room of Sargon II . in 722-705 C. Another colossi , which strangely stirs a fear almost 3,000 S'ea 's later , is a massive portrait statue of Tutenkhamon , one of two which the Oriental institute discovered in the debris of the mortuary temple built by Eye and Harmhab north of the great temple of Medinet Habur around 1,350 B. C. A rnagnifIcient statue , of red quartzite completely restored , it shows the unmistakable , youthful beauty of Tut , so familiar from the portraits in his tomb , but yet its very size leaves one small and shaken . Provide For Great Beyond Perhaps because man had begun to worry about the mortality of his body , he built such bulwarks for his ego . Anyway , it is true . from the evidence here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his  --  comforts in that unknown beyond . So that nothing might be lacking for a well rounded life after death , one Egyptian cemetery official , Nanupkau , in 2,500 B. C. , set up an entire household of statuettes to he buried in his tomb . The statuettes included images of those he loved and those he needed for his well being  --  his wife , his children , his household servants  --  and even granaries . Details of the preparation of food and drink were . included , while music , sport , and the manufacture of jewelry were also provided . Today , the institute has three expeditions in the field  --  an archaeological excavation in the ruins of Nippur , the leading city ? tf ancient Sumer , where civilize-1 ; Hon was first developed , a " dig " near Ahwaz in Iran , and an ex , pedition which is copying temples at Luxor , Egypt . The Nippur expedition is being held in conjunction with the University Museum of the University of Pennsylvania , Expect Great Discoveries " We expect to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At present , however . we are not at liberty to say what we expect to find ; but we believe it will be extremely worthwhile . " In its library , the Oriental institute has some 21,000 to 22,000 volumes , many of them extremely rare and only available to scholars and students . The museum , however , is open daily , free of charge , from 1 p , m. to 5 P. m ? . land arrangements may be made for visits by groups from schools and societies . Yet despite its peculiar and particular importance , not only in the city and the nation , but in the world , the Oriental institute was visited last year by only 60,000 persons . The cause and the seat of many of the most imPortant archaeological discoveries to date , the institute , itself , more or less , has not been discovered . 