@@709119

txt Sitting almost continuously from early morning until tonight through an extraordinary Sunday session , the National Constituent Assembly passed the Government 's bill nationalizing the Bank of France and four other private banks by a vote of 521 to 35 . The moderates voting against it pronounced the measure a spoliation of French thrift and a prelude to financial disaster . The Communists and Socialists , on the contrary , avowed that it was " only a beginning , " and the Popular Republicans accepted the measure " with its faults " as an expression of the country 's will . At the conclusion of the debate , President de Gaulle congratulated the Assembly on its conduct , calling it proof that it had been possible for France " to revive and make productive democratic institutions and representative government . " Without M. de Gaulle 's intervention in the morning session , in which he warned that too many changes would necessitate a second reading , incompatible with the law creating the Assembly , many amendments rejected during the day might have been successfully pressed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapted to " internal and external conditions " at this time . Some Private Banks Omitted The principal point to be noted in connection with the bill as adopted was the fact that , after prolonged controversy both in committee and in the Assembly , only four of the chief private banks were included in the nationalization . They are the Credit Lyonnais , the Societe Generale , the Comptoir ? National des Comptes and the Banque National Pour le Commerce et Pindustrie . The nationalization of three other banks was urged , and the Finance Committee at one time included the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas and the Union Parisienne on its list , but in the end it removed them as the result of a compromise . The compromise consisted in the Government 's pledge to prepare and submit a measure that would establish effective Government control over the policy and operations of all banks known as " banques d'aff aires . " Such banks finance and often take majority holdings in industrial enterprises . Another conflict centered on the compensation of stockholders , and it was finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other nationalized banks for Government bonds . After long disputes , it was decided to base the interest on such bonds on the average for the last three years for the stock of the bank involved , with a proviso that the maximum could not exceed 3 per cent . A determined effort was made to substitute the Minister of National Economy , a Communist , for the Minister of Finance as president of the National Credit Council that the bill creates . This , too , in the end , was compromised by according to the Government the power to determine who should be appointed . Spadework Done in Committee The rapidity with which the Assembly worked to complete the passage of the bill before it could become the subject of speculation on the Bourse precluded any ... extended study and resulted largely from the fact that all the spadework and almost all the arguing were done in closed sittings of the Finance Committee . The Assembly recessed at several intervals to allow the most disputed questions ' to be threshed out in committee . Christian Pineau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its purpose was to end the alleged dictatorship of the monied interests in France . He and other speakers said repeatedly that the big banks had dictated the Government 's policy and even tried to veto the form of government . They indicated , too , that the banks had been conspicuous during the German occupation as collaborationists . Former Premier Edouard Herriot , speaking for the bill , recalled that in the past " the bank note has often proved stronger than the ballot . In the struggle between politics and finance the banques d'affaires have not always sat in the back rows . " Before deciding who would have the last word this time , he said , it would be necessary to ' await the Government 's control project .                     