@@705740

txt Two drastic curtailment programs were announced today by New Deal officials . If effective they will push American consumers nearer to a war economy . The programs , dependent on public cooperation for enforcement since there is no law that requires obedience , are : LBy Leon Henderson , administrator of prices and civilian supply ? Automobile production to be cut 20 per cent beginning Aug. 1 and 50 per cent beginning Nov. 1 ; mechanical refrigerator output to be reduced 50 ? per cent and washing machine production 30 per cent " initially . " By Harold L. Ickes , secretary me ? of the interior ? Gasoline consumers in the east are asked to cut their use of motor fuel 33 per cent at once , or have rationing dictated In 16 seaboard states . " Phis would be done , according reports in New York , so that 100 tanker ships now supplying the coast regions may be transferred to the service of the British Isles . Makers to Work Out Flan . Henderson expressed his hope that conferences of manufacturers will arrange the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output to be permitted and percentage slashes by each firm . The program , he said , is necessary to conserve raw materials needed in defense production . ? Air conditioning , heating , cooking utensils , metal furniture , and household appliances are other industries to be added to the reduction program later , Henderson said . In Detroit Allan Macaulay , Packard Motors executive and president of the Automobile Manufacturers association , pledged cooperation for any slash deemed necessary . He said he hoped adjustments will be made so no company is penalized unduly . Speaks for Small Firms . " The adjustments should be such that small companies can stay In business , " he said . " The large ones can be cut 50 per cent and still be big producers . This is not equally true of small ones . " It is estimated that total auto output in the year beginning Aug. 1 will be 2,400,000 vehicles . The 1941 production is estimated at 5,200,000 units. : Ickes , it was learned , has called a conference , to be held in his office Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to figure out a plan to transfer 25 tankers now and 75 more later to the British supply service . These , plus 50 already put in the overseas service , will give half the tanker tonnage under the American flag to British transport . Many Cargoes Transferred . The 50 vessels already transferred were used mainly in supplying seaboard consumers with oil products from the gulf states and the Dutch West Indies . Many of them , however , have been transferring their cargoes to British tankers in American ports . The new plan , it was said , is to have the transferred tankers go as far as Iceland under United States navy guard and there transship to British bottoms under British convoy . It was reported authoritatively that the British . are taking over i8 Norwegian tankers , chartered by oil interests and engaged in transport in nonbelligerent waters , and will use them in shipping oil direct from western hemisphere points to the United Kingdom . - Convoy System Outlined . The oil trade has been informed , it was reported , that the American navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east Iceland and there turn them over to the British navy . Normally , American registered tankers supply eastern gasoline consumers with 1,200,000 barrels daily . The transfers make it probable that the remaining tankers can supply this region with about half the normal consumption of seaborne petroleum .                     