@@710211

txt Disorder reigned in the Belgian capital this afternoon when 50,000 discontented war veterans staged one of the worst riots this city has known for many years . They swarmed around the Parliament buildings , where nervous ' Deputies were ' debating the budget of national defense . Windows were smashed , wrought-iron gates of the Royal Parc de Bruxelles torn down and salvos of blank cartridges fired while for four hours the exI cited veterans fought hand-to-hand battles with gendarmes . When it was over at least forty injured persons had been carried away . It seemed for a time that one man had been mortally struck by a saber , but later he was pronounced out of danger . A woman died of a heart attack . Traffic in the center of the city was paralyzed until early evening . Fire Hoses Used in Vain The riot rose and fell in intensity all afternoon . The automobile of former Minister of Colonies Albert de Vleeschauer was overturned in the forecourt of Parliament and set afire . During the fighting firemen turned fire hoses on the mob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swords waving and they , too , were absorbed in the melee . The demonstration came with plenty of warning . For days the National Federation of Former Prisoners of War had announced its intention to march on Brussels . At noon veterans had arrived in groups of a few hundred each from all parts of Belgium . When the exasperated police begged them to move to the side of the main boulevards , the veterans replied : " Brussels is ours today and we are going to tell the world what we want . " Their demands include double pension rights for the years spent in captivity , as was ' the case in 1919 , special priority for jobs in public service , medical aid and tax rebates . The Government has contended that such a program would cost the nation some 3,000,000,000 francs , which would be out of the question . Nothing definite has , ever been done to fix the status of ' the veterans and this lack of action is believed to have been responsible for today 's outbreak . The Belgian veterans fall into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans deliberately to split the country . Flemish troops were released in 1940 , a few weeks after their capitulation , whereas French-speaking Walloon soldiers remained in German camps until their liberation two years ago . The battle this afternoon did not assume the aspect of a split between Flanders and Wallonia . Whatever political significance it had lies in the rebellion of the people against the Government 's inertia . The demonstration started out peacefully enough , only to run into trouble when the marchers reached a roped-off neutral zone embracing Parliament . As happened in November , 1944 , an attempt was made to break the cordon , and from that moment it was a freefor-all . The riot of the Resistance men in 1944 was potentially far more serious , since so many persons still had weapons . Moreover , the gendarmes fired on that occasion , wounding a handful of rioters . Parliament was invaded in 1922 , when the violence exceeded today 's affair . The first real clash took place in the narrow streets behind Parliament . There window glass crashed into the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police . Army trucks captured by . the marchers were retaken only after a bitter struggle . Brickbats flew all around the " protected " neutral zone . rooned in Parliament escaped with difficulty . They were jeered at Whenever they were identified , including one group of Senators that ran the gantlet down back streets . Communist Minister of Health Albert Marteaux was slightly injured in a scuffle. 4 graver incident was avoided by the decision of Auguste Buissert , Minister of the Interior , to order the gendarmes and troops to fire only blank cartridges . The commanding officer had asked what action to take because standing orders required the men to defend Parliament to the limit of their means . After four and a half hours of milling around , the crowd disbanded ? in time to catch trains back home . The veterans warned that there would be another demonstration Sunday , following an announcement by Premier Camille Huysmans that the Chamber of Deputies would consider their demands on Friday . 