@@710759

txt Increasing food prices have more than swept away gains of recent salary increases in France . The result is new disquietude marked by protests and demon : strations , The protests marl ( a genuine French feeling , for the situation has now reached the point where " manifestations " have begun . Yet it is clear that the organized rioting can be largely credited to Communist direction . Recently a group of women protested before Premier Paul Ramadier 's office . Presumably it was a spontaneous gathering of housewives . Yet when someone called for singing " International , " every woman present joined in , with strong voices and complete knowledge of the words . Communists represent only around 30 per cent of French votes , and the majority of these are of opportunists who hope for a change rather than being real Communists who know the International . Further when a Communist spokesman came along and said the purpose had been served , every woman disappeared within two minutes . No spontanedus demonstration would act like that , especially by the French who consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist party . " Is it patience or fatigue  --  or both ? " That is a common question to- D. Hurd Christian Science Monitor apparent limitlessness of the Frendh ability to take punishment in the form of aggravating shortages that would embarrass even the most stable of governments . Today , for example . there is little butter and when you find it , - it is always on the Black Market , and it costs you $3.50 a pound . Even worse is the fact that going into the country this year is failing to produce food you can not get in the city . These country voyages have been the mainstay of the French for seven years , During occupation , regular streams of persons on bicycles flowed out of Paris on week ends to find and buy foods . But this fall , for the first time , the country is short because of the drought . Insufficient feed has caused a large killing of cattle and cut milk production . Even little restaurants where you used to get meals for 500 francs now charge 700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restaurant categories it is the same . French housewives already have had enough difficulty queueing up for bread and occasional other things . Now queues are getting longer and more frequent and days darker and colder . Paris is now cutting off electricity two days a week from 7:30 in the morning to 6:30 in the evening . This is one more blow at the present disarranged life . Worse , it is extremely depressing                     