@@705842

txt Following up the speech of Colonel Hayao Mabuchi , chief of the Japanese Army Press section of Imperial Headquarters , in which he stated Japan must break " American , British , Chinese and Dutch encirclement " either by diplomacy or by force or face ' economic strangulation , the Great Japan and Asia Development League yesterday submitted to Premier Prince Fumimaro Konoye , who is its president , a four-point program that calls for : 1 . Adherence to the guiding spirit of Italian-German-Japanese Axis diplomacy . 2 . Firm enforcement of the " new order " in " greater East Asia . " 3 . Intensified attack on all aid to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. 4 . Invocation of the right of selfdefense in Japan 's coastal waters . To the delegation submitting these recommendations Prince Konoye replied : " I fully understand the purpose of the recommendations . I shall consult the various quarters concerned in regard to them and make them contribute to the execution of the country 's policies . ' Statement of Policy The recommendations were preceded by a statement of policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Labor Day speech and which also gave such a complete summary of often expressed Japanese views that it is given here in full . The statement reads : " What the Japanese Empire prays for , as revealed at the time of the conclusion of the Italo-Ger- ' man-Japanese alliance , is termination of the world turmoil as early as possible and restoration of peace that will enable all countries to fill their wants and thereby live in peace and tranquillity . The reason our empire is devoting all the national energies to prosecuting the China incident and establishing a greater East Asia co-prosperity sphere is no other than to make itself the leader in the construction of a new world based on justice and the righteous way . " Despite this aim of our empire the United States purposely misunderstands the true intentions of our empire and in disregard of the desire of all the races of Asia obstructs the prosecution of the China incident . Furthermore , in regard to our southward co-prosperity sphere , acting in concert with Britain , the Netherlands and others , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our empire and its peaceful intentions . " This is a matter that our empire and its nations can never tolerate . " In addition , the United States has unreasonably strengthened economic pressure against Japan and is not only planning to obstruct activities of the empire but is also supplying munitions and materials to countries hostile to Japan and Japan 's allies . Thus it is trying to expand the war turmoil and prolong the , disturbance . We must get rid of such American activities . On International Law The United States has always advocated the establishment of the authority of international law . From this standpoint it has sharply criticized the action of our empire , but its own action has been to proclaim an arbitrary extension of its territorial waters and to put restraints on belligerent rights . It has also been violating neutrality laws by extending aid to Britain . " Moreover , in spite of being a neutral country it has gone to the extent of unlawfully occupying Greenland and Iceland . Not only has it thus disregarded its neutral position but when Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such an inconsistent attitude on the part of the United States can scarcely be understood by our empire and the Japanese people , who constantly and thoroughly respect international faith and who are making it their mission to realize this objective . To this the American Government and people must rise for consideration . " Accordingly we have recognized the urgent need of breaking the anti-Japanese encirclement front of nations hostile to Japan and advancing the work of constructing a new order in Greater East Asia . " In line with this , the Japan Times Advertiser , in replying to President Roosevelt 's speech , declares there are other forms of aggression besides armies and charges the United States has employed all of them in East Asia , from the taking of the Philippines to the freezing decrees . " The United States , " says the Foreign Office organ , " has a vision of a political empire in the Far East . To achieve such dominion it has made alliances , instigated distrust , built fortifications , applied boycotts and blockades , supplied war materials to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these are instances of American aggression . " And the newspaper Miyako com-plains : " The Anglo-American diplomatic manoeuvres , displayed at a time when the Reich-Soviet war is facing stagnation , are spreading in a manner that makes us fear that the strategic gains of the Axis during the past two years may go to pot . It has been the stock in trade both of Britain and the United States since the first World War to change the victories of others into defeats through sheer chicanery and graft while they themselves stay out of war , sending oth ers to be sacrificed to the Moloch of War . " The newspaper Asahi said President Roosevelt 's speech " merely emphasized his intention to overthrow Hitler and nazism and was of little consequence , " especially since , in that paper 's view , American labor is not aware of any Nazi menace and is addicted to strikes , while American capital is determined to profit from the emergency . Nichi Nichi says American labor union leaders are emphatic about the necessity of overthrowing Hitlerism , but It doubts whe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of constant strikes . The newspaper Chugai Shogyo is indignant that " Roosevelt has no scruples against declaring publicly his intention to smash the Axis . " However , the press also emphasizes Mr. Roosevelt 's statement that freedom of the seas depends on the navies of Britain , the Netherlands , the Soviet Union and Norway and indicates America 's strong attitude toward Japan . In the view of Nich Nichi this is a miscalculation , because , it says : " If the United States attempts to obstruct Japan 's legitimate course in the name of freedom - of the seas Japan will not hesitate to break through according to the necessity . " The stock market turned very bullish .                     