@@709778

txt The Democratic leadership in the State agreed tonight on the following ticket for the fall campaign : For Governor , James M. Mead of Buffalo . For United States Senator , Herbert H. Lehman of New York . For Lieutenant governor , Erastus Corning 2d of Albany . ? For State Controller , Spencer Young of Queens . For Attorney General , Anthony J. Di Giovanna of Brooklyn . For Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals , John T. Loughran of Kingston . For Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals , Henry Epstein of New York . The decision was announced by the leaders after the traditional dinner conference which precedes a State convention . The convention will open here tomorrow . There were two surprises in the ticket list . One was the naming of Mayor Corning of Albany for the Lieutenant Governorship . He yielded to a draft movement . The other surprise was the choice of Mr. Epstein , former State Solicitor General , who is a member of the executive committee of the National Citizens Political Action Committee . His selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the American Labor Party , an alliance which is necessary to Democratic chances in the election . Mr. Di Giovanna , who is a member of the New York City Council , was already the Democratic nominee for City Court Judge in Brooklyn and will now have to decline that nomination . Mr. Young , a career man in the New York City service , is City Treasurer . Paul E. Fitzpatrick , Democratic State chairman , hailed the ticket " the finest and best balanced ever presented by the party in the State . " Mr. Fitzpatrick expressed himself as particularly pleased with the selection of Mayor Corning for the ticket . Epstein Proposed by Loughlin The nomination of Mr. Epstein was proposed by Edward V. Loughlin , Tammany leader , who has been particularly close to the ALP , through Representative Vito Marcantonio . When asked about Mr. Loughlin 's part in the selection , Mr. Fitzpatrick said : " You may rest assured that everyone on the ticket has the approval of his county leader . " It was learned that Senator Robert F. Wagner , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governorship Wednesday , had a touch of what is thought to be pneumonia . If he is unable to attend the convention the nominating speech will be read for him  --  by his son , Robert Jr . Mr. Corning 's decision to yield to the draft was a victory for veterans groups which had kept the boom for him to the fore arid for the major leaders of the State party . Mr. Corning , who served in the war as a private in the Army , is 36 years old . He is a member of an old Albany family . The first Erastic Corning was mayor of Albany in the Civil War days . Edwin Corning was Lieutenant Governor in the days of Al Smith and Parker Corning was a Representative in Congress until his death not long ago . Two Special Conferees The choice for the State ticket is in the middle of his second term as mayor of Albany , a tenure interrupted by his Army career , and ' was averse to leaving the post at the present time . The dinner conference was featured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons outside the State committee members and county leaders . One was Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , widow of the late President , who is to be keynoter of the convention as temporary chairman . Her speech goes out over the radio at 1 P.M. tomorrow . Her presence at the dinner and her scheduled appearance as keynoter are designed to emphasize the importance the Democratic high command attaches to the " Roosevelt tradition " in the State campaign . It intends to stress the late President 's ideals and accomplishments . The other person especially invited to the dinner conference was Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York , who will make the other principal address of the convention as permanent chairman . His speech will be at 9:30 P. M. tomorrow . The dinner invitation to him represented the desire of the high command to capitalize on his personal appeal to the voters and to recognize his new position as a party leader in the city . At the dinner conference as county leaders in New York City were Mr. Flynn of the Bronx , who is also national committeeman ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loughlin and Jeremiah T. Sullivan of Richmond . Further County Leader List Other county leaders present included William T. Larkin of Livingston , who also represented the Association of Rural County Chairmen ; George B. Doyle of Erie , Charles Hogan of Onondaga , Daniel O'Connell of Albany , J. Herbert Gilroy of Oneida , Edward J. Murray of Wetchester , John H. Thorp of Nassau , James J. Butler of Jefferson , John F. Donnelly of Broome and Roy Bush of Monroe . Present ex officio were Mrs. William H. Good of Brooklyn , national committeewoman ; Doris ? I. Byrne of the Bronx , vice chairman of the state committee ; Carl Sherman , treasurer of the state committee ; Thomas F. Boyle , assistant to Chairman Fitzpatrick ; Benjamin Wetzler , state committee secretary ; Walter T. Brown , chairman of the speakers bureau , and Frank Doyle , publicity chairman . The convention is scheduled to be called to order at 11 A. M. tomorrow , with the morning session devoted to temporary organization and Mrs. Roosevelt 's speech . The evening session , at 8 o'clock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mourning Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Alfred E. Smith ? this is the first State convention since their deaths  --  and the speech by Mayor O'Dwyer . The formal nominations will be made at the session Wednesday .                     