@@706387

txt Sobered by the results of four and one-half months of intensive fighting , war officials here are now in a position to make new and exact comparisons between American and Japanese equipment . It can be stated categorically on the basis of careful study that American equipment has been found to be good , if not better , than that of the enemy in almost every particular , except quantity . It is this numerical superiority which has enabled the less efficient and less adequately armed Japanese air force to maintain control of the air over many fronts and at crucial moments . At last , however , American equipment is now arriving in Australia in sufficient quantity to make its all-around superiority felt , with the result that United Nations control of the air north of that island continent is becoming increasingly secure . The recent raids upon Japanese bases in the Philippines and upon a number of Japanese cities are also seen as evidence that American airmanship and organization are fully equal to that of the enemy . Quantity Necessary Although the situation as regards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington are less optimistic about the rest of the Far Eastern front and warn that quantity as well as quality will be necessary before the Japanese advance can be stopped and then reversed . So far as can be judged officially here , the naval vefiels of Japan and the United States have performed about as expected prior ? to Dec. 7 , the submarines and destroyers of both navies apparently doing a decidedly better and more valuable job than ships of larger categories . American submarines are believed to have sunk a greater amount of shipping than have the Japanese underwater craft , although it is pointed out that the Americans have had more targets to shoot at since the war is taking place in Japan 's front yard , - There is less information available on the relative performance of American and Japanese land arms than there is for air or sea craft . The War Department has officially stated that American . batteries on Bataan Peninsula and Corregidor Island have consistently and notably outshot and outmaneuvered enemy batteries lined against them . It has been definitely determined that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire-power than their Japanese opposites , but sb far American tank units have been hopelessly outnumbered . Three Types of Tanks As with the United States Army , the Japanese Army has three types of tanks  --  light , medium and heavy . The best Japanese light tank weighs 7.7 tons and has a top speed of 22 m , p. h. , while the American light tank weighs 131/2 tons and has a speed of approximately 40 m. p. h . This Japanese tank , however , has a 47-mm gun in the turret as against a 37-mm gun in the American . The Japanese medium tank weighs 14 tons against 30 tons for its American counterpart , carries a 37-mm gun as against the 75-mm in the Americarl job and can do but 28 m. p. h. as against approximately 40 m. p. h . The Japanese heavy tank weighs 35 tons as against 60 tons for the American heavy . It can go about 28 m. p. te , which is believed to be substantially lower than the American speed . Both tanks carry a 75-mm gun as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparisons that the Japanese medium tank is really matched by the American light , and the Japanese heavy by the American medium . The Japanese are not believed to have any tank comparable to the 60-ton American monster . Airplanes Superior The War and Navy Departments are convinced that there is n't the shadow of a doubt but that American airplanes are far and away superior to the best Japanese models . They point to the remarkable successes which the American Volunteer Group has had against the Japanese in Burma . Flying P-40 pursuit planes , which Lieut . Geb . H. H. Aronld , head of the Army Air Force , officially declared were no longer considered as more than advanced trainers in this country , the A. V. G. has been shooting down numerically superior Japanese bombers and Zero fighters at the ratio of five or ten to one . The Zero is said to be Japan 's best plane , whereas the United States has at least half a dozen new planes which are vastly better than the P-40 . The twinengined Lockheed Lightning , the Republic Thunderbolt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in use in the Far East as a custom-built automobile is to a low-priced , mass-production model . Unfortunately , however , very few of the better American models have yet gone to the South ! western Pacific , but they are on their way . I Although American officers who have examined fallen Japanese planes admit that they are of good construction , no Japanese fighter has a powerhouse anywhere approaching the 2,000-horsepower engine in the Republic Thunderbolt , while the Japanese planes carry 20-mm. cannon as against the 37-mm. cannons installed on the American craft . According to information here , Japan does not have any fourengine land bombers and only one four-engine Navy flying boat , the Awanishi T97 . The United States , on the other hand , has one four-engine flying boat , the Consolidated PB2Y , known as the Coronado , and two four-engine land bombers , the Boeing B-17 , known as the Flying Fortress , and the Consolidated B-27 , known as the Liberator . Whereas the Awanisni T97 has an estimated range of 1,500 miles with 3,500 pokinds of bombs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 8,000 pounds of bombs . To American observers , the Japanese four-engine flying boat looks like a less formidable craft than Consolidated 's two-engine PBY , known in Great Britain as the Catalina . It is significant that whereas the four engines on the Awanishi T97 generate only 3,900 horsepower , the four engines on the PB2Y generate 8,000 horsepower . Japan has shown nothing comparable to the new Douglas B-19 and the Glenn L. Martin flying boat , both of which weigh between 70 and 80 tons , have a range of nearly 8,000 miles and can carry 36,000 pounds of bombs . Although the Douglas and Martin jobs are merely experimental models , Mr. Martin has asserted that he ' s ready to begin production on a model almost twice the size of his flying boat whenever the Navy Department gives the word . On his return to the United States from the Southwestern Pacific area the other day , Vice-Admiral William A. Glassford declared that " we out there hare learned the hard way . In a fair tight on even terms , and that 's all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were better than the enemy . " The truth of that statement was borne out in late . although delayed , dispatches from the A. V. G. headquarters in Burma which relate that in two dogfights recently American pilots shot down at least 15 and possibly 20 Japanese Zero fighters without losing a plane . By the War Editor of The Christian Science Monitor Drawn from dispatches of the . Associated Press and other sources While tank - led Japanese troops were reported threatening to roll back the Chinese-held left wing in the Battle of Burma today , there were increasing signs that the United Nations were moving toward a unified , over-all world strategy . Voices favoring a single command and co-ordinated battle plans were raised in three widely separated sectors of the " world front . " In Chungking , the official Central Daily News declared that a unified strategy was growing more imperative every day . It proposed establishment of a supreme Allied Council with power to determine tactics in all theaters . In New York , Dr. Herbert V. Evatt , Australian Minister for External Affairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by pooling all resources of the United Nations and by using them to the best advantage . One of the reasons for the failure at Gallipoli , Dr. Evatt said , " was the strange heresy that only the Western Front mattered . and that every other theater of war was a sideshow , and . therefore , involved wasteful disposal of forces . " In London , Maj. Clement R. Attlee , Dominions Secretary . as ! sured Australia and New Zealand that a unified strategy was near and that it soon would turn the tables on the Axis . 11 The fighting in Burma , meanwhile , left no doubt that the lack of far-sighted planning and the consectuent shortage of guns and planes where they were most needed had brought the Allies once again face to face with a major setback . If the Japanese can turn the Allied left in the Burmese lowlands , they virtually will be assured of the capture of 1 ? . tanclalay . This would cut off the last Allied-held link in the Burma Road , imperiling the 100-mile stretch from Mandalay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a possible land drive into India . In the battle for the ap- proaches to Australia , General 's headquarters disclosed that Allied planes had successfully intercepted seven Japanese Zero fighters which had raided Port Moresby , New Guinea . At the same time , other Allied planes attacked the airfield at Japanese-held Lae , also in New Guinea . Military activity in the Philippines was confined to desultory fire by the guns of Corregidor and Japanese batteries on Bataan . Burma : Twin Japanese thrusts on the key cities of Mandalay and Lashio appeared to be developing rapidly today as the:British Army , after a brief respite , prepared to defend its last bases of resistance in Burma . A London military commentator said latest dispatches from Burma indicate the Chinese were fighting stubbornly around Taunggyi and at Hopong and Shwengyaung , east and west of that town , in an effort to halt the deepest enemy penetration  --  now only 100 miles from Mandalay . A further Japanese advance in this sector would threaten Chinese communications on the Sittang Front to the west and place the invaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commentator said a lull apparently was continuing on the Irrawaddy Front at the west end of the Allied line . Chinese forces there were reported holding positions along the Pinchaung River while British forces were resting and refitting in the rear for the climax of the campaign expected to take the form of a triple drive on Mandalay by the Japanese . Advices from Chungking said Chinese troops along the Pinchaung were officered largely by Chinese who had received military training in the United States . Dispatches reaching New Delhi , India , said the Japanese were being almost spendthrift in their use of man power as they drove toward Mandalay . A Chungking communiqu ? indicated the Chinese-held left flank either had been rolled back or was in ' imminent danger of being turned by the fast-striking Japanese . Few details amplified the communique , which said the invaders had advanced about 80 miles northward from captured Loikaw to the area of Taunggyi under cover of continuous air attack . The communiqu ? reiterated , however . that the situation in the Kenangyaung sector on the west , hank was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around Tatkon , 30 miles north of Pyinmana , which the Chinese abandoned earlier this week . The Chinese asserted the Japanese had lost 3,000 men in one week 's fighting between the Swa River and Pyinmana and another 3.000 in four days in the vicinity of Pyinmana alone , while the Chinese altogether lost 1,000 killed and wounded . Komiatum was described as having been " sacked and burned " by an enemy raiding party April 23 . Elsewhere , except for continued artillery dueling between Japanese shore batteries in the Philippines and United States guns on Corregidor in Manila Bay , the communiqu ? said there was no activity . Genera ! led a procession of Allied officers in ' Melbourne today in a ceremony marking the first American participation in Anzac Day , Australia 's Memorial Day . Thousands watched in silence the ceremonial Were the City 's Shrine of ReMetriberance as the General and his Staff stood with bowed heads . The customary parade of the Anzac veterans who stormed , Gallipoli 27 years ago was Missing and , because of a wartime ban on large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Shrine was replaced by a nationwide radiocast concluded with the Star Spangled Banner and the Australian anthem . Veterans of the Australian Imperial Force of the last war and this war , however , combined ranks before daylight for the traditional dawn pilgrimage to the huge monument . The crowd watched intently as General strode solemnly up the stairs and saluted as his aide , Col. Le Grande Diller , laid a wreath on the flower-decked rock . Without a speech or fanfare , General stood within a semi-circle of his aides  --  American , Australian , and Dutch  --  and bowed with bared head for prayer . A card with his wreath was inscribed : " To Anzac forces from their American comrades-inarms of yesterday , today , and tomorrow . " Southwest Pacific : Gen. Douglas 's headquarters announced today that fighter planes defending Port Moresby , New Guinea , " successfully intercepted in sanguinary combat ' seven Japanese Navy Zero fighters which raided the New Guinea port yesterday . Allied raiders , it said , bombed the airfield at Japanese-held Lae , on New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air action . The New Guinea village of                     