@@711203

txt Complaints that foreign buyers are outbidding would-be United States purchasers for war surplus goods with the aid of more liberal credit for aliens are under investigation by a house surplus property committee subcommittee . George Quinn , committee counsel , said today Quinn sale the committee has asked the ? war assets administration for full information on the recent sale of 15 million dollars worth of surplus materials in the Aleutian Islands and current sales In the San Francisco area Complaints have reached the committee , Quinn said , that Amercan buyers are required to make a 25 per cent cash down payment on all purchases but that foreigners are buying with no down payments on credits established with WAA as a result of loans or prospects of ERP aid . Principal Buyers Listed Australia , Norway , and Haiti were reported to be the most active buyers for the sales held in the Aleutians. while Australia , Finland , and Norway were said to be the principal buyers in the San Francisco area , Quinn said . Whether public hearings will be held by the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , will depend on replies by WAA , Quinn added . Reports today from San Franc isco confirmed that agents of foreign governments are using American credits to kite the prices of such items as locomotives , wire cable , and construction machinery out of reach of American commercial bidders . Buyers for Australia , Finland , and Norway competed eagerly for purchases in these fields , it was said , Protests of American buyers against price hiking tactics of foreign agents were reportedly met by a statement from WAA that its object was to get " the maximum market price -- the most money the taxpayer can get back on this Property . " Other agencies of the government are responsible for international policy involved , WAA , said . Foreigners Gobble Up Half Foreigners accounted for about half of a two day purchase total of $765,666 In San Francisco , it was said . This involved 787 lots of material which originally cost the government 45,938,065 . The material included wire cable , locomotives , construction machinery , and other heavy items . Marc Levine of Clarksburg , W. Va. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 38 states by remarking , ' I could have bought up everything they did if I bad lend-lease money in my pocket , " He added he considered the sale " the most unjust thing I ever heard of . " A spokesman for WAA said that a few months ago " we could n't give some of this stuff away . " He said all the material put on sale here in the last two days had been offered previously to priority bidders . The army withdrew yesterday a number of lots of strategic material previously scheduled for sale in San Francisco , explaining this material is no longer considered surplus The WAA Was under fire in the house last week , where Rep. Church ( It III charged the agency with employing excessive personnel in the Chicago area and in the capital , and with mishandling surplus sales . 