@@706916

txt The campus and buildings of the Bronx division of Hunter College at Bedford Park Boulevard and Navy Avenue will soon be the site of the nation 's largest training center for Waves and Spars , the Navy Department announced yesterday through the office of Rear Admiral Edward J. Marquart , commandant of the Third Naval District . The new training camp where , according to Rear Admiral Mar-quart 's office , as many as 5,0001 enlisted personnel of the Women 's Reserve , United States Naval Reserve , can be trained at one time , will open on Feb. 1 with the arrival of the first contingent of 2,500 trainees . The Navy 's action in taking over the Hunter College plant was also announced by Mayor La Guardia in his weekly radio broadcast from City Hall . The Mayor said that soon after Feb. 1 another contingent of 2,000 Waves and Spars would arrive at the new " boot camp " and that present plans called for training 6,500 women there . It was possible , the Mayor ' said , that as many as 8,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training at the new camp . Neither the Mayor nor Admiral ' Marquart 's office indicated the pro-portion of Waves and Spars , but it was indicated that by far the larger number of trainees would be Waves , with the Coast Guard group in the minority . Establishment of the new camp is the result of a three-sided arrangement among the Navy , the Board of Higher Education and the Mayor . The Navy already has served upon the Mayor and the Board of Higher Education its formal notice of intention to take over the land and buildings under a lease arrangement . The new camp will be under the command of Captain William F. Amsden , U. S. N. The Hunter College property to be taken over includes a roomy campus and four buildings . Two of the buildings will be used for classrooms , one  --  the college gymnasium  --  for physical education , and a fourth for dining and kitchen facilities and administrative offices . Enlisted Waves and Spars will undergo a six-weeks ' course at the new training center , similar to that given at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College , Cedar . Falls , Iowa . Women taking the course will next go to specialist schools to work for - ratings or will be ordered ? immediately to shore stations . Establishment of the new training center= follows closely the Navy 's recent announcement that the Women 's Reserve would be expanded by at least 50 per cent in the coming , months . This expansion was approved-because of the highly successful replacement of men by women in the various Naval districts and the bureaus of the Navy Department . Approval of the new training camp was voted by the executive committee of the Board of Higher Education last Friday and will be ratified by the full board at its meeting on Jan. 25 , if not before . A " declaration of intent " already has been signed by Navy representatives and members of the executive committee of the Board of Higher Education . Later there will be a formal contract signed by the Navy , the Board of Higher Education and the city . No Dormitories Available There are no dormitory facilities at the Bronx site and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be found in apartment houses nearby or by construction of barracks on the campus . Navy sources indicated that final plans for housing the recruits had not been made . In his broadcast announcement , Mayor La Guardia hinted that quarters outside the campus might be taken over by the Navy . " Persons who may suffer some inconvenience as a result of the location of this- activity , " he said , " will have the satisfaction of knowing that they are.directly contributing to the prosecution of the war . " The Mayor said the new camp would be " the place where all Waves are to be sent when first inducted and where they will be outfitted with uniforms and get their ' shots ' and also be given what the Navy calls ' boot training . ' " The 2,200 girls now enrolled at the Bronx division of Hunter College will be distributed among the main building at Park Avenue and Sixty-eighth Street , the Hunter College High School and Public School 76 at 92 ? Lexington Avenue ; all located in the same general neighborhood . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached at Stamford , Conn , said plans were being worked out for a distribution that would assure maximum efficiency and minimum impairment of normal educational routine . College Seeks Study House It also is hoped that the college will have the use of the Roosevelt Inter-Faith House for lounge and study purposes , beginning about Feb. 15 , when the new college term starts . Dr. Shuster said he understood that some of the Waves and Spars would ' be quartered in apartment houses near the new training camp . Hunter College , Dr. Shuster said , will continue to accept new enrollments and the usual quota of freshman girls is expected for the new term . Mrs. Walter S. Mack , chairman of the Hunter College administrative committee of the Board of Higher Education , said the Bronx division was originally set up about fifteen years ago with an eye to ultimate expansion . There is plenty of room there , she said , for Waves and Spars to drill and march . There are also a number of tennis courts and other athletic facilities . According to , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policing the neighborhood . Mrs. Carrie K. Medalie , secretary of the Board of Higher Education , said that " we are all very proud to be able to offer our facilities to the government . " The board , according to Mrs. Medalie , offered some time ago to place the facilities of all of the city 's colleges at the government 's disposal .                     