@@707466

txt The strike of Montreal 's approximately 4,500 city employes , including police and firemen , appeared to be near a quick settlement tonight when it was announced in Quebec City that demands of the strikers would be met . The North American Continent 's worst municipal strike since the Boston police ' w  --  alkout in 1919 was only about twelve hours old when word came from Quebec City that Quebec Province 's Municipal Commission , at the request of the Provincial Government , had agreed to accede to demands of the Montreal strikers that their Canadian Congress of Labor Unions be recognized . The announcement came only two hours after Provincial and Royal Canadian Mounted Police had mobilized here to provide emergency police service for Canada 's largest city , which had gone since 11 A. M. with practically no police or fire protection . The agreement was signed early today by L. E. Potvin , head of the Quebec commission , and the strike ended about 2 A. M. , The Canadian Press reported . Following orders from Ottawa and Quebec , the two police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city in radio patrol cars immobilized since the municipal police struck at 11 A. M. Throughout the day fire alarms had gone unanswered and police beats were not patrolled . Numerous fire calls were received , but in most instances residents had to combat the fires . Lights burned in Montreal 's shop windows tonight , for the first time since Federal authorities banned ' such lighting a year ago , as a pre-1 caution against crime . The few firemen remaining on the job were stationed at strategic points throughout the city  --  in hospitals , public buildings and orphanages . Virtually all of Montreal 's 1,550 police and 1,100 firemen joined the strike . The call for the mounted police came as the city faced a complete breakdown in law enforcement and ' safety . The mounted police had been standing by , ready to take over police duties in Montreal , a city of 1,250,000 , Canada 's largest . Meanwhile , heads of police unions in the adjoining towns o Outremont , Westmount , Verdun , Lachine and Villa La Salle issued calls for meetings to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Striking police and firemen set up special squads to act in " cases of emergency " and military authorities took what they called " certain preliminary steps , " but did not indicate whether the steps were preliminary to the imposition I of martial law in Montreal . The unrest also spread to Montreal 's tramway employes , who have been pressing for wage increases . A delegation of 100 streetcar and bus operators conveyed their union 's sympathy to the strikers at strike headquarters and a meeting of the tramway union was scheduled for later tonight . The strikers also included garbage and rubbish collectors , snow shovelers , truck drivers , elevator operators , street lighting electricians , jail turnkeys and janitors . There were prospects that 900 unionized and 1,400 non-unionized clerks and office workers also might join the walkout . Meanwhile , Mayor Adhemar Raynault termed the strike " the signal for a general readjustment of wages " in the Province of Quebec . He emphasized that Montreal police and firemen were more poorly paid than those in Toronto and that Quebec citizens were not paid well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    