@@705394

txt AID STEPS MAPPED Defense Chiefs to Rush Arms to Docks as Soon as Bill Is Adopted CONFER AT WHITE HOUSE British Air Marshal Calls ? Reports of Impending Nazi Drive Are Canvassed By FRANS L. HLUCIEHOHN Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Feb . 26 ? Acting upon the assurances of Senate and House leaders that the lease-lend bill will be passed without further substantial amendment , President Roosevelt took steps today looking to the transfer to Great Britain of all war supplies from the present stores of the Army and Navy which could be spared without crippling the American armed forces . A series of conferences at the White House was attended by key officials and advisers , including Harry L. Hopkins , who is mentioned to an increasing degree as the prospective coordinator of the lease-lend program . Attending the first conference were Secretaries Hull and Stimson , James V. Forrestal , Acting Secretary of the Navy ; General George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff , and Admiral Harold R. Stark , Chief of Naval Operations . They wera with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they returned for another conference and were joined by Secretary Morgenthau . Meanwhile Mr. Roosevelt talked with Sir Hugh Dowding . British Air Marshal , and during this conversation Mr. Hopkins , who lives at the White House , was called in . The meeting between the British air official and the President was arranged by John G. Winant , who is preparing for his departure to his new post as Ambassador to England . Final Inventories Checked Today 's was the first definite major move the President or any one else in the government has made toward assembling existing American war supplies and moving them in the direction of embarkation ports for England . Mr. Roosevelt has refrained from moving supplies out of arsenals and Navy yards pending adoption of the lease-lend bill . Congress leaders informed him yesterday that the measure would be voted soon despite the increasing fury of debate in the Senate . Administration sources revealed that the final inventories of British war needs and existing American supplies were checked at the White House conferences to determine what war sinews the United States can spare so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of time when the green light is given by Congress . Britain has listed long-range bombers , ships , field guns , machine guns , ammunition and a host of supplies which are needed quickly , and some informed officials today expressed the opinion that about $500,000,000 worth of material would be shipped as soon as Congress acts . Military Situation Canvassed The military situation in Europe also was canvassed at the White House meetings . Official information reaching Washington continues to indh.ate that a major German move may be expected at any time . Although Administration sources said that shipments will be undertaken as soon as the legislation is adopted , Army and Navy chiefs also are preparing requests for appropriations and authorizations for defense factories and materials to be constructed or acquired in connection with the lease-lend program . In general , those who went to the White House were disposed to give away no defense secrets or any facts which might be interpreted as secrets . Some merely would not talk . Sir Hugh Dowding snapped at the reporters : " I do n't talk to the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Forrestal remarked , laughing : " I speak only Chinese . " Later in the afternoon the President saw Gano Dunn , senior production consultant of the OPM . Mr. Dunn presented to the President a report upon " the adequacy of the steel industry for national defense under conditions of maintaining civil consumption . " The President will reveal the gist of this report on Friday , Mr. Dunn said . Mr. Roosevelt received also WilLiam Paley , president of the Columbia Broadcasting System , who discussed with the Executive the opening Sept. 1 by his radio chain of a reciprocal service with all LatinAmerican countries except Honduras and Haiti . Mr. Paley said Mr. Roosevelt appeared greatly interested in plans for interchange of programs through local stations in the Americas , linked into a network with sixtyfour local outlets . " The important thing is that each of these stations has agreed to carry a minimum of one hour a day of broadcasts from the United States , which will give us a dominant position in Latin America as compared with any other nation , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have purchased time on the radio , but we will have the dominant position with this arrangement . " Mr. Paley said that United States programs will be sent to Latin America by short wave and rebroadcast by local stations on their normal wave lengths .                     