@@708074

txt Quebec was a world series town with an electric . scoreboard tonight , pop-eyed at the world figures who were coming to bat . Here are the day 's developments at the Roosevelt-Churchill confer . ence : 1 . It was indicated that a supreme allied commander may already have been- chosen to direct the war against the Japanese . and there was speculation that he may be Adm . Ernest J. King , commander in chief of the American fleet , or Adm . Chester W. Nimitz. 2 . Anthony Eden , foreign secretary of Great Britain , who had just conferred with Polish leaders in London . arrived after a dramatic flight across the Atlantic . This raised the possibility that Premier Stalin 's territorial ambitions in Europe might be the most important topic of the conference . 3 . Prime Minister Churchill gave this picturesque French-Canadian city the show It had been impatiently awaiting : A public appearance complete with V for victory salute . big cigar , twinkling eye , and waving hat . The prime minister called on officials , including Maurice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went home . Secretary Bares Secret . Stephen . Early . President Roosevelt 's press secretary , revealed the conference 's most carefully guarded secret in what many said was a moment of pique while being questioned about a statement by Gov . Thomas E. Dewey that Gen. should be given " greater scope and recognition " in the Pacific arid that had been suppressed in the past . Early said there would be no comment on the Dewey suggestion . When another question was asked regarding a supreme commander , Early emphasized that his answer would have no relation to the question concerning Dewey . Then , with a stern admonition to newspaper men who have been predicting that the conference would name the supreme commander , Early said there is no question at the conference regarding the appointment of a supreme commander . That question , he said , had been " disposed of " before the conference . But he declined to explain . He was asked if the commander 's name would be made public after the conference , but be had no answer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain in " status quo , " leading some to believe that a supreme commander may have been in charge for some time . Three Major Candidates . Persons close to the military situation said that King and Niraltz had been the most likely candidates for the command . altho certain of them favored Gen. . Early declined to say whether the decision had been made by the Americans alone or by the British and Americans together . Eden came directly from London conferences held yesterday with the Polish prime minister and foreign minister , leaving no doubt in many minds that the Russian-Polish disputs is of utmost concern . Russia has been the unseen influence at the conference since its beginning , altbo officials have insisted , that soviet lack of representation was not significant and that . the conference was chiefly to plan the future of the Japanese war . Of Vital Importance . But Eden 's trans-Atlantic dash left no doubt that Russia 's stand on the peace and post-war problems is of vital importance here .. His arrival recalled reports that Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grabs . The British gave strong indication that Eden would confer at length with both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill , thus discounting their own earlier assertions that he was coming primarily to consult with Mr. Churchill on empire matters in general . Mr. Roosevelt had announced that he would end his participation In the conference this week-end .                     