@@706085

txt The deliberate will of the German conqueror is to make the resources of France available to him in the present war  --  not only the industrial plants which already are tilling his orders to 30 or 40 per cent of capacity ( a proportion accounted for by dislocated transportation and food restrictions ) , but also naval and air bases and even the fleet itself . To secure those valuable prizes the Nazi government can bring tremendous pressure to bear on the Ministers at Vichy on four counts : ( 1 ) the 1,500,000 French prisoners of war ; ( 2 ) the treatment meted out to the inhabitants of the occupied zone and of the so-called " reserve area " in the north and the arbitrary control of communications between occupied and unoccupied France ; ( 3 ) the 300,000,000 francs exacted daily from the Bank of France , supposedly for the upkeep of the troops of occupation ; ( 4 ) compulsory deliveries of foodstuffs and other supplies . At the same time the German rulers do n't want to enforce their will so ruthlessly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Were such men as Laval Deat , Doriot , Brinon , BenoistMechin or Scapini to take the helm , the Nazi authorities would be in position to command more directly and imperatively , but simultaneously popular feeling would react much more strongly against foreign control . Consequently , in the German interest , care must be taken not fatally to impair the dignity and self-respect of the old Marshal . France 's military cooperation is to be won by the means of a bargain . " Partnership " for France If the government of Vichy agrees to come to terms , France will be promoted to so-called partnership in the European system . She would recover her prisoners , perhaps get rid of a good many German troops encamped on her soil ( which implies that the armistice would be replaced by a peace treaty ) and , in addition , her territorial domain would be respected , subject to revisions of the map , which she would be said to have voluntarily accepted . Both Marshal Petain and Admiral Darlan have expressed themselves in favor of some kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their country to the Hitlerian mode of super-government . The Marshal , always of a very pessimistic ' mood , believes a victory of German arms is bound to come , that his " national revolution " does not have the faintest chance to survive except under German ascendancy , while the theoreticians of the present Vichy government  --  a curious mixture of old-fashioned Conservatives and Fascists  --  profess to believe that France can find herself again , even under the heel of the Nazis , in a regime of patriarchal agriculture enhanced by the moral blessings of penitence . But popular feeling , which carries with it by far the greater part of the population , crosses the path of the men at Vichy and obstructs COLLABORATIONIST Cowan Otto Abetz , Reich diplomatic representative in Paris , wants closer Franco-German relations . or delays the conclusion of the compromise with Hitler . The Marshal knows that a final break with the United States of America would stir the French soul . He is aware of the British resolve to enforce dire reprisals in case French battleships should abet the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surge , then , against himself rather than against the British . Hence the present state of affairs . To the knowledge of diplomats on the spot , Otto Abetz , High Commissioner for the Reich in France , has been demanding the surrender of former naval and air bases , the use of the French Fleet in the Mediterranean and the removal of General Weygand from his post of General Delegate to North Africa . The Marshal agreed to dismiss Weygand . Having conceded so much to the German program , he tries to sidetrack the two big items  --  the French bases and the French Fleet  --  or , at any rate , to haggle . The Marshal 's Resistance But the statement which came from Secretary of State Jacques Benoist-Mdchin on the night of Dec. 1 does not seem to indicate that the Marshal 's resistance had to be pushed very far , to say the least . Benoist-Mechin declared that the chief of state had " longed for " the conference with Reich Marshal Goering that came after Weygand 's dismissal . The more the French people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the more formidable grow the obstacles which the " collaborationists " have to overcome , and Marshal Petain can not afford to ignore this fact . Contrariwise , whenever the United States seems to condone the Vichy-Nazi connection , popular feeling subsides and the leaders in Vichy steal another march in the direction of Hitler 's wishes . COLLABORATION ' MOVES ON Germans Continue to Use Their Grip on France to Advance Their War Aims By PERTINAX                     