@@712055

txt Assembling of automobiles for the New England market at the Ford Motor Company plant in Somerville , Mass. , will stop at 5 P.m. today , William H. Welch , industrial relations manager , announced today . Nine hundred assembly and production workers will be laid off . The plant has to shut down because of a shortage of parts due to the strike of 62,000 employees in the home plants of the Ford company in Detroit . Negotiations to bring an end to the dispute over speed of production resumed there today . The Somerville plant has been assembling 215 cars a day , Mr. Welch said . Its capacity is 350 , but it has not been able to reach this for some time , because of a shortage of materials , chiefly steel . No Export : , Made The cars it produces take care of all New England except for western Connecticut . That part of the state west of the Connecticut River is supplied trom the Ford assembly plant at Edgewater , N ' J ' None ot the Boston-made , cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will remain at work , Mr. Welch added . These include all salaried personnel ? mostly supervisors and office workers , numbering 292 . Seventy more workers Nvili continue in the service stock department , which shins to Ford dealers . and another 70 will do maintenance work . The halt ot assembling at Somerville brings the most serious ctfeet ot the Ford strike to New England . The Somerville plant is one of two automobile assembly plants in this region , and the older . The other is the one recently opened by the General Motors Company in Framingham , Mass. jLargest Group The 900 men being laid off by Ford at Somers rile Neill make the largest group in IVIassachu. - ctis covered by a strike at the Present time , according to the United States Mediation and Conciliation Ser%ice , There are a number of Ford suppliers located in New England and many of these undoubtedly will be affected , if the strike goes too long , Mr. Welch noted . Three other Ford automobile assembly plants in the Northeast area of the Ford Motor Company also will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Northeast Regional area covers nine states in which Ford operates assembly plants at Edgewater , N.J. , Buffalo , Somerville , and Metuchen , N.J. Whenever it ends , resumption of assembly work at Somerville will follow a week later , he said . It took four work-days after the strike at Detroit began before parts here and on the way ran out , and it will take some time to accumulate the new supply needed to produce new cars .                     