@@711090

txt Backing the United States proposal that the Security Council accept partition as the solution of the Palestine question , the Soviet Union today urged " direct negotiations " between the Big Five as the best approach to the whole problem . Making the first declaration of Russian policy on implementing the resolution of the General Assembly , Andrei A. Gromyko agreed " in principle " to the idea of consultations by the five permanent members of the Security Council on the - Palestine crisis generally and the possible need for an armed force in particular . But he rejected the United States suggestion that this be done through setting up a committee and expressed , instead , a strong preference for " direct consultations , outside of any committee . " Speaking after Warren R. Austin had restated the position of the United States in favor of implementing partition by " peaceful measures " only , and had stressed that " a vote for paragraph 1 of the American resolution would be I a vote for partition , " Mr. Gromyko said he had " no objections " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Council of the requests put to it by the General Assembly . Before proposing direct consultations between the great powers the Soviet delegate had heard Arthur Creech Jones , British Secretary of State for Colonies , announce that Britain would not take part in the committee suggested by the United States . . Declaring that the Palestine problem was " becoming rapidly insoluble , " Mr. Creech Jones urged that the Security Council as a whole and not just the permanent members should examine whether a threat to the peace existed in the Holy Land . He delivered a bitter attack on the Jewish Agency , criticizing its " equivocal and pusillani- mous policy . " Charging it with " political ineptitude and moral weakness , " he accused the Agency of ignominiously condoning the " irresponsible wickedness " of the terrorists in Palestine . Mr. Gromyko 's brief statement was introduced by an explanation that he was limiting himself , " for the time being , " to the question of consultations as raised in the United States resolution . He expressed the opinion that " the five powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Security Council request them " to begin immediately with such consultations am. to inform the Council of the results within 10-15 days . " Declares U. S. Plan Would Confuse Noting that the Palestine Commission was already conducting consultations with Arabs and Jews , he insisted that " there is no necessity to create a supplementary parallel channel . " Equally he opposed any " supplementary consultation " with the Palestine Commission as unnecessary , and repeated that the United States proposal for holding such consultations " complicates and confuses the whole question of consultation , whereas our task consists in simplifying the procedure of consultation and of making it more effective . " Mr. Gromyko then proposed that the whole paragraph of the United States resolution concerning consultations should be deleted " as its acceptance would cause delay in the consideration of the whole question , which is naturally not in the interests of the Security Council nor of the United Nations organization as a whole . " The Soviet delegate then asked that the representative of the United States as well as the other members of the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the five powers direct consultations outside of any committee , taking into account that in principle the proposal for consultations among the five powers is apparently acceptable to all . " Mr. Gromyko ended with the statement that he had " no objections " to the first paragraph of the United States resolution . This first paragraph was defended before the Security Council this afternoon by Mr. Austin in opposing a Belgian amendment that sought to cut out this paragraph , which reads that the Security Council resolves : " 1 . To accept , subject to the authority of the Security Council under the Charter , the requests addressed by the General Assembly to it in paragraphs ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) of the General Assembly . resolution of 29 November , 1947 . " Declaring that the issue now before the Council was the adoption or postponement of this clause , Mr. Austin emphasized that " a vote for paragraph 1 would be a vote for partition as a Palestine solution . " The General Assembly , he said , voted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted for that solution , and still supports it . " The United States , Mr. Austin continued , " supports the General Assembly plan for partition as the framework of implementation by pacific means . " In a detailed and fairly technical analysis of the three paragraphs in question , the United States delegate reiterated that " we must interpret the General Assembly resolution as meaning that the United Nations measures to implement this resolution 8 , re peace measures . " He maintained , for instance , that because of the qualifying clause , " subject to the authority of the Security Council under the Charter , " paragraph 1 of the United States resolution " does not authorize use of enforcement under articles 39 and 41 of the Charter to empower the United Nations Commission to exercise in Palestine the functions which are assigned to it by the resolution because the Charter , does not authorize either , the General Assembly or the Security Council to do any such thing . " What the disputed paragraph does mean , Mr. Austin indicated , is simply that the Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threat to the peace exists , a responsibility that , as a matter of fact , the Council has anyway . Finally , the United States delegate said that the Security Council " may regard attempts to alter by force " the partition settlement as constituting a threat to the peace , but this would have to be ascertained " by the process of determination .. and not solely at the request of the General Assembly . " Taking all together , Mr. Austin concluded , Paragraph 1 of the United States resolution " means that the Security Council will do everything it can under the Charter to give effect to the recommendation oN the General Assembly . " This statement was generally regarded as having clarified the United States position to the ' extent that it emphasizes the American interpretation of implementation as being by " peaceful ) measures " only . Mr. Austin said explicitly that any necessary measures of implementation were " subject to the limitation that armed force can not be used for implementation of the plan because the Charter limits the use of United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international peace . " When the British delegate , who followed Mr. Austin , spoke , he denied what was authoritatively reported to be United States policy behind this legalistic statement ? that Britain was , in fact and in law , responsible to Palestine not merely until the termination of the mandate , set for May 15 , but until the United Nations plan , which was to replace the mandatory power , had been implemented . Mr. Creech Jones left little hope that the British Government would listen to this argument when he said at the conclusion of his speech to the Security Council : " I must repeat that the United Kingdom can not enter into any new or extended commitment in regard to Palestine . Our contribution has already been made over the years and the date of termination of our responsibility is irrevocably fixed . " Pointing out that this date was less than eleven weeks off , the British Colonial Secretary said the conflict in Palestine had " grown more savage and destructive . " Whatever procedure the United Nations may adopt , he went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorganized , disintegrated and even more violent and disrupted " on May 15 . He warned the Council also that the peace and security of Jerusalem would be particularly difficult to secure in April and May , which was the season of religious festivals for " turbulent Christian sects . " Mr. Creech Jones criticized the partition plan for : certain obvious defects , " but he said that the Brit-1 ish Government nevertheless ac ' cepted the plan . He dismissed the statement of the Jewish Agency of Feb. 27 as being principally " suppressions , distortions and half- , truths , and a desperate effort to , divert our attention from the Agency 's political ineptitude and moral weakness which ' have discredited the former bright hopes of a great cause . " Jewish Agency Replies The Jewish Agency today issued a statement here replying to the Palestine Government account of the disorders in Palestine . The British statement , according to the Jewish Agency , " condemns Jews , appeases Arabs , and it completely absolves Britons . " The truth is , the Agency statement says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs who derive encouragement and arms from the British . " If Britain were sincerely concerned with law and order , it continues , she " would have carried out the United Nations recommendations . " " While professing to deprecate mounting racial antagonisms in Palestine , " the Jewish Agency statement concludes , " the Palestine Government spokesman has far exceeded propriety by suggesting that the Jewish community may have to forfeit all rights to be numbered among civilized peoples , " and - ends by accusing Britain of invoking prejudice " to divide and rule as an instrument of imperialist policy . " The Arab case was presented to the Security Council today by Faris el-Khouri , delegate for Syria , who echoed Mr. Austin 's contention that the Security Council had no authority to enforce political settlements . Challenging the legality of the whole partition plan , he opposed the United States resolution because it accepted partition , and he upheld the right of Arabs in Palestine to resist partition in justifiable self-defense . Dr. T. F. Tsiang of China , the new president of the Security Council , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             