@@706717

txt As President Roosevelt has said , " there has never been a Labor Day as significant as this one . " Traditionally this has been a day for reviewing the advances made by organized labor . It has been a day for commemorating the . achievements made in the spread of collective bargaining , the raising of living standards and the improvement of working conditions . In these respects labor can look back upon a record of extraordinary accomplishments . Wage increases in the past year have averaged $1,200,000,000 a month ; real wages since the start.of the war have gone up 11 per cent . The strengthening of collective bargaining through union contracts , maintenance agreements , arbitration clauses and similar measures has been great . But the chief concern of labor on this day will not be these things . As with all of us , labor today has uppermost in its mind the preservation of a free society which makes possible these gains against the deadly onslaught of a slave society in which labor is coerced , driven and devoured to feed the ravenous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole world is engaged is a contest between free men and slaves . Its outcome will depend upon the battle of production now being fought between the working men and women of the democracies and the conscript laborers of the totalitarian nations . American labor has a vital role to play in this decisive struggle and it has a vital stake in the outcome . In meeting the challenge of dictatorship , labor , like every other element in our society , must be prepared not merely to work hard but to make sacrifices . The long-range goal of making secure the kind of world in which free labor can improve its living standards requires that in the short run we must sacrifice some of the objectives which are the proper ordinary goal of labor in peacetimes . The President has made this clear on more than one occasion . He has told us wages must ? he stabilized ; that higher wages must be foregone for the duration of the war ; that , for all of us , our living standard must come down . Only by such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed to turn back the hallenge of the Nazis and still preserve a strong national economy upon which to build our future gains . Together with the farmer who must forego higher prices , labor bears the heaviest responsibility for safeguarding the nation against the ever-present danger of inflation brought on by the pressures of total war . It is no accident that the President has chosen Labor Day to announce his new program for the defense against inflation . He and his advisers have already made it plain that the decision whether we are to control the course of prices or to face the continued crack-up of price ceilings , leading to a dizzy upward spiral in the cost of living and to economic chaos , depends on whether Government can obtain the understanding and cooperation of labor and the farmer . This is not a question of abandoning labor 's goal of working toward higher wages , shorter hours and a higher liv- ing standard . It is a question of recognizing that the huge demands of war make it impossible to provide the increase in civilian goods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased wages without increased goods to buy mean simply higher prices , and that a steeply rising cost of living will not merely bear down heavily upon all labor , organized and unorganized , but will jeopardize the fight to win the war and handicap the peace to follow .                     