@@709091

txt BASIC PROPOSALS FOR LABOR PEACE FADE AT PARLEY Government 's Hopes for FactFinding Group to Settle Disputes Shattered STRIKE PENALTIES FAIL Union Chiefs Reject Any Move Leading Toward Changes in the Wagner Act By LOUIS STARK Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Nov. 18 ? Hopes that had been entertained in Government quarters that the LaborManagement Conference would emerge with machinery for the appointment of " fact finding " committees when employers and workers are deadlocked over terms of new contracts appear to have been shattered , according to authoritative information made available today . Another disappointment to thesel officials is that no machinery will be set up for the settlement of inter-union jurisdictional disputes other than that which now exists and which has not markedly prevented strikes between rival unions . Over the week-end the problem of " minor " changes in a report providing for an umpire system to settle grievances under contracts appears to have grown to much larger proportions than had been anticipated . On the industry side , fear is being expressed lest the provisions agreed to by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under agreements are to be arbitrated . Penalty Clause Unsuccessful The labor side was willing to insert a clause barring strikes during the life of contracts if employers would agree to arbitrate all disputes as to the interpretation of contract provisions . It now appears that industry 's efforts to have penalties assessed against those who engage in unauthorized strikes have so far been unsuccessful . Nor has labor indicated , any willingness to agree to changes in. the Wagner Act or changes in the Norris-La Guardia Anti-Injunction Law . The labor group has hesitated to agree that it would withhold the strike weapon while negotiations are under way for a new agreement , while mediation is under way or while the National Labor Relations Board is handling election cases . . Delegates indicated today that // about all that can be expected from the meeting is some agreement on arbitration of disputes arising under contracts , similar to provisions now existing in many agreements . As to the rest , some " kind words for mediation , " a plea for " genuine collective bargaining " and an appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sum up the possible achievements of the meeting . The committee on management 's right to manage is proceeding slowly . On the industry side this subject is regardea as one of the most difficult to put into proper language . Eric A. Johnston , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , said that the " greatest single thing that can come out of this conference would be the voluntary acceptance by both parties of arbitration clauses in contracts . " Speaking over the NBC radio network , Mr. Johnston said : " The Labor-Management Conference , I hope , can write formulas to curtail labor strife . One thing that we want to do is to write formulas by which the parties to a labor contract agree voluntarily in advance to arbitrate differences that may arise under the contract . " That should head off many strikes . Strikes that come about over contract interpretation and over grievanc-es during the life of a contract are costly to the owner , the worker and the public . " Abitration is the civilized way of settling disputes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just as we have learned in recent years to accept collective bargaining itself , we can learn to accept arbitration clauses written into the contracts themselves . " All contracts begin as instruments entered into voluntarily by the subscribing parties . When two men disagree as to the terms of an ordinary business contract , they go to , the courts . But it is not practicable to take disputes over the meaning of a labor contract to the courts . A strike can come about long before the courts can act . We want to head off these strikes . The answer lies in arbitration , as agreed upon when the contract is signed . " Arbitration voluntarily agreed upon-not strikes-should be the terminal point of controversy over the terms and meaning of a contract . " The most advanced step made in labor relations within the last twenty-five years has been the general acceptance of collective bargaining . " The next big step forward will be agreement to arbitrate disputes over contracts . That would provide a civilized substitute for strikes in a country which no longer lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was regarded as significant that Mr. Johnston did not mention any of the other items on the agenda but stuck to his discussion of the umpire proposal , limited solely to contracts and not applicable to negotiations for new contracts . John L. Lewis ' ideas , expressed in The United Mine Workers Journal , coincide with this view . His journal states that " the chief lesson being learned by those watching developments of the LaborManagement Conference is that there is no medical cure-all for strikes and lockouts in a democracy . On the industry side some members had hoped that machinery similar to the Railway Labor Act might be agreed to for minimizing disputes .                     