@@710465

txt An educator with a million dollar person . ality who is also an able administrator and an aggressive campaigner for better schools  --  that 's Herold C. Hunt , superintendent of schools here since 1940 , who has accepted appointment to head Chicago 's school system . " We are very sorry to lose him , altho not surprised , because we have been expecting him to be called to a larger city , " said Roy A. Robs ergs , president of the Kansas City Star . " fie is a great organizer . When he came here our schools were in a chaotic situation . He has remedied that , and now has the solid backing of the school board and the entire city . " Young Man for Top - Post Hunt was 45 years old Feb. 9 , and thus is one of the youngest ' of the top school executives of the country . His'youth was said to have prevented his selection to head the New York school system when he was considered for that post recent . ly . He has refused-offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . Hunt 's unusual first name is the maiden name of his mother , Katherine Herold . He was born in Northville , Mich. , with his twin sister , now Mrs. W. Frank Atkins of London , England . After graduating from high school in Holland , Mich. , he Nyent to the University of Michigan , where he received the degrees of bachelor of arts and master of arts . Awarded LL.D . Degree In 1940 Hunt received the degree of doctor of education from Columbia university 's teachers college and this week he received an honorary degree of doctor of laws from Park college here . Ile started his teaching careee as an instructor of social studies at Hastings , Mich. , became principal of the high school ' at St. Johns , Mich. , and then served slccessively as superintendent of schools at Kalamazoo , Mich. , and at New Rochelle , N. Y. , until he came here . To an Intimate friend , Hunt re cently confided that he was worried because he has no special hobby , all ho he plays bridge occasionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go fishing with his blond , curly haired son , Douglas , 14 . He Is a member of Kansas City 's exclusive Saddle and Sirloin club , and can ride a horse presentably. , Active-In Civic Affairs Hunt 's friends say his hobby is people : all kinds of people , young and old . lie is at home at every kind of a social function from a picnic , to a , formal dinner . He is much in demand , as a public speaker  --  and is active in many civic organizations . John B. Cage , former mayor of Kansas City , called br . Hunt ' ran outstanding citizen as well as a great educator . " Hunt has steadily fostered ParentTeacher associations in the schools and has the enthusiastic backing-of 0 : : Kansas City PTA council , which has a membership of . M , 278 . He has never failed to attend the monthly meetings of the PTA executive council . Soon after Hunt came to Kansas City he organized an occupational survey of the city anu nine suburbs to learn how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 60 per cent of the high school graduates who neither . go to college nor enter the skilled trades . This survey proved , invaluable when the war began and tile schools undertook to train war plant workers . Teachers ' Salaries Restored Hunt- has done much work to increase teachers ' salaries , and beginning next fall their pay schedule calls for a minimum of 82,050 and a maximum of $4,550 , with additional payments provided for in the event of an increase in tax collections . Teachers ' salaries were cut 25 ' per cent during the depression , but all of this cut has been restored , half of its under Hunt 's regime . Hunt 's wife , the former Isabel Wright , is a small , attractive woman , and a gracious hostess . She is the daughter of W. J. Wright , retired treasurer of the Missouri Pacific railroad                     