@@710315

txt Events churned rapidly ahead here on several sectors of the labor front with a natior al telephone tie-up still hanging over the country 's head . With Attorney General Torn C. Clark ruling that the President had the power to seize the telephone industry , and the telephone workers union immediately challenging that decision . Labor Department conciliators today stepped up their efforts to duplicate last year 's eleventh-hour agreement that averted a strike . Even as these last-minute efforts were being made to break the deadlock in the telephone industry , it was learned that the safety measures needed in 581 soft coal mines to correct unsafe . conditions were being rushed . These closed mines employ about 100,000 men and yield a fourth of the nation 's coal . Warnings by mine union leaders that the workers would not go back to the pits until they are safe makes it clear there will be many thousands of miners on safety strikes after the one-week period of mourning for the Centralia victims is over . It was with both the situation in the telephone and coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working on a bill to head off the telephone Production at Peak . , strike , declared it could be used against a coal strike as well . The Committee would give the President power to get court orders against any strikes that threatened the public health , welfare , or safety . Senate Starts Action Meanwhile , the Senate Labor Committee , drafting a preliminary general labor bill as a starting point for discussion , disclosed it was asking for a closed-shop ban , the outlaw of jurisdictional strikes and secondary boycotts . It is not asking for an outright ban on industry-wide ...... rgaining , nor for an end to the union shop or maintenance of membership . It is generally agreed , however , that the proposals put forward yesterday in this trial-ballon bill will be changed considerably during the course of Committee and floor debate . On another sector of the nation 's labor front , the Government withdrew from the portal                     