@@711086

txt Challenging an underlying assumption of United States policy on Palestine , Trygve Lie , Secretary General of the United Nations , said today that the Holy Land would become the sole responsibility of the United Nations after the termination of the British mandate on May 15 . If nothing is done by that time , chaos will result in Palestine , Mr. Lie said . It is " quite clear , " he declared , " that this will have a bad effect on the United Nations . " " It will lessen the prestige of the United Nations , and confidence in it will be reduced , " he said . Answering questions on tile legal issues involved in the Palestine problems , the Secretary General , backed by A. A. Sobolev of the Soviet Union , assistant secretary general in charge of security affairs , and Dr. Ivan Kerno , in charge of the legal department , maintained that Britain had in effect handed over full responsibility and authority in Palestine to the United Nations , effective on termination of the mandate . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legal issue . That is , in effect , that when the United Nations took over the assets of the League of Nations it did not take over the functions of the League in respect to mandates ; therefore , the United States argues , the - Tinted Nations has not the authority to enforce any political settlement there , such as petition . The view of the United Nations ' Secretariat , however , as revealed at today 's press conference and in background statements afterward , is that when Britain accepted last rovember the decision of the General Assembly the British Government thereby handed over full responsibility and temporary sovereignty over Palestine to the United Nations . ais legal argument is to play an important part in forthcoming debates in the Security Council on the United Stat resolution calling for the setting up of a Big Fl -- e committee to determine whether a threat to peace exists in Palestine . The United States specified that it was prepared to consult under the Charter on the possible use of armed force to meet such a threat , but maintained that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace and not to enforce partition . The United States contention that . the Security Council was not empowered to impose any political settlement was implicitly , though not directly , challenged by United Nations Secretariat chiefs . Suggests He Will Clarify Stand . Mr. Lie refused to comment on whether the Security Council had the right to enforce any political settlement , but he indicated he might well contend that it had such a right in the case of Palestine . When asked if the United Nations , having decided that three governments should be set up in Palestine , had the right to protect these governments and to enforce the decision , evaded a direct answer , but implied he would have something to say along these lines in his speech to the Security Council . The stark reality behind these legal arguments was recalled sharply to the Palestine Commission this afternoon when it was notified by the British that the commission would have to take steps at once to provide food imports into Palestine after May 15 . This notice came in the form of an oral report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where he was sent to study the food situation in Palestine . Mr. Reedman informed the commission that the British authorities said they had provided ample stocks of food in the Holy Land to last up to May 15 . Stocks from that time on , however , were considered by Britain to be the responsibility of the commission . It considered various possible ways of paying for these requisite imports of food . One suggestion was that the Jewish Agency might advance the money and be paid back by the proposed Jewish state . Another was that the United States might make a loan to the commission , which would be refunded by the Jewish state . What to do about the Arab State was not discussed . The matter is still under consideration . The Jewish . Agency issued a statement denying reports that it would be prepared to agree to revision of the partition plan . The statement points out that its views will be presented to the Security Council shortly , but meanwhile repudiates as " entirely without foundation " the reports " sedulously circulated " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make concessions . Recalling that the Jewish Agency 's position as made plain at the Assembly last October was that the partition plan represented a reluctant " sacrifice " beyond which the agency would not go , the statement emphasized that this position remains " unchanged . " Move Laid to Trans-Jordan Another report current at Lake Success today was that a representative of King Abdullah of Trans-Jordan was in Washington negotiating with the United States Government on the proposal that the Arab part of Palestine be merged with Trans-Jordan when British troops withdraw . Some ' of these reports specified that an Arab named Dajani claiming to represent Trans-Jordan was the representative in question . Dajani was said to have been until recently a member of the Arab Office in Washington . Arab delegates at United Nations headquarters hinted that the whole thing might be a " plant " from which only the Zionists would profit . At the same time it was pointed out that Trans-Jordan , like other Arab neighbors of Palestine , pledged itself at an Arab League conference last fall to march into Palestine with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were adopted . There ' have been reports both out of Palestine and at Lake Success that this possibility was discussed by TransJordan representatives with the British Government lately . A typographical error in the account of Tuesday 's session of the Security Council made it appear as if the resolution suggesting a ape : " cial session of the General Assembly to reconsider the partition plan had been presented by Faris elKhouri , the delegate for Syria . This resolution was , of course , introduced by the delegate for Colombia .                     