@@710533

txt MR . MOLOTOV SAYS GOOD-BYE IN PARIS BEYIN IS DEFIANT ' Says Britain ' Has Faced Threats Before ' ? Sees Travesty of Facts ' BIDAULT PLEDGES HELP Denies Marshall 's Program Would Subjugate Europe ? To Ask Others to Join Molotov 's statement , excerpts from Bevil and Etidault , ' Page 4 . By HAROLD CALLENDER Special to TB= Nrw Yoloc Trniss . PARIS , July ** complete failure of the conference of Foreign Ministers of the three big European powers on United States aid to Europe was formally recorded today . With it the splitting of Europe into two separate blocs headed in different directions became conclusive and virtually official . The break-up of the conference resulted from Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov 's refusal , despite British and French pleas , to budge one inch from his rigid opposition to any common constructive action by European countries as a response to United States Secretary of State Marshall 's proposal of United States aid on that condition . His refusal took the form of a final rejection of a compromise French proposal for such action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then announced together for the first time , that their Governments would go on without the Soviet Union to rally other countries around the Marshall proposal . They said their Governments would seek to obtain quickly a continental response in the form of a program of self help among the European nations as the first step toward.justifying United States aid . Bevin , Bidault Meet Today Mr. Molotov and his delegation of eighty-nine are expected to depart for Moscow tomorrow . Mr. Sevin will remain for a meeting tomorrow morning with M. Bidault , which will be a resumption of their two-power conference held before Mr. Molotov 's arrival . Within a few days these two powers are expected to invite all Europe except the Soviet Union and Spain  --  the leading Communist and Fascist states  --  to join in this kind of collective acceptance of the Marshall proposal . Thus a Western European bloc , long the bugaboo of the Communists and of Moscow , seemed to take shape suddenly and as the inevitable consequence of the words spoken here by Mr. Molotov , who even today professed to deprecate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said a high French official tonight . " We enter it without excessive joy but as a necessity . It was inevitable . I do not think the reaction within France will be as grave as some had anticipated . " Suggest Rift in Soviet Bloc Mr. Sevin likewise disliked this splitting of Europe into two camps but he held that it had been forced by the Soviet Union . British officials said tonight they hoped the line of division might run somewhat farther East than the line hitherto drawn . They thought it was not at all sure that on the issue of the Marshall plan either Poland or Czechoslovakia would stick to the Moscow line that credits in dollars were a menace to the sovereignty or independence of half-starving European states . These two eastern European countries , usually regarded as Soviet satellites , already have indicated their desire to accept and profit by the Marshall proposal . The British remarked that Mr. Molotov , in giving examples of the countries upon which he said pressure from the West would be brought , himself had mentioned Poland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the so-called satellites . After having accused Britain // and France of dividing Europe " into two groups of states and creating new difficulties in their mutual relations " Mr. Molotov made what Mr. Bevin interpreted as a threat against the two Western powers . " The Soviet Government considers it necessary to caution the Governments of Great Britain and France against the consequences of such an action which would be directed not toward the unification of the efforts of the countries of Europe in the task of their economic rehabilitation after the war but would lead to opposite results , which have nothing in common with the real interests of the peoples of Europe , " said Mr. Molotov . To this Mr. Sevin quickly replied that he regretted that Mr. Molotov had threatened " that if we continued this beneficent work , we must face grave consequences . " Mr. Bevin then said : " My country has faced grave consequences and threats before . It is not the sort of prospect which will deter us from doing what we consider our duty . " Finality of Split @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in these words that had not characterized such interchanges in any of the previous Foreign Ministers ' conferences , plain though the talking was on more than one occasion . A moment earlier Mr. Bevin had replied to Mr. Molotov 's aspersions on the Western world in general in a manner much like that of Secretary of State Marshall in his speech in Washington yesterday . " Molotov 's remarks were based upon a complete travesty of the facts and a complete misrepresentation of everything the British Government had submitted , " said Mr. Bevin . " I suppose the method is to go on repeating these misrepresentations in the hope that someone will at last believe them . " Both Mr. Bevin and M. Bidault had a strong suspicion that the Soviet Union would say no to any proposal , however framed , that involved close cooperation ' in production and exchange between the capitalistic or semi-capitalistic states of democratic western Europe and the states that are more or less directly and completely under Soviet domination . But they felt that for the historic record they must not themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable . For this reason Mr. Bevin had approved M. Bidault 's attempt at a revised Western proposal yesterday , although French officials , eag6r to indicate M. Bidault had acted independently , had erroneously said last night that there was no such prior approval , and although Mr. Bevin all along had been less patient than M. Bidault toward Mr. Molotov . Mr. Bevin and M. Bidault likewise were fully aware that if the Soviet Union said yes and qualified for United States aid , the approval of such aid by Congress probably would be less prompt and less generous to say the least . Some had repotted that Congress in that case might not even grant the aid . Dilemma of Westerners Hence Mr. Sevin and M. Bidault were obliged on the one hand to try to avoid a sharper split of Europe and on the other hand to consider Congressional reaction regarding aid that was indispensable to their own and other countries . Their conciliation of the Soviet Union seemed to risk the loss or reduction of the aid they sought . ' Some suggested that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and French proposal intact and thus gambled on the chance ' that the Soviet Union 's presence among the European applicants would lead Congress to refuse any substantial aid to Europe . The reasons that the Kremlin did Rot venture to take this chance are believed here to be that it feared there would be in any case enough United States aid to undermine the solidarity of the Soviet bloc of hitherto fairly obedient states . ' The Kremlin was said 0 ) fear this would produce in Europe a measure of recovery under capitalist auspices that would offer an embarrassing contrast to that measure the Soviet Union has been able to produce within its own borders under different auspices and by different methods . The Kremlin presumably might have gambled on the assumption that such a capitalist triumph was ruled out by the historic determinism that Moscow spokesmen profess to feel sure will soon wreck the United States in an economic . slump . Mr. Molotov 's apparent fear of the power of , dollar , reiterated the last fou days in Paris , was regarded as hardly sustaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have flowed from the Moscow radio and filled the columns in the Western Communist press . After a night 's reflection and presumably a telephone call to the Kremlin , Mr. lVfolotov opened today 's meeting by saying he had examined the French proposal of yesterday . This had suggested an organization to study European resources and needs and- only afterward an inquiry regarding " the possibility of receiving American economic aid . " Mr. Molotov has urged the reverse order . Mr. Molotov said the Marshall proposal had inspired the French and British Governments to desire to create an organism above the European countries that would interfere in their internal affairs and give directions regarding their economic development . The French and British desire , he said , to insure a predominant position for themselves in the Steering Cornnttee they proposed . The smaller ' European countries would become controlled states , he argued , and so lose their independence to satisfy the desires of a few great powers . The French plan , he said , proposed United States aid should be dependent upon the obedience shown by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then argued this would lead to pressure upon Poland to deliver coal , even if at the expense of other Polish industries ; upon Czechoslovakia to increase her food production to the deteriment of her industries ; upon Norway to abandon the development of her steel industry in the interest of foreign trusts . Rejects French Proposal How could the small countries defend their sovereignty against the great ones in such a situation ? asked Mr. Molotov . He answered his own rhetorical question by a negative . Therefore , the Soviet Union can not share the French enthusiasm for aid from foreign sources , said Mr. Molotov . He contended the decisive part in European recovery was not that of United States aid as the French plan had indicated , but internal measures taken by each country . Mr. Molotov objected that the French plan proposed to use German resources although the reparations demands of victims of German aggression had not been met . He complained that nothing had been done to establish a central German Government and that in the Western zones a policy of federalism tended to separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credits , Mr. Molotov added , would serve not to reconstruct the European economy but to oppose one part of Europe to another part to the advantage of the powers that wanted to dominate other countries . Replying , M. Bidault expressed disappointment at Mr. Molotov 's speech and warned the Soviet Union against any action that would divide Europe into two groups . France , ne said , has done her utmost to avoid such a division and disclaims any responsibility for it . M. Bidault replied to each of Mr. Molotov 's arguments- , saying the French plan proposed guarantees against the infringement of the sovereignty of any state and that all Poland , Czechoslovakia and others were asked to do was to say what they could furnish to Europe in exchange for United States aid . The decisive role of the United States was compared by M. Bidault with that played by the few thousand men cdming up at the crucial final stage at the battles of Marengo and Waterloo . He said a decision regarding Germany was left , as now , to the commanders in chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my Government , I add that France is determined , and her Government feels obliged , to . continue the study of the prospects offered by the suggestions of Secretary Marshall , " M. Bidault continued . " This will be done with all those willing to collaborate . I hope no refusal is final and that consequently the work will not be that of a reduced Europe . " Mr. Bevin , who was chairman today , made only a short speech . He said he had seen in the Marshall proposal a way to serve quickly the rehabilitation and independence of Europe , not a way to undermine Europe ; a way to make Europe free , not to further the domination of any state . It has ' not proved possible , he added , for all three powers at this conference to give the lead to cooperation " but Britain will continue to strive for the unity of Europe and for its independence and independence of its internal units . " An article to appear in the Communist newspaper Humanite tomorrow will say that the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been suggested by the United States . " The hour is grave , " the writer , Pierre Herve , will add , " Will Bidault agree to German recovery , to abandon our demands for reparations , to make of France an Atlantic bridgehead and to follow that policy which disintegrates Europe , divides it into two blocs and serves the designs of the warlike ? "                     