@@709340

txt Two major amendments to Mayor O'Dwyer 's New York City tax program have been prepared for introduction with the backing of the Republican leadership of both branches of the Legislature . They are understood to have the assent , if not the unqualified indorsement , of Mayor O'Dwyer . One change reduces from four to two years the term for which special taxing powers will be grantea to the city . This will have the effect of forcing an earlier decision by municipal authorities on a transit fare increase . The other change reduces the proposed tax on hotel rooms from 10 to 5 per cent and exempts from the tax all except transients . A transient is defined in the amendment as one who lives in hotel accommodations for thirty days or less . Both amendments were discussed by Governor Dewey and Mayor O'Dwyer Saturday while they were reviewing the St. Patrick 's Day parade in New York . It is understood that agreement on modifications of the city bills along the lines of the amendments was reached at that time . Change in Idlewild Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airport Authority to complete and operate Idlewild Airport is also ready for introduction . It requires that the yield on Airport Authority bonds be not more than 31/2 per cent . Under a previous amendment the interest rate was fixed at a maximum of 31/2 per cent , but no requirement was imposed that the , Authority sell the bonds at par . With this change , worked out in conferences between Park Commissioner Robert Moses and the chairmen of the two legislative fiscal committees today , the Republican leadership is prepared to pass the airport bill . Republican opposition to the measure before the change was being led by Assemblyman D. Mallory Stephens , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , and Senator Arthur Wicks , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee . Urged by business organizations in New York , two amendments to the gross business receipts tax were introduced in the Assembly tonight by the Rules Committee . They exempt from receipts subject to tax the dividends received from subsidiary corporations derived from business outside the city and also the amounts collected as manufacturers ' sales taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The effect of the changes , which will apply to the legislation extending the city 's right to levy and increase the gross receipts tax , is to put into law the regulations issued last fall by former Controller Joseph D. . Would Advertise State Aid To spike Democratic campaign contentions that cities were being " shortchanged , " the Dewey administration sponsored tonight a bill which would , for the first time , require municipalities and school districts to print on all real estate tax bills and receipts a statement of the amount of State aid being received . The law would become effective Dec. 1 . Of the tax amendments , the one shortening the term of the enabling acts was regarded by legislative leaders as by far the most important . The decision to set the term at two years represents a compromise between the efforts of some legislators to fix a one-year limit on the new taxing powers and the attitude of Mayor O'Dwyer , who wanted a four-year limit . It was an open secret tonight , which legislators would discuss privately but not for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration to come to grips at an early date with the transit fare question . Had the four-year limit been retained this question might not have become pressing until the year of the next municipal election , when inevitably it would become a major campaign issue . Referendum Considerations Mayor O'Dwyer has told various Republican and Democratic leaders in private discussions that he believes the question of a higher fare should be submitted to a referendum at an early date . For a time it appeared that the 1 referendum might be held this fall but some Democratic leaders ob- ' jetted on the ground that it might become an issue in the State campaign , with disastrous results for the Democratic candidate for Governor . Thereafter Mayor O'Dwyer took the position that the referendum should be held at a time when it would not be bound up with other political questions . From the viewpoint of both major parties next year would be an 1 ideal time for the submission of such a question since there will be no major State or municipal offices at stake . Changes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotels who have been waging a vigorous campaign to obtain exemption for their tenants since the impost was first proposed . They contended that it would be manifestly unfair to impose the tax on a family living in an apartment hotel on a permanent basis and to impose no tax upon those who live in non-hotel apartments . Cut in Yield Uncertain Just how large a loss of revenue the change will involve and how the city will make it up were not clear tonight . At the 10 per cent rate the tax had been estimated to yield $14,000,000 . Reducing the rate to 5 Der cent obviously would halve the yield and the new exemptions will cut it further . Mr. was in Albany today for consultation wtih Republican leaders on the airport authority bill . His - aid had been solicited by Mr. Stephens . Charles H. Tuttle , counsel for the airlines which will operate out of Idlewild and which are opposed to any airport authority legislation , was also in Albany . Mr. Moses , the leading advocate of the airport authority bill , visited Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He told them that failure to pass it would jeopardize a great many needed improvements in New York , including new schools , hospitals and other needed facilities . By agreeing to the comparatively minor amendment which would prevent the authority from selling its securities at less than par he was able to get assurances that the bill would pass despite the opposition of some Republicans .                     