@@705523

txt Women are still asking , " What can we do for defense ? " and " How can we do it ? " Three months ago President Roosevelt indicated he was about to announce a " home defense " plan answering those questions , but week after week has gone by with the plan still " on the President 's desk . " Women have not been idle , waiting for the longheralded program , but they have not had the benefit of co-ordinated leadership such as has underlain the valiant contribution of the Women 's Voluntary Services to British morale and safety . Women 's efforts toward the defense of the United States to date fall roughly into the following fields : In defense industries : Women employed in airplane factories , powder plants and shell loading depots are comparatively few at the present time , but the U. S. Employment Service has indicated that a great many would become adept at certain processes with a little training . Expert embroiderers have been found to be good fuse-makers at Frankford , Penna. , arsenal . Demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming summer as male labor becomes unavailable or is called into military service . Despite warnings from John W. Studebaker , U. S. Commissioner of Education , that " thousands of women in addition to those now employed will be needed to make the Nation 's wheels turn efficiently , " only a small number of women are taking advantage of the defense training courses offered under Federal subsidy . Important Tasks Done at Home On the home front : Here women are busiest . Sewing and knitting for the British . Learning to be nurses and to drive ambulances . The American Red Cross heard at its annual convention here this week that more than 1,000,000 women are now working as volunteer relief-givers , for that organization alone . Two new uniforms were modeled . One a suit for outdoor wear instead of veils and pastels . The other a new white indoor uniform with short sleeves , instead of unhandy starched cuffs , The drafts of plans submitted to Mr. Roosevelt show dozens of other jobs that women could do without going very far from home . Food preservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more organization than has yet been put into effect . In the military services : The Army 's general attitude toward women seems to be " let them do any-think they want , just so they stay away from the Army . " Numerous plans have been devised for having womenfolk don uniforms and take on certain duties behind the lines as they are doing in England . In the World War women served in both the Navy and Marine Corps , but at the present all military service  --  except for nurses ? is limited by law to men . Representative Edith Nourse Rogers ( R ) of Massachusetts , has been in conference with War Department officials for the last three weeks on a bill she is drawing up to clarify the status of women in the military services . Formation of a volunteer air-raid " spotters " corps , to utilize 500,000 to 600,000 civilians as " Minutemen " for watching and listening for enemy planes , announced this week by the War Department , was hailed by Gen. George C. Marshall as giving women their first major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prove Their Mettle Bolstering morale : Most evident job needing and obtaining women 's attention in many parts of the country is the provision of wholesome community life for the thousands of soldiers , sailors and defense workers congregated in centers unprepared to take care of them . Daughters of the American Revolution meeting here last week were asked by Paul V. , Federal Security Administrator , to invite soldiers home to dinner , allow their daughters to attend camp dances and contribute to the forthcoming drive for funds to support recreation huts outside of camp areas . American women have not been marking time waiting to be told what the Government expects them to do in this defense emergency . They are eager to show that they , too , have the " sterner stuff " that has given Britain its strength . Yet underlying their efforts to date has been considerable uncertainty as to what the President may have up his sleeve for them . Inquiries as to what is holding up the " home defense " program bring the vague reply " jurisdictional difficulties . " Undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " but nothing would contribute any more to " all-out defense " than a definite assignment and understanding of women 's role in the emergency . Mary Hornaday                     