@@704737

txt All but a small part of the Netherlands capitulated to the invading German Army tonight " to prevent further bloodshed and annihilation " when General Henri Gerard Winkelman , the Commander in Chief , called upon his troops to lay down their arms . The Commander in Chief 's order to cease resistance applied to the key defense belt around Rotterdam and Utrecht . Only on the small peninsula of Zeeland , north of the Belgian coast and only twelve miles from Antwerp , besieged Belgian city , will the Netherland defenders continue to hold out , he indicated . Thus , in only five days , Germany 's Blitzkrieg army has overrun the nation and seems ready to occupy the great cities of Rotterdam , Amsterdam and The Hague . General Winkelman , the strong man of the nation after the flight of Queen Wilhelmina , the royal family and the government to London , told of the uselessness of further fighting in a proclamation to his troops over the radio this evening . Netherland Forces Separated He specifically ordered troops to cease resistance against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points against which the Nazi motorized columns were smashing in assaults from three sides . He indicated that the Netherlands was capitulating because , with a German barrier across the country from the German border to the North Sea , his forces could not aid their Belgian , British and French allies in fighting on Belgian and French soil . Simultaneously with General Winkelman 's proclamation , an order from The Hague lifted the wartime blackout throughout the Netherlands , an indication of capitulation . All marines , civil guards and other armed military forces had disappeared from the central streets of Amsterdam at 7:15 o'clock tonight , further indicating an end of resistance . General Winkelman 's proclamation came at 8 P. M. " It is very likely , " he said , " that a large part of the Netherlands will have to be given up to the enemy . " Then , his voice choked with emotion , he added : " The Netherlands will be herself again after this war . Long live Her Majesty the Queen ! Long live the Netherlands ! " In ordering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the cities were " certain to be annihilated , " if fighting continued . Zeeland Battle Continues " To save the inhabitants and to prevent further bloodshed I hold myself entitled to order all troops concerned with the defense of those towns to abandon the fight and keep order until the regular German troops arrive , " he said . " The battle in Zeeland is still going on . " I order all measures that have been in force until now to be continued in the above-named district ? . " I appeal to the population to maintain a calm and worthy attitude in order to compel the respect of the enemy . " Your attitude has been above praise . You have been fighting against heavy odds and against a very strongly equipped army but your attitude is worthy of a Netherlander . " Maintain this attitude and never forget that you are Netherlanders although it is very likely that a great part of the motherland will have to be given up to the enemy . " The surrender , it was explained , does not affect ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend the country 's colonies in both hemispheres . Before General Winkelman 's radio proclamation fires blazed in Amsterdam and in parts of P , ntterdam after Netherland military authorities apparently destroyed valuable stores to prevent them from falling into the hands Of the German forces . The old quarter of Ijmuiden , seaport just west of Amsterdam , was reported tonight to have been partly destroyed by repeated German air attacks . It was not indicated whether the world 's second largest canal lock , located there , had been damaged . Germans Continue Advance Military authorities said that fires burning in and around Amsterdam had been set as " military measures " as Germany 's mechanized forces struck at the province of North Holland west of Yssel Lake and only forty miles north of Amsterdam . Another German force was moving up from the south after crossing the Hollandsch Diep , thirteen miles from Rotterdam , and a third Nazi column , striking westward below the conquered Groningen-Arnhem zone , was nearing Utrecht , east of Amsterdam . The German High Command in Berlin reported that the " Fortress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of Rotterdam , The Hague and Amsterdam , was menaced in attacks from all sides . The Germans said in Berlin that the column striking across the Netherland river belt had reached the sea at Roosendaal , between Rotterdam and Antwerp . The Netherland High Command said the Germans had heavily shelled and then attempted to cross the twenty-mile-long dike spanning Yssel Lake , forty miles north of Amsterdam and about seventy miles north of The Hague , but had been repulsed . The Netherlanders were compelled to retire , however , to their defenses closer to Amsterdam on the Utrecht front , according to General Winkelman . The Yssel Lake dam holds the North Sea out of Holland 's lowlands . The Netherlanders can not dynamite it unless they are willing to flood a great part of the country . The fires burning in Amsterdam tonight include a large petroleum warehouse near the Amsterdam Central Railroad station . Amsterdam had a sixteen-minute air-raid alarm during the morning , but no German bombs were dropped and there was no evidence of fighting in the Amsterdam area . The Netherland troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rear of their main waterline defenses , but were holding at most points , General Winkelman said . At that time the Commander In Chief said that the situation in North Brabant Province , between the Rhine and the Maas Rivers and the Belgian frontier , was uncertain . He denied a German radio statement that the Netherlanders were without a government . " Our country still is under its own government , although the government has moved elsewhere , " he said . Oil Stores Set Afire AMSTERDAM , The Netherlands , May 14 GB ? Defenders of the Netherlands , caught in their last water and land defenses by the tightening fingers of German invasion , built a great wall of flame and jet black oil smoke tonight at the harbor edges of Amsterdam . Great petroleum stores , both in the eastern part of the harbor at the depot of the Batafsche Petroleum Company and at the western end in Petroleum Haven , were fired by order of General Henri Gerard Winkelman . The fires were started shortly before noon in a dozen tanks used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ column of black smoke and flame billowed into the sky . Amsterdam 's 800,000 people were told to stay at home and be calm , that the fires were for defense ( presumably both as a screen against atttack from east or north and to keep the Germans from getting the oil ) . The harbor is north and east of the central part of Amsterdam . Rotterdam Badly Damaged LONDON , May 14 ( UP ) ? The entire central part of Rotterdam has been destroyed by Netherland artillery used to drive German forces , including parachutists , out of the main streets on the northern hank of the Maas River , according to travelers reaching here from the seaport today . The artillery was said to have gone into action Friday and Saturday , blowing building after building to pieces as the Germans retreated . The warehouses and harbor docks were destroyed and still were burning when the refugees left Rotterdam , it was said . The Netherland Hilversum radio tonight issued an official appeal to the German Commander in Chief not to bombard the city of Helder at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that German planes were bombing Helder and quoted the German AmAmbassador to the German coinnouncer react a message from the ambassador to the German commander saying : " At 9 P. M. ( Greenwich Mean Time ) all Dutch troops have laid down their arms except in Zeeland . German planes are bombing Helder . " State of War Reiterated LONDON , Wednesday , May 15 ( : P ) ? " A state of war b tween Germany and the Netherlands continues , " with fighting still in progress in the province of Zeeland by the navy , the Netherland Legation announced today . The German air attach ? at The Hague was heard to say over the Netherland radio that the Netherland Commander in Chief had reported to him that Zeeland was exempted from the surrender " in view of the lack of communications . " Rotterdam 's Situation Grave PARIS , May 14 UP ) ? A French military spokesman said this afternoon the " greater part " of the Netherland seaport city of Rotterdam was in flames and the situation growing increasingly grave . WINKELMAN EXPLAINS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AMSTERDAM , the Netherlands , May 14 ** Henri Gerard Winkelman , commander in chief of the Netherland armed forces , told his people tonight that " we had to lay down our arms because there was no other way out . " Speaking to the nation by radio , he said : " Netherlanders , I esteem it a favor to give you personally an explanation of the very grave decision I had to take today . " We had to lay down our arms because there was no other way out . Under other circumstances we should have fought to the end . " If we had fought on not only our army would have been destroyed but all civilians , women and children , because in such a populated country it was impossible to avoid killing civilians when bombing was aimed at military objects . " Today Rotterdam had her terrible share of what bombing means , and Utrecht and Helder and other centers were threatened likewise . " I , who received all the messages , knew this was the end . " Our soldiers fought with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... ell by the thousands for their fatherland . " Our air force was too weak against the German air force and our anti-aircraft batteries also were not up to the might of the German power from the air . " We were left to ourselves , and so I had to make a grave decision which was a very difficult one for me ? lay down our arms . " Netherlanders , we shall undergo our new destiny with the same bravery with which we fought our battles . " All I can say is , trust in the future , behold your traditions . Long live Her Majesty the Queen ! Long live the Fatherland ! "                     