@@711492

txt James B. Carey , secretary-treasurer of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , told a Congressional subcommittee today that the United , Electrical Workers , which he once headed , was , a " Comniunist front on many questions " and that most of its officers and staff acted like Communists . . Albert J. Fitzgerald , president of the union , testified that he did not know whether any of the officers were Communists and pleaded ignorance of the policies of the Communist party and the Soviet Union . He said any law-abiding member of the union had a right to be an officer if elected . The UE , as the union is known to organized labor , is the CIO 's third largest affiliate . The two men who testified are bitter political foes in UE and CIO affairs . Mr. Carey was the union 's first president and since his defeat in 1941 he has tried unsuccessfully to regain the position . The annual renewal of the feud will take place at the union 's convention next week in New York . Some Corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , headed by Representative Charles J. Kersten of Wisconsin . Mr. Carey also asserted that some corporations were cooperating with Communist union leadership and had fired anti-Communists . Mr. Fitzgerald criticized what he termed a charge that American industrialists were " practically fellow travelers . " Mr. Carey contended that some managements " found it easier " to deal with Communist shop stewards because Communists were " afraid to prosecute a grievance vigorously . " He said these man agements thought they were " buying a measure of industrial peace , " but that it was a dangerous longterm investment . " You wo n't find that story printed in any of the newspapers because it points the finger at an American ' employer , " Mr. Carey added . It was not clear whether he meant that the " story " was not printed in the past or that his accusation today would not be printed . Absenteeism Charged to Men In support of his charges , the CIO officer said the Westinghouse Company ( elevator division ) at Jersey City discharged Bart Enright after he ran for organizational director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that Sam Basmajia was discharged from the RCA-Victor plant at Camden , N. J. , " largely because he was vigorously antiCommunist . " Mr. Carey said the reason given for Mr. Enright 's discharge was absenteeism , and implied that his absence to attend the UE convention was at the bottom of it . A company statement issued at Jersey City said Mr. Enright was discharged for persistent tardiness and absenteeism ; that his absence from work during the UE convention was authorized and therefore was not included in his record . Mr. Carey also , said that Frank Carner and Herbert Lewin had been discharged from a Westinghouse plant near Philadelphia on security grounds raised by the Navy . The witness said both men were anti-Communists . Committee counsel sought to bring out that there could be security risks that did not involve communism , but this point was not developed further . Mr. Fitzgerald , testifying on these points , said : " I ca n't imagine the president of General Electric or Westinghouse or RCA cooperating with us because we are Communists . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks against Westinghouse in 1946 and nine weeks against General Electric ? " Speaks of Red ' Influence ' Mr. Carey was asked : " Is it your opinion the UE is ? a front for the Communist party ? " " On many questions , yes , sir , " he replied . " I think the Communists had a certain influence on subjects like foreign policy even when I was president . " He said sharp differences on that issue began developing in September , 1939. and that he had made a " serious mistake " in trusting Julius Emspak , then UE 's secretary-treasurer , aria Mr. Matles . Asked whether he believed any of the officers of the UE were members of the Communist party , Mr. Carey replied : " I do n't think that makes any difference . A door-opener for the Communist party is worse than a member of the Communist party . When someone walks like a duck , swims like a duck , and quacks like a duck , he 's a duck . " The committee also asked about Neil Brandt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , union functionaries . " I do n't know , " said Mr. Carey , " it single , solitary case where their views differed in one iota from the views of the Communist party . " Answering a question about himself , Mr. Carey grinned : " I am not now , never have been and never will be a member of the Communist party . " Mr. Carey objected at the outset that anti-Communists in the union could do a better job if there were no Congressional interference . Mr. Fitzgerald said he believed the subcommittee was prejudiced . A UE business agent named Kennedy . he said , was a candidate against Representative Carroll Kearns of Pennsylvania . a member of the group . He said Mr. Kearns had said he " was going to subpoena three of the most active persons in Mr. Kennedy 's campaign . " Mr. Kearns did not comment . Khrsten Questions Fitzgerald Chairman Kersten asked Mr. ? Fitzgerald : " Do you think the Communist party is a political party only ? " " The United States Government seems to think so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think ? " " I do n't know what to believe about it . There are too many conflicting statements . ( The question was repeated . ) I have n't given much thought to it . I am not too familiar with the Communist party . " " Is your organization concerned about the activities of the Commu- nist party ? " " Our job is to be concerned about the welfare of our members and if any member acts against , the union or the country we 'll take ' care of him . " " Suppose the policy ( of the union ) was dictated by the Communist party ? " " I ca n't accept the supposition because I would not permit it to happen . I and my organization would n't permit it . " " Can you remember when your union policy , particularly foreign policy , has , once deviated from the policy of the Soviet Union ? " " I ca n't answer that because , speaking very frankly I do n't know what the foreign policy of the Soviet Union is . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large degree " for high prices and the shortage of housing in this country and that the people of China and India would be better off if all foreign powers , including the United States and Russia , would get out of those countries . " You seem in doubt , " said the chairman , " whether the Communist party is just a political party . " " I see Communists serving on the City Council of New York , " the witness parried . Denies Knowing Red Policy Chairman Kersten read extracts from the writings of Premier Stalin about communism and trade unions and Mr. Fitzgerald broke in : " I 'm afraid , Mr. Chairman , you are trying to indoctrinate me . ' He added : " I 'm not a bit faciliar with his writings and I do n't intend to become familiar with them .. I do n't know the first thing about communism . I do n't care what Stalin or Lenin said . I know nothing of the policies of the Soviet Union . " To a question about the revolution in Bogota. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know about the revolution in Bogota . I 'm just a poor guy In the United States . " " You have made up your mind ) you would not exclude a Communist from the UE ? " " I would n't exclude a Republican . I judge men by their acts , not ' th . ir beliefs . " " Do you think it is safe for a proven Communist to be in an atomic energy plant ? " " They do n't tell me very much about atomic energy plants . " The subcommittee decided to recess the hearings until later in the month and told both witnesses to consider themselves still under subpoena . Mr. Fitzgerald said he would be glad to come back after the union convention .                     