@@707253

txt Manifestations of popular approval of the departure of Benito Mussolini began in Rome late last night and continued in all the largest cities of Italy throughout the day . Late this afternoon in Milan a mob stormed the offices of Mussolini 's newspaper , Popolo d'Italia , in which fascism was created after World War I. According to a report from the Corriere della Sera of Milan , the office was destroyed . While the spontaneity of this and other demonstrations is beyond doubt , and their widespread recurrence would appear to point to a coordinated direction , no reports received from Italy indicated the country was passing through a revolution . Aside from a freefor-all fist fight in Bologna early this afternoon , no bloodshed was reported . Martial Law Is Proclaimed Marshal Pietro Badoglio , the Premier , proclaimed martial law . He ordered that all armed police and militia be put under his orders and that their commanders report to local army commanders for instructions . A dusk-to-dawn curfew was ordered , with only priests , doctors and midwives permitted on the streets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Public places , including theatres , movies and sports halls , were ordered closed during curfew hours . Gatherings of more than three persons , including any behind locked doors , were forbidden . Though long dormant political parties were lifting cautious heads in various political centers , Italy appeared to be waiting developments , patiently , but ready to make trouble . An indication of this came from Turin late tonight in a proclamation to the Italian workers , signed by five leftist political parties . It left no doubt as to the fate of the fascist leaders if the workers get power . Five Parties Proclamation As printed in the Stampa Sera of Turin , the proclamation read : " Italians ! " The painful nightmare that has dominated our political life for the past twenty years is now ended . During this period this nightmare has released its bestial passions and shattered the greater part of our national wealth , impoverishing consciences as it maintained a regime of corruption and incompetence , dragging the nation into a war it did not want  --  a war violently forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation . " Though the tasks which now face us may be difficult , if we unite all our strength with courage and calm we will be able to pave that new road we must now follow . " Those men who are responsible for the grave damage inflicted on the nation will be inexorably pun1=Leucerorth may our watchword be : Liberty ! " NATIONAL PARTY " CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY " COMMUNIST PARTY " LIBERAL RECONSTRUCTION PARTY " SOCIALIST PARTY . " AU other demonstrations , however , were not of as purely a political character . In Rome a large crowd organized a " spontaneous " demonstration last night on the Piazza Venezia , where , according to a Rome report tonight in a Milan newspaper , they booed Fascism . Shortly before one o'clock the crowd poured through the streets to the Quirinal , where they cheered the King , Premier Bagodlio , the House of Savoy and free Italy , and sang the forbidden anti-German hymn of the last war , " Piave . " The Rome demonstration did not break up until after dawn this morning . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Square , where thousands cheered the Pope and the Catholic Church . For them it possibly meant a return from their " voluntary " ' exile , sleeping in the open on Vatican territory after , the bombing of Rome last Monday . A serious problem for the Premier is the future status of the House of Savoy , though all outward signs tonight indicate that if the " choice remains with the Italian people they would be willing to give the King their entire confidence . A radical nationalist element , however , demands abdication of the King in favor of Crown Prince Humberto or , failing his acceptance , in favor of the King 's grandson , the Prince of Naples , with Marshal Badoglio heading a. regency . In Milan several thousand irate workers stormed the new and luxurious Popolo d'Italia newspaper plant , and only energetic intervention of the police prevented it from becoming a total wreck . Several Fascist clubs and party headquarters were also attacked in Milan , as they were in Turin , Genoa and Bologna . . Press Hails New Regime Press reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tonight 's Corriere della Sera tells how it received the news in the radio announcement last night . Then , under the headline " Milan Patriotism , " it cites a Bologna correspondent as saying " Mussolini has gone ; we are finally free ! " This news , it went on , prevented " anybody in Milan getting a good night 's sleep . The city itself appeared finally to awaken to a new life . We the newspaper staff finally worked with true enthusiasm ! " It is difficult for us to bring out a newspaper today when , for twenty years , we have submitted to ministerial dictation . But the enthusiasm of the people is truly magnificent as it finally- awakens from twenty years of drugged slumber . " The newpaper concludes with a description of a demonstration outside its own offices during which a self-appointed delegation called on the editor , requesting him to " demand from the Government the immediate liberation of all political prisoners . " July 26 , 1943 , " the delegation spokesman is quoted as saying , " will always remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final liberation and the return of true brotherly love . " The newspaper concludes with the injunction , " We must not rush headlong into meting out hasty vengeance ; tomorrow , after the proper examination , responsibilities will be fixed in the proper guar ' ters , but meantime we must as a nation continue to give the world an example of discipline and civilization . " Whatever official sentiments may be over the disappearance of the Fascist regime , the Italian man in the street appears to be manifesting no sorrow as to its passing . The only outward sign visible from this side of the frontier with Italy of any change has been the rapid withdrawal of Black Shirt militia patrols and their replacement by carabinieri and regular military to guard the demarkation line . Fascism according to returning travelers is dead .                     