@@712208

txt What happens to unemployed Massachusetts citizens when they are no longer eligible for unemployment compensation " Senator George J. Evans ( R ) of Wakefield , frequently a Republican spokesman on labor legislation , believes the lack of an answer to this question clouds the entire unemployment picture . " It would be interesting to know whether they get jobs or whether they go on public welfare , " he said during an interview . " Until you nave a study , you ca n't really determine which group is the largest , " Senator Evans maintained . Varied ' Facts Known In his opinion this much is known in advance of any investigation : That " a lot of the unemployed drawing unemployment compensation are not part of the regular labor market . " That many of them " definitely will be weeded out " by public welfare departments in cities and towns . That a study may find that " some married women are n't interested in working any more . " That some of those receiving unemployment compensation will begin to look for private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects . He said the most healthy concept of employment security programs was as a " stabilizer . " Function Limited " I ca n't see how we can run nut a depression on unemployment compensation benefits , " he added . Further developing this opinion , Senator Evans said that " 23 weeks ( of unemployment compensation ) is long enough . " Senator Evans ' views are important since he is a member of the joint legislative committee on labor and industries and its former chairman . Discussing other aspects of the labor-management picture , Senator Evans declared : " It is really a mistake to think of the employment security program as a solution to a depression . . " The purpose is n't to take care of a depression but to take care of changes from one job to another . . . Injunction Law Upheld " We are getting farther and farther away from the purpose of employment security and trying to turn it into welfare . .. . Turning to the current controversy over antiinjunction legislation , Senator Evans asserted : " I think the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is good the way it is . " If you actually analyze the law , it is for immediate action toprevent injury to persons and damage to property .... " I do n't know of any case where people ( strikers ) had a just case where an injunction broke it ( a s'trike ) . " Senator Evans was very critical of the present administration of the Massachusetts Division of Employment Security . He described the attitude of the division as " extraordinarily lenient , " especially when the problem of urging the unemployed to find jobs for themselves is concerned . Leniency ' Assailed The present administration , the senator pointed out , does not require persons receiving unemployment compensation to fill out a farm stating where they have looked for work . " The present attitude is that they ( the unemployed ) can sit home and do nothing , " Senator Evans contended . In answer to such criticism in the past , officials of the Division of Employment Security have maintained that needless paper work was created by filing of the form statements . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be obtained through interviews . ' Incentive ' Urged The present rate . of benefits ? up to S25 a week for 23 weeks  --  reduces the incentive of some workers to look for jobs , Senator Evans said . This is especially true in the cases of single men and women earning about S30 a week , he said . Under unemployment compensation , he continued , they can receive almost as much and do not have to pay such incidentals as carfare . In Senator Evans ' opinion , it would be more practical to give all unemployed benefits equaling half of the salary the worker was receiving while employed . If the unemployed person were married , Senator Evans would increase the payments up to 80 per cent of his former salary . In this way , he explained , there would be more incentive for the unemployed to seek a new job . He would be receiving well under what he earned in private industry . Discussing labor legislation passed this session , Senator Evans contended that much of it had been " pressured " through . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , would be " greater expense to industry and of questionable value to the over-all situation in the state . " He estimated that the new workmen 's compensation laws would cost Bay State industries 520,000.000 annually .                     