@@704910

txt Defense officials in Washington today admitted having made a commitment to Great Britain that American industry would produce 3,000 military planes a month for export to that country , beginning early in 1941 . Howeve. , the officials pointed out that the commitment depended entirely on whether accomplishment is possible . The British request was made . by Arthur Purvis of the British purchasing commission in conference with William S. Knudsen of the defense commission and army and navy officials . LONDON , July 24 ( ? P ) . ? Lord Beaverbrook , minister for aviation produo Lion , declared in a broadcast tonight that the United States will approve a production plan to supply Great Britain with 3,000 planes a month . He said , moreover , that since his ministry was formed May 14 Britain had purchased 12,115 , airpiano engines from the . United States . Lord Beaver- Lard Benverbronk. brook 's announcement indicates a scheme for speedy acceleration , of American aircraft production far beyond the pace suggested after President Roosevelt 's call for 50,000 planes last May . Present American airplane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been estimated that a production of 3,000 planes a month would require a total personnel of 475,000 . American aircraft factories today employ fewer than 100 , - 000 . Word from Morgcnthau . Lord Beavcrbrook said Morris Wilson , head of tile British aircraft purchasing mission in the United States , just had informed him of American acceptance of the production plan . " I have just received a telephone message , " lie said , " from Mr. Morris Wilson , who is the agent of the aircraft ministry in the United States and Canada . " Ho Is authorized by Mr. Morgenthau , secretary of the treasury , to say to me that the United States government will approve a plan to put Into immediate production airplanes for our account up to a total output of 3,000 per month . " These plans will be developed without delay . This is in addition to our present American program , " Output Double Year Ago . He added Britain 's own aircraft production reached a record figure last week , and that the output so far for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year ago , The minister said the new 4merican plane production would begin " immediately . " He did not reveal how many , if any , of the American engines had been delivered . " Our own aircraft industry has always been reinforced in its labors by the American manufacturers , " he conUntied . " Most of the aircraft frames will be built in Britain and the American engines will be fitted here . " 