@@707416

txt Whatever the nations that want peace may together decide to do after the'war to maintain it , " an indispensable part of any larger plan must be the discovery of a firm basis for Anglo-American cooperation , " Viscount Halifax , British Ambassador to the United States , said.last night in his first public address since his recent return from England . Lord Halifax and Gen. Frank O 'D . Hunter , commanding general of the First Air Force , spoke last night at the annual dinner of the ! Academy of Political Science at the Hotel Astor . A group of other distinguished speakers had discussed fiscal problems and the control of inflation at the morning session of the academy , and problems of industry , production and price control at the afternoon session . Lewis W. Douglas , president of the academy and deputy administrator of the War Shipping Administration , presided at the dinner . It was attended by a large gathering of men prominent in the financial , business and professional life of the city . When the United States and Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expansion , Lord Halifax told the audience . In neither case was the expansion planned , he said , but it happened because " des- tiny is stronger than men or any government . " Lord Halifax said there were strong resemblances between the two expansions , adding that in both cases the common law of England , Magna Carta , habeas corpus , the jury eystem , the parliamentary tradition and the spirit of representative institutions were carried into new settings . " Through the nineteenth century the British dominions were growing slowly into nationhood , until in 1931 the Statute of Westminster recorded in law that independence which they had long enjoyed in fact , " the Ambassador said . " I have described it as a Declaration of Independence , but it was also a declaration of interdependence . And there may lie the germ of a few kind of relationship . Today it is scarcely necessary to argue about the dangers of unchecked nationalism , or , for that matter , of unqualified isolationism 6 ? for you , for us , or for anyone else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world that grows smaller every day . " Air Forces Get More Planes General Hunter said that the Army Air Forces received 68 per cent more airplanes in the first quarter of 1943 then they did in 1942 , and that in the same period the airframe weights of these aircraft increased by 140 per cent . He said the air forces were expecting Germany would come up with new weapons and tactics , but that we , too . would have our share of new developments . J. L. Ilsley , Canadian Minister of Finance , emphasizing the desirability of establishing some kind Of an international exchange union after the war , outlined the tentative conclusions that have been reached by the technical experts of the Canadian Government after study of the formal proposals for such a union that have been advanced by the United States and British Governments . The Canadian experts , Mr. Esley said , have based their proposals on the American plan rather than the British , because they felt it was more likely to meet with general acceptance , but they favored numerous minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said they also accepted the American suggestion for limitation of the commitments to be accepted by countries in supplying their currencies to the proposed union . The first major objection raised by the Canadian experts to the American proposal , Mr. Esley revealed , was that the fund of at least $5,000,000,000 proposed by the United States " was on the small side and might well prove inadequate to the burdens that would be thrust upon it " He said they felt that the fund should have resources of $12,000,000,000 . The second major alteration favored by the Canadian experts , Mr. Esley went on , was that the decisions of the fund should be taken by simple majorities , rather than the large majorities required by the American proposal . The final major suggestion of the Canadian students of the problem was for somewhat greater provision for adjustment of exchange rates under specified types of circumstances , Mr. Esley said . Although under the classic rules we should be undergoing a severe inflation , actually the cost of living has shown a relatively moderate rise during the war , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Bank . Mr. Burgess was unable to be present because of illness , but his paper was read for him by George B. Roberts , vice president of the National City Bank . He warned , however , that " the kindling has been laid for a wonderful inflation bonfire " and called for continuing and strengthening the efforts to reduce the danger through a vigorous tax program . 10 Per Cent Sales Tax Urged Declaring that if ' new taxes are to be successful in combating inflation , they must be collected from the lower income groups that now possess the bulk of the inflationary income , Prof. Roswell Magill of Columbia University , former Under-Secretary of the Treasury , recommended the imposition of a retail sales tax of 10 per cent by the Federal Government . He also called for increasing excise and sales taxes on luxury items , and for raising income tax exemptions to $1,000 for single persons and $2,000 for married couples so that those below these levels would pay only sales taxes . Warning that there is a serious danger of inflation arising from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence of aggressive and powerful groups upon preferred treatment , " Prof. Sumner H. Slichter of Harvard University said that thus far the wage policy has been " essentially fair . " Dean John H. Williams of the Graduate School of Public Administration at Harvard said he would like to see the problems of relief and- rehabilitation carried out on a lend-lease basis . He.said that if lend-lease could be continued through the first three years after the war , it would have a stabilizing effect and " we 'd all get off to a better start . " T. 0 . Yntema , Professor of Statistics at the University of Rochester ; said that expansion , rather than reconversion , would be the crying post-war need . He said that to realize the possibilities or . our ( productive capacity we must have a third more output and seven to ten million more jobs than in 1930 . The greatest danger in the present food price policy is iri the inflexibility of ceiling prices of individual food products , Acting Dean William I. Myers of the New York State College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that serious maladjustments had been frozen into the price structure by inept administration . John W. Scoville , statistician of the Chrysler Corporation , urged that wartime controls and agencies should be eliminated as promptly as possible after the ending of hostilities . He said that Congress should dissolve the Office of Price Administration , the War Production Board and the War Manpower Commission within sixty days after the end of the fighting .                     