@@712312

txt John David Provoo , 33 years old , of Sausalito , Calif. , who was separated from the United States Army as a sergeant yesterday afternoon at Governors Island , was immediately arrested by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and an hour later was arraigned here before United States Commissioner Edward W. on a charge of treasonably dealing with Japanese in time of war . He was held without bail pending Ms appearance before Commissioner next Friday when he will decide whether or not to waive preliminary hearing . After the arraignment , United States Attorney John F. X. , representing the Government , declared that Provoo had actually assisted the Japanese Army in subduing Corregidor in May , 1942 . He declined to define the alleged assistance . He said the difference between Provoo and Iva Toguri d'Aquino ( Tokyo Rose ) was that the latter is charged only with broadcasting propaganda , whereas Provoo will be rharged with actively aiding the Japanese Government and Army against his country . Application for a warrant for // EX-GI IS ARRESTED AS TRAITOR IN WAR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner at about 4 P. Id . yesterday . It was signed by George E. Davis , FBI special agent from the Washington bureau . At about the same time . Chief Assistant United States Attorney Irving H. Saypol announced after a telephone call that Provoo had been separated from the Army and was being held by FBI agents at Governors Island . The application said : " Beginning on or about May 6 , 1942 , and , continuing to and in , eluding Sept. 2 , 1945 , at Corregidor , Philippine Islands . Tokyo and else ' where within the territory of and under occupation - by the Imperial ' Japanese Government and its armed forces ; the defendant John David Provoo , being a citizen of the United States and a person owing allegiance to the United States , unlawfully , wilfully and treasonably did adhere to the Imperial Japanese Government , including the Imperial Japanese Army , Broadcasting Corporation of Japan , Board of Information of Japan , and agents , representatives , and subjects of said Imperial Japanese Government with which the United States at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the said enemies of the United States aid and comfort . " The complaint outlined that Provoo performed " numerous acts , including but not limited to the voluntary offer of his services to the Imperial Japanese Army to assist in the occupation of Corregidor . " The complaint specified that Provoo had assisted in " the preparation of plays , commentaries , talks and other materials of a political nature to be used for propaganda purposes , and the making of recordings of such plays , commentaries and talks to be broadcast to the United States and to American combat troops in the Pacific area by means of the radio transmission facilities of the Broadcasting Corporation of Japan , an instrumentality of the Imperial Japanese Government . " It said that some of the programs " performed by or participated in " by Provoo , and their dates of broadcast , were : " Of Mice and Men , " " Bury the Dead , " " She Met Napoleon " and " Saturday Jamboree , " all of them in March , 1944 ; " Ferdinand the Bull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and " Johnny Comes Home , " " Journey 's End " and " The Moon and I , " dates unspecified . These Programs , it was said , were prepared with the object ' -f demoralizing the United States war effort by pointing up gloomy or pacifist subjects . Provoo , according to FBI opera , - Elves , was an employe of the Fed , eral Reserve Bank in San Francisco until 1941 . Ile was said to have had a good work record . In. the summer of 1941 he went to Japan where , according - to the operatives , he studied . Buddhism . ' He returned to ? San Francisco after his studies and almost immea diately joined the Army neing sent to the Philippines . Shortly after his arrival there , the " operatives said , he was assigned to the headquarters staff with the rank of sergeant . He retained that ' rank until his separation yesterday . At the fall of Corregidor Provoo attempted to disguise himself - as a Buddhist priest , , the operatives said , but was quickly detected and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation by the United States Army Provoo , they said , returned to . the United States and at the expiration of his service term in 1946 was . honorably discharged and immediately re-enlisted . He has spent the last three years mainly in Fort Sill , Lawton , . Okla. , and Fort Meade in Maryland . He was brought from Fort Meade yesterday morning for his formal separation . According to the operatives , Provoo went immediately . into full collaboration with the Japanese after his capture at Corregidor . They said he was utilized as a translator and in some instances was used to question fellow GI 's after their capture . During the latter part of the Pacific campaign , the operatives said , Provoo and about thirty other , prisoners , lcsome of them Australians and others Dutch , but mostly Americans , were housed in an old schooil in Tokyo which was located near the main ' shortwave broadcasting station . Allowed Considerable Freedom The men , while considered prisoners of war , were allowed a large measure of freedom , the operatives said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war . " He said all of the group were engaged either in preparing or giving propaganda broadcasts or doing both . From the sketchy information provided in the period immediately following his liberation , it appeared that Provoo was briefly under investigation on the complaints of fellow-prisoners . This investigation did not result in formal charges , it is indicated , and the suspect was permitted to go about his military duties both in Japan and here . The suspect , a handsome , darkreddish haired man , slender and of above average height , was brought o the Commissioner 's courtroom in civilian clothes . He was wearing a neatly pressed suit of " Prince-ofWales " plaid , a dark tie and light blue shirt . He was brought in carrying his barrack duffle bag . While awaiting arraignment he chatted amiably with the FBI guards and occasionally joined them in a laugh as he described his surprise over the day 's swift events . When he faced the commissioner , however , he was grave . When Mi. asked that he be held without bail because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the suspect stared long and hard at Commissioner - There was a brief discussion between Mr. and Commissioner over the latter 's discretionary powers in granting bail . It was ended however , when , the Commissioner told the prisoner , " regardless of my discretionary powers , I should have held you without bail because of the gravity of the charge . " Then Commissioner asked , " Do you know the charge against you ? " " I have just heard it , Sir , " Provo ? answered in a low voice . Rights Told to Prisoner The Commissioner then informed Ithe suspect that he would be al1 lowed to waive preliminary hearing if he chose but suggested he take time to think it over and to select an . attorney before malting a decision . Mr , interrupted to say he would also recommend that the suspect be allowed time for decision . It was then the Sept. 9 appearance date was set . Following a brief consultation between Mr. and Mr. Saypol , the former asked permission to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( presentation , Provoo was le , : away by the FBI operatives . Before leaving the Commissioner 's office , the suspect said his only address was in the San Francisco suburb of Sausalito where , he said , his father , J. F. Provoo had a home . Provoo added that he had been married but was divorced after his return from Japan . The separation from the Army was known as an " administrative discarge " under a medical clause and carried with it neither an " honorable " nor " dishonorable " connotation . The FBI men said they did not believe that Provoo knew until the actual time of his arrest that he had been under investigation for the last several months .                     