@@712164

txt John J. MoCloy , who arrived in Berlin today to assume the post of United States Military Governor in Germany , re . vealed a spirit of cautious optima ism that included the anticipation . of future conferences with Soviet leaders in Germany . Speaking at a crowded press conference , Mr. McCloy , who is to become United States High Commissioner at the end of the summer when the German federal republic is established , said that he had " no immediate plans " for any meetings with the Russians , but that as a result of the Paris meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers " there will be conferences with the Russians " in which he expected to participate . However , the new Military Governor emphasized that he had not come here to carry out any radical changes in policy . In outlining the objectives of United States policy , he did , however , stress the importance of Germany 's " integration into the European ' family of nations . " Robertson Made Same Point This was a point made by Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's High Commissioner-designate at a ' press conference earlier this week . The emphasis on this point indicates to United States observers in Berlin that when the German . republic , which is the part of Germany over which the United States and Britain exercise direct influence , is organized , efforts will be made to associate that republic as closely as possible with the nations of Western Europe politically as well as economically . These efforts are part of an overall plan to keep Western Germany out of the orbit of the Soviet Union and its satellite states . Mr. McCloy named the " development of a peaceful , free , prosperous Germany " as another objective of United States policy . The general objective of the European Recovery Program 's policy , Mr. McCloy said , will be to have Germany " take her stand with the other European nations " in receiving United States aid . Although he would not say " when or how " Western Germany would be reopened for foreign investment , Mr. McCloy declared that such investments would mean a " definite improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formula The new Military Governor said that recent statements that the United States would exercise sole control of the internal economy of the Western German state appeared a " little extreme . " The " dominant voice " formula on exports and imports remains , he indicated , but the United States has no intention of " assuming the entire direction of Germany 's in'terns , ' economy . " Mr. McCloy , who arrived in Berlin only this morning , inevitably was asked a number of questions that he could not answer . He appeared unworried by the number and complexity of the problems that faced him . " I always find , " he said , " that things are never as good or as bad as they seem to be . " Asked by a correspondent of ADN , the Soviet-licensed news service , if he had once said that EastWest trade in Europe was necessary to re-establish the economy of Western Europe , especially that of Western Germany , Mr. McCloy said that he had said " something like that " when he was president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand by it , " he added . This appeared to satisfy his questioner . It has become apparent during last three weeks that the Soviet Union hopes that the economic ties between Eastern and Western Germany that it expects to arrange will in the end be strong enough to bring the German state into closer political association with Eastern than with Western Europe . The airlift into Berlin " will continue as long as it is necessary to cover our commitments " for the , city , Mr. McCloy said . He does anticipate a tapering-off period for the lift , which will bring its 2,000 , - 000th ton of supplies into Berlin tomorrow morning . On his arrival at Templehof Air- ' field this morning , Mr. McCloy de- , clared " there will be no change " in , United States policy toward the Berlin question . In an effort to allay a natural ' apprehension within the Military Government that he plans an immediate and drastic shakeup , Mr. McCloy said there " would be no radical changes without careful consideration and thought . He professed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted people " in Germany . Thus far he has made no decision as to where his headquarters would be . Today he spoke of a " spot in Bonn , certainly a base in Frankfort and some time in Berlin " as part of his routine .                     