@@708302

txt General Eisenhower 's Order of the Day to " all units of the AEF " was typically his . It also was typically American . It does not rank in eloquence with some of the defiances Winston Churchill threw at the Nazis in England 's dark hours of 1940 and early 1941 . Perhaps it does riot compare in that respect even with General Weygand 's " last quarter hour " message of June , 1940 , when the Germans were exploiting the Sedan breakthrough and streaming toward Paris . But there is a difference in the occasion and in the message . General Eisenhower 's words were the plain ones of a man from Texas giving the score to the men under his command , assaying the potentialities of the enemy attack and accepting the challenge . It was a call to battle . There is no defeatism in his words : " We can not be content with his the enemy 's mere repulse . " Nor is there overoptimism : " By rushing out of his fixed defense the enemy may give us the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There is the call to his men to walk that one more mile that always can be negotiated when there is no other choice , to fire the one more shot that always can be fired when it must be . If those things are done he has confidence in the result : " With unshakable faith in the cause for which we fight , we will * * * go forward to our greatest victory . " General Eisenhower 's order was addressed specifically to his troops . To the British , the Canadians and the French , to the Americans from California , Oregon and Washington , to those from Colorado , Texas , North and South Dakota , to the boys from Illinois and Ohio and Michigan , Alabama , Georgia and South Carolina , to the sons of Delaware , Maine and New York and all the other of the forty-eight States . It was addressed to the boy next door who went away so short a time ago to fight his country 's battles . But it flows through them to us . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to new heights of courage , resolution and effort . " It is a terrible and sad Christmas message the General had , to send . It probably is a far different one from that he had planned or had hoped to send only a few short weeks ago when everywhere the Allied armies were on the march . It is at the same time more optimistic than some other evaluations of the present course of battle made by persons less well informed than is the Commanding General of Allied Forces in Europe . This Christmas Day will not be one we soon can forget . But if we all will answer General Eisenhower 's call to battle , and with " courage , resolution and effort " press the fight as the men on the front lines are pressing it , we shall hasten the day when this bloody task is accomplished and peace on earth has been restored again to all men of good-will.                     