@@705988

txt As the city campaign entered its final week , with heavy speaking schedules listed on both sides Page 11 , Column 2 , Mayor La Guardia brought the issue of county reform into the forefront , demanding that the Democratic leaders put themselves on record . Page 1 , Column 5 . Edward J. Flynn replied to the Mayor 's repeated attacks on " the bosses " with a charge that Mr. La Guardia was a " boss " heading the greatest city " political machine " in the , nation Page 11 , Column 1 and William O'Dwyer 's representative submitted a " bill of particulars " on the charge that Fusion was spending $1 , - 000,000 . Page 10 , Column 1 . Mayor Challenges Leaders Mayor La Guardia demanded yesterday that Democratic leaders Edward J. Flynn of the Bronx , Representative Christopher D. Sullivan of Manhattan and Frank V. Kelly of Brooklyn make a public statement favoring the passage of the county reform propositions abolishing the offices of sheriff and register in the five boroughs . Holding that the " carbon-copy Democratic machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders from the political bosses , " the Mayor asked the three leaders to state publicly their stand on the propositions in the interest of good government . The Mayor 's request was made while he was attending a benefit soccer game between teams of the British Royal Navy and the Prague American Friends of CzechoSlovakia at Randalls Island Stadium , to raise funds for the British , Czech , Greek and Polish War Relief organizations . In the evening Mayor La Guardia , speaking at the Talmud Torah of Flatbush , 1305 Coney Island Avenue , Brooklyn , deplored any raising of racial issues in the campaign and appealed to " majority and minority " groups in the city and throughout the nation to live in unity under the democratic way of life . He contended that " our whole hope  --  the hope of the world ? is that this country give an example of a united people living in peace under our democratic system . " Attending the game at Randalls Island with his two children , Jean and Eric , the Mayor was asked by reporters if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he urged the people to vote for the county propositions to " carry through the reforms which we started under the new city charter . " Of the three propositions the first , sponsored by the Citizens Dion-Partisan Committee , abol- ishes the elective offices of the five county Sheriffs and registers and sets up one city-wide Sheriff and a register , appointed by the Mayor . The second and third propositions , passed recently by the Democratic-controlled City Council , also abolish the offices in. each county . The second proposition seeks an elected city-wide Sheriff , while the third seeks to transfer the duties of the county registers to the office of the county clerks . " I want to appeal to all those interested in completing the reform which we started under the new City Charter and ask the people of the city to take an interest in the county reform propositions , " the Mayor said . So voters will not confuse the propositions with the amendments that also will be voted on at the election , the Mayor recommended that every one " vote ' yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seen " This will help quite a bit to complete what we started to do with the charter , " the Mayor said . " It will break the last hold of the Flynn-Kelly-Sullivan combination and remove from the payroll a large number of henchmen who do nothing but sign the payroll once a month . Wait a minute ? I may be doing them an injustice . Perhaps they sign the payroll twice a month . " I want to hear Kelly , Flynn and Sullivan and their carboncopy candidates come out and endorse the propositions and publicly ask the people to vote ' aye ' on them . Kelly , Sullivan and Flynn are the ones who will run the city if their carbon-copy candidates are elected . I want them to tell the people how they stand on county reform . " In a short speech to 6,000 persons in the stadium , and members of British , Czech , Polish and Greek organizations , who paraded around the stadium in colorful native costumes before the start of the game , the Mayor declared that increasing help was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . " I am very happy to welcome here the representatives and descendants of unconquered people , " the Mayor said . " You have shown the world that it is possible to have one 's land occupied , but that it is not possible to conquer brave , liberty-loving people . " And let the word go out that aid , more aid ; help , more help , is coming from our country to your countries to destroy the Nazi regime and the Axis power . " Mayor 's Kick-off Weak The Mayor then walked to midfield and officially started the game by kicking out the ball . His kick only skidded along the ground for about ten yards , but the crowd gave him a big hand , nevertheless . The Mayor was accompanied by Jean , his 13-year-old daughter , and Eric , 10-year-old son . Also in the box with him was Godfrey Haggard , British Consul General ; Jan Masaryk , Foreign Minister of the Czech Government in Exile , and William J. Schieffelin . The Mayor , who was not wearing a topcoat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his children , ardent soccer fans , closely followed each play . At the end-of the half the Mayor attempted to get his children to leave , but both , Eric in particular , wanted to stay . Laughingly , the Mayor , who admitted that he was cold , said he would try to use a little applied child psychology to get his children to leave . " I should have told them that I wanted to stay , and then we could have left , " he said . Then turning to Eric , he continued : " Well , I guess I 'll stay here until the game ends , Eric . " Much to his surprise , however , Eric replied : " Good . " The Mayor laughed , shook his head , but a few minutes later told the children that perhaps they had better leave . They agreed this time , and the Mayor returned by car to his home at Fifth Avenue and 109th Street . City Services Described The Mayor 's first stop in the evening was at the Talmud Torah of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 2,000 persons the accomplishments of his administration and outlined in detail the workings of Police , Fire , Health , Street Cleaning and Water Supply Departments . He contended that when he first came into office he found each department " shot full of cheap politicians " and that he eliminated them and put the departments on a working basis without political favoritism . Turning to the problem of racial issues in the campaign , the Mayor declared that " I , for one , refuse to recognize that we have minorities in this country . " " All are equal American citizens , " he said . " Why , what we have accomplished arid are accomplishing here in this country can be accomplished in Europe . But only after we have crushed the Nazi philosophy , the Nazi regime and the Axis powers . Hitler Seen Crushed " Once Hitler Is crushed  --  and he will be crushed within the next thirteen months because he can not go through another Winter  --  then we can help the unhappy , suffering people of Europe . Why , you have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country in way of defense materials . And we are sending them to the countries fighting Hitler . He is licked . He ca n't win . " But until that time we in America must give an example to the oppressed people in Europe . Our whole hope  --  the hope of the world ? is that this country give an example of a united people living in peace under our democratic system . " From this meeting the Mayor went to the Hotel St. George in Brooklyn , where he appeared briefly at a meeting of more than 5,000 persons , sponsored by the Jewish War Veterans . He finished ? his night by dropping in at a celebration dinner of Beth David Hospital at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria.                     