@@706988

txt President Roosevelt declared it would be " little less than tragic " if Congress required presidential nomination and Senate confirmation of all Federal employees receiving more than $4,500 a year as required in a pending bill making such a requirement . Mr. Roosevelt wrote Vice-President Wallace that neither he nor Congress had time to examine into the qualifications of the 33,000 positions that would be affected by the bill . Canned fruits and vegetables , baby foods and soups , will be frozen for one week on grocery shelves after midnight in preparation for the start of point rationing March 1 . The point values of rationed articles will be announced Sunday . A measure to provide a globe-girdling system of floating drydocks to repair ships of this nation and its Allies was signed into law by President Roosevelt . The measure authorizes expenditure of $210,000,000 for the work . The House defeated by a tie vote . 109 to 109 , a motion to instruct the Agriculture Committee to draft a measure scrapping the Administration 's entire farm program and substituting a new one . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on production and use of wheat , corn and peanuts . An allocation system designed to obtain fairer distribution of beef , pork , lamb , mutton and veal has been authorized by the OPA in the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas and in Rhode Island . SlIoe manufacturers were prohibited by the War Production Board from producing more shoes in higher prices lines than they made before shoe rationing was undertaken . The House Military Affairs Committee in a formal report explained its opposition to the general drafting of family men and termed such a policy injurious to the nation 's welfare . Approval of the Hobbs bill to subject labor unions to the Federal anti-racketeering law was withheld by the House Rules Committee which ordered further hearings . The House Rules Committee approving a $1,256,607,000 naval authorization measure carrying $720,000,000 for acquisition of advance bases heard Chairman Vinson of the House Naval Affairs Committee announce " it is our intention " to work out a program for retention of foreign naval bases in the postwar period . Waste kitchen fats are urgently needed , as the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smokeless powder , is still dwindling , Donald M. Nelson said . All pending proposals for pay-as-you-go individual income tax collections were voted down by the House Ways and Means Committee which appointed a subcommittee to draft a new bill embracing the principle . Chairman Fulmer ( D ) of South Carolina of the House Agriculture Committee said the President had agreed that soldiers should help harvest crops in regions where there is a shortage of labor . Europe : British Labor Rejects Communist Tie Communist Party 's plea for affiliation with the British Labor Party was rejected by the Laborites on the ground that the Communist general ou4tlook was " entirely out of harmony " with the objectives of the Labor Party . Russo-Yugoslav dispute over alleged pro-fascist activities of Gen. Draja Mikhailovitch , War Minister of the exiled Yugoslav Government , was reported in course of settlement . Conversations between the two governments were reported to have been opened . Gasoline rationing in Iceland at three gallons a week for private motorists , beginning Feb. 20 , was regarded as serious , since motors and horses are almost the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosions , pointing to sabotage , have been doing wide-:Tread damage to Danish factories and shipyards during recent weeks . Stockholm reports . The great Burmeister and Wain machine shops were the scene of an enormous blaze . State of siege at the German-occupied French naval base of Toulon was reported from Moscow . Germans were said to be preparing for civil evacuation of the port . Archbishop Francis J. Spellman of New York was reported by the German radio to have arrived in Rome on his way to Vatican City . Boston : South Americans Forecast Axis Rout Nine South American journalists on tour of the nation 's war production centers gave assurance to Bostonians that the United Nations were building toward a smashing victory over the Axis . Free training in drafting , machine-shop operation , welding , radio technical and assembly work , power sewing , inspection and clerical work was offered by the War Manpower Commission to women to fill places of men joining the armed forces . Information may be obtained at the Office of the U. S. Employment Service or at the NYA Boston office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launched a Victory Garden program to make land available to citizens for cultivation of war crops . Page 5 . National : Liberty Ship Named for L. D. Brandeis The Liberty ship Louis D. Brandeis , named for the late U. S. Supreme Court Justice , was launched at the Bethlehem-Fairfield shipyard at Baltimore . A bill was introduced in the Maryland Senate by the State Administration that would permit the Governor to draft male citizens of any age into the State Guard . John Cudahy , former U. S. Ambassador to Poland and Belgium and Minister to Ireland was appointed head of the Wisconsin Civilian Defense Council by Acting Gov . Walter S. Goodland . Asia : Three Resign From Council in India Mohandas K. Gandhi was reported considerably weaker in his three-week fast . Three members of the Viceroy 's Council resigned in protest against Britain 's refusal to release Gandhi . The War :                     