@@709447

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The slow progress of the Iran case in its purely procedural phase before the Security Council shows the need for a general method of procedure which is more efficient and less subject to hindrance by arbitrary changes of position and other uncooperative tactics of the parties whose actions are being investigated . When peace is threatened , nothing should be permitted to stand in the way of a quick ascertainment of the facts and a ruling whether unwarranted acts of aggression are being committed . A majority of the Security Council has full control over procedure . It therefore has authority to appoint permanent investigators or a standing committee of investigation , and to confer subpoena power . The investigation should be as secret as possible . The investigators should have the right to travel anywhere and interview anybody having knowledge of the facts or possession of material documents or evidence . The investigation should not be limited to the calling of witnesses . Evidence should be gathered as rapidly as possible by every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigated should be given a reasonable opportunity to appear promptly and present their sides of the case secretly . Their ' failure to appear should not impede the investigation . A party who knows he is guilty will never appear voluntarily . The investigators should promptly submit a secret report . In this report , without expression of legal opinion , the evidence should be analyzed , marshaled , and summarized in convenient form so as to show what evidence has been obtained with repect to each of the material facts . The names of all persons whose actions or interests are involved should also be stated , and their respective actions and interests described . If . the report of the investigators shows substantial evidence of a situation threatening the peace , the Secur= ity Council should begin by setting the matter for public hearing on a single issue : To what extent , if any , are the respective claims of the various parties involved based on sound or generally accepted principles of international fair dealing and justice and in accordance with the principles and purposes of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which a claim is decided to be in accordance with the Charter , the Security Council , unless checked by veto of a permanent member , should give immediate support toward enforcement . Until the Security Council has itself summarized or stated the facts which it believes have been established , and on the basis of those facts has announced its decision as to the justice of the respective claims under the Charter , no one should be permitted to indulge in name-calling or to characterize publicly any of the parties as a disturber of the peace or aggressor . After a decision thus reached , the limits of just claims will have been fixed . Any party thereafter ignoring those limits will be iiutomatically and publicly identified as an aggressor . Justice having been satisfied by the fixing of its limits , the field will then be clear . for the Security Council , world opinion and the forces of the United Nations to deal with the identified aggressor separately and effectively . The very purpose of establishing the Security Council as a Council instead of a court was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speedy procedure for ascertaining and passing upon the facts , so that it would be able to halt aggression at an early stage before it could develop into widespread aggression controllable only by collective war . JAMES W. RYAN , Chairman , Committee on International Law , New York County Lawyers Association . New York , April 29 , 1946 . Not a Senator To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a letter appearing in THE ' TIMES of April 16 entitled " Pearl Harbor a Detonator , " written by Albert A. Volk , reference is made to " Senator Gearhart of California . " The State of California is represented by Senators Sheridan Downey and William F. Knowland . Congressman Bertrand W. Gearhart represents one Congressional district in the State of California . As the reference to the word Senator , as applied to Congressman Gearhart , appeared twice in the Volk letter , I believe it is in the interests of clear thinking for readers of THE NEW YORK TIMES to have this difference pointed out to them . FRANCIS A. ADAMS . New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The report of the American Fat Salvage Committee given in the article , " Laxity Is Found in Fats Salvage , " in the April 27 NEW YORK TIMES , was read with interest in our household . The report states that the present salvage plan is not entirely successful . According to the committee the difficulty is that only 62 per cent of the women are cooperating . We wish to ask whether the committee has considered the present fat-salvaging procedure as it looks to the woman in the kitchen . Most of the fat salvaged in family kitchens is sold to the customer , to whom it is practically all waste , at the price per pound of the meat to which it is attached . It must be tried out , which is a time-consuming and unpleasant task , and then toted back to the butcher , who pays for this residue of waste a small fraction of the price for which he sold it earlier to the same customer . We would like to know why butchers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allow precious fats to be diffused among meat customers in this way . Why are they so inept in a situation where fats must be salvaged in this awkward way , with its accompanying waste both of fats and the time of the women . ABIGAIL F. BROWNELL . Pigeon Cove , Mass. , April 29 , 1946 . Military Training Upheld Advantages Seen for Trained Man in Combat and Later On TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES of April 30 Edward N. Hay speaks of the " National Military Service or Conscription Act , " voicing a fear of " the unwholesome indoctrination of American youth to an acceptance of military control . " To keep the record clear it must be reiterated that two problems in the fields of military service and military training face the electorate and its representatives in Congress : ( 1 ) whether or not the wartime Selective Service legislation shall be continued in force in order to carry out the national obligations assumed after Pearl Harbor , and ( 2 ) whether a permanent program of universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a means for providing a first-line reserve in the event of a major emergency . The first has to do only with the liquidation of the immediate problems imposed by the war . The second is expressly limited to peacetime training . However much the opposition may attempt to becloud the issue in its efforts to deceive the careless reader and voter , no trainee and no end-product of the training is liable to military service unless and until a major emergency leads Congress to pass a selective service act , bringing such men to the colors . They would be no less liable to military service if they had had no training . The sole difference lies in the great advantage possessed by the trained man over the recruit in coping with the problems of field service and combat . As for the predicted evils of indoctrination , the intelligent observer has by now had ample opportunity to assess them in the actions and attitudes of the returned veteran . It is not beside the point that , without exception , the educators report the GI college students as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as their untrained civilian fellows . In ' most instances the veterans are , on the average , doing much the better job . " Indoctrination " in this sizable and rapidly growing group sums up to the veterans ' improved sense of self-discipline , seriousness of purpose and directness of attack on his objectives . It is only reasonable to assume that peacetime universal military training , preceding admission to college , would in considerable measure retain those substantial assets . HERMAN BEUKEMA , Colonel , U. S. A. West Point , N. Y. , April 30 , 1946 . Security Council Procedure Standing Committee of Investigators Is Suggested for Prompt Action Formula for World Peace Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Iran and World Government " is another unsuccessful attempt to answer the terribly logical arguments of those who , like former Supreme Court Justice Owen J. Roberts , realize that steps must be taken , and very soon , to bring about some form of limited world government if another war , which civilization almost certainly could not survive , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations have surrendered one ancient attribute of sovereignty  --  the right to make aggressive war . " Have you forgotten the Briand-Kellogg treaty , signed in 1928 by some fifteen nations , among them Germany , Japan and Italy , which outlawed war " as an instrument of national policy " ? VIRGINIA V. . Brooklyn , April 25 , 1946 . Lack of Hope Disheartening TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : American Army and Navy plans for considerations of underground installations as future protection against possibility of attack in case of atomic bombing may be using foresight , but such action , nevertheless , leaves one disheartened by the thought that so little hope is held out for the establishment of a lasting world peace . I am reminded of an old story illustrative of the weakness of stime humans in their own powers of faith and creativeness . A woman , desiring to test her will as a show of her power of faith , believed , by resort to prayer , that she could move a mountain which stood near her home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run to view the spot where the mountain was to be . Instead , she ran to see if the mountain was still standing on the old site ! ARTHUR EILENBERG ? Brooklyn , April 29 , 1946.                     