@@711642

txt America 's greatest weapon in the present worldwide conflict between the East and West is the proof by its citizens of democracy 's ability to provide economic progress as well as human freedom . Such ' is part of an Armistice Day message delivered by Gen. Omar N. Bradley , Chief of Staff , United States Army at a Boston Chamber of Commerce luncheon in the Hotel Somerset today . General Bradley , ? the GIs general ? called upon New Englanders to show strength , faith , and fortitude during " this period of tension . The American people can not abdicate in this present struggle and leave the problem to their armed forces . " Time Our Ally Without specifically naming Russia , the wartime commander of the troops who " clasped hands over the Elbe " with the Soviet soldiefs , said : " Only three years after ? . this great wartime ally has spurned friendship with recrimination , it has clenched its fists and skulked in conspiracy behind its secretive borders . " But General Bradley , victor in Many hard-fought battles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience of Boston businessmen that even in this situation " time can be for us . " It can be for us if diligence in our search for agreement equals the vigilance with which we prepare for a storm . " Then he cited " disillusionment " as " always the enemy of peace . " Already the field - commander of World War I had dramatically branded the Armistice which ended the 1918 fighting as a " constant reminder that we won a war and lost a peace . " Stand Before World General Bradley referred to the peaceful intentions of the American people in its decision to " submit to the United Nations the secret of the atom bomb . " The United States can stand " cleanly before the entire world and say plainly to any state : ' This government will not assail you . You can have no conflict without being yourself the aggressor . ' " The First Soldier of the United States did not ignore the " monstrous weapons man already has . " With them General Bradley - asserted " humanity is in danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " We have too many men of science ; too few men of God . We have grasped the mystery of the atom and rejected the Sermon on the Mount , " the chief of staff said . Turning to an immediate answer to the problems of today , forthright Generial Bradley asked for good citizenship . The ability of every American " to provide a happy and wholesome life for his family " was given by the General as " good citizenship . . the start of a working democracy . " From such simple beginnings , he said , we create " better communities , better states , a better nation  --  and eventually , we hope , a better world . "                     