@@707784

txt MAYOR PROTESTS JAPANESE IN EAST He Opposes Shifting of-Former Pacific Coast Residents ? Sees Military Peril Here By PAUL CROWELL Mayor La Guardia has filed with the Army , Navy and other agencies in Washington a vigorous protest against the relocation of JapaneseAmericans in New York City or in any of the States on the Eastern seaboard , it was revealed last night . Although the Mayor remained silent on the subject , it is known that his opposition was registered several weeks ago when it became evident that the Government planned to send to the Eastern seaboard a substantial number of Japanese-Americans , former residents of the Pacific Coast States , who had been lodged in various segregation camps throughout the country . Word of the Mayor 's opposition seeped out after publication of the fact that Representative John J. Delaney of Brooklyn had filed with the War Relocation Authority in Washington a petition by 136 residents of the Brooklyn Heights section , protesting against the proposed establishment of a hostel in that area to accommodate Jap-. anese-Americans transferred from segregation camps . Potential Dangers Seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been told by the Mayor that the settlement of any substantial number of Japanese-1 Americans in this area , crowded as it is with military installations , war plants and shipping facilities , . would hold potential dangers . The Government representatives in Charge of the relocation plan , it is reported , were informed by the Mayor that he thought the number of evacuees sent here was larger than that given him in Washington . It was reported recently that 700 Japanese-Americans had been sent to New York and had found jobs here , most of them in personal service with well-to-do families . Mayor La Guardia , it was learned , has asked the Federal authorities to let him know how many of the . Japanese-Americans now in this area , or intended to be sent here , are American citizens . There are indications that the position taken by the Mayor is shared by the Mayors of other cities on the Eastern seaboard . Nearly all of the Japanese // Americans now in New York or about to be sent here , and most of those to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be former residents of such States as California , Oregon and Washington , whence they were sent to camps after Pearl Harbor . These States have refused to take them back and the Federal Government has not pressed the point . Mayor La Guardia , it is reported , feels that they should not be forced upon New York City or any other Eastern community . The Mayor , according to reliable reports , has made known to t : - .2 appropriate agencies his fear that once settled here the Japanese-Americans will form their own colony , creating serious danger a violent clashes with members of other racial colonies in the city . Washington authorities have been advised also , that Japanese-Americans , ? relocated anywhere on the Eastern seaboard , would tend to gravitate to New York . Officials in Washington , with whom the Mayor has discussed the problem , have been told that the Mayor appreciates the hardships and injustices that may be inflicted upon Japanese-Americans if they are not permitted to settle in the New York area . They have been told also that the.Mayor feels ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paramount factor . Support for Hostel Plan Prominent Brooklyn clergymen and laymen , at a meeting held at 72 Schermerhorn Street in that borough , named Justice William F. Hagarty of the Appellate Division to head an inter-racial committee to support the plan to set up n hostel for Japanese-Americans at 168 Clinton Street in the Brooklyn , Heights section ; Invitations to the Imeeting were sent only to persons known to favor the hostel . plan , but some of the 136 persons who signed the petition taken to Washington by Mr. Delaney also were present . Mortimer Brenner , president of the Brooklyn Council fort Social Planning , presided . Harold S. Fistere , supervisor of the WRA. in the middle Atlantic district , told the meeting that his I agency had the problem of caring I for 75,000 loyal Japanese in nine relocation centers . The government , he added , does not intend to keep behind barbed wires persons not charged with any crime , but seeks to let them have normal lives . Twenty thousand , he said , have been resettled in the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The proposed hostel , he explained , was not an official project , however , or connected with his agency in any way . Several of those who objected to the hostel were among the speakers . Their remarks indicated their belief that it was inviting trouble to establish a home for JapaneseAmericans in a residential area and especially one much frequented by soldiers and sailors . This view was expressed by Dr. Vincent P. Mazzola of 133 Clinton Street , one of the signers of the petition taken to Washington by Mr. Delaney . He suggested that the evacuees be " spread around all over the city , " rather than concentrated in one small building . Besides Justice Hagarty , the members of the committee organized at the meeting are Councilman Genevieve B. Earle , the Rev. Dr. Hugh D. Daisie , president of the Brooklyn Church and Mission Federation ; the Rev. Dr. J. Henry Carpenter , executive secretary of the Federation ; the Rev. Dr. Philips B. Elliot , Harold C. Amos , ( headmaster of Adelphi Academy ; ( Mrs. Raymond V. Ingersoll , the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rev. J. Emmet of , the Catholic Charities , diocese of Long Island ; the Rev. Dr. William H. Melish , Mrs. Irving J. Sands , president of the Brooklyn section of the National Council of Jewish Women ; , the Rev. Albert L. Scott , Mr. Brenner , and George Rundquist , executive secretary of the Committee on Reset tlement of Japanese-Americans organized by the Federal Counci of Churches of Christ in America .                     