@@708313

txt Editorial criticism of the position of the Board of Health in the control of rabies has been called to my attention , and upon the request of the members of the board I am writing to you concerning the reasons for the present rabies quarantine and the reasons for the board 's inability to accept the proposed modifications suggested by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . As I am sure you are aware , there has been a serious focus of rabies infection in dogs in the borough of the Bronx since last spring , with evidence of extension to other boroughs . There has also been one human death from rabies . The circumstances surrounding the cases of rabies in dogs in New York City indicate the very possible widespread dissemination of rabies virus in dogs exposed to known rabid animals . In view of the danger of further spread to animals and to humans , the Board of Health felt that it had a definite responsibility to require that any dog found at large in violation of long-existing regulations must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a dog may develop the disease within one to four months or even within six months of such exposure . Unfortunately , during this incubation period , there is no examination which would reveal the presence of infection . The only reliable method of diagnosis of rabies is a post-mortem examination with appropriate laboratory examination of brain tissue . Examinations No Safeguard Examination by a veterinarian , as suggested by the A. S. P. C. A. , could not be relied upon to detect the presence of the disease because it is a wellestablished fact that a dog may transmit rabies before the onset of any recognizable symptoms . Furthermore , the dog might develop the disease and expose large numbers of dogs or humans in the interval between  --  examinations . The proposal to examine the dog at weekly or monthly intervals would not provide any safeguard against contraction of the disease by the owner of the dog or any other person or animal coming into contact with the dog during this period . These are well-established characteristics of the disease which will be attested to by any competent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative than to enforce quarantine regulations which will protect the people of New York City and will , of course , incidentally protect dogs from rabies , which is invariably a fatal disease . There seems to have been an attempt to obscure the major issue in the present rabies situation , which must be the protection of life and health . The provision for quarantine of exposed dogs in approved veterinary hospitals is to make possible the saving of dogs who have been at large and yet may not have been definitely exposed to the disease . Such quarantine requires special safeguards against possible hazard to the dogs ' attendants or possible hazards to other dogs . Any licensed veterinarian having adequate facilities for such isolation is approved by the Board of Health for this purpose . The board , of course , has no authority to determine fees which may be charged for this service . Health First Consideration There has also been much said about the number of dogs destroyed as a result of the quarantine regulations . During the past year 4,396 dogs have been found at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of these 3,583 have been destroyed . During a similar period in 1943 entirely unrelated to rabies quarantine procedures , according to reports of the A. S. P. C. A. , 63,340 dogs were destroyed . Moreover , during the period in which the A. S. P. C. A. maintained a quarantine shelter in the Bronx , only approximately 3 per cent of the ow Iers of the dogs that were picked dp were willing to pay the nominal fee charged for the quarantine period , indicating less widespread concern than has been suggested by the proponents of a modified quarantine . A seems to the Board of Health that the issue is clear  --  namely , that the protection of the public 's health must be given first consideration , and this protection can be provided only if dogs exposed or presumably exposed to rabies are either destroyed or held under adequate quarantine until such time as there is assurance that the dog is not infected . The shortest period of quarantine which will provide this assurance is six months . This has been well established by our experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York , Dec. 30 , 1944. the weaker nation resent the outside interference . Rather than condoning the spheres of influence doctrine in Europe on the basis of a desire to influence the choice of Governments in South America , let us free our good-neighbor policy of the taint of undue influence by adopting the principle of automatic recognition strongly advocated by Sumner Welles and so put ourselves in the position to condemn unreservedly all attempts to build up rival spheres of influence in Europe . ROBERT W. BYERLY . New York , Dec. 30 , 1944 . Science for Its Own Sake Restriction of Intellectual Effort to Practical Results Decried TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is one point which has not yet been touched upon in the very commendable discussion about the importance of scientific research found in recent articles of THE NEW fORK TIMES . It is the paradox that the most decisive discoveries , such as electricity . X-ray , atomic energy by radiation , and radio waves , were not made out of regard for practical usefulness . Practical interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already made by scholars who were interested in nothing but knowledge for its own sake . And it is always possible that the most highly developed utilization of a known principle , such as electricity , can be made useless overnight through a new discovery . Such a discovery may never have been foreseen until it was made by a scholar who was not guided by expediency but by the inner logic of purely theoretical problems . Our technology is rooted in a physics whose basis was laid by astronomers and philosophers . The vital instruments of technology  --  analytical geometry and differential calculus  --  are inventions of the philosophers Descartes and Leibnitz , and of Newton . Natural science a short time ago was still a branch of philosophy , which is today considered to be an abstract and useless luxury . Therefore it seems indispensable to me , even from a practical point of view , to arouse in youth the purely scientific spirit , that is , the interest in true knowledge irrespective of practical efficiency . On the other hand , youth with a truly scientific spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicate its life to studies which do not pay immediately by their practical results . The restriction of intellectual effort to practical results may lead ultimately even to practical sterility . MAXIMILIAN BECK . Chambersburg , Pa. , Dec. 25 , 1944 . No Yellow Corn Meal for Baltimore TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Will you kindly tell me why New England is " back home " to a Marylander ? That made me laugh . It was probably written by the man who , when taunted at never leaving New England , replied , " Why should I ? We have everything here . " Now do n't get me wrong . I love New England and know it well . But home is a different thing . A Baltimorean thinks of the Monument and a square as gracious as Louisburg 's ; of rolling country in the Green Spring Valley where they hunted the fox in the morn . ing ; of slow-moving tidewater rivers ; of tulip trees and cardinals in winter ; of sailboats on the Chesapeake . New England ( for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last straw was honing for yellow corn meal in your " Back Home " editorial of Dec. 31 . Poor Yankee , I pity him . We feed yellow corn meal to chickens , and fry them as only a Marylander can . Eat yellow corn meal ! Shades of Carroll and Howard , to say nothing of Key and Betsy Patterson ! We use white water-ground corn meal . You poor soul . Come " back home , " really , and I 'll make some batter bread for you . LETITIA STOCKETT . Baltimore , Md. , Dec. 31 , 1944 . Waste Paper Collection To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I live in a large apartment house in the suburbs . All the tenants put out their waste paper to be collected but , due to the lack of help , only newspapers are saved and all other material goes into the incinerators . I suggest that boxes be placed on the streets in which waste paper can be collected . Neighborhood stores could . also put out large containers . This really is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CDVO , or such an organization as the Boy Scouts , and then I believe the paper salvage drivi would be much more effective . ERNEST BURNS . Kew Gardens , L. I. , Dec. 26 , 1944 . . Spheres of Influence Opposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Dec. 29 on the Greek situation draws a parallel between England 's interest in the Government of Greece and our interest in the Government of Argentina . The analogy is correct but I question the conclusion you draw from it . You seem to suggest that spheres of influence are sometimes proper and desirable . It is very difficult to draw any logical line between good and bad spheres of influence . Once you admit that any strong nation may be justified in influencing the selection of the Government of some weaker country you are on dangerous ground .                     