@@710873

txt deleted 60 lines RATIONING IS URGED AS CURB ON COSTS // President 's message and proceed with hearings as expeditiously as possible . He said the hearings would be held jointly , if possible , with the legislative committees to which the anti-inflation proposals might ultimately be referred . The Economic Committee does not have the authority to report legislation directly to the House and Senate but must channel its recommendations through regular committees . While receiving the report of its Eastern subcommittee , the Economic Committee sent back to its Midwestern price investigating unit a report made public yesterday by that group 's chairman , Representative George H. Bender , Republican , of Ohio . The action resulted from protests that Mr. Bender had not called a meeting of his subcommittee to consider the report and had not shown it to the two Democratic members , Senator John J. Sparkman of Alabama and Representative Walter B. Huber of Ohio . Highly critical of the Administration 's handling of the price and foreign problems , the Bender document rejected all proposals for government controls and called instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Held in 14 Cities The third investigating subcommittee , which toured the Far West , is expected to report next week , and the three reports will provide groundwork for the full committee 's deliberations . The Eastern subcommittee 's re , port , based on hearings at fourteen cities from New Hampshire to Florida in September and October , said that rationing of scarce foods would result in lower prices because of the consequent decrease in demand by consumers who were now over-eating . Voluntary rationing would have the same result and probably should be tried first " in a more logical and effective form than that presently in operation , " the subcommittee stated . In the meantime , Congress " might well give consideration to setting up the mechanism for limited rationing of important foodstuffs only , " it suggested . The present system of voluntary rationing under the Citizens Food Committee headed by Charles Luckman , the subcommittee found , " is handicapped by the illogical and inadequate elements which are included . " " The low-income consumer needs no voluntary rationing , " it stated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer can follow the rules given by the Luckman committee literally and faithfully without making any reduction whatever in his total intake of meat and eggs . Few consumers eat meat every day in the week . " Other Proposals Offered Other proposals for " serious " Congressional consideration included the following : Allocation by statute : The subcommittee said that this would mean government determination and policing of the amounts of igrain which went for feed , milling , processing into breakfast food , and other purposes . Some direct or indirect means of control seemed to be necessary if this were to lower prices , ih held . Lowering individual income taxes : To help the " submerged " group meet the cost of living , this should be done by increasing allowances for dependents , it was argued . This method was rejected by the Republican majority in the two vetoed tax reduction bills in the last session . Restoring consumer credit controls : The Government 's power to control installment buying , which expired Nov. 1 , should be revived temporarily , the report stated . Revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the present 40-cent per hour rate should benefit some of " the group now submerged by inflation , " the committee said . Extension of export controls : These should be " strengthened " as well , the subcommittee said , without amplification . The report also called for voluntary reduction of profits and restraint in wage and salary demands , especially by those already in the upper wage brackets . Governmental reports indicated a doubling or tripling of dollar profits between 1945 and 1946 by food processors and distributors , which in many cases would seem op be " properly subject to criticism , " the report asserted . General Profit Margin " Small " However , it said , the margin of profit on sales generally was so small usually that it was doubtful " any great contribution " to a reduction in the cost of living could be made by lowering profits . " In textiles , clothing and some consumer durable goods , profits would " not so easily withstand public scrutiny , " it added . With respect to wages , the subcommittee said it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency for the wage advances to be spearheaded by those already in the upper wage brackets , at the expense of their less fortunate brothers . " As for other inflation causes , the committee found that wheat prices were driven up by the foreign drain on domestic supplies , thus causing high prices in meat , poultry , eggs and dairy products as well . It also found " some justification " for complaints that Government support of farm commodity prices was a contributing factor but held that the resultant stimulation of food production probably helped to stem rising prices . Among longer-range policies suggested for consideration , the subcommittee urged increased productivity , including improved technological methods and elimination of " feather-bedding " by labor , as a vital factor . It said a temporary increase in the forty-hour week might also be necessary if European needs were to be met without lowering domestic consumption . Federal Reserve action to raise the interest rate on bank loans gradually and moderately was also suggested . 