@@706523

txt Modifying an order of the Appellate Division , first department , the Court of Appeals ruled today that the New York City Board of Education had1 the right to assign out-of-license teachers to conduct junior high I school classes . The effect of the court 's decision is that some 3,000 teachers in the New York City school system are assured of their positions . The board was challenged by Nathan Davis 3f the Bronx , who stood fifth on an eligible list for appointment to a position as a teacher of mathematics . He contended that the board had no right to appoint an out-of-license teacher , but the modification order of the court pointed out that the board may do so until July 1 , 1943 . Mr. Davis , who argued his own case before the court , contended there were twenty-one vacancies in the mathematics teaching force . The board insisted there were no vacancies and that there was a , , plentiful supply of teachers , who , although not licensed to teach mathematics , could be assigned to teach that subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The court 's opinion stated that Mr. Davis was entitled to the relief which the appellate division accorded him when it reversed an order of the Bronx County special term dismissing the complaint . " After that order was made the Legislature , however , declared that these provisions ' shall be suspended and unenforceable , until July 1 , 1943 ' and it gave temporary sanction to administration action which until then was unlawful . " So long as the sanction exists , " the oponion continued " the courts can give no directions for the enforcement of provisions of the statute which the Legislature has decreed shall be unenforceable . Accordingly , the direction to the Board of Superintendents of the Board of Education ' forthwith ' to recommend persons of appropriate eligible lists for appointment to ' twenty-one vacant teaching positions now existing ' and the direction to the Board of Education forthwith ' to act upon such recommendations must be stricken from the order . " The petition should not , however , be dismissed and the respondents should be directed to take appropriate steps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from appropriate eligible lists in accordance with the provisions of the statute then in force . " Decision Hailed as " Victory " Hailing the Court of Appeals decision as a " great victory " for the Board of Education , Theodore F. Kuper , law secretary of the board , said last night that the school system could now operate more efficiently and without fear of a " demoralized " teaching staff . If the out-of-license procedure had not been approved , he said , it would have meant the/immediate dismissal of 3,000 teachers and the discharge of " hundreds of- others " each year . " The vital importance of this decision is that it puts the stamp of approval by the highest court in this State on the emergency legislation passed at the last session of the Legislature to protect teachers in the face of out-oflicense assignments , " Mr. Kuper said . " It will now become imperative for the Legislature at the next session to remove the one-year limitation so that schools can be properly organized and teachers protected in their jobs . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Education has waged for over a year through all the courts and into the Legislature to prevent the demoralization of our schools by a hire-and-fire system . " If we did not have the legislation and this decision , it would have meant that every time the curriculum changed and the need for new licensees arose , the board would be compelled to appoint new people and discharge the employed teachers with no other alternative but later on to discharge the new appointee in order to make room for the next licensee . " Nicholas Bucci , assistant corporation counsel , represented the Board of Education in this case through the Supreme Court and Appellate Division , and he argued the case before the Court of Appeals . " We are delighted that the highest court in our State sustained the Board of Education , " Mr. Bucci said . Litigation over the out-of-license teaching has been going on for a year and a half . Ten separate suits have been brought against the board in this time , all based on the same principle as that in the Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board of Education had no right to appoint candidates to any teaching position for which a specific license was not granted . Because of the drop in enrollment and the change in the type of subjects taken in the high schools in recent years , many regularly appointed teachers found themselves without classes . For example , a German or French teacher might not have enough students and therefore was assigned to classes in Spanish . This practice some teachers challenged , but the Court of Appeals has now sustained the right of the board on this issue .                     