@@711677

txt The United States has told the United Nations that the Negeb desert area of southern Palestine should not be taken from Israel without full consent of the Jews . The United States also told the 58-nation Political Committee it looks forward to admission of Israel to the United Nations . The United States added it is " generally " in accord with the so-called Bernadotte plan for Palestine 's future , but questioned some boundary provisions . Meanwhile , Dr , Ralph Bunche , acting mediator , said Israel has shown willingness in principle to follow his order for a withdrawal from the Negeb . Israel 's relily to the order indicated it intended to keep settlement garrisons and mobile forces in the Negeb. but added it had withdrawn other forces which were sent into the Negeb after Oct , 14 . By Homer Metz Chief of the United Nations News . Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Paris In spite of the general feeling of concern here about the Palestine situation , a study of recent developments behind the scenes indicates there is genuine . lope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nation 's most complex problems . Here briefly is the surface picture of the moment : Both . the Israelis and the Arabs are under specific orders from the Security Council to put up their arms for good and negotiate a permanent political settlement . In the General Assembly 's Political Committee , an effort is under way to develop a settlement formula that would be a compromise between the Bernadotte plan and extremist demands of both Jews and Arabs . Stumbling Block The principal difficulty in the whole matter at the moment is that the Israelis refuse to give up areas they have conquered in the Negeb desert by force of arms in exchange for northern Galilee , as is called for in the Bernadotte plan , while the Arabs adamantly decline to make any move that would accord recognition to the state of Israel . However , there is much more to the picture than meets the eye . In spite of continued virulent Arabs can be induced to grant either de facto or de jure recognition to Israel . In other words the present situation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each side aware it will have to give ground ultimately but convinced that the longer it can hold out , the fewer concessions it will have to make . What of Bernadotte Plan ? Meanwhile the joint-poiicy program of the United Slates and Great Britain as regards Palestine seems to be about over . The United States is backing the Bernadotte plan only as a " basis " for possible settlement to which the Jews would voluntarily agree . Presumably the United States is prepared to back the Israelis ' demand for UN membership . The British on the other hand are vigorously pursuing the Bernadotte plan as a " formula " for political settlement . But while the two policies seem to differ radically in some vital principles , both are moving in the same general direction  --  namely toward a settlement to which ' both sides would agree .                     