@@704795

txt Mayor La Guardia went on the air over WNYC , the city broadcasting station , yesterday afternoon with a strong plea to the million persons of Italian blood in this city to preserve strict neutrality in the face of Italy 's declaration of war . Moving with characteristic rapidity , the Mayor telephoned the city broadcasting studio in the New York City Building at the World 's Fair and said he would be on the air ten minutes later . He thought over the message he wanted to deliver while driving over from the World 's Fair City Hall , and was prepared to speak immediately upon his arrival . Meantime , Morris S. Novik , director of the station , had made arrangements to rebroadcast the Mayor 's talk over five commercial stations at intervals later in the day . Speaking slowly and impressively , Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . the Mayor stated his policy that the European war must be fought on the battlefields of Europe and not on the sidewalks of Net ' York . Recalling his war service as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he fully realized that the Italian entry into the war on the opposite side must be as painful to others of Italian blood as it was to him . Nevertheless , he insisted that the national policy of neutrality must be observed in the city . While he pledged full protection to consular officers of various European governments in the city , the Mayor made clear that these officials must stay within the bounds of their consular duties . The Mayor 's speech follows : This is F. H. La Guardia , Mayor of the City of New York , talking . On Sept. 2 , 1939 , when the Nazi government moved on France and England and the Second World War broke out , I appealed to the people of the City of New York to observe strict neutrality and warned them that this war would be fought on the battlefields of Europe and not on the streets of New York City . I called attention to the fact that this peaceful city of ours of 7,500,000 inhabitants was peopled by men and women who came from all parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who came from all parts of the world . We have demonstrated that we can live . in peace and harmony regardless of the place of birth of our ancestors . Just a few minutes ago the Chief of State of the Italian Government announced to the world that he is taking the Italian people into war and has declared a state of war against the Republic of France and the Kingdom of Great Britain . I want to take this opportunity to reiterate everything that I said on Sept. 2 and to again appeal to the people of this city to observe strict neutrality . It so happens that in our city we have a population of over one million persons who are the descendants of Italian immigrants or are immigrants themselves . To those of American birth , being one of them myself , I know there is no need to make any appeal . We recognize no other country , no other government , but that of the United States of America . To 99.99 per cent of the people of this city who emigrated from Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciate the privileges and the rights of their adopted country . I know them . They are good Americans . All Demonstrations Barred But I want to make myself perfectly clear that we will brook no demonstrations , no propaganda that remotely touches on any disloyalty to our country by any one . Just as I said on Sept. 2 , we must meet this situation . Therefore , we can not permit demonstrations , for or against , to take place in the immediate neighborhood of any foreign consulate . The persons and property of foreign subjects as long as we are at peace with other countries will be fully protected . No one need have any fear about that . I repeat , the persons of duly accredited consular officers will be fully protected and all of their rights under the treaties respected . On the other hand , may I most respectfully say we shall expect consular officers to adhere strictly to their consular duties . My friends , this is an unhappy world today . We are at peace at this moment with all the countries now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the position of our government . Our government and our people are just human beings . We can not help but recognize brute force , abhorring cruelties and the destruction of lives , particularly innocent lives that have nothing to do with the issues , or not even connected with any army . We must be realistic about that . The sympathies of the overwhelming majority of the American people and the American Government are against the invasion of peaceful countries , are against the violation of neutrality , and recoil from and resent some of the activities that have taken place . We as a democracy can not help having great fear of totalitarian domination of the world , and therefore I bespeak the cooperation again of all of the people of the City of New York and , in this instance , the people of Italian birth , to respect , as they always have , the laws of our land . I know how painful this moment is to a large majority of the people of this city . I ; is for me , for I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Army , against Germany and Austria , and I went through a period of war . We had hoped that we were fighting a war against war and now the same kind of mentality , the same disregard for the rights of others , have broken out again , and again thrust the world into a turmoil of suffering and sorrow . It was almost the same alignment up to a few minutes ago . Whatever the results may be , I want to say to my fellow-citizens of this city that our country has not lost hope in democracy . We still insist upon the protection and respective rights of every American citizen , no matter where he may be at this moment , and we also intend to protect the integrity , the territorial integrity , not only of our country , but of the entire Western Hemisphere . Thank you . Mayor Gives Views in Ottawa OTTAWA , June 10 ( Canadian Press ) ? Mayor Fiorella La Guardia of New York said tonight that the United States is nearer the verge of declaring war on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunk . Referring to the speech of President Roosevelt at Charlottesville , Va. , today , Mayor La Guardia said : " The President was magnificent . He went as far as he could in his speech short of actually declaring war . " Mayor La Guardia came here to address the third annual convention of the Canadian Federation of Mayors and Municipalities tomorrow . " I have never heard anything as wonderful as the President 's speech , " he said , " and I was wondering how far I could go in my speech tomorrow , Now I will be able to open my mouth and say just what I want to . " Prime Minister Mackenzie King took time off from a busy day to pay a social call on Mayor La Guardia in his hotel room .                     