@@706683

txt When the Democratic State Convention last Thursday nominated Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr . for Governor of New York , State Chairman James A. Farley won a decided victory over President Roosevelt , who backed Senator James M. Mead . But the victory may have been Pyrrhic , for on the surface , former District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey , scheduled to be nominated for Governor by the Republican State Convention at Saratoga Springs on Tuesday , now seems to have the better chance at the November election . Mr. Farley must yet win the support of the electorate of the State for Mr. Bennett . Furthermore , the election of Mr. Bennett would seem to be impossible without the nomination of the American Labor party , which gave Governor Lehman 419,979 votes at the last State election in 1938 , when Governor Lehman defeated Mr. Dewey by a plurality of only 64 , - 394 . The Labor party insists it will not support Mr. Bennett . Supporters of Mr. Bennett , however , believe that loss of Labor party votes will be offset by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national and State politics were involved at the Democratic State Convention and Mr. Dewey , if elected Governor , undoubtedly will be a strong contender for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1944 . President Roosevelt , even though he disclaimed , in his pre-convention message to Governor Lehman , any interest at this time in the 1944 New York State National Convention delegation , is faced with a dilemma as to whether he prefers consolidation of Mr. Farley 's political power in his home State by the election of Mr. Bennett or the creation of a formidable opposition-party Presidential candidate by the election of Mr. Dewey . There has been no indication of the President 's course of action except the warning of Edward J. Flynn , Democratic National Chairman , to Mr. Farley and other Bennett supporters that the President would go no farther in support of Mr. Bennett than to say he intended to vote the Democratic ticket . New Deal supporters of the President , however , have made no secret of how they feel about the situation . They would like to see Mr. Farley hamstrung politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ View Believing that Mr. Bennett can not be elected without Presidential support , New Deal friends of Mr. Roosevelt saw something of a parallel between the gubernatorial situation and that which existed when John Marshall , then Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , decided that two missionaries to the Cherokee Indians need not take an oath of allegiance to the State of Georgia , holding that the Federal Government had exclusive jurisdiction over Indian lands . This brought the following comment from President Andrew Jackson : " John Marshall has made his decision ; now let him enforce it . " New Deal supporters of President Roosevelt picture him as taking this position : " Jim Farley has nominated Jack Bennett ; now lep him elect him . " It is the belief of the New Dealers that a Bennett defeat would weaken Mr. Farley 's political power greatly , as it could then be charged that by his insisting on Mr. Bennett 's nomination , when he could have accepted a winning candidate , Mr. Farley alone was responsible for party defeat The New Dealers profess to feel no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and New Deal Stand Are Factors Presidential candidate . They declare they would be able fo take care of him at the proper time . Even though Mr. Bennett may not be elected , Mr. Farley 's victory in bringing about his nomination is expected to encourage anti-New Deal Democrats in other States . Participating in the victory was Frank V. Kelly , Brooklyn leader , who gave a remarkable exhibition of organization control by voting the 193 Brooklyn delegates solidly for Mr. Bennett on an individual roll-call . This . victory was all the more remarkable in that it was accomplished in the face of great pressure by members of the Federal Administration and the opposition of the Governor of the State . Leaders of all three political parties do not expect State issues to have much effect in the campaign . The present State Administration , of which Mr. Bennett is a part , is generally conceded to have been a good one . The campaign , it is believed , will turn largely on public approval or disapproval on the National Administration 's conduct of the war and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personalities of the opposing candidates in the impending State contest .                     