@@710001

txt Continuation of the coal strike would mean " a major disaster to the economic system and to the welfare of the American people , " the Department of Commerce declared today . It also would " seriously damage the country 's economic and politi-1 cal position in international of- ' 1 fairs , " it stated . The Department made public a report by Philip M. Hauser , assistant to the Secretary , to Averell Harriman , Secretary of Commerce , on " The Impact of the Coal Strike on the National Economy , " which stated : " A stoppage of coal production , even for a relatively short period of , time , would paralyze our economy , adversely affect world commerce and international relations , and threaten the welfare , health and safety of the American population and . of many people abroad . " If the strike were to continue for sixty days , technicians of the Commerce Department estimated , industrial production would be currw YORE Truss . tailed by 25 per cent and would continue to decline sharply in the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The drop in production would cause a similarly rapid decline in employment , producing a loss of income to workers at a monthly rate of over $1,000,000,000 and representing the equivalent of enforced idleness for 5,000,000 fulltime workers , it was held . Pointing out that direct losses would be accompanied by injuries to the economy , Mr. Hauser declared : " The vast repercussions upon all sectors of the economic system of delay in settling this conflict can be summarized in terms of the national income . It is estimated that the annual rate of national income , now running at $170,000,000,000 , will drop to $150,000,000,000 after two months . " The report showed particular concern with a curtailment of production during the current infla- tionary situation because it " will materially add to the distortions of the price system and introduce maladjustments into the economic mechanism that will not only be immediately disruptive and costly but will require a long period to remedy . " In addition to bearing to a large degree the ultimate costs of economic disruption , the consuming public would suffer immediately , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the report . How Well-Being Would Drop Among the factors listed as fostering the impairment of the public 's well-being were the following : The curtailment of adequate heating and power , " which means more than discomfort , it means lowered - vitality , lessened ability to work , the possibility of serious illness and even death for many . " A reduction in medical supplies as a result of extra demand and the inability of drug-producing , firms to operate without coal . Lack of heating in hospitals , " perhaps the most serious threat to health , " accompanied by inadequate maintenance of necessary public utilities such as water supplies and garbage and sewage disposal . The impairment of transportation of food and other essentials , particularly in the urban centers , where " this pinch will be felt and felt hard . " Finally , " a large segment of the consuming population will shortly find itself hard-pressed to purchase even the supplies that are available as the spreading paralysis of the economy resulting from the coal shortage shuts down the industrial plants of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income  --  the wage-earners of the country . This loss of purchasing power will result in increasing inability of the population to buy the things it needs . " Threat to Security Seen In its foreign ramifications , the coal strike , it was held , would prevent the fulfillment of current commitments abroad and retard world recovery , threatening " irreparable injury to the fundamental interest of this Government in security through the maintenance of r. eace by international cooperation . " The United States , the report stated , was committed to furnish 2,000,000 tons of coal a month to European countries . These countries , Mr. Hauser said , would be unable . to sustain even a minimum economy if coal supplies were withdrawn and a reduction in shipments " would result in irrevocable human and property damage and a serious setback to their reconstruction . " In addition , the shipment of basic foodstuffs to European countries close to a starvation level of diet would be blocked by the slowing of the domestic transportation system . A prolonged strike also would prevent the delivery abroad of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support the production of commodities essential to our economy . Tin from Bolivia and pulp from Sweden were cited as examples . " Should the United States fail to make these shipments of coal and food , as will be the case if the stoppage of coal production in the United States is continued , " the report said , " chaotic conditions will inevitably develop in the countries of destination and the pres tige of the Government of the United States and its interest in national security through international cooperation will be irreparably damaged . "                     