@@707714

txt BIGGER ' GAS ' RATION URGED BY OIL MEN AS STOCKS PILE UP Supply of All the Petroleum Products in East Estimated at 58,0001000 Barrels RECEIPTS REACH RECORD Shortage of Storage Facilities for Light Fuel Oil Is Seen as Possibility Soon By J. a CARMICAL The drastic rationing of gasoline and other oil products to civilian consumers along the Atlantic seaboard is no longer necessary from the standpoint of supply . With current shipments into the area running at the rate of almost 1,800,000 barrels daily , the highest on record , the quantity of oil products available to civilian consumers is not far from that in the pre-war period . With fewer cars in use now than three years ago , many oil executives contend that the time is at hand when more generous quantities of gasoline should be permitted to motorists . They are positive that this could be done without endangering the war program . In fact , a few executives maintain that rationing of gasoline should be discontinued , and competitive conditions restored in the industry . Oil shipments into the Atlantic seaboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next two months it is confidently expected in the industry that they will be averaging 2,000,000 barrels daily . In addition there is a crude oil production of around 85 , - 000 barrels daily ? in Pennsylvania and New York . The total supply for the area thus may approximate 2,100,000 barrels daily , in contrast , to a normal demand of 1,500,000 barrels daily . Stocks Here Are High Stocks of some products , particularly light fuel oil , are increasing at such a rate that a shortage of storage facilities is a distinct possibility . To make storage avail-1 able for other products , a drive is expected to start about May 15 , to get consumers to fill their tanks for next winter . One reason for an oversupply of light fuel oil is that the " Little Inch " pipeline now is bringing it into this area at a rate of 150,000 barrels daily . Also it is near the end of the season and stocks of ' more than 6,000,000 barrels are nearly twice those of a year ago. , Although the supplies of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year so much as light fuel oil , the over-all stock position on the Atlantic seaboard is 33 1-3 per cent larger than a year ago , with the rate of increase now higher than at any time during that period . In fact , total stocks now are larger than at any time since rationing was started in May , 1942 . Although no official figures are issued giving the exact supply situation on the Atlantic Coas , . , these having been stopped just before rationing was put into effect , it is estimated that stocks now approximate 58,000,000 barrels . This figure includes crude oil , gasoline , kerosene , fuel oil and all products at refineries . A year ago they were 43,500,000 barrels , and when rationing was put into effect in May . 1942 , they approximated 52 , - 000,000 barrels . Supply Rises Gasoline stocks now amount to 14,000,000 barrels , an increase of 2,500,000 within a year . Crude oil supplies are up approximately a similar amount to 13,750,000 . Kerosene stocks have gained 750,000 to 2,225,000 and heavy fuel oil almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other products are up 2,225,000 to almost 10,000,000 . When the " Little Inch " line starts to deliver gasoline , which is expected within the next few weeks , the stock position of that product will increase further unless there is a greater amount permitted to motorists . Also navigation has opened on the Great Lakes and increased movements also may be anticipated by barge up the , Mississippi-Ohio River system . Shipments from the Caribbean ' here are expected to gain further . This movement was resumed in a small way soon after the middle of last year and since has been rising steadily . An increase of at least 150,000 barrels daily from that source of all oil products is indicated within the next few months . The refineries on the East Coast // BIGGER ' GAS ' RATION URGED BY OIL MEN // that have been operating far below capacity since the entrance of the United States in the war , now are near capacity . Currently , they are processing around 820,000 barrels daily of crude oil , the highest in history , and their daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that figure . The situation now is far different so far as transportation facilities are concerned than when rationing was first put into effect . At that time the east coast was dependent largely on rail and a few other makeshift facilities . Since then , two large pipelines from Texas to the New York and Philadelphia areas have been completed . Other pipelines have been rearranged ; and today almost 700 , - 000 barrels daily of crude oil and products are being delivered through this medium . The rail movement is being maintained at slightly above 700,000 barrels daily . The barge movement is about 75,000 barrels daily : Tanker shipments , which were virtually stopped , are now at a fairly high level . With some twenty additional high-speed tankers being completed monthly , deliveries by that method of transportation are expected to continue upward unless enemy submarine activity should increase measurably . What the military demand for oil products will be for the remainder of this year in the European theatre , is known only to those in Washington . When there was a shortage of tankers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the European requirements were sent from the east coast . That was the reason gasoline supplies were so severely restricted last " summer and only essential driving was permitted . On the basis of present deliveries , there is available for off-shore shipments from the East Coast 400,000 barrels daily , without reducing the quantity for home consumption below that of the last prewar year . Also , there is available a similar amount from the Caribbean for shipment to Europe , still permitting some increase in imports from that area to the United States . From the Middle East , a total of 300,000 barrels daily is available to Europe . With the possible exception of Great Britain , where some civilian requirements must be taken care of , virtually the entire 1,100,000 barrels daily of oil now accessible to the European theatre can be used for military , purposes . In peacetime the shipment of oil products from the United States and Latin America to Great Britain and Europe averaged 530,000 barrels daily . Gasoline consumption on the Atlantic Coast in what is now known as district No. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the summer , when the demand was at the peak , consumption was 700,000 barrels daily . Of the total , passenger cars consumed roughly two-thirds , or an average of 400,000 barrels daily . With virtually no rationing in effect on trucks and buses , the private motorists have had to bear the entire burden of rationing .                     