@@706530

txt ONCE AGAIN Hitler has exploited his shorter . inner lines of communication , enabling effective reinforcement of Rommel across the narrows between Sicily and Tripoli . Britain , however , must send the bulk of its supplies to its Eighth Army fighting Rommel by the long journey around South Africa This about equals the journey from Britain to Australia . The Libyan battle for control of the Eastern Mediterranean  --  it is nothing less and maybe much more -- -extends German domination to the narrow seas between Crete and North Africa . as well as between Sicily and Tripoli . This raises the threat of an air attack from Greece and Crete on the British Army 's flank and tear While Tobruk holds , the Germans may be unw illing to risk an advance toward Egypt but until Rommel is knocked out of North Africa this front imposes a greater strain upon Allied resources . especially shipping . than upon the Axis . Here lies the impOrtance of opening up a second front in Western Europe This would give Britain shorter lines of communications . Russia . too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans still possess sufficient reserves to extend their offensive along other sectors of the front from Archangel to the Caucasus . First and foremost Achilles Heel of the Allies is the shipping bottleneck It must be cvercome at all costs . ? ? ? UPWARD TWIST of the wage spiral is again in evidence . During the first four months of 1942 the net inci case in the full time weekly wages of 2 500,000 workers totaled ? 350.000 This is considerably less than in the similar period of 1941 when 6.300.000 workers received Increases totaling f940,000 weekly . But coal miners yesterday received an award from the board recently set up to bring their wages more in line with other war workers . At the same time the Amalgamated Engineering Union at its annual conference , flouting the advice of Its leaders , decided to present a fantastic wage claim covering 2 million members which , if conceded , would cost f100 million a year . Jack Tanner , president , frankly told the members that there is not the slightest chance of employers granting this claim and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the efforts of workers to produce the tools to finish the war this year . Stubbornness of the rank ennu file in pressing its claim appears to show the need for better education of the masses and a need for damping down consumption , if an inflationary rise in prices is to be avoided ? . . GERMAN EFFORTS to strengthen the dam against inflation were given a new prop by Nazi requisitioning of shares of German companies acquired by Germans since the outbreak of the war . These holders are given current issue treasury bonds in payment . This mea. , - ure follows compulsory registration of such shares , designed to prevent speculation Despite these measures , there has been a sharp rise in the prices of luxury goods  --  real estate jewelry , furs  --  coupled by an expansion in barter deals This has brought complaint from Dr Funk . Rigid controls will prevent w age earners from participating in inflationary spending , however , and the dam will burst only when Germany is defeated . . . . OLD SCHOOL TIE topics hat e been featured this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Thomas Arnold , headmaster of Rugby School . It was ? he who created the modern educational system which for the past hundred years has been the most influential social and political force in Britain . Since 1918 it has been customary among the intelligentsia to debunk national heroes , especially Victorians . These people seem to forget that Arnold exalted the motive of service over the motive of gain ; Left  --  ingcrs never tire of claiming this point as their special ideal today . Whatever the system 's faults it has inspired generations of public school boys to give unstinted service at home and abroad in the ranks of the fighting . in the civil services , and in education , law , medicine and science . Critics of the system are on much sounder ground when they insist on spreading the opportunities for such education so that all will be able to profit from a privilege now limited to families of higher incomes . Minister of Education Butler . in an enlight ened review , sees that education reforms will be necessary after the war . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the means of making public schools available to all desiring to attend . No man would welcome this development more than Arnold would have . Even though he may be dubbed reactionary today he was revolutionary in his own time . ? ? ? POOLING RESOURCES of Britain and America in the war effort raises problems of restrictions placed on British exports under lease-lend agreements . Agreement made last September by the British government to prevent British exporters from using lease-lend materials of which there is a short supply in the United States to steal a march upon American exporters is now held here to be in need of more elastic interpretation . Unless revised it will continue to stultify the war effort by its red tape . As now interpreted , British exporters are precluded from supplying even the goods that are deemed essential overseas in the country 's war effort if such goods contain materials re , eived through lend-lease . If these materials have been bought by Britain with dollars , however . there is no restriction . While agreeing that British manufacturers should not seek , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here that exports should be delivered by the country nearest the market and by the one best able to make the shipment . exptchtiously . It fs hoped that Oliver Lyttelton will discuss this question while in Washington .                     