@@710956

txt LABOR UNIONS PLUMP for price and profit cuts while they resist the government 's wage stabilization plans . The Trades Union Congress " crisis " committee has dreamed up a three point scheme . It would ( 11 extend price controls to vegetables and other essentials , ( 2 ) raise penalties for " profiteering ' offenses and more closely check all suspects and ( 3 ) drum up consumer resistance among trade unionists against high cost commodities . The government asked union leaders several weeks ago to consider a plan to tie all further wage hikes to stepped-up industrial output . But the T.U.C. committee has been fighting the proposal with the blessing of the Congress ' all-powerful general council . Arthur Deakin , head of the big Transport and General Workers ' Union , thinks unions will get what they want Many other people will agree with him as long as the government keeps coddling unions on the wageprice issue . ? CAMPUS CALORIES are causing a lot of beefing in British university towns . Officials at ancient Oxford and Cambridge universities say their undergrads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinners but only exrtremely light lunches . Dr. W. T. S. Stallybrass. vice chancellor of Oxford , describes his university 's fare as " appalling . " He says food supplies are lower than during the war . So many students are forced to eat out to supplement their meals that municipal officials complain undergrads chisel townsfolk out of their food . Students living outside the college quarters grumble , too , They say landlords take their ration books and give them only breakfast . The Ministry of Food and a committee of university officials plan to put their heads together on the matter . ? ? ? SMUGGLING HAS BECOME a big-time business in Britain these days . Illicit traffic is bringing more scarce jewelry . liquor , banknotes . watches , clothing and textiles from the continent and the United States . A sharp-eyed customs man recently nabbed $400.000 of jewels on an airplane arriving at a . London airport from Brussels . One female trans-Atlantic traveler coming in from New York was caught trying to slip a S20.000 set of earrings through customs in a Jar of face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wide , variety of illegal currency operations . Numerous continentals have been snared at British ports of entry trying to sneak in big wads of sterling banknotes in false-bottom suit cases . Residents of France . alarmed by recent strikes and political disturbances there , are reported trying to wangle money and jewelry into Britain for safekeeping . Meanwhile . Britain 's harassed 2,500 customs officers are hot after smugglers , many of whom became experts in wartime underground activities . Flying squads of customs men plan to roam the British coasts , keeping close watch on lonely beaches , rivers and creeks . Coastal patrol points will he linked by radio , and radar-equipped speedboats have been enlisted to intercept smuggling vessels approaching the shore . ? THE 194S COAL TARGET brings cold comfort to Britons starting their second heatshort winter . They know Fuel Minister Gaitskell 's aim to boost coal output from 200 million tons this year to 214 million next year would give him the 11 million tons he wants to export to the continent . Since any increased production will go first to industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another winter on a meagre fuel handout . Despite the present rosy output figures ? just over four million tons a week ? I948 coal production is loaded with uncertainty . Coal-wise Britons expect the normal preChristmas burst of overtime work in the mines to slack off . The 715,500 miners in the pits at the end of November were well below the government 's target of 730,000 by year 's end . MORE DOLLAR BAIT : British stamps and carnations bound for the U. S. The government expects to net about $800 million on three special sets of stamps going on sale next year  --  mainly to American collectors . One set marks the silver wedding anniversary of King George and Queen Elizabeth . Another commemorates the liberation of the Channel Islands from the Germans . The third notes the Olympic Games to be staged in Wembley Stadium next summer . Prices will range from one cent to $4 . Meantime . British florists are packing carnations in cotton and air-freighting them to the U. S. for sale . About 3,000 blooms have been sent so far and over 50,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at $140 a hundred . ? ? ? THE HORSELESS CARRIAGE 'S early days are recalled by Britain 's ban on the basic gas ration . Weekend traffic , especially in the country districts , is smaller now than any time during the war . About 800 to 600 cars used to pass checkpoints on the main roads from London to the coast every hour . Now there are only about five to VS hourly . Golfers use buses , taxis and bicycles to get to their country clubs . Traffic at busy Hyde Park corner which once boasted a weekend load peak of 88,000 autos in 12 hours has dwindled to a few hundred cars . A Hyde Park corner cop says of the ban on non-essential driving ? " It 's one law that 's really hard to beat . "                     