@@711434

txt Governor Bradford in answer to the demands of 400 Chelsea and Charlestown residents who were protesting the scheduled eviction of 326 families from their homes , said today that he would not let the " families be kicked out , of their homes without a place to go . " The ? governor made this statement after the shouting crowd had stormed up to the Governor 's office and milled around the executive chambers for nearly two hours . Placards Displayed Arriving at the State House shortly after 10 a.m. the crowd displaying placards a.m. , occupied Gardner Auditorium in the State House and started an orderly protest meeting . They were protesting the scheduled Sept. 1 eviction of 326 families , comprising approximately 1,300 from their Chelsea and Charlestown homes . Under provisions of a Legislative Act of 1946 , the Mystic River Bridge Authority is preparing for the construction of a new bridge to span the Mystic River between Charlestown-and Chelsea . Earlier when the mass of . people was gathered in Gardner Auditorium , the governor had sent a message by Harold Stevens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested a postponement of the evictions by the bridge authority for a " reasonable " period of time until a workable solution was arrived at . Answer Demanded Later the Governor said that he wanted " an answer from the Bridge Authority by 3:30 p.m. , today , " and added , " I will not be satisfied with anything but a favorable answer . " While the crowd massed outside the governor 's office , the governor was in session with his Executive Council to which he submitted ? numerous appointments , and before which he swore in several persons whose appointments at a previous meeting had been confirmed . When the governor 's message to the Bridge Authority in which he requested a stay of evictions was read to the Gardner Auditorium audience , it was condemned by a host of Chelsea and Charlestown legislators , city officials , and members of a committee which waited on . the Governor , with cries of " This guy is kidding us , " and " He is ignoring us , " and " He 's ducking the issue . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which preceded the mass movement to the governor 's office that the governor was " dumping the problem back into the lap of the city and letting the state out from under . " The audience which consisted mostly of mothers and their children roared its aproval of these and other statements by legislators and officials who said that a special session of the legislature should be called to solve the problem . " If this is the best the governor can do , " Mayor Thomas P. Keating of Chelsea , said , referring to the governor 's request for an eviction stay , " he ought to be ashamed of himself . " It was with statements such as these that the excitement of the , crowd was worked tip to such a pitch that they finally moved out of the auditorium and up several floors to the governor 's office :                     