@@708389

txt Most medical educators will heartily agree with Prof. S. W. Britton 's endorsement in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Jan , 21 of your editorial on Dr. Alan Gregg 's plea for financial support of medical research , and also with his emphasis upon the point that such funds should be utilized in large part to increase personnel in the medical sciences and to insure adequate compensation for the traditionally underpaid medical scientists . It is the latter who have , through their fundamental researches and teaching , been mainly instrumental in effecting the spectacular advances in scientific medicine of the past half century . It is regrettable , however , that Dr. Britton in making his plea introduced a quite irrelevant and wholly gratuitous assertion which the undersigned can not allow to remain unchallenged . He apparently takes the position that medical scientists who have had more training in their special sciences than in clinical medicine ( that is , Doctors of Philosophy or Science ) are less competent to teach their own subjects to medical students than are physicians who have been trained as general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent of the advanced training and research in the medical and basic sciences which is required of candidates for the higher degrees of Ph . D. or Sc . D. Many Subjects to Cover It will be understood that there is no question here of teaching clinical ( bedside ) medicine , much of which is conducted as an art rather than as an application of the medical sciences . The subdivision of the four years of the medical course into some twentyodd subjects is not arbitrary , but arises from the impossibility of real mastery by one man of more than a fraction of the total subject-matter . The largest hiatus between subjects is that produced by the differences between the clinical subjects and the medical sciences . A logical step forward , already taken at the University of Chicago , is to absorb the Medical Science Departments into the Faculty of Science of the university . We have come a very long way since 1895 , when in most American schools " the course was of twenty weeks , and each student ' had to take that course twice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduated " ( Journal of the American Association of Medical Colleges , Vol. 10 , No. 1 , 1935 ) . The course at that time was mostly anatomy and was conducted as a sideline by busy practitioners . The relation of the scientist to the technologist is better understood in the engineering than in the medical profession . No engineering educator would question the desirability of mathematics being taught by a mathematician or of physics by a physicist in a school of engineering . It is axiomatic that engineering stands upon the shoulders of the pure sciences of mathematics and physics . Identities to Be Preserved The medical sciences bear the same relationship toscientific medicine . It is as important to the future of scientific medicine as it is to the future of each of the medical sciences that the latter preserve their identities as independent , self-consistent disciplines . To cast physiology and biochemistry in the role of mere handmaidens of clinical medicine would be to condemn them to a sterile routine as fatal to the progress of clinical medicine as to their own . As Dean Rappleye of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medical sciences are not to be thought of as pre-clinical nor as ancillary to any other subject , but as the medical sciences which should be pursued for their own sakes . But the subject is , fortunately , no longer a matter for debate , since history has provided an unequivocal answer . As Dr. Britton has said , Doctors of Philosophy today largely determine who shall be our doctors of medicine . This has been increasingly the case during the last fifty years . It was also during this period that American medical science and education attained a position of world leadership . These facts are not unrelated , for it was the scientists , invited by the medical faculties to join them , who made it possible for the latter to rescue American medicine from the rank of empiricism and superstition which prevailed in the last century . Would not Professor Britton 's appeal have been more effective if he had not permitted an unfounded prejudice against the type of training enjoyed by a majority of his colleagues in the medical sciences to becloud the issue ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important fields , perhaps the most important fields , in need of financial assistance are research and teaching in the medical sciences . Referring to your editorial " Railroad Retirement Laws , " not only are retired railroad workers more favored in pensions by our Government than the 57 , - 000,000 workers under Social Security , but railroad workers and Social Security workers are totally exempt from income taxation on their pensions , whereas retired employes of the Federal , State and municipal governments must pay full rates on their reduced , fixed , unproductive half-pay incomes . So destructive is this practice that public employes are now extending their period of service five years to and beyond the age of 70 in order to provide additional pension for the payr ment of Federal Income tax . When 10 , - 000,000 soldiers and sailors come back looking for jobs , the tax-enforced continuance in service of unwilling aged public employes will shut many an employment door to the veterans . Before Congress further favors selective groups of private employes it might well right this discrimination against governmental employes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unnecessary irritation over reports from Moscow of German divisions from the western front , appearing on the eastern front . The explanation is the German policy in this war of reconstituting ilt home depots any division shattered at the front and then sending it to active duty without regard to previous assignment . Thus German divisions captured completely at Stalingrad were reconstituted and some appeared later in Italy and France . Traditionally an , army staff resents the appearance Dn its front of enemy units which it le , lieves should have been pinned down on other fronts . The Moscow reaction , is normal , yet there are two natural points of view . Recently Moscow reported appearing on the eastern front from the western front the German Eleventh Tank 344th , 595th and 712th Infantry Divisions . Actually the Eleventh Tank was almost wiped out in the Cherkassy pocket , re : constituted in Germany , sent to southern France and there pushed by General Patch from Marseille to Belfort Gap , losing most of its armor and men . It disappeared and obviously has been reconstituted hastily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never intended for front-line combat . It was overrun by the British near the Schelde estuary in Holland and so badly smashed that remnants were withdrawn into Germany to be reconstituted . The 344th and 595th are limited combat troops , as indicated by their numerical series . They were very likely shattered in France yet never attained the dignity of public notice by identification . Three other divisions have been reported by the Russians as appearing in the east from the west , and all three fall into the same categories . Also one should accept with reserve the current report that shattered dhisions from the Belgium bulge already are going to these eastern fronts ; more likely they are withdrawing to lc reconstituted . In connection with a letter published in your issue of Jan. 31 under the caption " Mazzini Society Founders , " I should like to point out two important facts which were omitted by the writer . The dates mentioned about the founding of the society are correct , but the writer failed to report that this society started functioning when Prof. Max Ascoli became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Ascoli-Tarchiani administration the society was an er -- ganization on paper . Ascoli and Tarchiani remained in office until May , 1943 . It is true that some , not all , of the founders resigndd , but they did so not because of " new policies which were in contradiction with the society 's original ideals , " Indeed , they resigned at the national convention of Nov. 27-23 , 1943 , when their attempt to change tl-e " original ideals " of the society was defeated . These ideals pledged the society " to oppose every kind of dictatorship and to cooperate . actively in the fight against fascism . " The way in which place names ars mispronounced by war news reporters and commentators is a minor irritation indeed , as Mr. Rich rightly observed is his letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES . It is more irritating to find that the " Polish " pronunciation of Czestochowa , as given by Mr. Rich is incorrect . The correct way of pronouncing this diffi- , cult name is approximated by Chenstokhova . I read with interest William F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am an Englishwoman and have lived in New York for nearly seven years , and my experience is the sama as his . I have had kindness shown me everywhere . Americans and NON , Yorkers are the nicest people to live . among . I know , because I have tray eled a great deal and lived in many countries .                     