@@710122

txt Topics of The Times In the field of internaWords tional relations there is a Become process at work that might Strange be described as anti-semantic . Semantics is the science of the meaning of words . Semanticists frequently and plausibly insist that they have an important contribution to make to the cause of interna1 tional peace and One World . Their argument is that people quarrel because they misunderstand each other , and people misunderstand each other because they so often use different words for the same thing . If we can get people to realize the real meaning of their own words as well as their opponents ' words we promote a meeting of minds . When the semanticists say Minds they can help to build One Drift ' World they presumably exApart pect to do it by taking two different words as used by two different nations and showing that beneath the apparent clash the nations really mean the same thing . But what is actually happening now is just the opposite . Every day we find that old words with a definitely established single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world 's stock of ambiguous words , instead of being diminished , is being steadily augmented . Once upon a time , for exNew ample , the Russian people Rugsian had no elections for pubCustom lie office , no freedom of speech , no labor unions , whereas in Great Britain and the United States we had then , as now , free elections , freedom of speech , free labor organizations . People then agreed that the thing which prevailed in old Russia was autocracy or even despotism , and the way of life in Great Britain and in America was democracy . Today in Russia they still have no free elections , no free speech , no free labor unions , but they call it democracy . One can conceive of One World in which some nations prefer freedom and the others prefer unfreedom . It is not a perfect One World , but nevertheless a modus vivendi world without world wars , as in fact we had it for a whole nineteenth century . But when the Russians today insist on calling freedom what we call unfreedom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is there for a teal meeting of minds ? Two opposite answers Old to this question have Style been offered by two Democracy American scholars . Prof. R. M. Mather , discussing democracy in his new book , " The Web of Government , " apparently believes that humanity 's best interests are served by holding fast to the old , familiar meaning of democracy . " Democracy is not a way of governing , whether by majority or otherwise , but primarily a way of determining who shall govern And , broadly , to what ends . " These objectives are decided in a democracy by a free casting of votes plus freedom of opinion both before and after the voting . " The right to differ does not end with the victory of the majority but is inherent in the democratic system . " And so , when Harold Laski speaks of " economic democracy , " it is Professor 's contention that Mr. Laski is not speaking of democracy in any sense . Mr. Laski is not proposing that workers should by ballot elect the managers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursued . Mr. Laski " certainly can offer no evidence that these democratic procedures are applied in Soviet Russia . " Actually , Mr. Laski wants the state to operate his collectivist economic system , and so his program is really a political one . " A democracy may approve a collectivist system or reject it . It is still ' a democracy . " On the other hand , Time Professor Northrop , in for " The Meeting of East Change ? and West , " finds that the democracy of the future must lay its foundations on firmer ground than the " restricted and outmoded philosophy of Locke and Hume . " In that new democratic structure " freedom will be conceived as involving not merely the - Lockean political freedom to choose one 's own lay and ecclesiastical representatives , and the Marxian economic freedom to have enough to eat , but also the Latin , and especially the Spanish , psychological freedom of the emotions and the sentiments . " The layman interested in The the building of One World Safer grounded in democracy and Way freedom finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end . One way is to hold fast to the conception of democracy and freedom that has prevailed in those countries where democracy and freedom have long operated , while hoping to see that familiar idea spread to other parts of the world . The other way is seriously to modify the established nature of democracy and freedom so as to make it easier to " sell " these precious commodities to foreign parts . The layman will be inclined to feel that the longer wait and the greater risk are implied in the Northrop as against the Maclver approach .                     