@@712136

txt With the names of President Truman and two sors of the late President Franklin Roosevelt figuring in their calculations , Democratic leaders are already setting their sights on the Presidential election of 1952. anat . Ir . Truman intends w run for another term is doubled by few Democratic politicians . To inetdr ies on the subject he does n't say yea and he does n't say nay . When asked if his hat is in the ring he replies that " the ring is a long way off yet . " All the political maneuvering that is going on , however , is being either initiated or forwarded by the President and is all of a character that indicates early planning for a repeat performance of the 19.18 Truman victory . The President owed his election last ? , ? ear to the votes of farmers and workingmen and he prides himself on charting that combination for victory in his acceptance speech at Philadelphia when he said that these groups would be ungrateful if they should not support , him at the polls . Uses Iowa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current political ' planning and it was in accord with that ' strategy that the recent farm and labor conference , attended by the Democratic organizations in 16 . western states , was held at Des . Moines . This conference for the purpose of mobilizing farm support for the Democrats in the congressional elections Of .1950 and the ' Presidential election two years later was staged in Iowa to dramatize Mr , Trnman 's caotnre.of tpat normally Republican almost exclusively agricultural state . Efforts to obtain 's large representation of farm organizations were only partly successful ; , Leaders of the left wing Farmers ' union were on hand but the right wing Farm Bureau federation was conspicuously unrepresented . The Democratic . leaders are giving attentiOrf : to that little matter , too , If they are successful , Allen Kline , an Iowa ' ; Republican who is opposing the ? Brannan farm subsidy plan , will . find himself repudiated , if not ' ousted , as president of the feder ration . The Des Nloines conference Indorsed the Brannan plan to . guarantee high prices to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products with the taxpayer ? footing the . bill for the gap between them . Sounds Farmer-Labor Cry Numerous eastern labor leaders And pro-labor congressmen were brought to Des Moines to appear ion the platform and evoke echoes of the campaign cries of the ! Fanner-Labor parties of other dabs . Victor limit Naming , executive . secretary of the Democratic congressional campaign committee , proclaimed that " labor and the farmers together should run this country sad they Can run it . If we lose in 19 50 it will be because we have n't recognized , this . " - the Democrats gained five senate and a ) house seats in those 16 western states last year and their best chances of gains in 4 950are in that territory . where nine seats and 80 house seats now held by Republicans will be at stake . It is to a third term that Mr. Truman is aspiring , his first term having been all but three months of the fourth term to which Mr. Roosevelt was elected . A constitutional amendment limiting the tenure of the Presidency to two terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become effective . There already are rumblings of competition for Mr. Truman in his ambition to succeed himself in 1952 , The smashing victory of Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . in his election to congress last month from the 20th New York district set the tongues of the politicians wagging over his political potential . - Some conceived it entirely possible that youngRoosevelt will run for governor of New York next year and , if elected , would be a sure-fire contender for the Democratic nomination for President in 1952 . He is row 35 years old , the constitutional minimum age for President . Acts Like His Father Franklin , a playboy of note , who looks and acts a lot like his father , exhibited great political acumen during his campaign for congress and afterward . He did not take his seat in the house until he had Journeyed to Israel and commended himself to the Jews who are a politically potent group in his district and the remainder'of New York City . Some carpers there are who contend that Franklin is not constitutionally eligible to the Presidency because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If he were nominated for President the Supreme court probably would be asked to pass on the question . Only a " natural born citizen " is eligible to hold the chief magistracy . Court . decisions so far rendered , while not definite , hold that a person born on foreign soil of parents who are ? United States citizens is a " natural born citizen . " But Franklin is not the only son of the great New Dealer who is setting his cap for the Presidency in ** Roosevelt , chairnerd the-Ca/Meets- Decor:lathe state committee , is a candidate for the nomination for governor of that state next year with the expectation that if elected he will stand for the nomination for President two years later . James Got Back in Line It will be nothing new for James to oppose the nomination of Mr. Truman for another term . James was the leader of the movement to sidetrack the President at Philadelphia and nominate Eisenhower as the only man deemed able to defeat Dewey . Afterward he got in line for Truman . Those who think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will occupy the White House and strengthen the Roosevelt claim to being the first family of the Republic are prepared for the spectacle of James Roosevelt , governor of California , contending with his brother Franklin , governor of New York , not to mention Mr. Truman , for the Presidential nomination in 1952 . Others being groomed for the nomination include Supreme Court Justice Douglas , Gov . Bowles of Connecticut , Gov . Stevenson of Illinois , and Sen. Humphrey of Minnesota .                     