@@706581

txt The government will maintain an " open door policy " concerning news and information needed by the public for complete understanding of the war and the steps take-n16 win it , Elmer Davis , director of the new Office of War Information , promised today . " This is a people 's war and to win it the people should know as much about it as they can , " he told the heads of all government departments and agencies in his regulation No. 1 . The Army and the Navy , however , are to have the final word in determining what military news is to be released to the public . This was made clear by Mr. Davis at a press conference when , emphasizing that the difficult problem of national security must always be considered , he said that the question of what constituted " aid and comfort to the enemy " in the way of information was a matter for the armed services to decide . To Consult on Communiques Mr. Davis added that he would always be consulted before Army and Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his views and those of the I Army and Navy could be harmonized . Time and again he made it plain that national . security must be a compelling factor in the decisions . Although under Presidential authority he could issue " binding directives " to the military establishments , Mr. Davis said , he did not think that a civilian should exercise this power , and he added that he did not consider that the President meant him to be the sole determinant in such matters . " This office , " Mr. Davis stated in his Regulation No. 1 , " will do its best to tell the truth and nothing but the truth , both at home and abroad . Miliary information that would aid the enemy must be withheld ; but within that limitation we shall try to give the people a clear , complete and accurate picture . " The Office of War Information will not , and does not want to , curtail the open-door policy that has always prevailed in the dealings of the government with press and radio and other news media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can put an end to conflicting statements which confuse the public mind . This can be done , I believe , by giving the complete truth to the public as rapidly as possible , and by endeavoring to establish procedures which may enable different agencies to reach agreement before a given issue comes to the state of publication . " This regulation described the duties of the various officers in the reorganized information bureau , a reorganization announced in a separate statement . The Office of War Information will be separated into three major branches : Policy Development , headed by Archibald , former head of the Office of Facts and Figures ; Domestic Information , supervised by Gardner Cowles Jr. , now president of The Des Moines Register and Tribune , and Overseas Information Operations , directed by Robert Sherwood , who handled such activities for the Coordinator of Information . Each of these men is to be an assistant director . M. S. Eisenhower , recently director of the War Relocation Authority , will be Associate Director under Mr. Davis . Robert Horton , who was in charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be chief of the news bureau under Mr. Cowles . William B. Lewis , radio chain executive , will head the radio bureau , and Lowell Mellett , former chief of the Office of Government Reports , will command the bureau of motion pictures . Mr. Davis said in making known his plans at a press conference that his new establishment probably would be moved into the Social Security Building over the week-end . The set-up announced today was the best " we can think of now , " he said , although periodical changes probably would be necessary . He denied reports that all government reports and statements would be issued over a central news desk , but said that this desk would handle ' ' a great deal of matter , " even as it does now finder Mr. Horton . " Gets on Well " With Military Almost immediately the confer , ence swung to a discussion of Mr. Davis 's relations with the Army and Navy , where there has been a clash of views as to what should be kept secret . The OWI chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we got on very well . " And there had been some agreement . " Since I have been on the inside , I realize that there are matters relating to the national security which can not be revealed , " he said . The public might believe that some of these matters should properly be disclosed , he added , but there were instances where this was obviously impossible . He said there would be no comment from his office on military communiqu  --  s . The chief task of the Office of War Information , said Mr. Davis , would be to try to clarify government statements into proper harmony and do away with absurd conflicts . He said he would have preferred to have three accredited reporters admitted to the trial of the Nazi saboteurs , but this did not work out , and the system of short press releases was the best arrangement that could be devised . The only real change made in the new OWI set-up , said Mr. Davis , was the appointment of Mr. Cowles . He said he was supposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available men in the present publicity bureaus . " I read in some papers that I am resigning , " Mr. Davis commented in alluding to stories telling of his I differences with the Army and I Navy . " As far as I know , that is a mistake .. I have no intention of resigning at present . " Says Military Truth Is Told " Are the Army and Navy telling the truth absolutely regarding submarine sinkings ? " Mr. Davis was asked . " I have only been here a short time , but so far as I know they are telling the truth , " he answered . He said he had not found any trend in the Army and Navy " to hold back the truth . " " The view of this office , " he went on , " is that everything should be printed if it does not endanger ' the national security . " Mr. Davis said that officers of the policy development branch of his office would serve as representatives of the director in edjusting inter-departmental policy differences which otherwise would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general policies and programs aimed at keeping the public accurately informed on all phases of the war effort . Attached to this branch will be a bureau of intelligence , headed by R. Keith Kane , " to survey and analyze specific problems and provide OWI with current knowledge as to the adequacy or inadequacy of government war information from the point of view of the public itself . "                     