@@708113

txt Eric A. Johnston , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , and Robert M. Gaylord , president of the National Association of Manufacturers , urged the National War Labor Board today to favor continuance of wartime wage and price stabilization policies until the end of the war . On the other hand , leaders of " white collar " and agricultural workers ' unions advocated modification of the " Little Steel " formula . While he advocated high wages for American workers and said that he would favor progressive wage increases " as improved methods permit increased production , " Mr. Johnston said that he would " oppose wholesale wage reductions after the war . " " What we must avoid is both in flation and deflation , " he declared . " That is why I come before the board today to advocate ' holding the line ' on our wartime wage and , price policies . Anything that causes inflation now inevitably will ' bring in its wake deflation later on . " After the last war we had inflation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . " If the present stabilization policy fails , Mr. Johnston told the board , " we lose the only anchor that we have against a spiral of rising costs and prices . " Opposes Hourly Rate Increase Aside from the danger of inflation if present stabilization policies are set aside , Mr. Johnston said that post-war industry would be handicapped if hourly rates are increased now to offset decreased weekly earnings when war work slackens . In that event , he said , he believed that the higher costs would be immediately imposed on consumer industries that will seek to expand employment , and as a result , " industries on which we must rely to increase employment and consumer goods " would be handicapped . " Again , " Mr. Johnston continued , " wage increases imposed now would come at a time when postwar production costs are a complete mystery . After the war there unquestionably will be great pressure for increased wage rates to compensate for the loss in the weekly take-home due to overtime war work . Most firms will want to increase hourly rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All real wages are paid out of production . " The Chamber of Commerce spokesman said that he believed in high wages for the American worker because " he is the best producer in the world . " ? Referring to the current dispute over whether prices have outdistanced wages , Mr. Johnston said he would not debate the point but would content himself by saying that , " In all fairness it must be said that we have done a creditable job of holding the line . " Replying to a question on the annual wage . put by John Brophy , labor member of the board , Mr. Johnston said he had always favored every effort by industry to iron out peaks and valleys of pro- I duction and that while many industries are already on an annual wage , other industries still found annual wage guarantees to be economically impossible . Gaylord Backs Formula Mr. Gaylord told the board that he saw no need for changing the " Little Steel " formula now , because President Roosevelt , as recently as last June , had stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been held without change . " Mr. Gaylord said that business men whose profits before taxes are high enough to absorb wage increases without increasing prices are in the position that higher wages they may pay " will come primarily out of the United States Treasury . " " So long as excess-profits taxes are set at 95 per cent , the Treasury , not the employer , will then take the loss of virtually all reduction in business profits resulting from higher wages , " he asserted . In the case of time companies which do not have enough profits to absorb higher wages , he insisted that " prices will have to be raised by enough to ' cover the increased wages . " Money to pay increased wages comes from the public , Mr. Gaylord added , and that money will come from increased prices or it will come from more taxes levied upon the public at large " to offset the lower taxes received from business . " When Mr. Gaylord remarked that it was " unfortunate that a decision on this issue has been postponed until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Robert J. Watt , labor member , said he was unable to understand this observation . Mr. Watt said that labor , which is presumed to be for the Administration politically , is opposing the Administration 's wage policy , while industry , which is not supporting the Administration politically , favors the Government 's wage policy . Urge Salaried Employes ' Unit Lewis Merrill , president of the United Office and Professional Workers of America ( CIO ) asserted that the " Little Steel " formula was the bottleneck preventing proper compensation of the whitecollar workers . Advocating establishment by the NWLB of a salaried employes ' commission to assume full authority over disputes and wage-stabilization issues affecting salaried employes , Mr. Merrill said it should be the policy of the Government to encourage and initiate " industrywide classification systems in all industries employing white-collar workers . " Summarizing the economic situation of the white collar and professional workers , Mr. Merrill said that their economic status was worsening in relation to the remainder of the population , that their salaries are not enough to maintain maximum health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that their decreased efficiency results in increased production costs . Donald Henderson , president of the United Agricultural , Cannery and Packing House Workers of America ( CIO ) , said that wages of cannery and agricultural procasing workers were far below subsistence levels . He suggested that these workers be raised to a minimum of 65 cents an hour after which they should also receive the benefit of whatever modification may be made in the " Little Steel " formula . Al Philip Kane , counsel for the National Federation of Telephone Workers , also proposed increasing the wage scale of telephone workers to new minimums , with added cost of living adjustments beyond the minimums.                     