@@706328

txt Fundamental responsibility for the administration 's failure to prov i d e synthetic rubber for the nation 's war effort was attributed to President goos.eveIt today at a senate committee hearing by William L. B a t materials director of the War Production boars . Batt indicated that the President depended upon British assurances that they would hold Malaya . Testifying before the Truman committee , which is investigating war production , Batt said that the President supported Jesse H. Jones , federal loan administrator , in blocking a synthetic rubber expansion program recommended by the old national defense advisory committee in 1940 . Batt intimated that it is not fair to place the blame for the bunglingl of the synthetic rubber program exclusively on Jones . Says Jones Was Informed . Mr. Jones was receiving information in very filch places as to what might happen in the far east , " the witness said . " A great many people in very high places did not believe the Dutch East Indies would be attacked , or would fall if attacked . " The inference of Batt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisers risked a rubber tire civilization on the propositior. that Japan would not or could not shut off our sources of natural rubber in the Dutch East Indies and British Malaya . The synthetic rubber expansion program was shelved back in 1940 at a time when Secretary of State Cordell Hull was justifying his intervention an Asiatic affairs on the ground that the United States had a vital interest in maintaining the status quo in the southwestern Pacific region . Eeasons Not Given . Nothing was said at today 's heartog about the reasons for Mr. Roosevelt 's assurance that our Asiatic rubber supplies were in no danger . It was learned , however , that Mr. Jones discussed this question at a recent closed hearing of the house banking and currency committee . He told the house committee that the British had assured Mr. Roose ! velt it would not be necessary to create a large synthetic rubber industry in the United States . The British assured the President , according to the Jones testimony , that Japan could never capture the rubber plantations of British Malaya and the Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protested against taking advantage of them in wartime by developing a synthetic rubber industry that would compete with them in peacetime . British Turn to U. S. Not only are the British and Dutch sources of natural rubber gone , but England , Australia , India , and the other united nations now find themselves dependent upon the synthetic rubber program initiated by the United States after the Japanese attaLked Pearl Harbor , Batt testified today . He described the situation as " desperately critical . " Altho he expressed confidence that the present goal of producing 300.000 tons of synthetic rubber in 1943 and 600,000 in 1944 will be attained , he said the military requirements of ourselves and our allies would leave nothing for automobile tires or other civilian uses . Batt submitted documentary evidence to support his contention that the old national defense advisory commission and its successor , the Office of Production Management . were apprehensive in 1940 and 1941 that our Asiatic supplies of rubber would be shut off in the event of war with Japan and were blocked by other officials of the government when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Praised for Foresight . Sen. Harold M. Burton ER. , O. commented after hearing Batt 's story that it represented extraordinary foresight . " The commission had all the machinery , all the technical advice , all the expertness , and it was disregard . ed by the amateurs , " Senator Burton said . Batt said he was chairman of the rubber committee of the advisory commission under Edward R. Stettinius Jr. , present lend-lease administrator , who was head of the materials division , In June , 1940 , he said , the commission became seriously concerned about the rubber supply in the event of war with Japan and made a survey of the synthetic production possibilities . Recommendation to President . After conferences with rubber companies the commission agreed upon a program calling for an annual production capacity of 100,000 tons . Stettinius recommended the program in a memorandum to the President , dated Sept 12 , 1940 , which said in part : " The committee feels that serious consideration should be given by appropriate government agencies to expansion as quickly as possible of our productive capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . If this is increased to 100,000 tons it would cover our needs for strictly war purposes and , combined with existing stocks of crude and maximum use of reclaimed , would enable the rubber industry to perform its vital lunctions until more synthetic rubber plants could be built , " Also Took Program to Jones . Batt said the advisory commission officials also took their synthetic rubber program to Jones , who headed the only available government financing agency . " It developed that there was a difference of opinion between us , on one side , and Mr. Jones , supported by the President , as to the need of this expansion program , " Batt testified . " Mr. Jones said he had discussed the matter with the President and that in these discussions the program was considered larger than was necessary . He felt that some synthetic rubber plants were necessary , but that in looking into the future we were far too pessimistic . " After further fruitless conferences , Batt said , " Mr. Jones suggested that the rubber program be turned over to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we turned over everything to him and said : ' Now you carry it from here on . " Letter by Stettinius . On Nov. 25 , 1940 , Stettinius signed a letter addressed to Jones which made it plain , for the record , that Jones had taken over the rubber program at his own request and would be held , responsible for the consequences . Batt said the materials division of the advisory commission maintained its interest in the synthetic rubber program after Jones took charge of it . He intimated that the OPM , successor to the advisory commission was responsible in 1941 for an increase in the synthetic rubber program finally proposed by Jones from 10,000 to 40,000 tons a year .                     