@@707297

txt The United States Government will ask municipal employes of New York City to volunteer for freight handling and other railroad jobs to ease the acute shortage of railroad manpower and release thousands of delayed freight cars loaded vhth war materials around the pert , it was disclosed yesterday . Mayor Morello H. La Guardia will be asked by the War Shipping Administration to forward the appeal to all city employes , and to lurge them to devote their weekly days off , or part of them , to the Eastern railroads involved in a jam-up unprecedented in this war . Later the appeal may be extended to other cities in the area . Workers will recdive regular pay of 68-70 cents an hour , and , while steady workers are needed , they may des-1 ignate work periods as short in length as they choose . Railroad and government officials have estimated that 8,0001 freight cars packed with materials1 urgently needed by our troops ands Allies abroad are awaiting freight handlers in the New York district , principally in yards in New Jersey.1 They said the unloading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all needs adequately . Problem Not Temporary It was stressed in all quarters that the problem was not a temporary one , and meant much more than recruiting enough men to unload the cars now on hand . Major Howard J. Lepper , area WMC director in Newark , said that in addition to 1,600 full-time workers the roads need 3,200 part-time workers . He added that several hundred had volunteered during the day , and that to facilitate the enlistment Coast Guard authorities had agreed to set up special centers for the issuance of identification , cards . Major Lepper has appealed to New Jersey Mayors to encourage ) policemen , firemen and other mu-1 nicipal workers to offer their serv-i Ices . At present , he said , he doubted that it would be necessary to call on the Army , because he did not believe workers would stand by and let ships wait in the anchorages and at piers for cargo . Capt . Granville Conway , Atlantic coast director of the War Shipping Administration , said probably there were thousands of employes in the city , men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policemen and white collar workers , who might respond to the WSA. appeal , which will be made on the basis of patriotic duty . Grave Problem Faced " The railroads , which have done a great job in this war , are faced with a grave problem , " he said . " Many men have already come forward as a result of appeals made by the Railroad Retirement Board and the War Manpower Commission , we need many , many more . This cargo must be kept moving , and we can not afford to let a manpower shortage become a bottleneck now . Certainly*there is no other bottleneck in our program to produce and deliver . " Railroad officials seeking a solution to their problem yesterday stopped after a conference in the War Shipping Administration offices at 45 Broadway to talk to a group of the Government agency 's uniformed guards , and one of the guards , an active worker in an uptown church , volunteered to carry the appeal to his congregation next Sunday night . Other men in the building said they alma would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first official appeal from the Army was issued last night after another emergency appeal from Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg , regional director of the War Manpower Commission , who declared that it was " one of the most important manpower calls we have issued . " " It will be tragic if vital war products , ready for use on the fighting fronts , were to be held up here for lack of manpower to move them from the freight cars , " she said . " Furthermore , cars must be returned to their home lines , particularly in the Middle West where the harvested crops must be moved . " She pointed out that the work paid time and a half for overtime after eight hours and for Sunday and holiday w &rk.; " The need is so great , " said the announcement , " that men who can give only a few hours of their spare time will be making a valuable contribution to the war effort " Mrs. Rosenberg announced that offices of the United States Employment Service would be open in the city again tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience but must have birth certificates , citizenship papers or other official evidence of birth or citizenship . Shortage Widespread Railroad executives said in Chicago yesterday that manpower shortages were handicapping rail operations all over the country , with acute conditions in the East . With the Railroad Retirement Board they are pressing a drive for more men . In connection with discussion of the shortages it was learned in Chicago that railroad labor was preparing to block proposals to employ war prisoners on maintenance and other track work . The Railway Executives Association some weeks ago adopted a resolution denouncing the plan , saying it would destroy the morale of present employes , although those fallning it say they can see no hazards , since the prisoners would work under guard .                     