@@706729

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 10 ? Action by Congress to authorize the drafting of youths of 18 and 19 years of age moved nearer today I as Secretary Stimson declared that all physically and mentally sound youths should prepare to meet the needs of the Army and stated the War Department 's intention to call to active military duty all student members of the Army enlisted reserve as they reached the draft age . Senator , Reynolds , chairman of the Military Affairs Committee , set next Wednesday as the date for starting hearings on a bill sponsored by Senator Gurney to draft the younger men , in line with the Army 's recommendations . The bill is being studied by War Department experts . Senator Reynolds 's statement followed soon after a press conference in which Secretary Stimson not only warned all youth to be ready to serve but revealed the War Department 's intention to displace quasi-military training in universities and colleges with direct military training in the Army . It is probable , he said , that the first men , if not all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new college term , probably in January . He added to a prepared statement the remark that the War Department planned to " modify " the Reserve Officers Training Corps program " to conform to an early termination . " " We are running short of Army manpower now , " Secretary Stimson said . He pointed out that college students we 're encouraged to join the Army enlisted reserves " in the be-1 lief that the training afforded by study at colleges was useful for their preparation for service in the armed forces and that a substantial number of those enlisted Would prove qualified for selection // as candidates for training as officers . " " The stepping up of the intensity of the vital combat in which we are engaged , " he added , " and the growing need for enlarged forces make it clear that all young men fortunate enough to have the physical and mental qualifications to enable them to serve their country in the armed forces are destinated for that service . " Further , the exigencies of the war have now become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the college term or semester beginning in September those student members of the reserve who have rached selective service age will all or for the most part be called to active duty and those reaching that age during subsequent terms will similarly be called . " When enlisted reservists are called to active duty the Army ' All determine what further training is required to qualify these men for military duty . For this purpose the War Department will adopt such methods and utilize such facilities of its own or of the colleges as Will best meet the current military requirements . " In general , training after call to active duty will be highly specialized to qualify the men for specific military duty . Such training will be given only as required by military necessity and will be concentrated into the minimum time period . Plans under consideration contemplate an R. 0 . T. C. training program modified to conform to this policy . " In response to questions , the Secretary indicated that the Army feels there is little if any value in the present system of mixing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We have advised all the students to take all the time they can to carry on with their educational work , " Mr. Stimson said . " They should not dilute it with amateur military work under amateur instructors because the military work can be handled so much better under the high-pressure system used by . the Army . " The Army is studying the question of recalling to active service enlisted ' men formerly released from the Regular Army and National Guard because of family dependency . The individual situation of each of several thousand such cases is being studied in the light of new legislation authorizing payment of allowances to wives and families of enlisted men . " Those who should no longer be deferred for this reason , " said an official statement , " will be recalled to active service as soon as practicable after Oct. 1 and in no case later than Dec. 1 , 1942 . " While the Army thus moved to enhance its manpower , the Navy reported issuance of orders , effective immediately , to prevent further enlistment of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first obtaining release of such men from their local draft boards . The Navy order covered men now listed at 2-A , 2-B and 3-B . These classifications cover , respectively , men necessary in civilian capacity essential to the national health , safety or interest ; men necessary to the war production program , and men deferred by local boards by reason of both dependence and activity . " No man whom the local board continues . in these specified classifications will be enlisted in the Navy until released by his local draft board for such enlistment , " said an order hanged down by Rear Admiral Jacobs , chief of naval personnel . The House Military Affairs Committee approved today a bill authorizing the reduction of the course at West Point during the war from four years to three years .                     