@@705715

txt The War Department 's proposal to empower the President to prolong the service of selectees and Nations/ Guardsmen , as well as regularly enlisted men and Reserve officers , until six months after the end of the national emergency , and to employ them anywhere inside or outside the Western Hemisphere in the interest of national defense , was formally presented . to the Senate today in three resolutions . Congress leaders immediately set themselves for another " all out " debate on war and defense policies . Not only did they feel that great controversy was inherent in these measures but they were also aware of Administration desire for pricefixing legislation and additional billions in appropriations for leaselend aid to Britain and her allies , possibly necessitating a further upward revision of taxes . The service resolutions were introduced ' by Senator Robert R. Reynolds , Democrat , of North Carolina , chairman of the Military Affairs Committee , who explained that he was acting on formal requests made by General Marshall , Chief of Staff . Scope of Proposal a Surprise The first official recommendation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selectees and Guardsmen under arms longer than the one-year period specified by existing law , and to send them . outside of the Western Hemisphere , was made in the biennial report of General Marshall to Secretary Stimson last week . Today 's move came as somewhat of a surprise , however , because of the extent of the plan . The resolutions would apply to " all enlistments , appointments and commis ; sions of limited time or tenure , now existing or which may hereafter exist , in the Army of the United States and in every component . thereof . " The continuation of the unlimited national emergency as declared by the President on May 27 would be made the only time criterion for the whole armed service . One of the measures provided that " notwithstanding the provisions of any other law , " and during the period of the emergency , the President would be authorized to induct from time to time such number of men , without limitation , to serve for such period " beyond twelve months " as he may deem necessary in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the active military service of persons now on duty under the Selective Service Act might be similarly extended . Would Extend Draft Act The provisions of the Selective Service Act would be extended to remain in full force and effect until six months after the end of the emergency , but would not terminate in any event prior to May 15 , 1945 . The second resolution specified that all enlistments , appointments and commissions of limited tenure now or hereafter existing in the Army of the United States , and every component thereof , would be extended and shall remain in force , unless sooner terminated by the President , until six months after the emergency . This one would ? also authorize the President to extend until six months after the emergency the active military service of any or all members and units of the Re- serve Corps and retired personnel of the Regular Army who have been or may be ordered to active duty . A separate section of this resolution would authorize enlistments in the Army without specification of any particular component . Such enlistments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national emergency , the resolution provided , and until six months following its termination . Way Opened for War Debate The third measure would grant blanket authority to the President , " notwithstanding the provisions of any other law , " to employ any and all members and units of the Army of the United States , and any and all members of the reserve components and retired personnel , in such manner and in such places , " either within or beyond the limits of the Western Hemisphere , as he shall deem necessary in the interest of defense . " The service-extension resolutions caused little stir when they were presented by Senator Reynolds early this afternoon . Administration leaders made little secret of their fear of trouble ahead , however , particularly over the question of the status of selectees and Guardsmen who already have been drawn into service under the assumption that they were being inducted for one year . The proposal to alter existing laws so as to permit the President to send the selectees and National Guardsmen outside of the Western Hemisphere opened the way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not even heard on the lease-lend bill . Criticism voiced in other quarters about General Marshall 's recommendations prompted an Army spokesman to emphasize that the Chief of Staff had based his recommendations on essentials in training a unified Army and not on the belief that this country should operate an expeditionary force . Clarification of Laws Sought Major Gen. Robert C. Richardson Jr. , chief of the Bureau of Public Relations , emphasized this contention at a press conference . " General Marshall 's concern , " he said , " was the clarification of conflicting laws which forbid the use of one man for a certain task and authorize it for another . We are trying to create a unified Army . " You will recall that the Chief of Staff emphasized in his report that only the Commander in Chief of the Army , the President , has authority to say where or how the Army will be used . " The Senate passed , without a dissenting vote , and sent to the House this afternoon a bill introduced by Senator Walsh of Massachusetts , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Navy to require all future volunteers in the Navy to remain in service beyond the expiration of their enlistment terms , provided a national emergency has been declared . Legislative leaders have warned the Administration that an all-inclusive price-fixing bill would run into hopeless delay and probable defeat were it presented now . They have recommended , therefore , that an attempt be made to attack the problem piecemeal , so as to avoid pressure from lobbies , such as labor and farmers , which might be stirred up by a general pricefreezing bill . Some of Mr. Roosevelt 's advisers have insisted , on the other hand , that a law which did not deal with the price problem on the broadest basis would not be a sufficient weapon with which to deal with the threat of inflation .                     