@@709516

txt Incomplete results early today in Czechoslovakia 's first general elections yesterday indicated a swing to the left in Bohemia and Moravia and a Rightist majority in Slovakia . Which wing will have majority- in the country as a whole will not be known until this afternoon . What seemed certain was that the Communists would emerge as the strongest single party in this first balloting since 1935 . This had been expected but last night 's returns indicated their strength might be even greater than predicted . The Social Democrats also were doing ? better in the Provinces of Bohemia and Moravia than had been expected , which , of course , increased the chances of a Left-wing majority . Communists Lead in Prague Complete returns for Prague showed the Communists as the strongest party with 36 per cent of the vote and the National Social party ( sometimes called the Benes party ) as second with 33 per cent , whereas the reverse of this had been expected . In Pilsen , once occupied by ' United States troops , Communists also led , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the total vote in Bohemia and Moravia gave the Communists 41 per cent and their allies , the Social Democrats , 19 , while of the Right-Wing parties the National Social party had 22 per cent and the Catholic People 's party 17 per cent . In Slovakia . 12 per cent of the votes showed the conservatively inclined Democratic party leading with 60 per cent and the Communists following with 33 . Rightists Ahead in Slovakia An estimate by the Ministry of the Interior one-half hour after midnight was that the Leftist parties had 58 per cent of the votes so far counted in Bohemia and Moravia while the Rightist parties had 65 per cent of those counted in Slovakia . Slovakia has only sixty-nine seats whereas Bohemia and Moravia have 231 . According to a statement last night by Minister of the Interior Vacslav Nosek , the elections passed absolutely without incident . " It proves that the people are solidly behind the coalition Government and the Kosice program , " he declared . Whatever the result of the election there was no doubt that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rightist majority , however , would try to hold the balance as evenly as possible between the East and the West , whereas a Leftist one would consider it had a mandate to wean Czechoslovakia away from the West and particularly from the United States . If the indications of a leftward swing should be borne out by fuller figures the most important result // likely would be the drafting of a new Constitution very different from that modelled by former President Dr. Thomas G. Masaryk after World War I , which was based on the Constitution of the United States . To draw it up will be the chief task of the new National Assembly . When it has been framed new elections may be held . A Communist-Socialist majority would mean the new Constitution probably would provide for a powerful single-chamber Legislature , for placing the judiciary under political control and possibly for a good deal of regimentation of the individual by the permitted political parties . The restriction of freedom of the press by the limitation of the right to publish newspapers to the four political parties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made stricter still . it 4 The Communist party , if t received more than 35 per cent of the total vote , probably would demand even more seats in the coalition Cabinet than the four it now holds , which include the key Ministries of the Interior , Information and Agriculture . It would have the right to nominate a Prime Minister but might prefer to continue Zdenek Fierlinger in this post , since as the present head of the Social Democratic party , he could be more useful to keep the Leftist majority in line than a member of the Communist party . The election of a left-wing majority , however , probably would bring with it little or no change in the so-called Kosice program for the nationalization of industry , the partition of large estates and the transformation of Czechoslovakia into a state of Czechs and Slovaks by the expulsion of German and Hungarian minorities . All parties agreed to this program and under it 70 per cent of industry already has been nationalized . - The reason why the Rightist parties agreed , despite their respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Nazis already had taken over most of Czechoslovakia 's key industries and many factory owners were discredited as collaborationists.                     