@@706438

txt Dusk rolled in last night on a city faintly outlined in haze . Observers looking down from great heights to see the effect of tighter dimming regulations said they noticed only scant difference in sky glow  --  the glow that comes from accumulated light and makes ships offshore easy U-boat targets . Army officers , who stood out to sea on . Navy patrol craft to view the effect of the new rules , would say officially only that there had been " improvement . " Unofficially , there were indications that the Army was not satisfied , and that more drastic bans on lighting may be in store . In particular , defense officials and reporters who accompanied the Army observers noted a freighter silhouetted on the inshore horizon , not , perhaps , as clearly as before , but distinctly enough to guide a U-boat to its quarry . It developed that failure to achieve a more successful dimming out was due in large measure to the public 's inability to grasp the full meaning of the tightened regulations . Police Commissioner Valentine had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners . He was positive of only one thing  --  that night baseball is ended for the war 's duration because baseball diamond lighting is a major contributor to sky glow . Store lights seen from the upper Empire State Building tower last night still blazed strongly in Fortysecond Street from river to river . Thirty-fourth Street stood out in the dimmed city , bright with shop window glare . Almost all the avenues glowed pretty much as before , particularly Sixth , Seventh and Eighth . Times Square Dimmed Times Square , oddly enough , had done a far better dimming job than almost any other area noted in pre-war times for its illumination . From the Empire State Building observatory the Square seemed to give off less light than Forty-second and Thirty-fourth Streets ; far less light than either Sixth or Eighth Avenues . One particularly bright spot in Times Square was the area front Forty-fourth to Forty-fifth Street on Broadway . Here open shop windows were strong enough to light up the entire front of the Hotel Astor , which is directly opposite . Subway kiosk lights in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceptions . Lights on the Sixth Avenue Independent subway were left aglow . The skyscrapers were effectively dimmed . The few offending buildings on the skylines seemed to be hotels . Several showed lights in their upper floors . Little of this was direct light , though . Where glare was apparent it seemed to come through windows inadequately shaded . The most conspicuous lights in the city were floodlights in the West Side freight yards on the river between Thirty-eighth and Thirt , j-ninth Streets , the clusters of outdoor floodlights at the Navy Yard in Brooklyn , lights on East River Drive and at Midtown Tunnel . Conspicuously absent in Times Square last night was THE NEW YORK TIMES electric bulletin sign , blacked out for the first time since it was first turned on fourteen years ago . This left the lower Square dark except where occasional shop windows threw light into the street . Merchants as well as apartment dwellers in the city seemed confused as to how far the Mayor and Major Gen. Thomas A. Terry expected them to go on the new dimming order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that this might suffice . Dropped awnings did not seem to make much difference , though , in the total amount of escaped light that might add to sky glare , but the policemen on duty , as well as the merchants and apartment house dwellers , seemed at a loss as to how far they might go in getting a better dimout effect . Police Commissioner Valentine 's oblique answers to specific questions on the new order simply added to the bewilderment . The Commissioner was asked exactly what housewives and shopkeepers would have to do to comply with the Mayor 's and General Terry 's request for dimming . His only answer was a rereading of the Mayor 's dimout order , which a great many people do not seem to understand . " Will summonses be issued , will there be arrests or will warnings be given ? " the Police Commissioner was asked . " Instructions have been given to the commanding officers , " he replied , " to have members of the department courteously call attention to violations , and if no action is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commanding officers of precincts who will forward them to the Commissioner for appropriate action . " Policemen on beat , however , did not seem to know what to enforce or to what limits . It was apparent they would need more specific instruction . Since they had no ruling on whether rolled-down awnings would constitute sufficient screening against sky-glare they did not interfere with shopkeepers who took this precaution . Brooklyn Best Dimmed Out Brooklyn seemed to have done a better dimming job than Manhattan . In the shopping district some windows were lighted but the light was not as warm or glowing as it had been previously . In Brooklyn , as in Manhattan , the only offenders in high buildings were tenants in upper floor rooms . Queens , as seen from the Empire State Building tower , was no better dimmed after sundown last night than it has been in the past . Bronx residents reported no essential difference . Here , too , confusion was obvious . Here , too , shopkeepers hoped that by dropping awnings they had achieved dimming of their windows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From high points in the Bronx Manhattan 's glow was quite visible . The Mott Haven yards of the New York Central Railroad showed up strongly . From 156th to 160th Street powerful flood lights were on . They had top shields but these did not seem to reduce glare to any appreciable extent . Improvement in Harlem Harlem , Washington Heights , Inwood and Marble Hill seemed somewhat improved . Many apart'pent. dwellers , puzzled as to what lights they might show under the Mayor 's newest order , completely blacked out all windows facing on the street and retired to rooms where light was not visible from outside . Even Harlem 's main street -- 125th Street  --  achieved a better dimming than main streets in other parts of the city . In the Flatbush district of Brooklyn the Flatbush Savings Bank at 1045 Flatbush Avenue was dark last night . The trustees announced that Monday night service will not he continued until after the war . Instead Monday 's banking hours will continue through from regular morning opening to 6 P. M. All neon lights were ordered extinguished last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shore of Long Island . In addition , all business signs  --  both inside and out  --  were ordered out if their light showed above the horizontal . The Century Theatre chain , which operates twenty houses on Long Island , instructed its managers to extinguish marquee lights . The Skouras chain issued similar orders three weeks ago . Fifth Avenue was effectively dimmed except in a few spots where store windows gave off generous glow . The upper reaches of the avenue seemed almost perfect , Looking down from a great height this avenue seemed the dimmest of any of the chief north and south arteries . Nassau County on Long Island got better results than New York City . Outdoor signs were blacked out and the neon glare was sharply reduced . Street lights were still giving sky glow but municipal and lighting company officials have promised to paint the tops and sides of street lamps to focus glare downward . Suffolk County , farther out on the island , improved its dimming considerably . In all last night 's effort , one thing seemed clear . Shopkeepers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' what constitutes a dimout violation and what ? does not . The general orders for a more stringent dimout , issued on Sunday , do not seem to get over with the public .                     