@@707985

txt The threefold purpose of the conference of twenty-six Republican Governors , convened today at the call of Governor Dewey , Presidential standard-bearer , was more clearly disclosed as all twenty-six Governors sat down for discussion of the plans outlined for them by Mr. Dewey . The agenda , as outlined again by him today , involves a settlement by them of the fields of action for the States as against the Federal Government in various functions , from taxation to flood control . While the conference , before it adjourns tomorrow , will have produced at least fourteen planks marking off the proper  --  as far as the Republican party is concerned ? demarcation of State 's rights and responsibilities , the political implications of the ? conference overshadowed this phase in the unofficial discussions . Ascendancy of Governors First , the conference gives the Republican Governors the voice in party affairs which they started demanding at the Mackinac Island conference , and for lack of which they staged a short-lived revolt at the Chicago national convention . Mr. Dewey 's attitude today , in press conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party today and tomorrow , in the vernacular sense , belongs to the Governors . Second , in return for this voice in party affairs , and what really nay amount to the framing of a second party platform dealing wholly with domestic problems , the national Republican ticket and organization expects to receive in the election the more whole - hearted support of the Governors , and their State machines . These machines always include State police , licensing authorities , State employes , etc. , which can , they believe , be successfully matched in many States where the Republicans have State-house control against the Federal job-holders who contribute to the Roosevelt machine and pluralities . Third , the product of the conference will give Mr. Dewey and his running mate , John W. Bricker of Ohio , the further emphasis on the domestic needs of the country which the Republican managers contend must be put over to the public if Franklin D. Roosevelt is to be defeated . Brownell Sees All Twenty-six Herbert Brownell Jr. , national chairman , at a press conference tonight , admitted the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ briefly with all the Governors , and at some length with eight , and had plans for detailed conversations with all before he left . The Governors pledged themselves to an active part in the campaign , he declared . and arrangements were being made for speaking engagements for the Governors outside their own States , Mr. Brownell disclosed . He said he would meet with the national committee members . State chairmen and vice chairmen , and heads of the Republican women 's clubs from eight Corn Belt States in Chicago on Friday , to further put the campaign plans into action . Declining to give detailed plans , Mr. Brownell nevertheless revealed that all the Governors either had been , or would be , asked for possible speaking dates and sites in their home States for both Governor Dewey and Governor Bricker . Mr. Brownell said the Republican party was " better organized and more united " now than at any time in recent years , and he contrasted the conference here with the " backbiting and grumbling going-on in the New Peal party today . " The national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany , as press secretary of the Republican National Committee . Mr. Tyler has been chief correspondent for The Associated Press on Capitol Hill in Albany for sortie years . Additions Made to Agenda The official agenda , as brought here by Mr. Dewey , consisted of fifteen separate fields of Government activity in which , he contended here today as he had previously done in Albany , there should be an end of bickering and confusion between the national , State and local governments , a confusion he contends has grown up in the last twelve years . Mr. Dewey told the first press conference . following the first organizational session of the Governors , that the list had grown to twentyone , owing to additions made by individual Governors , and finally had been cut to fourteen by making one title cover more than one point . The Governors present represent 339 electoral votes in November , ' and the Republican theme is to stress that the country really is Republican and that victory can be won in November in the Presidential election . The Governors and their States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hampshire Earl Snell of Oregon , Walter S. Goodland of Wisconsin , Simeonl S. Willis of Kentucky , Sam C. Ford of Montana , Sumner Sewall of Maine , Harry F. Kelly of Mich igan , Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa , Arthur B. Langlie of Washington , Edward J. Thye of Minnesota , William H. Wills of Vermont , Dwight P. Griswold of Nebraska , Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts . Also Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut , M. Q. Sharpe of South Dakota , Edward Martin of Pennsylvania , John W. Bricker of Ohio , Earl Warren of California , Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas , C. A. Bottoffsen of Idaho , Dwight H. Green of Illinois , Walter W. Bacon of Delaware , John C. Vivian of Colorado , Walter E. Edge of New Jersey , Forrest C. Donnell of Missouri and Thomas E. Dewey of New York . The first session of the conference , held in the morning , was devoted , according to Governor Dewey , to the discussion of the fields of activity involved and to the assignment of Governors to various subcommittees , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disapprove , ' rewrite or otherwise change the planks brought with him by Governor Dewey . The nature of these was still being kept a secret . As Governor Dewey told it , he and Governor Bricker sat at opposite ends of the conference table and " we all just talked . " On the subcommittees both Governors Dewey and Bricker were to function as ex-officio members , he said . The subcommittees worked on the planks submitted by Governor Dewey during the afternoon and evening , while the candidate , held conferences in his hotel suite . The attitude of the Governors on two points was disclosed informally . In the case of federalization of the unemployment insurance fund , and its corollary activities , it was learned that the plank will come out strongly against this . This was no surprise , since the States united several years ago , irrespective of party , to fight a Federal attempt in that direction . In the case of public works , it is understood that the sentiment is for a plank which will declare , in general terms , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the localities getting aid from the Federal Government only where such aid is required , and with the pork-barrel philosophy eliminated as far as possible . The rising State revenues and surpluses , now the rule rather than the exception all over the country , are regarded as making it easier for the Governors to express willingness to give up Federal funds for many public works , except in case of future need . Paul E. Lockwood , secretary to Governor Dewey , announced tonight that three of the subcomittees , those on public works , the National Guard and highways , had completed their reports , after submitting them to Governors Dewey and Bricker , and that they would be considered at a , plenary session of the Governors later . In addition , the subcommittees candling post-war reconversion and planning , public lands , insurance and unemployment insurance and employment services had completed their reports to their own satisfaction , Mr. Lockwood indicated , although they had not yet conferred with the national ticket members . As far as conflict between the panty platform and the agenda for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party 's national policy had not already been set by the platform would the planks which come out of the St. Louis conference amount to a platform . He argued continuously that only fields of action of Government units , rather than policies , were really involved . He was specific on one point , when a reporter asked about the possibility of development of a plank on the racial issue  --  meaning rights of Negroes  --  and Mr. Dewey said he believed that to be completely unnecessary , since the Chicago convention plank was so good .                     