@@710971

txt A special Federal grand jury indicted ten more persons today as it ended its inquiry into 1946 Kansas City vote frauds . It also handed up a report stating that Roger C. Slaughter , then a member of Congress , did not lose in his bid for renomination because of irregularities at the polls . , Vote manipulation in the Demo ' cratic primary at issue , - minor in comparison to the wholesale vote grabbing uncovered in the regular election of 1936 , drew national attention nontheless because PresVent Truman had opposed Mr. Slaughter . The contest was in one of the two Congressional districts in Jackson County , where the President makes his home . The jury did not mention Mr. Slaughter by name in its finding ' that irregularities had not affected the outcome of Federal contests . On this point the report said : 1 " A recount of votes ( as compiled by State and Federal grand juries ) 1 as to Federal candidates shows I that the irregularities disclosed would not have changed the result of the election , as officially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miscounts as well as fraudulent votes , be sufficient to change the outcome . " Among those indicted were George R. Clark , county assessor , and Henry , Second Ward Democratic chief . Others were Morris Marks , chief clerk in the county collector 's office ; Rex Stewart , courthouse electrician ; Grover , deputy license inspector for the county ; Charles Modica , deputy court clerk ; Dorris Sartin , a. bartender ; Frank Truax , hotel employe ; Benjamin Ryan , and Joe Grinberg . They are charged in a conspiracy involving ghost voting and other acts designed to " diminish , dilute , impair and destroy the value and effect of ballots legally cast . " This is a second vote fraud indictment for , who was acquitted earlier in the year on a charge of tampering with a Federal grand jury . The President 's role in the election was pointed up at the regular session of Congress when Senator James P. Kern , Republican , of Missouri , sought vainly ' to obtain a Senatorial investigation into alleged inaction by Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote frauds . Mr. Kern charged that Mr. Clark restricted a preliminary investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the fall of 1946 and only entered the case wholeheartedly late in May when impounded ballots were stolen from a vault in the Jackson County Court House , apparently by professional safecrackers . The Attorney . General , indignant at charges of " whitewash , " contended that no full investigation had been ordered because evidence of fraud compiled by The Kansas City Star indicated widespread violation of state law rather than Federal statutes . He said the FBI could not be asked to conduct full investigations into the many thousands of complaints of violation of civil rights statutes that come in each year unless such investigations seemed warranted . He said involvement of the President 's home county did not warrant special treatment for the case . Unable to Find Thieves Other major disclosures in the grand jury report were these : That authorities ' have not been able to track down those who stole impounded ballots . The jury recommended that the investigation into this aspect of the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total of irregularities in the voting uncovered by both Federal and local authorities runs to only 1,335 votes , or about 1.5 per cent of the 90,361 votes cast in the county . The 842 miscounts and 493. fraudulent votes , uncovered in an investigation of out-ofline results in 12$ precincts , amount to 5 per cent of the 26,218 votes cast in-those precincts . That the worst trouble spots were the First and Second Wards in Kansas City , the so-called Northside river wards . This is a blighted slum area not unlike certain sections of East Harlem in New York . Frauds in these wards alone totaled 992 . That no Federal violations involving campaign expenditures were uncovered . Senator Hem , elected last fall , revealed last week at Washington that FBI men were questioning those who stipported him financially . That " large numbers of Republicans " invaded the Democratic primary in 1946 , a switch possible under Missouri law , but that there was no evidence of " an unlawful conspiracy to injure and oppress other citizens ' in the exercise of their right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictment and the report were received by Federal District Judge Albert A. Ridge , an artillery battery mate of President Truman in World War L He re ? cessed the jury but kept it on call . In thanking the , jurors he said there was much to commend their report " to the sober judgment of right-thinking people . " Richard K. Phelps , special assistant to the Attorney General , said that the jury , which has been working since Nov. 12 , had " completely exhausted all the evidence which has been adduced by all investigative agencies . " He said he did not expect it to be called back unless there was " some unexpected discovery of additional evidence . " Mr. Phelps , who helped prose-1 cute Federal violations in 19361 that broke the grip of the l'ender-1 gest machine on the city , had three assistants and , more than sixty FBI men working with him and tho jury during the six-Month investigation , which is reputed to have cost the Federal Government $500,000 . His assistants were Graham Morison , William A. Paisley and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice in Washington , 41 Federal Indictments in All The ten persons indicted today brought the number of persona under Federal indictment to fortyone . A Federal grand jury that sat July 8 to Aug. 29 handed up eight indictments involving thirtyone individuals . A county grand jury - indicted seventy-one others , mostly on miscount charges , after making an independent tally . Most of the county eases , involving infractions of the far broader state law , stand in jeopardy because of  --  the theft of the ballots from the county court house . , Unless Prosecutor James G. Kimbrell can bring grand jurors to the witness stand to testify as to the bal ? lot count they made , he will not be able to proceed with the case . He now has a motion pending on the point , asking that ' the usual veil of grand jury secrecy be lifted in the interesrof justice . Similar Federal action is expected to strengthen conspiracy charges in that jurisdiction . Three trials , involving thirteen persons , have been conducted to date . Threw persons were convicted , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two were acquitted by the court , two more by the jury and three were dismissed . Another submitted a plea of nolo contendere.                     