@@707692

txt Adolf Hitler is celebrating his last victories these days . Unable to conquer his foes , he is conquering his allies . This is being done with the same treachery and ruthlessness , but also with the same decisive speed and display of power , that overwhelmed many European nations in the past . His conquest of Hungary appears to be complete , and now his troops are reported to be marching on to establish an equally complete occupation of Slovakia , Rumania and Bulgaria . Nor is there much to stop them . Like Mussolini 's Italy and Horthy 's Hungary , these countries have dispersed their own troops to fight Germany 's battles and have lost much not only in manpower but especially in materiel , for which they are completely dependent on Germany . The German fifth column and native Nazis are crushing potential opposition even before the German troops spread out . This is indicated again by broadcast orders to all Germans in Rumania to put themselves at the disposal of the German army , which is already solidly entrenched in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And though Bulgaria , which has followed a more independent policy and in particular refused to join in the war against Russia , might prove a harder nut to crack , its home forces are scarcely in a position to offer much resistance . The Germans explain that they are taking measures to establish " equality of sacrifice " and to " intensify the military and political collaboration between Germany and her allies . " That is a propagandistic euphemism designed to cover up the fact that German militarism is crushing the last vestiges of independence within its sphere of operations and that the small nations which elected to go with Germany either because of greed or because of a mistaken choice of the lesser evil are now paying for it with their existence . It is a warning which Finland , for one , should heed while it still has a chance to do so . For " intensified collaboration " is merely an ominous paraphrase of Goebbel 's previous declaration that nobody will be permitted to escape ; and " equality of sacrifice " can only mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called upon to sacrifice all their manhood and all their substance in a final mad dance of death around . the Wagnerian funeral pyre . For easy as Hitler 's last victories may turn out to be , they are also his last desperate measures to stave off the doom that is closing in on him . With half his army and most of his air force either engaged or immobilized in the west and a great force retreating under pressure of the Russian armies , he is compelled to spread his remaining forces even more thinly than before and risk turning former friends into new enemies . The collapse of the Balkans was the signal of the approaching German collapse in the last war . Hitler , confronted with the unmistakable war weariness and peace efforts of all his satellites , is determined to prevent such a collapse in 1944 . At the same time , it would be folly to ignore that in the long diplomatic battle for the Balkans Hitler liaa , for the moment at least , obtained a draw . If he loses the active support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going over to the Allied camp . A divided and irresolute ? Allied diplo- , macy has been matched by Hitler 's armed force . The result is the tramp ' of the German army hi the Balkans .                     