@@705395

txt 9.1 CONCERN IN CAPITAL Ship and Tank Delay is Feared in Action at Lackawanna TALK OF FEDERAL CONTROL OPM May Urge Roosevelt to Run Plants Under Clause in the Draft Law By LOUIS STARK Spacial to THE NEW YORE TIMES . WASHINGTON , Feb. 26 ? Increasing labor disputes in the steel , automobile , textile and coal industries were viewed with anxiety today by defense officials lest the nation 's rearming effort be hindered . The strike of the C. I. O. 's Steel Workers Organizing Committee against Bethlehem Steel Corporaction plants , if successful , would , in the opinion of high officials in the Office of Production Management , cripple the naval shipbuilding program as well as the Army 's tank-building effort . Similarly , a successful strike of the C. I. O. 's United Automobile Workers against the Ford Motor Company would jeopardize defense orders now being turned out by that organization . Sidney Hillman , associate director of the OPM , had no comment to make when told that the Bethlehem strike had started . It was understood that Mr. Hillman had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be delayed until the OPM 's mediators had an opportunity to report at the end of the 48-hour period given them to make a survey . This period had not ended when the strike began . If the Bethlehem situation becomes acute , with the strike crippling the defense program , it was said in OPM circles today that a recommendation would be made that President Roosevelt take over the plants under authority given him in the Selective Service Law . Textile union officials have served notice on New England woolen mills of demands for wage increases . Mediation Board Is Supported In Congress support was manifested for the proposal now being discussed in OPM circles calling for the creation by executive order of a National Labor Defense Mediation Board . Representative Voorhis of California declared that the proposal for such a board , limited to mediatory powers , was " a very constructive suggestion and offers substantial hope of a solution of the labor situation along the right lines . " " In my opinion this is the constructive approach , " he said . " The dangers in repressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of getting through this present period with our democracy intact lies in the working out of a voluntary plan for adjustment of labor disputes . " While hope was expressed in OPM circles that another ten days might see the complete formulation of the mediation plan to minimize strikes in defense industries , some concern was expressed on Capitol Hill lest failure to provide such a plan by Presidential decree might // STRIKE lHITS UP-STATE PLANT WORKING ON NATIONAL DEFENSE CONCILIATION FAILS IN BETHLEHEM ROW // was set , " he said , adding that he had no " condemnation " for either side . Mr. Burns said he and Cyrus S. Ching , another Defense Commission agent , would leave immediately for Washington to present their report to the . Office of Production Management . The conferees were in contact with company officials in New York ; with Mr. Bittner , who is in Pittsburgh , and with the Defense Commission in Washington . Previously , C. L. Baker , company representative , said in a statement that discharged employes would be permitted to return to work if they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said they were suspended indefinitely because they " engaged in sit-down tactics , refused to work , damaged company property and had been guilty of other misconduct during working hours . " One of three demands listed by the S. W. 0 . C. which would have averted the walkout was reinstatement of discharged employes . Says Workers Slow Output Accusing the suspended workers of curtailing production at the Lackawanna plant , Mr. Baker said that if they desired to return to their jobs , " we will consider their cases and lift the suspensions " with the understanding that they would work in " harmony with our other employes and cease the unlawful practices that caused their suspension . " " We will thereafter call them back to work as soon as conditions of the plant and work to be done shall make it possible to use their services , " he added . Mr. Baker said the company would notify the suspended employes individually of this decision soon . Timothy Flynn , union international representative , said the company , which employs 14,000 at Lackawanna , had asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been offered salary increases . He predicted that the strike would not last two days . Mr. Flynn declared that union members now laid off as a result of work stoppages conducted by the S. W. 0 . C. in the coke-oven department had received slips to report for work at 11 o'clock tonight . Some hours before the strike began several union members were sworn in by the Lackawanna Board of Police Commissioners to control and keep order on their own picket lines .                     