@@710865

txt Riding the crest of record public support , the Metropolitan Opera formally opened shop last night for its sixty-third season . The opera , chosen to suit the occasion , was Verdi 's " Masked Ball , " which is set in the lavish Swedish court of the eighteenth century and which , in the masked ball scene , vies successfully with the splendid accouterments of an opening night audience in 1047 . The opera inaugural was back solidly on a pre-war footing . Its audience was drawn from distinguished leaders in all fields of activity . The latest fashions , in their most original and personalized forms , were on display . Once again the venerable theatre , which has known its full measure of glory , was alive with color and good cheer . The house , of course , was sold out well in advance . Prospective customers for the available 380 standing-room tickets at $3 apiece began to take their place on line at 6 P. M. on Sunday . By 4 P. M. yesterday the line ran down Broadway and halfway down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virtually all those waiting for standing room were music and opera lovers . That was clear from their animated discussions of performances and stars of qther years . Those who did not knovd each other made friends and conversation as the day went on , much as neighbors at a ball game . There waa one youth on line , Sidney Axon , 18 years old , of Houston , Tex. , who admitted , however , that he was a " fashion lover " ' rather than a music lover . He said he came up from Texas because he " wanted to see celebrities and socialites . " A young singing student from Brooklyn , Thelma Schaffner , took her place on line at 7 A. M. The wait of twelve and a half hours on a brisk day outdoors was no ordeal to her , since she had occupied a place in line for twenty- four hours to see a world series game . She was , of course , a Dodger fan . Outside the theatre there were crowds waiting to watch the patrons entering the opera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corridors the style scouts made notes and photographers made pictures . In the auditorium Verdi 's opera held the stage with a cast in which the two principal male roles were taken by American singers who had achieved musical pre-eminence the hard way . In the tenor lead was Jan Perce , who had once sung with jazz bands and in movie theatres ; in the baritone lead was Leonard Warren , who had worked for a time in a fur shop , had won a Metropolitan Audition of the Air and had slowly and steadily developed into one of the most versatile and gifted singers in the company . Da'niza Ilitsch , Yugoslav soprano , who had worked with what underground there was in Vienna during the war and who made her debut with the company in the final week of last season , had the principal soprano role . The conductor , Giuseppe Antonicelli of Italy , was the only newcomer . Though he is an experienced conductor and was scheduled to handle a section of the Italian wing of the repertory , he received last night 's assignment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Stage Improved There were some changes in the house , which opened for business for the first time in 1883 and has undergone numerous renovations over the years . One of the latest was a be-kind-to-boxholders move . The red damask has been stripped from the walls of the parterre boxes and arcs have been cut into the walls on the curve of the horseshoe , adding about 50 per cent to the view of the stage . Some of the red-plush-and-cream coloring , fancied by another generation of Metropolitan Opera audiences , has been replaced by quieter grays in various places . The lounge and bar on the grand tier have been repainted , and the Metropolitan Opera Guild and Metropolitan Opera Club rooms have been redone . There was an additional service last night . For operagoers overcome by the excitement of opera , audience or bar , there was a firstaid room in charge of Capt . Rosemary Peduzzi , a nurse who served with the First Army in Europe . The income of $16,000 realized from the performance was a forerunner of what should be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance subscription , which hit a new high last year , has been exceeded this year , and the individual seat sale promises to be as g Dod as last year 's . The house was VI per cent sold out during the season last year , and that record for un entire season is almost sure to be broken . But it is not only in the response of the New York public that the Metropolitan nowadays measures its results . The tour , which has steadily increased in length and scope of its coverage , will take the company afield tor at least eight weeks , perhaps longer . For the first time since 1906 , the Metropolitan Opera this season will travel as far as the Pacific Coast . ' There will be a two-week season in Los Angeles next April , and this season is merely a foretaste of what Metropolitan Opera seasons in Los Angeles are likely to become . For Los Angeles has announced its intention of building a new and sumptuous opera house , and the Metropolitan has agreed to make the new theatre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Opera House that the last visit to the Pacific Coast had been terminated abruptly on April 18 , 1906 , by the San Francisco earthquake and fire . The company , which was visiting in San Francisco at that time , emerged unscathed but thoroughly shaken . One of the stories has it that Enrico Caruso , the Metropolitan 's most famous tenor , was found on the outskirts of town sitting on a trunk , holding his head and moaning that he would never go West again . Edward Johnson , general manager of the company , did not know last night whether it was Caruso 's refusal that stopped Pacific Coast visits , but he thought it was possible . Johnson Talks of Prestige Mr. Johnson , for whom last night was the beginning of his thirteenth season as general manager following thirteen years as a principal tenor in the company , said that the annual visits to California were the clincher to the Metropolitan 's position as a national , rather than a New York , opera company . For the visit to Dos Angeles means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visited . In discussing the Metropolitan 's present standing , Mr. Johnson ex hibited cable messages from leading theatres of Europe , asking the Metropolitan to lend them its singers . " We now have a tightly knit organization , we have splendid ensemble work and we have many of the world 's outstanding singers , " Mr. Johnson said . " The war enabled us to take the lead . There will be competition , but we shall do our best to hold the lead . " As America 's foremost and oldest permanent theatre , the Metropolitan has a good chance of maintaining leauership . The Metropolitan is in the United States , where living conditons are more favorable today than in most places on earth . And the Metropolitan 's prestige as one of the world 's great opera douses remains undiminishen.                     