@@711059

txt An important members , of the Communist party high command , who has directed Communist policy in this country 's trade unions , was arrested here yesterday by the Department of Justice ' and held without bond on Ellis Island awaiting deportation proceedings . He is John Williamson , labor secretary of the Communist party . Justice Department officials , who described Williamson as the " most important figure " of the party against whom the department has acted , said that the Communist leader had " been posing as an American citizen for many years . " The move surprised many outsiders interested in Communist party activities who had always heard that Williamson was of American birth and background . Federal officials said he was actually an alien born in Scotland forty-five years ago . Williamson became the fourth top Communist in this country to be faced with deportation . Gerhard Eisler , described as the nation 's " No. 1 Communist , " is on Ellis Island , where he is seeking bond in a Federal court action . Alexander Bittelman , Russian alien who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a member of the fifty-man national committee of the party , is released on bond , as is Claudia Jones , a British West Indian alien in the United States twenty-four years and another member of the national committee . Williamson is a member of the twelve-man national board of the Communist party , which is headed by William Z. Foster . He was arrested yesterday at 8:15 A. M. outside his home at 4500 Broadway , near 193d Street , ' by agents of the Department of Immigration and Naturalization and the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The Federal agents reported to Immigration District headquarters at 70 Columbus Avenue that the warrant for Williamson 's arrest had been executed and started for Ellis Island with their prisoner . The national committee and the national board of the Communist party attacked Williamson 's arrest last night as part of ' a " vicious anti-labor , anti-Coinmunist drive of the Government . " A statement charged that the ? arrest of Williamson and other key Communists is " aimed to create confusion andhysteria of a fake ' Communist menace ' in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and further attacks upon labor and the progressive forces . " In the absence of Mrs. Carol King , ' who was in Washington yesterday , Williamson had as counsel Isadore Englander . The lawyer , who sought at 70 ' Columbus Avenue to arrange a bond , said later that Mrs. King had told him on the telephone that Attorney General Tom Clark had decreed that no bond be issued . The arrest was condemned by Abner Green , executive secretary of the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born , as " illegal and dangerous . " He declared that only one arrest and one case is needed to bring a Supreme Court test on the validity of deporting alien Communists . . Williamson , whose Communist party activity goes back at least twenty-five years , has long portrayed himself , Justice officials said in Washington , as a native of San Francisco , Calif. , born in 1902 or 1903 . The fact that he had no papers to attest to this was explained by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire , which Wil1 liamson said destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ' tempt to prove - that Williamson came to this country from Scotland and that he has been active in the party since he was 15 years old . Department records show that Williamson became assistant to William Z. Foster , national chairman of the Communist party , in 1941 . Before that , it is alleged , he had been active in Communist circles in Chicago and Cleveland . He has held the influential labor secretary post on the national hoard Since 1946 . He was for many years secretary of the ' Communist party in Ohio . Department of Justice records also list him as a one-time official of the Young Workers League , as national secretary of the Young Communist League and as a member at one time of the Washington ( state ) Socialist labor party . As labor secretary of the party Williamson has- been the chief exponent of the " party line " to be followed by Communist party members in unions . Last year it was estimated that 30,000 union members held cards in the Communist party . Williamson set forth the labor doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles written for The Daily Worker and other party publications . Criticized Philip Murray In a recent series of articles in The Daily Worker he sharply criticized Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , for his endorsement of the Marshall Plan . ? In Washington an official of the Department of Justice ; which is employing an act of 1918 that bans aliens hostile to the United States Government and advocating its overthrow , declared that other deportation orders are pending . The statement issued by the Communist party made no menttion of the United Stated citizenship claimed by Williamson but said that the deportation charges were " trumped up . " " Flaunting the Bill of Rights , the Government has ' even gone so far as to deny bail to the Communist leader . " The American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born announced that Mrs. King will seek an appointment with Attorney General Clark to demand that bail be set for Williamson 's re lease . No date was set by the Immigration office here for the deportation hearing .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         