@@709400

txt The strike situation in Massachusetts is better now than at any time since the national steel strike started back in January , Brig . Gen. Charles H. Cole , Chairman of the State Board of Conciliation and Arbitration , asserted today on the ending of several of the remaining major tieups in the , Commonwealth . One new stoppage , however , turned up locally today when pickets were posted at the Revere Sugar Refining Company of Charlestown . The big East Coast sugar strike which has been hanging over plants producing half the nation 's sugar , finally narrowed down to that one plant . Yet though yesterday 's settlement in Washington lifted the strike danger from the other refinery here , the Domino plant of the American Sugar Refining Company in South Boston , failed to reopen today . The refinery ran out of raw sugar on April 2 , when in anticipation of a strike , the Department of Agriculture stopped boats from Cuba and Porta Rico from bringing any more sugar here . Depend On Sugar Reopening of the plant will depend on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information was available early today but was hoped for later . General Cole based his cheerful estimate of the Massachusetts strike situation on the succession of strike endings climaxed by the return to work today of upwards of 2,500 employees at the Whitin Machine Works of Whitinsville . This walkout began Jan. 14 , a week before the national steel strike of Jan. 21 , and persisted long after he big steel strike was .. closed . or a nuMber of weeks - it has been the biggest work stoppage in the State . Agreement was finally reached on an increase of 12 cents an hour plus seven cents granted Dec. 21 and a new minimum rate of 73 cents . Similarly a five months ' strike , which began Nov. 1 , was ended in the Baldwin-Beckworth Belt Corporation of Springfield . Its 350 employees accepted a 10-cent-anhour advance for day workers and eight cents for piece workers , in addition to a raise of eight and four-tenths an hour given prior to Nov. 1 . Conference Planned In Connecticut the last of the little steel strikes ended when 350 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their jobs today . Definite arrangements for ' a conference today at the Revere Sugar Refining Company , a subsidary of the United Fruit Company , were made by the United States Conciliation Service . Revere did not participate in the Washington negotiations which yesterday ended the wage dispute in the American Sugar and the National Sugar Refining Companies . John J. Sullivan . a Boston conciliator of the United States Department of Labor , will represent the Government . John W. Davis , Field Representative of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , who is in charge of the Boston sugar situation for his union , will present its case . Returning today from Washington , Mr. Davis inspected the picketing arrangements at the Revere refinery , where six men have been placed at each gate and instructed to keep moving . 15 Cents Increase " The settlement at the American Sugar Refinery in South Boston provides for an increase of 15 ' cents an hour , " Mr. Davis said . " Of this 5 cents is retroactive to Sept. 10 , and 10 cents retroactive to Feb. - 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each of the workers numbering between 550 and 560 . " This was worked out under a wage reopening clause in the contract . On July 21 , when the present contract expires , we- will start negotiating a new one . The American Sugar has refineries in New York , Philadelphia and Baltimore , all included in the settlement , . which also covered National Sugar with refineries in New York and Philadelphia. - The settlement ? affected around 5.000 workers . " Revere is the only refinery where no adjustment has been reached . We have been negotiating with Revere ever since May 8 , 1945 , when the contract . expired . There are.many other issues besides wages . " Revere is shut down and is going to stay down until a contract is consummated and signed . " Largely a Formality Picketing at Revere is largely a formality , as the plant was shut down last week partly in anticipation of the strike and partly because of lack of raw sugar . Cutting off of the sugar boats from Cuba and Puerto Rico has cost the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thorigh - no strike came- to the plant . Its last raw sugar ran out April 2 . From then on through April 5 it kept going on processing what it had . All last week it was closed . Only a small number of maintenance men are left in the refinery . Of several other strikes here , General Cole reported that the tie-up of the more than 30 of the largest of Boston 's fishing boats would be brought up for conference before the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration again this week . The Stone and Webster Engineering Corporation strike comes once more before the Board today . A session at the State House last Friday did not produce anything .                     