@@711636

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 - The public opinion polls have collided at last with the inexorable reality that people are not digits and percentage points . That tardy realization is having drastic repercussions . For the polls had won great influence in national affairs . That influence has suddenly collapsed , leaving a cloud of confusion in its wake . Thee crushing measure of their miscalculation of last Tuesday 's election was succinctly stated by Elmo Roper , one of the more prominent poll takers , later that day : " I could not have been more wrong . I do n't know what happened . " Similarly abject disclaimers were voiced by George Gallup , along with most others in the field of opinion sampling . Nearly all agreed that the technique of political forecasting via the " scientific sampling " method had received the worst set-back of its existence . Polls and People In substance , their predicament is the consequence of human fallibility , , The polls were unable to ; compute statistically the Unpre ! rdictable and unfathomableknilancee , of human character , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as ell as a great many regional and local ones , have been consistently reporting a Republican groundswell . Month by month their " scientific samplings " of public opinion have reflected popular enthusiasm for a Republican President , a Republican Congress ( there were some late doubts about the Senate ) and very nearly a clean sweep of Republican Governors . Just how wrong the polls were can he judged from the following able . The poll takers have customarily allowed themselves an outside margin of error of 4 per cent . Ordinarily , they have kept well within that limit . This time , ' however , the range varies all the ; way from 10.1 per cent , in the case of Mr. Dewey , to 39.2 per cent in the case of Mr. Wallace . The last ; column below shows the percentage of error in the average of the three polls as compared with the " actual vote . For example the average of the three major polls indicated that Truman would receive 42.3 per cent of the total vote cast . On the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million for Truman . The President has received , however , 23.1 million votes . Therefore , the average poll was in error by 18.1 per cent . ) Cr , . ? . a i -a e c s . . . . S. a.r , a ) t , ; . ' m ri i= c : li Truman 44.5 39.5 45.0 42.3 50.0 18.1 Dewey 49.5 52.8 50.1 50.8 45.6 10.1 Wallace .. 4.0 4.4 3.3 3.9 2.4 39.2 Thurmond . 2.0 5.3 1.6 3.0 2.0 33.2 Though the elections now reveal the fragile nature of the polls , they have come to have an enormous influence upon popular Sampling Technique Is Apparently Not So Scientific ' thinking , to shape public opinion in monolithic patterns . Members of Congress debate ' fiercely for or against various issues , ; often basing their exhortations principally on the public opinion polls and quoting them at ' great length . Many of them con -- suit the polls in arriving at a determination on how they shall vote . The " man in the street " is , perhaps , more influenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in Gallup " is often the clincher that resolves his doubts one way or the other respectint some public issue . Politicians and political analysts have come to have a slavish respect for the infallibility of the polls . As is reflected elsewhere on this page today , a great many newspaper commentators allowed their opinions and estimates to be sharply colored by the polls . Public opinion being the powerful feiree'tliat it is in a democracy , the implicating of - such an inordihate end Coneentrated ' influence are immediately apparent . lu34 5apig Method Public opinion analysis by the scientific sampling method is about twelve years old . It evolved out of the commercial practice of market analysis . A manufacturer with a new product hired people to go out and test its popularity with typical consumers . These tests were generally valid on a quantitative basis . If they showed that the typical consumer in Pittsburgh liked a certain kind of canned soup , that soup was likely to sell well in Pittsburgh . But the same might not be true for consumers in New York or Dallas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the markets a manufacturer wished to reach , the device of selective sampling of representative consumer groups was developed . A hundred people in a given socio-economic bracket in ten cities , it was found , could be sampled almost as cheaply as 1,000 people in one city , arid the results would be far more conclusive as to the general acceptability of the product under study . . Pioneers in Process Mr. Gallup and Mr. Roper were among those who pioneered the re- ' finemerit of this process to its , ' present highly systematized state. ; Each is now the head of a flour , ishing commercial research establishment , and political pulse-feeling is little more than a sideline. ; Basically all of the polls work on the same principle . First , sampling areas are picked ' I on the basis of their typicality with respect to the Ilarger region in which they are located . Second , the population within those areas is broken down into a ; number of representative categories such as age , religion , race , education . social and economic status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these categories varies with the different pollsters and is one of the chief " scientific " factors involved . The idea is that a consensus expressed by a small number within each of these categories will reflect accurately the views of a majority of the same group . Mr. Gallup states that his final poll on the election outcome was compiled from more than 80,000. personal interviews over a two-month period . The Roper polls are limited to 5,200 simultaneous personal interviews . Third , interviewers are employed to canvass samples within these groups periodically and to quiz them on the basis of carefully prepared questionnaires . They are not full-time employes .. but most of them have above-average educations . They are such people as school teachers , reporters , young lawyers , etc . Their training for poll-taking is brief and usually supplied by traveling supervisors at . the time of their employment . The ; Gallup group has 1.300 interviewers ; Roper , 256 . They receive in the , neighborhood of 85 cents an hour and work when and as they can spare time from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depending upon the complexity of the question involved . Fourth , the preparation of the questionnaires , and their evaluation after they have - been completed , is the most " scientific " part of the process . The questions must be designed not to alarm , offend or excite the suspicion of the person polled , yet at the same time to reveal as much as possible of what he thinks and the intensity with which he believes it . Admitted Weaknesses Now that they have suffered a major defeat the once rather cocky poll-takers have been confessing the vulnerability of their methods . There is as yet no agreement as to precisely where they went wrong . Among the weaknesses severally or jointly confessed are diese : ( 1 ) All polls have a residue of " undecided " or " no opinion " interviews . In the case of Gallup these ranged from as high as 18 per cent just prior to the conventions last summer , down to 71/2 per cent in mid-October . In the final tabulations , these undecided votes were distributed among the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was-on the non-scientific essumatiqii , that the undecided persons would divide in the same proptirlicini " as those with opinions .. ( 2 ) . Until some method is devised to measure the " intensity " of opinions held , the degteeof determination to . carry through an intended course of action , polls on questions involving action ( such as voting ) will remain unreliable. ( 3 ) Scientific controls apparently yield to human nature at the point of contact between interviewer and the person interviewed . Any number of casual circumstances and personal relationships can conspire to distort the find ; ings of a poll which depends for its accuracy on scientific exacti-tilde ( 4 ) Some method must be found for reducing the permissible mar ; gin of error , which most poll ; takers have set arbitrarily at 4 per cent . ( 5 ) The area of discretion alI lowed the individual interviewers would seem to negate the scientific reliability of other steps in the process . Rather casually trained for their part-time chore , it is they who make the vital decision as to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 6 ) Present methods are weak in taking into account seemingly extraneous but actually significant subsidiary factors that influenece elections . The classic example of this , it is argued , is a birthcontrol amendment which appeared on Massachusetts ballots which brought out hordes of IrishCatholic-Democratic voters who might otherwise have stayed home . Lesson for Pollsters Does this catastrophe spell the doom of political polling by the " scientific sampling " method ' . The pollsters themselves say " No. " but they hasten to add that it is probably , in the long- run , a chastening and educational experience for all concerned . Mr. Roper put it this way : " It has probably set the business back about five years , and it 's probably a good thing . Most of us had gotten pretty smug , and I was one of the smuggest of the lot . And the public itself had , come . to put too much ( iepenlience in . the accuracy of the polls . " A considerable body of opinion has arisen in the- last few days which says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes on such vital questions as the Marshall Plan should be abolished . In this- connection critics of  --  the polls point out that such questions as the Mar. shall Plan are extremely complex , yet the pollsters take a far smaller sample on these controversial problems - than they take in the case of a Presidential election . . Those who hold this view ' say that ( the possibility of large-scale error , such as has just occurred , and the ease with which palls can be " faked " by unscrupulous - operas tors , makes them a potential menace to the national interest . ag                     