@@707397

txt Despite President Roosevelt 's order that the nation 's 530,000 striking coal miners return to the pits tomorrow , neither the coal operators nor ) officials of the United Mine Workers expected tonight that there would be compliance . This was the second day of the fourth nation-1 wide coal strike since May 1 . John L. Lewis , union president , conferred twice today with Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes , who is in charge of the mines under last night 's Government seizure . Mr. Lewis , however , did not call together the policy committee of 200 , which is the union group for announcing decisions , and its failure to meet and send out orders for resumption of work made continuation of the strike certain at least for another day . The members of the policy committee journeyed here from twenty-six States on Mr. Lewis ' call for sessions which began yesterday . They remain subject to orders to reconvene , but apparently the talks by Mr. Lewis with Secretary Ickes today failed to result in any arrangement upon which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While union officials would make no prediction , the possibility of a policy committee order to the miners tomorrow for reopening the mines Thursday or Friday was not excluded . Even if such an order is issued , mechanical and other difficulties will make it difficult to obtain normal production for several days , and it is expected that most of the weekly coal product of 12,000,000 tons will be lost . Secretary Ickes placed the coal crisis before the War Production Board today at a meeting which marked the return from abroad of Donald M. Nelson , WPB chairman . Accompanying Mr. Ickes was Under-secretary of the Interior Abe Fortas and Howard A. Gray , deputy solid fuels coordinator for war . Present also were Charles E. Wilson , WPB vice chairman , and Joseph B. Eastman , chief of the Office of Defense Transportation . No action was taken . In an order on his own accord designed to conserve the dwindling supply of , coal for the most essen tial needs , Secretary Ickes froze about 2,000,000 tons of bituminous coal in transit on the railroads and placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal dealers and consumers to cooperate in an effort to alleviate suffering in homes and public institutions which may be without coal and declared that if the situation does not improve quickly " it may be necessary to call on householders who have more than a normal supply of coal in their bins to share their stocks with less fortunate neighbors . " Retail Delivery Curbs Retail dealers may not deliver more than one ton of bituminous coal to a householder . Retail dealers and others selling in less than carload lots were forbidden to deliver and consumers were forbidden to accept bituminous coal unless the consumer 's coal supply , including all usable ? sizes , grades and kinds , gives less than ten days ' protection . Deliveries in any quantity , as long as the delivery plus the stocks on hand do not bring the total supply above ten days , were permitted to other non-industrial consumers , specifically including hospitals and similar institutions , doctors ' offices , hotels , apartment buildings , drugstores , food stores or markets , restaurants and Federal , State and municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sizes not generally used for non-industrial purposes , may also be supplied with sufficient coal to bring their total coal on hand to a maximum of ten days ' supply if delivery is required to prevent irreparable damage to the plant . Pooling of retail stocks and of deliveries in each community to carry out the domestic coal regulation will be handled by retail ' dealer committees which havel been functioning under the direction of the ODT . These committees were authorized to inform the Solid Fuels Administration regional distribution offices where coal is critically needed to avert suffering . The Solid Fuels Administration will make allotments of emergency supplies on the basis of these recommendations . The " freeze " of coal on railroads bars delivery to consignees , with certain exceptions , unless they can certify that they have less than ten days ' stocks on hand and that lack of coal will cause extensive and irreparable damage to their plants . " Consumers who have any coal are urgently requested to refrain from ordering more while their neighbors may be without any , " the administrator said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of orders by domestic consumers , and surveys in certain areas show that many domestic consumers have sufficient stocks of coal to carry them through the winter . " In these same markets there are also many consumers who are without any coal and who have been unable to purchase sufficient fuel to keep their homes warm . These consumers should have first preference from retailers . Dealer Cooperation Asked " I am asking retail coal dealers to accept the responsibility of checking the fuel supply of their customers to discover where the ' need for coal is the most acute . ' Dealers who have a supply of coal in their yards should limit deliveries to a bare minimum and then make certain that the coal they ' : deliver goes to customers without fuel , rather than to fill up the bins of those who may be able to finance orders for their entire winter 's supply . " Dealers in communities where coal has been short and where the weather has turned cold are directed to get in touch immediately with area distribution managers of the Solid Fuels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We will thus be able to distribute the limited amount of coal that we have where it is most needed . " Reports from steel centers indicated that , while some steel mills had enough coal on hand for at least several days , others would be compelled to curtail operations soon .                     