@@712157

txt Legislative leaders tonight pondered chances of a special session after another hectic day in which Mayor Kennelly 's 8 million dollars a year revenue licensing bill was beaten by the Republican senate and action on the 5 cent gasoline tax was stalled . Both houses Quit until Monday morning tonight , leaving only four more days of the 66th general assembly to act on a welter of legislation . Slated , for defeat In the senate . are Gov , Stevenson 's bills to raise 25 million dollars a year by extending the 2 per cent sales tax to home construction and other special order business . Also marked with the Indian sign is his bill to distribute 34 million dollars in state funds to cities in the next two years , with Chicago to get about 8 millions a yew . Expect More Maneuvering Final week-end activity for the sales tax broadening might revive its chances . " It wculd n't surprise me tf were called back into special se= sion in September to raise th ' sales tax to 3 cents , " said Wa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . House Majority Leader James J. Ryan ( D. , Chicago ) disagreed . He thought that any special session that rnight develop from a pinch in state finances would not be held until next year . The answer to the special session question may be contained in the amount of 1947- ' 49 appropriations which lapse next week . 0 . K. Out Of State Tax Other action today included the following : 1 . Speedy approval by a senate committee of a bill passed by the house last night to subject out of state corporations to the capital stock tax now imposed on domestic corporations . 2 . Senate passage of a bill to give 15 million dollars in s , e general funds to townships for rural roads in the next two yea.t. 3 . Last ditch opponents of the increase in the gasoline tax succeeded in postponing hop . e committee e.ction on the bill LILA Monday or later . The bill was passed by the senate this week . 4 . Senate sponsors struck iron , the calendar a bill allowing cities to license horse race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cigaret Price fixing bill was virtually assured when the senate removed an amendment designed to compel Gov . Stevenson to veto the measure . 6 . Tabled in the senate was a bill under which the Chicago city purchasing agent rather than the election commission would purchase voting machines . 7 . Defeated in the senate was a bill whose eventual effect would be to shift much of the cost of junior colleges to the state . Burial of Mayor Kennelly 's bill was accompanied by sound and fury which boded ill for Stevenson 's sales tax extension proposal . Showdown on the sales tax bills was made a special order for Monday . By a vote of 22 to 20 the senate upheld the recommendation of its municipalities committee thrtt the bill- be killed . Minority Leader William J. Connors ( D. , Chicago ) lacked six votes of the 26 needed ' to upset the committee action . Fear " Vicious " Precedent Republican senators said a " vicious " precedent would be set by authorizing the Chicago city council to license any business , trade , profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Peter J. Miller ( R. , Chicago ) , who faces a tough fight fur re-election nee year , replied to the statement that the bill is limited to two years of operation . The same thing was true of the state sales tax when it was enacted in 1935 but it has been kept in Owe ever since , be said . ' The Democratic whip . Sen. Roland V. Libonati of Chicago , stormed that Chicago policemen and firemen will ! ' e facing payless paydays beginning in October Lecause of the defeat of the Republican Leader Thompson Said the senate passed city-aid bills which are trapped in the Democratic controled house . One was tor a 25 million dollars a year special state school aid fund requiring proportionate cuts in real estate taxes for school purposes . This would allow cities to raise more Cook county assessor to collect taxes under present laws on about a million automobiles . " This latter source alone would Provide 25 or 30 million dollars a Year for C hicago , " Thompson said . " That would be considerable help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The proposed tax on " foreign " corporations would raise about 8 million dollars a year . More than half of it would be in Chicago . The money would be assessed and divided among local governments as are property taxes . Amazing speed was shown by the senate re venue committee headed by Sen. Charles Baker ( R. , Davis Junction ) . A/tho the : bill was passed by the house last night it was set for a hearing this afternoon . Only three committee members were present . Action Is Challenged Sen. Baker asked whether anyone wanted to be heard . People still were filing into the committee room . Hearing no one . he put the bill to a vote and it was sent to the senate floor . Sen. Arthur J. Bidwill ( R .. River Forest ) later challenged the action as akin to that of a kangaroo court . He demanded that the bill be submitted to a hearing before the senate committee of the whole , Monday afternoon . His motion carried by a vote of 29 to 6 . Stevenson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pushing the bill . He contends that demands for state aid to cities will be lessened if local governments get new tax sources of their own . Filibuster By Searle A one man filibuster by Rep. Clint ' : , Searle ( R .. Rock Island ) slowed down house proceedings for 100 minutes . His maneuver was aimed against a bill to create the office of assessment supervisor in downstate counties . Sen. Thompson rejected Seruie 's request that the senate drop consideration of the bill which was passed at midnight Thursday without a single vote to spare . Thompson succeeded on the senate floor in getting the measure out of the senz:e revenue committee where it had been held by Chairman Baker . The vote was 25 to 10 , and the bill will be heard by the whole senate Monday afternoon . " NO PAYLESS DAYS " Libonati 's assertion that Chicago policemen and firemen face . Payless pay days beginning in October because of defeat of the licensing bill was branded as " bunk " by Arthur G. Lindell , city budget director . Under the beaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't have been put to use until the 1950 city budget became effective Jan. 1 . There will be no payless pay days in Chicago , he said . Defeat of the licensing bill , Lindell said , will mean that the city must cut expenditures and service in many departments . lie said he feared that the city would not be able to continue its policy of meeting prevailing wages for per diem union workers . Mayor Kennelly declined comment on the senate action . In the past he has refused comment on actions by the legislature or by Gov . Stevenson .                     