@@707167

txt This week only one important change took place along the great battlefronts of the world . Eight hundred miles up the Yangtze River in the very heart of China a stalemate of years was broken in a new way and with new results . Many times before Japanese armies have struck into the hinterland from their lines of communications and then withdrawn after a foray for food or the destruction of some Chinese war installation . This time they went out as usual and began , to withdraw as usual . But as they withdrew something different happened . Chinese and American planes appeared in the air , stung at columni along the ' roads , bombed , supply depots , blew up docks and ships on the- river . Chinese ground troops seized the advantage , harried the invaders with new energy , turned the withdrawal into a retreat and the re , treat into a rout .. It was not , a big battle as battles . go hi- these days . l'he Japanese probably employed a ' total of six or seven diviiions  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese numbers were probably about the same . Battlefield of Vast Size Those were armies almost exactly the same size as the armies that fought at Gettysburg . But they were scattered over a battlefield many , many times the size of the field of Gettysburg . It stretched from the Tunting Lakes where the Yuan and Siang Rivers join to flow into the Yangtze for 150 miles along the southern bank of the Yangtze up to the gorges at Ichang where Chinese armies have been holding the line for years . Along that front Japanese columns had started fanning out into the south and east , two weeks ago and had . advanced on an average of about 50 miles . The Japanese advanced ' as they always had before without any ' serious difficulty until their columns were long and thin on the dusty roads ; and 50 miles from their supply heads on the big river . Then early this week the Chinese , began to hold . And then the , planes with , the white sun of China or the : white star of America suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the biggest surprise of their China campaign . The planes were few in numbers . The communiqu ? s carefully tell us nothing , but if there was one plane over 50 in that entire group it would be most surprising . Perhaps fewer than 50 planes all told did the job . Work on a Shoestring Day after day those few fighters and bombers took off somewhere in the dusty roadless hills behind the Chinese lines and bombed and strafed the Japanese columns . It was work on a shoestring . It meant using every plane in China to the utmost advantage . The gasoline those planes burned had to be car- ried by air all the way from India ; across the Himalayas to Chung : - king and onto the front . Seldom , to paraphrase Winston Churchill , has So much been accomplished with so little . Little though it was , it was neither too little nor too late . The Japanese air - forces have many other air fronts to watch now . Burma is under constant air attack from India : Lieut . Gen. George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Rabaul every day . The American South Pacific fleet pounds them from Guadalcanal . The loss of Attu has given them a new threat which must have already drawn new squadtkins to the far northern tip of the Japanese archipelago . That leaves them little for the interior of China . So far they have needed little . Maj. Gen. Claire Chennault 's baby air force in China has never before taken a hand in land operations in Central China . Until the last month it has , in fact , done little but protect Chungking and the air supply line from Japanese bombers . Recently it acquired heavy bombers and began striking at the Japanese supply line along the China coast . Test of Chinese Strength This week it turned up for the first time in a new role  --  tactical support of ground troops . And the Japanese air force was taken en- lj tirely unprepared . There were not enough Japanese planes in the area to meet them . What there were suffered the fate of any inferior air force taken by surprise by a larger one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force was blotted out in September . 1939 . The scope of the victory can easily be exaggerated . It is highly doubtful that the purpose of the Japanese forays was much more than exploratory . The southern part of the battlefield around the Tunting Lakes is an important rice-producing area  --  which may explain that part of the operation . But the main Japanese columns were advancing . southeastward from the Ichang sector into a bar ; ren land where there was no readily conceivable objective except Chinese troops . They were probably sounding out the quality and will to resist of these Chinese standing between them and Chungking . Part of Chennault 's Plan zven it the Japanese columns were as badly mauled as the Chungking reports represent , it still is not a serious blow to the Japanese Army . They can replace them , and they can spare enough planes from other fronts to keep the small Allied air force from catching them by surprise on that front another time . It probably did not save Chungking , because it is extremely doubtful that Chung- king was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the important effect of putting at rest considerable doubts about the amount of fighting power left in the Chinese Army . And it showed the new Allied air force in China as an effective weapon . The results are an impressive and timely commentary on the doctrines General Chennault has just been expounding at the staff conferences in Washington . His basic thesis was that it is not necessary to wait for the reopening of the Burma Road to hurt Japan from the air in China . His petition was for enough transport planes to supply a larger air force in China with which he believes he can protect his own bases and strike telling blows at the enemy . It still remains to be seen whether he can defend his bases against the expectable Japanese reaction . The argument was not settled by the battle of the middle Yangtze . But it did lend impressive weight to the Chennault thesis . Pantelleria Pounded The other great fronts of the world this week were in a state of mounting expectancy . All week long Allied bombers and British warships pounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ready for the first invasion move in a Mediterranean campaign . That was the appear : ance . It may not be the fact . Pantelleria must be nullified as an air base even if there is no intention to capture it , because Pantelleria is in the middle of the narrow waist of the Mediterranean which is being opened as an essential Allied supply line . The odds are , however , that some time soon Allied landings will be made on its rocky shore line . All week long the Russia front was the producer of alarms . It has seemed several times as though the big show had started . But so far it remains just a series of local jabs to feel out opposing dispositions . It still gives the feeling of a front where the outcome of any major military commitment is so incalculable , that both opponents are reluctant to ' take the plunge .                     