@@706482

txt President Roosevelt asked Congress today to recognize existence of a state of war with Rumania , Bulgaria and Hungary . Swift and unanimous approval in the House of Representatives tomorrow and in the Senate Thursday was pre ' dieted . The President 's request , coming , , as it did , about six months after the three countries had declared war on the United States , was interpreted generally as a gesture of friendship and support for Soviet Russia , which long has urged such a step . The prospective war declaration ' by this country was believed to be linked with important conferences now under way between Britain , Russia and the United States on vital war problems , including the question of a second front in Europe to relieve pressure on the Russian armies and the negotiation of a new Anglo-Soviet-American supply agreement to replace the Moscow protocol that expires June 30 . The wording of the President 's message lent support to the belief that the action was connected with the current negotiations , for he gave no particular reason as to why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately after Dec. 12 and Dec. 13 , when the three governments , 1 all under domination of Adolf Hit-ler , made their own declarations against us . Text of the Message The President 's brief message to Congress , which was read only in the House today because the Senate was in recess until Thursday , was as follows : To the Congress of the United States of America : The governments of Bulgaria , Hungary and Rumania have declared war against the United States . I realize that the three governments took this action not upon their own initiative or in response to the wishes of their own peoples but as the instruments of Hitler . These three governments are now engaged in military activities directed against the United Nations and are planning an extension of these activities . Therefore , I recommend that the Congress recognize a state of war between the United States and Bulgaria , between the United States and Hungary , and between the United States and Rumania . Approval of the declarations will put the United States formally at war with six of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Hungary and Rumania  --  and leave this country technically at peace with five other Axis allies . Those fighting beside the Axis with which the United States is not formally at war are Finland , Croatia , Manchukuo , Slovakia and Thailand . The Russians have been seeking a United States declaration against Finland for some time . For reasons of military secrecy , little can be said about the negotiations between the British , the Russians and the Unite States . It was announced by the State Department last week that talks were in progress with the Russians concerning a master lease-lend agreement similar to that negotiated with the British and Chinese , but participants in the discussions were not named . Legislators Are Favorable On Capitol Hill , the request for a declaration of war on Rumania , Bulgaria and Hungary was accepted verbally by legislators available for comment . They included both pre-war supporters and opponents of the President 's foreign policy , and they generally interpreted the action as having significance primarily in connection with Russia . Senator Tom Connally of Texas , Chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed the proposed declarations with the President on Saturday , said that " my own idea is that in addition to the fact these countries declared war on us , they are fighting our friends , Russia and the United Nations . " My idea is that the enemies of our friends are our enemies , " he added . Senator Walter F. George of Georgia , former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said that Russia and Britain had been asking war declarations against Rumania , Hungary and Bulgaria for some time . " If there is any reason for it ? and I presume there is  --  I would favor it because they have declared war on us , " Senator George said . " I know the Russians have been insisting on it because these countries have been furnishing troops to fight the Russian Army , and I expect that England has asked for it , too . We might as well accept the fact that a state of war exists . " Arrangements Are Made In the House Representative John McCormack of Massachusetts , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolutions as the first order of business tomorrow . Action was impossible today because of previous arrangements to hold an informal session that was addressed by President Manuel Quezon of the Philippine Commonwealth . In the Senate Senator Connally said he expected his Foreign Relations Committee to give advance approval to the resolutions at its regular meeting tomorrow , and the Senate itself to act Thursday . At the State Department Sec-retary Hull was asked whether the Presidential decision to ask for war declarations now was a result of confirmation by this government that Rumanian troops had fought with the Germans on the Kerch Peninsula . Mr. Hull replied that under the policy of this government it was entirely appropriate that we should officially declare that a state of war existed by reason of the conduct of the puppet governments of Rumania , Hungary and Bulgaria , which he said were under the domination of Hitler and were tools of Hitler . He added that particular military movements that this country had been observing as best it could thoroughly justified the action of this government . Formal approval of the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country and of Bulgaria , Hungary and Rumania were closed immediately after Rumania declared war Dec. 12 and the other countries followed suit Dec. 13 . Rumanian funds in this country , amounting to $53,000,000 , were frozen Oct. 9 , 1940 , and Bulgaria 's $2,000,000 worth of credits here were frozen March 4 , 1941 . Hungary 's $25,000,000 worth of funds in this country were frozen March 13 , 1941 . About the only immediate action expected is the closer surveillance of Bulgarian , Hungarian and Rumanian nationals in this country , who totaled 153,361 in the alien registration of 1940 . Of this total 116,696 were Hungarians , 32,164 Rumanians and 4,491 Bulgarians .                     