@@705084

txt In the Balkans : Red Troops Reported in Rumania Russian advance into Rumania was alleged by an unconfirmed Reuters , British News agency , dispatch from Bucharest quoting reports received there from Bessarabia . Russian forces of between 150,000 and 180,000 were stated to be on the Rumanian frontier . Russian denial of having previous notification of the dispatch of German troops into Rumania seemed implied in a statement by Toss , the Russian official news agency . Tass said that a Danish report of Russia 's having such notification " does not correspond to the facts . " Details : Page 4 . Big Rumanian oil wells were damaged by fire , and the equipment of three of them destroyed caused renewed reports of sabotage . British residents to the number of 70 left Rumania in the first trainload , prelude to a general evacuation of British subjects , except for a skeleton staff attached to the embassy . The rest of the British to be evacuated are expected to leave by Oct. 17 . In New England : Goodwin Curbs Bay State Police Frank Goodwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursue speeding motorists in police motorcycles and automobiles . He said the officers should merely take the license number of the offending car . Details : Page 9 . Whether Massachusetts Superior Court judges may serve on draft boards was a question raised by the State Executive Council at a special meeting this afternoon . The Council put the question up to the Supreme Court for a decision . Details : Page 10 . Two sons of the President , Franklin D. Roosevelt , Jr. , and John Roosevelt , entered the political campaign in New England in behalf of their father . Details : Page 9 . Massachusetts ' 211th Coast Artillery antiaircraft unit , which leaves for Texas Monday for one year 's training , will be reviewed tomorrow at Camp Edwards , Falmouth , Mass. , by Maj. Gen. James A. Woodruff . In Washington : Senate Confirms Dykstra The Senate today confirmed unanimously the appointment of Dr. Clarence A. Dykstra as Director of Selective Service . Under the Conscription Act , Dr. Dykstra will receive $10,000 a year and may appoint a staff of assistants to carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in response to an urgent appeal it was shipping 75,000 heavy wool blankets to Britain . Orders have been placed with manufacturers for 130,000 more . Only woolen blankets are desired because of the dampness in aid raid shelters . Attorney General Jackson assigned Maurice M. Milligan , United States attorney for Western Missouri , to conduct a nationwide investigation of complaints of law violation in connection with the November election . President Roosevelt signed the following legislation : a measure providing for a $150,000,000 housing program for defense workers ; a bill requiring that all woolen articles bear labels disclosing the exact fiber content ; a measure excluding prison-made goods from interstate commerce . The President vetoed legislation which would have extended pensions and other benefits to Air Corps reserve officers who were disabled while on extended active duty subsequent to July 1 , 1928 . Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau said that President Roosevelt had appointed a four-member committee to help speed up production of war planes for the United States and Great Britain by standardizing designs and eliminating production rough spots . The Army announced that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States entered the World War , would be put into service as a troop transport . The liner has been laid up in Chesapeake Bay since 1931 . Thad Brown , member of the Communications Commission , asked President Roosevelt to withdraw his nomination for another term on the agency . Mr. Roosevelt agreed " reluctantly " to do so . The House completed legislative action on a bill permitting States to organize " home guards " to replace National Guards mobilized for Federal service . In the Far East : Japan and Soviet May Sign A Russo-Japanese non-aggression pact within the next few days may give Japan a relatively free hand in China , while Russia would receive a special sphere of influence along the North China border , London sources reported . Three American liners are being dispatched to the Far East to repatriate American citizens . There are some 17,000 Americans in the danger area . About 2,800 are expected to return at once . The ships are the Mariposa , Monterey , and Washington . Two more British citizens were given suspended sentences in Japanese courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar treatment . The latest sentence was against Capt . C. H. N. James , retired British naval officer and representative of the Federation of British Industries in Japan . Imperial Airways suspended its Hong Kong-Bangkok service . The Japanese Navy launched the warship Kashii ; tonnage and armament were not disclosed , War Summary : Britons Report Sea Victory A Mediterranean sweep by British naval forces , in which three Hal- . Ian destroyers were sunk but no contact was made with the main Italian fleet , was reported by the British Admiralty . Nonmilitary objectives were reported as the chief targets of bombs and machine gun fire in the most intensive air raid yet on the British capital . Details : Page 1 . German oil supplies in five cities , Channel ports , and important German manufacturing and communications centers , including Berlin , were reported hit as British bombers continued nightly offensive attacks despite unfavorable weather . The Marquis of Lothian , British Ambassador to the United States , was aboard the Yankee Clipper when it left La Guardia Field for Europe today . His departure followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement that Joseph B. Kennedy , United States Ambassador to England , would . probably return to this country for a consultation . In Italy : Nazi Troops Reported in Albania German troops , according to unconfirmed Yugoslav dispatches , had arrived at Durazzo , in Albania . The troops were said to be part of two German divisions ( between 20,000 and 30,000 men ) waiting at Bari to be transported to Albania . Whether the troops were intended for advance against Yugoslavia or Greece was not stated . Italian attack on a British Mediterranean convoy  --  said to be rushing troops to Egypt  --  was claimed to have hit a British cruiser with an aerial torpedo and a transport ship with a bomb . No confirmation of this engagement or of that near Malta on Oct. 12 has been received from the British authorities . Details : Page 4.                     