@@711268

txt Great Britain , its economic future deeply and directly concerned by any industrial revival of Japan , is quietly sounding out the sentiments of eastern members of the British Commonwealth regarding a Nipponese peace treaty . The Brit ish Foreign Office recognizes the need to harmonize a number of conflicting viewpoints ? those of Australia , the United States , and Russia to natile a few ? if a Japanese peace ever is to be signed . British officials have had their hopes raised slightly by the overtures of Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov and Premier Joseph Stalin to the United States which , whatever their over-all objective , are held to reflect for one thing the Kremlin 's anxiety lest the march of events exclude Russia from the Japanese treaty conference . Sentiments Probed To ascertain the treaty sentiments of the British Commonwealth , London has dispatched M. E. Dening , Assistant Undersecretary of the Foreign Office in Charge of Far Eastern Affairs , on a quiet mission around the Far East . He has visited Australia , New Zealand , Pakistan , and India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his last destination before returning to London , Mr. Dening may be able to inform the State Department how the Commonwealth nations would like to see Japanese treaty preparations handled . The British Government wants the Japanese peace treaty to be signed soon , rather than later . Britain likewise agrees with the United States and the Commonwealth nations that the treaty conference should be multilateral , with the 11 nations which fought in the Pacific War participating in full , Soviet Position Rejected It definitely disagrees with the Russian position that the Japanese peace should be decided by a gathering akin to the Big Four foreign ministers ' conference in Europe , with China substituted for France . Why Russia , which fought in the Pacific War hardly for a week , should feel that Australia , which fought a grim war from start to finish , should be Permitted to play only a minor role , Britain does not pretend to understand . But on the question of Japan 's political future , the British Government feels that it has an " honest broker " role to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent anguished cries from Canberra indicate , Australia seems to have apprehensions that what they regard as a new American policy for Japan , aiming toward restoring these islands as the " workshop of Asia , " carries within it seeds of Japanese rearmament and future aggression . The British Foreign Office is in- dined to believe that these worries are overdrawn and that some of Australia 's trepidations will be dispelled when and if Gen. Douglas and the United States State Department take Australia and the other Allied partners into their confidence . What Britain itself is chiefly concerned about are the possible economic implications of an American change of heart , which , if it bears out the recent report on Japanese industry endorsed by Undersecretary of the Army William H. Draper , will give Japan " more rather than less productive capacity than she now has "  --  and will permit even some rebuilding of the country 's merchant marine . Obviously . if Japan is to become a going concern and cease being a drain on the occupying taxpayer , it must manufacture and export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solvent only through a heavy increase in industrial output , The difficulty is that Britain and Japan were rival " workshops of the world " before the war , Competitor Seen Remembering this , Lancashire is worried lest Japan again become an exporter of cheap textiles . Bicycle manufacturers know Japan could flood eastern markets v ith cheap cycles . Because revision of Allied plans for Japan 's future may speed the day when Japan again rivals Britain in the world 's marts , Britain would like to know more about these plans and have a somewhat larger say in their formulation . An early peace conference would provide this say . Australia , in turn , which barely escaped invasion by Japan , is prepared to resist any revision of Allied plans to disperse Japanese holding companies and break up the great trading firms , arguing that the Zaibatsu were leading instigators of the economic imperialism which helped drive Japan to war , Australia believes the peace treaty provisions must prevent Japan from ever establishing sufficient industrial potential to undertake a war of revenge in the Pacific .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         