@@708720

txt New York City was busy yesterday preparing to give to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower on his arrival here next Tuesday the greatest ovation that any returning war hero has received since Admiral George Dewey returned from his victory in Manila Bay nearly half a century ago . A seventeen-gun salute will boom out as the victorious leader of the Allied Expeditionary Forces steps out of President Truman 's private plane at La Guardia Field at 10 A. M. Then he will ride through miles , of the city 's streets along a route that has been laid out to give millions of spectators a chance to see and cheer him . Many notables will be among those paying tribute to him . Mayor La Guardia and Lieut . Gen. George Grunert of the Eastern Defense ' Command will head the welcoming delegation at La Guardia Field . The Duke and Duchess of Windsor will be among the guests of honor at the official reception at City Hall at noon . Governor and Mrs. Dewey will be among the guests at the dinner in the general 's honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details of the city 's welcome remained uncertain yesterday , its main outlines were settled with the release from Mayor La Guardia 's office of the official route along which General Eisenhower will be escorted , and with the partial disclosure of the plans for the various official ceremonies . Promptly at 10 A. M. , weather permitting , a huge C-54 transport plane , originaiiy built for the use of President Roosevelt and now assigned to ' President Truman , will land General Eisenhower at La Guardia Field . It will be followed at two-minute intervals by two other planes , bringing in all fiftyfour officers and men of the general 's personal staff . Three field pieces will roar their salute to the General as he steps from the plane in front of the Administration Building and a guard of honor of 200 infantrymen from Fort Jay will stand at attention . In addition to Mayor La Guardia and General Grunert , the official welcoming party will include Maj. Gen. Frank O 'D . Hunter , commanding the First Air Force ; Maj. Gen. Thomas A. Terry , commanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commanding the Air Transport Command base at the field . The ceremony there will be kept brief , however , and the officials hope that the official motorcade of twenty-five cars will leave the airport within fifteen minutes after the General 's arrival . Incidentally , it has developed that there is a shortage of large open cars of the type customarily used in such receptions , but officials indicated they hoped to get the required number . To Go First to City Hall The motorcade will proceed along Grand Central Parkway through Queens to the Tri-borough Bridge ; thence to the East River Drive ; south to East Ninety-sixth Street , and then west to Fifth Avenue . There it will turn north as far as 103d Street , where it will proceed through Central Park on the 103d Street Cross Drive , to the West Drive . There it will turn south as far as the Seventy-second Street Cross Drive , along which it will proceed to the East Drive . Emerging from the park at Fifth Avenue and Sixtieth Street , it will proceed south along Fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Hall . The exercises there , featured by the presentation to General Eisenhower of a special medal from the city , are scheduled to start promptly at noon and officials expect they may be witnessed by as many as 150,000 persons . Park Department workmen were busy yesterday pruning the foliage of the trees and shrubbery in City Hall Park to give the maximum visibility to the crowd . A special platform Is being built in front of the main entrance to City Hall on which the presentation of the medal will take place . Bleachers on either side will hold a limited number of distinguished guests , while directly in front of the stand will be 900 reserved seats for invited guests . Beyond them in City Hall Park and Plaza will be seats for 40,000 persons and standing room for an estimated 100,000 more . The Board of Transportation announced that the City Hall station of the IRT subway would be closed Tuesday from 11 A. M. to 2 P. M. because of the crowd that is expected in the plaza , and that passengers would be required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the event of rain , it is planned to transfer the official ceremony from City Hall to Madison Square Garden , but General Eisenhower 's motorcade nevertheless will make the trip through the city as far south as City Hall to give people an opportunity to see trim . Some grumbling was heard yesterday from business firms with offices in the financial district beGeneral Eisenhower would not ride along the traditional route from the Battery up lower Broadway that in the past has provided some of the most spectacular dem- onstrations for the city 's distinguished guests . Leaving the City Hall , General Eisenhower and his party will go north along Center Street to Lafayette Street - and up Lafayette Street to Fourth Street , where the motorcade will swing west to Washington Square Park . Proceeding through the triumphal arch in the park , it will continue up Fifth Avenue to Twenty-third Street , and then west to Seventh Avenue . General Eisenhower will receive the plaudits of the garment district on his way north to Times Square , where the motorcade will swing onto Broadway , which it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will then proceed east on Eighty-sixth Street and the connecting Transverse Road through Central Park , continuing to Mayor La Guardia 's official residence , the Gracie Mansion . Luncheon at Gracie Mayor La Guardia will entertain the General and his party at luncheon there , and then the motorcade will proceed north along East End Avenue to Eighty-ninth Street , west to First Avenue , north to 116th Street , and west to Seventh Avenue , which it will follow as far as 151st Street . There it will swing over to Eighth Avenue , entering the Polo Grounds through the 158th Street entrance . The arrival at the Polo Grounds is timed for 2:55 P. M. After witnessing as much of the baseball game as the General cares to see , he will proceed to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel for a rest before the official dinner there that evening . Tremendous pressure for tickets to the various ceremonies and functions was already in evidence and it became apparent that in this respect it would outdo any formal welcome by the city since that in honor of King George VI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month . School Children to Attend The Board of Estimate declined yesterday to entertain a motion by Borough President James A. Burke of Queens calling for the closing of the city 's schools on Tuesday , but Newbold Morris , President of the City Council , explained that the Board of Education was making plans to have large groups of the children taken to vantage points to see the historic occasion . He said that it would be simpler to mobilize the children in the schools , and that to release them for the day would only add to the confusion . Robert K. Christenberry , president of the Broadway Association , issued an appeal to all members of the association to decorate their premises fittingly for the occasion , with a display of the flags of the United States and the remaining United Nations , but he urged that special efforts be made to maintain the dignity of the occasion . " I urge that all members of the Broadway Association take special measures to see that paper is not thrown onto Broadway , " he said . " Waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for shipping ammunition , food , medicine and blood plasma , and I am sure that General Eisenhower and his entourage would frown upon a paper ' snowstorm ' while the war is yet to be won . " The National Father 's Day Committee announced that General Eisenhower had accepted designation by the committee as the " Fighting Father of the Year " and that a victory medal hailing him as such had been turned over to Mayor La Guardia for presentation to the general at the City Hall reception .                     