@@712262

txt ? Edouard Herriot , France 's noted liberal statesman , delivered the inaugural address today at the opening meeting of the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe . In his address M. Herriot told the representatives of the Parliaments of twelve Western European countries that " the logic of facts as well as moral duty " would require all their nations to draw together . He said that only the Marshall Plan permitted Europe to live just now in artificial plenty , and he contended that a political understanding could make a European union possible where efforts based on economic accords alone had failed . A European political understanding , he asserted , Must be the main objective of the Council of Europe , which is composed of delegates from Britain , France , . Belgium , the Netherlands , Luxembourg , Denmark , Norway , Sweden , Italy , Ireland , Greece and Turkey . Iceland has also been approved . H. Herriot at once raised the German question , saying that the Council ought to face it honestly . He said . that Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as those taught by Kant and Goethe , Hegel and Beethoven and that the Western nations would be " thrilled to work with her in building the foundations of a liberal Europe . " He then stressed fears of a return by Germany to the philosophies of force , and in conclusion he said : " Germany herself will have to furnish the reply to a question that for us is more a moral than a political one . " Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium was expected to be elected tomorrow as the first permanent President of the Consultative Assembly . M. Herriot is the temporary leader . Paul Reynaud of France moved today that election of the President be postponed until tomorrow , and his motion was unanimously . adopted . This was done to make possigle the election of M. Spaak , Who , technically , could not be chosen while discharging the office of Foreign Minister , which places him in Council of Europe 's Committee of Ministers . It is believed the New Belgian Government formed today , in which Paul van Zeeland is Foreign Minister , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative in the Assembly so that he may accept the honor that its members intend to proffer him . M. Spaak , accompanied by M. van Zeeland , who is a member of the Belgian delegation here , went to Brussels tonight and is expected to return tomorrow . M. Herriot meantime will continue in the chair . If obstacles to M. Spaak 's election are not cleared away tomorrow , it appears probable that the voting will be deferred again , as there are too many candidates whose names would be put forward if M. Spaak 's were not proposed . Once the Assembly 's officers are elected , debate will start on the agenda , and most of the leading statesmen w ) .11 be heard during the first few sittings . Early next week , it is thought , work will be transferred to committees , and the Foreign Ministers with many of the principal delegates will return home , leaving their alternates here to carry on . German Problem to Fore The German problem is expected to be a dominating one during the early history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leaders , notably Winston Churchill , believe that Germany should be invited into this Council as soon as the Western German state has been formed . Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin of Britain , who originally suggested Strasbourg as the seat of the Council , is known to have had in mind the objective of achieving peace with Germany in the city that has so often changed hands ris a result of past European conflicts . Other proponents of an early invitation to Germany feel that this Council of Europe offers the most practical sphere through which Germany may be introduced i again into the comity of nations . Once accepted here , they feel , she would quickly be accepted by all other international organizations . But there are also many doubts and hesitations to be overcome , and many in the French delegation , for example , feel that it is still much too early to renew normal contacts with the German people and that some time should elapse before the new German state receives regular standing in international relations . M. Herriot put the decision to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to prove themselves . When , he had finished speaking , Herbert Morrison of Britain rose and , corn , plimenting M. Herriot on " the admirable character " of his speech , ' asked that it be recorded in full in the minutes of the Assembly . M. Herriot 's address was the single feature of today 's meeting . He began by invoking the memory of Aristide Briand , who as French Foreign Minister made the first official move to achieve a United States of Europe . M. Herriot- then drew applause for a striking tribute to Mr. Churchill , who with Mr. Bevin and other leaders had been cheered as they entered the hall . Since the delegates were seated alphabetically they were hard to locate , but Mr. Churchill was the center of all eyes where he sat between the Belgian Frans van Cauwelaert and the Italian Mario Cingolani . Holds All in Churchill 's Debt M. Herriot spoke of Mr. Churchill as a man to whom " every free man owes a debt " for having in tragic hours " carried upon his shoulders the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an emphatic denial of the Soviet Union 's charges that the Council of Europe was a body closed to and aimed against the nations of the East . " We are declaring war on no one , " M. Herriot proclaimed , add-ing : " M. Schuman Foreign Minister Robert Schuman of France has stated that all doors are open toward the East to those who today abstain from joining us . We are simply uniting to defend the two greatest acquisitions of human civilization  --  freedom and law . " Concerning the Council 's aims and duties M. Herriot said : " As it is essential to interest the popular masses in your work , you will doubtless reserve an important place for social questions and for everything relating to the improvement of the conditions of the workers . " The great hall of the university where the Assembly sat was packed to overflowing during the meeting . Present in a separate group observing the proceedings were Mr. Bevin , M. Schuman and the other members of the Committee of Ministers . More than 300 members of the international press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including local officials and leaders of Strasbourg . Guards in dark blue trousers and light blue shirts stood at all lapproaches to the building . A small crowd of several hundred cheered the visitors and notably Mr. Churchill , Mr. Sevin and M. Schuman as they came and went . There was repeated applause during M. Herriot 's speech , but the impression given by the spectators was one of dignified interest rather than any fervent enthusiasm and confidence in the work begun . The general feeling was best expressed by Mr. Morrison when , in addressing M. Herriot , he said : " You have inaugurated a great new chapter in European history . It is for us to lay the foundations well . Then all things Will be possible . "                     