@@711741

txt A famous Harvard Law School professor recently wrote a letter to the Washington Post in which he had a grand old time lambasting the House Un-American Activities Committee with all the scholarly dialectics he could lay his hands on . He left the impression he was confident that there was nothing more to be said after he had finished asking his rhetorical questions , and that the committee , forthwith , might just as well crawl into a hole , pull on a dunce cap , and say : " So sorry , please . " But for some odd reason every one of the professor 's questions rested on the unadmitted but evident premise that this whole spy case was just a perverse dream whipped up for a politicians ' holiday and that those connected with it obviously were innocent . He set forth scores of argumentative possibilities with great zest and brilliance , but the possibility of guilt seemed to elude him entirely . It apparently was beyond his imagination . This is a revealing state of mind , and very probably it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amerians , high in the government , stealing confidential state papers in order that they may be passed to a foreign power is an offense so heinous as to cause many Americans to say : " I ca n't believe it 's possible . " Well , it has happened , and when anyone says he ca n't imagine it . the only answer is that he has suffered a breakdown in imagination . Those who read the record of the Canadian Communist spy trial could imagine reluctantly that it could happen in the United States . The necessity today is not to imagine anything ; it is way beyond the imagining stage . The necessity today is to recognize the facts of what has happened and to be ready to do everything necessary to prevent them from continuing . Here is a careful statement of what has happened and something of what is going to be done about it : 1 . As far back as 10 years ago , when Russia was getting ready to collaborate with Hitler , the United States Government began to be infiltrated with American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispatches . 2 . The security provisions were so loose and lax in the State Department at the time that there can be no assurance that many more confidential papers did not find their way into the hands of Communist agents . While security protedures of a decade ago have been strengthened greatly , they are not spyproof ? certainly not from spies able to work from within  --  today . 3 . The probable spy ring within the State Department very likely was larger than the Chambers-Hiss case by itself suggests . It should not be overlooked that about a year ago the State Department discharged 11 employees because they were found to be bad " security risks "  --  and all of them , in varying degrees , were implicated in the Communist apparatus operating within the government . 4 . Latest developments , including the indictment of Alger Hiss , probably insure the continuance of the House Un-American Activities Committee , which suffered badly in the recent election and very likely would be on the way out today if it had not succeeded in bringing to the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . Hostile critics of the House committee are fond of pointing out that the first bitch of Whittaker Chambers ' Microfilms was unearthed not by the committee but by the pretrial Chambers-Hiss libel hearing in Baltimore . The catch there is that there would have been no Chambers-Hiss libel hearing to bring out these microfilms but for the evidence which came out in the course of the committee hearings . Furthermore , the stolen State Department documents which came out in the Baltimore pretrial and which at once were turned over to the FBI and the Justice Department were only a part of the cache . But the FBI and the Justice Department apparently did nothing about tracking down the rest of them . The House Un-American Activities Committee did do something , and it was its initiative which brought the rest of them to light . Fortunately , the administration is beginning to disbelieve its own " red herring " propaganda enough to give serious attention to strengthening the nation 's espionage laws . Note that the **27;362;TOOLONG Mr. Hiss is indicted not on a charge of turning over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is just being indicted for saying that he did n't do it . If the Department of Justice had wished to seek an indictment of Mr. Hiss under the espionage law , it would have been legally debarred from doing so because that law permits anyone who tampers with American security in peacetime to go free if he can conceal his crime for three years !                     