@@704494

txt The figures which Mr. Roosevelt gave to the newspaper correspondents at Hyde Park on Monday are offered as a defense of the spending policies of his Administration . They show the gains which have been made toward recovery since he took office . Comparing 1939 with 1932 , national income has increased by 71 per cent . Farm income has risen 82 per cent . Dividends are up 55 per cent . Exports , 97 per cent . Industrial production , 64 per cent . These are substantial gains . The President credits them in large part to the new purchasing power created by his spending programs . He believes that they must be offset , in any fair accounting , against the increase which has taken place meanwhile in the national debt . He regards them as conclusive evidence that the country is " not going bust . " He thinks that they constitute a convincing argument against any sudden or drastic economy in Washington , since , in his judgment , Government spending plays so important a part in the well-being of the nation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pat in this respect , and permit the national income to rise from the present figure of sixty-eight billion dollars to eighty billion dollars , the budget will be brought into balance automatically , without any increase in taxation . Now this is plainly the argument which the President will address to the taxpayers of the nation , if he is actually a candidate for a third term , and it is plainly the argument which he would like to see his party make , as a justification of the record of the last seven years , if he himself is not a candidate for re-election . It is important , therefore , to examine the argument in the light of other available data . The first reservation that must be made is that the standard of comparison used by the President in compiling these figures has varied during the period under review , as a direct consequence of the action of his own Administration . The data used by Mr. Roosevelt for national income , farm income . dividends and exports are all stated in terms of old gold dollars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new dollars devalued to 59.06 per cent of their former worth . To a considerable extent , therefore , the gains which he reports are illusory . The second reservation to be noted is that the President 's argument oversimplifies the issue . It ignores the fact , for example , that other countries have also achieved a very large measure of recovery , and that they have done so without unbalancing their budgets . The British budget , for instance , was balanced throughout most of the decade of the Thirties . Yet in the Summer of 1939 , in the last months of peace , British industrial production stood at 124 per cent of its 1929 level , whereas our own figure was still at 82 per cent . What is true in the case of Britain is also true in the case of other important countries . We are near the end of the procession , and not in the lead , so far as achieving the level of 1929 is concerned . Moreover , the President 's logic likewise oversimplifies the situation by suggesting that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or chiefly the result of the Government 's own policies . But this is a dangerous argument for him to use . For if his Administration is wholly or chiefly responsible for the gains made since 1932 , it is also Vfholly or chiefly responsible for the problems which remain unsolved  --  and specifically for the fact of 10,000,000 unemployed . Finally , there is this further reservation . The President 's argument fails to establish the necessary connection between recovery on one side and Government spending on the other . For it does not follow , as the President suggests it does , that the more the Government spends , the more recovery we will have  --  and ample proof of the fact is to be found in our experience as a nation . The Government is now spending more than twice as much money as it spent before the depression ; yet we have not reached during these later years anything like the level of the prosperity existing in the Twenties . And the reason is that Government spending is only one factor among many in the whole economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , larger , more important factor of private investment of capital . The longest and best sustained periods of prosperity which this nation has ever enjoyed  --  the years when we were building up the greatest machinery of mass production that the world has ever seen and raising the standards of American living to a level which made those standards the envy of every other nation  --  did not come when the Government was " spending its way into prosperity . " They came when the Government was content to keep its fiscal affairs in such good order as to promote confidence in the national credit , and meantime to encourage that spirit of private enterprise and individual initiative which is the real genius of the American people .                     