@@710025

txt Three major developments , all of them in New York , have been presented to the Soviet public as indications of greatly improved prospects of a stable world . Foremost of these is auspicious conclusion of the Foreign Ministers Council 's work on the satellite treaty drafts and the prospect of an early signing of peace treaties with former Axis partners . Not only is it felt this will help to normalize life in countries along the Soviet Union 's European periphery , but it provides a good augury for settlement of the no less knotty problem of a treaty with Germany itself . Methods Hit The Soviet press never ceased assuring its readers and world at large that there was no obstacle to understanding and agreement which good will exercised in an atmosphere of compromise would not solve . Soviet criticism of representatives of other powers was directed not so much against specific views or clauses which they advocated and which conflicted with the position of the Soviet delegation , but against what the Soviets considered to he the tactics and methods employed . While the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used by the Russian delegations at the various diplomatic meetings , the Russians have- charged that the western powers sought to make their arguments prevail not by power of persuasion but by forcible imposition . The Soviets have been highly critical of what they call the " tyranny of majority . " They cite the mustering. of votes at the Paris Peace Conference by the western power to outvote Soviet ? representatives . Molotov Praised Soviet representatives are pictured here as having shown the fullest desire too-Operate for constructive purpoks of common good and Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov , in particular , at the current Foreign Ministers ' Council session , by this attitude has been primarily instrumental in achieving agreement on such hard issues as Trieste , Danube Navigation and reparations . The Soviet outlook also has been brightened by current United Nations discussions on armament reduction and atomic control even though these still are in an exploratory stage .                     