@@704962

txt DOVER SEES FIGHTS British Raid Germans Along Coast Three Times in 24 Hours VAST EXPLOSIONS FOLLOW Big Area , Including Brussels and 26 Air Fields , Bombed Saturday Night By The Associated Press . DOVER , England , Monday , Aug. 19 ? The Royal Air Force , for the third time in twenty-four hours , smashed at the Nazi-occupied French ports on the English Channel last night and early today . There were air-raid alarms in Switzerland last night on the route British planes have taken to bomb Italy , The Associated Press reported . It was reported in Dover that the Germans had concentrated large bodies of troops along the French coast , a region in which watchers in Dover could see bright flashes and hear heavy explosions . The attack along more than twenty miles of the coast between-Calais and Boulogne could be seen and heard here . The R. A. F. seemed to be devoting most of its attention to Boulogne , from which Julius Caesar invaded Britain in 55 B. C. Five great flashes in the Boulogne vicinity were so brilliant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles across the Channel , as if by floodlight . Waves of British aircraft already had carried out a heavy daylight raid on the French coast , going over about noon yesterday , Heavy explosions across the Channel could be heard only a few min ites after what seemed to be three waves of medium British bombers flew over the coast . Dog Fights Over Channel At the same time dog fights took place between British Spitfires and Hurricanes and German Messerschmitts , which came up to intercept the British . The air immediately was filled with the roar of diving and zooming planes . At one time there was the sound of German bombers crossing inland , while to the west what appeared to be a British bomber squadron was crossing outward . Fighters engaged in a dog fight high in the air were leaving a crazy pattern of condensed vapor from their exhausts as they twisted and turned some four or fives miles above . The whole attack could be seen through field glasses . The Germans came over in their usual " V " formation , but went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Just as they got over the field the anti-aircraft guns set up a barrage , puffs from shells burst near some of the planes , and the air rocked with the bursting of cannon and anti-aircraft shells , machine-gun fire and the throb of airplane engines . Then the Messerschmitts started out to sea with three Hurricanes in pursuit . Heavy Bombings at Boulogne Special Cable to THE New YORK TIMES . LONDON , Monday , Aug. 19 ? Planes of the Royal Air Force coastal command attacked Boulogne harbor " heavily and successfully " Saturday night , destroying German ships and seaplanes . At the same time the bomber command raided oil plants , munitions factories , stores and railroads deep into Germany and attacked twenty-six airfields in Northwest France , the Netherlands and Belgium . In contrast with the proved German losses in their recent attacks on these islands not one British plane failed to return . The British raids , perhaps the heaviest they have made so far , were carried out Saturday when there was a virtual cessation of German attacks on Britain . A flurry was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Press Association put out a story that five divisions of German troops , massed on the beaches of Calais and Boulogne ready to embark for Britain , had been bombed and dispersed Saturday night and again yesterday . The story had , been passed by the censor , but when reporters began asking the Air Ministry it was speedily denied , first semiofficially , later in a formal statement by the Information Ministry . " It is learned on inquiry by the Air Ministry tonight that there is no foundation for the story issued by a press agency that German // troops were seen by the R. A. F. Saturday night massed on beaches between Boulogne and Calais or were bombed there , " the Information Minister 's announcement said . Officials who had made the inquiry told correspondents there was no evidence of any kind for the belief that troops had been seen or I bombed at any time . i The Air Ministry allowed the In ! formation Ministry to issue the formal denial only after newspaper j men had beseiged all sources , clamoring for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story was not true but refused to say so formally . The news agency stuck by its guns till the last moment , merely issuing after the first denial a statement that there was no cdnfirmation in official quarters but that they had it from a usually reliable source , Many newspapers , including the highly cautious Times , went out with the story and had to call back the first copies of their early editions . During the raid on Boulogne harbor Fairey light bombers dropped three tons of high explosive , swooping down again and again on the ships and seaplanes assembled in the basin . The R. A. F. also showered the harbor with incendiary bombs , the planes diving at their targets at two-minute intervals . The harbor was attacked from several sides at once , the bombers crossing each other . The main pier was hit often but most of the bombs hit seaplanes and ships riding at anchor . The pilots reported that one seaplane came up above the smoke of the bombs in thousands of pieces , denoting a direct hit had been scored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One battery particularly bothered British planes coming down from the landward side of the harbor so a British pilot stopped bombing for a moment and dived at the German guns with his own machineguns spitting . One hundred rounds , fired in one dive , silenced the battery . The diving plane then returned to other targets . Another , which had unloaded bombs on two objectives , turned homeward pursued by shells from the German coastal battery to within four miles of the British coast. , Meanwhile , above the combat , Blenheim fighters forming the escort rode at ease . Titey reported the bombers left the harbor ringed and crisscrossed with flames . British Bomb Brussels wireless to THIC NEW YORK miss . BERLIN , Aug. 18 ? The British last night bombed Brussels , Belgium , and towns in central and western Germany . it is reported , killing four and injuring twentytwo civilians in Brussels . An American correspondent in Brussels reports having watched the British attack last night in the light of the clear full moon . A single British plane , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the drone of its motor , for anti-aircraft artillery . did not fire , the plane dived to an altitude of about 200 feet and then released a bomb . The missile was clearly visible , falling at an angle over the house where the American lives . Then it exploded two blocks beyond . Air Raid Alarm for Swiss BERNE , Switzerland , Monday , Aug. 19 ** raid alarms screamed warnings to the inhabitants of Berne and Basel about midnight and here in the Swiss capital anti-aircraft batteries fired on unseen trespassers . The alarm was sounded at Basel at 12:05 A. M. and the all-clear at Berne ten minutes later . Berne 's alarms sounded again at 1:20 A. M. The second alarm apparently was caused by the return flight of the trespassers . Alarms also were sounded at . Geneva . at 11:20 P. M. and 12:30 A. M. Listening posts were attracted to the unidentified foreign planes by the drone of their motors . It was the fourth night of air raid warning within a week . The batteries that fired here were on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the planes , but it was generally believed that , as on three previous nights , they were British bombers headed for Northern Italian cities or objectives on the German side of Lake Constance . Bombs Fall in Unoccupied Franco LIMOGES , France , Aug. 18 UPI -- A bombing plane of unidentified nationality dropped four bombs in unoccupied France today . They fell in open fields and caused little damage .                     