@@712148

txt President Truman wants Congress to get the nation started now on the long-discussed proposal for helping the " economically under- , developed areas " of the world . His special message to Congress asks for $45,000,000 this year , including the $10,000,000 already asked for in the 1950 budget , to cover American participation both in the programs of the international agencies and the assistance to be provided directly by the United States . As a spur to private investors , Mr. Truman told Congress it was only appropriate for the government to guarantee private capital of Americans " against the risks peculiar to those investments " in underdeveloped economic areas . Loan Guarantee Asked He urged Congress to authorize the Export-Import Bank to guarantee these loans which he said at the outset would be largely experimental . Thus the long-held dream of helping to develop the economies of the backward areas of the world by a concerted outlay of American money and technical know-how which President Truman endorsed in his inaugural address may soon become a reality . Dwelling on the " grinding pov- , erty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions of people , " Mr. Truman said the opportunity confronting the United States " in Africa , the Near and Far East , and certain regions of Central and South America " offered one of the greatest challenges in the world today . He pictured the inhabitants of these underdeveloped lands as already having been " stirred and awakened " by the hope that the United States would take the initiative in helping them to lift themselves out of their " age-old economic and social handicaps . " Aid to Democracy ' The President as much as told Congress that before the millions of people living on these undeveloped frontiers can achieve political democracy , they must first have economic democracy . Without a sound economic 114se , such as that promised in his now famous Point Four , the President indicated that . these Areas Will be unable to Meet " the expectations which , the modern world has aroused in their peoples . " If they are frustrated or disappointed , he warned , they may turn to false doctrines " which hold that the way of progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress in the plainest terms of what he at least obviously regards as enlightened self-interest . He believes the awakening of these Peoples holds " tremendous prbmise " for the United States , not alone that " new and stronger nations will be associated with us in the cause of human freedom , " but that the United States will experience " new economic strength and growth " for itself . Long-Range Benefits Among long-range benefits for all free nations accruing from the program to export American money and technical know-how , he listed : 1 . Opening up of new and better markets for the goods of free European nations . 2 . Strengthening of the United Nations and the fabric of world peace . The President reminded Congress that the major effort in such a program must be local in character . " It must be made by the people of the underdeveloped areas themselves , " he declared . " It is essential , however , to the success of their effort that there ' be help from abroad . In some cases , thepeoples of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great enterprise without initial aid from other countries . " This aid falls roughly into two categories . The first is the technical , scientific , and managerial knowledge necessary to economic development . This category includes not only medical and educational knowledge , and assistance and advice in such basic fields as sanitation , corimfunications , road-building , and governmental services , but also , and perhaps most important , assistance in the survey of resources and in planning for long-range economic development . " The second category is produc ? tion goods  --  machinery and equipment  --  and financial assistance in the creation of productive enterprises . The underdeveloped areas need capital for port and harbor development , roads and commu ? nications , irrigation and drainage projects , as well as for public utilities and the whole range of extractive , processing , and manufacturing industries . " Mr. Truman thinks much of the capital requirett can be provided by thise countries . themselves , in spite of their low standard of living . But much must come from abroad . Novel Devices ' Will necessary extra capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tO think not unless " novel devices " are used to insure that United States private investments reach proportions sufficient to carry out the objectives of the program . Although investment - treaties will be directed at mitigating risks against " expropriation without compensation , unfair or discriminatory treatment , destruction through war or rebellion , or the inability to convert their earnings into dollars , " Congress was told such treaties can not eliminate risks entirely . For that reason , the President said , it was appropriate to have the Export-Import Bank guarantee the private capital of Ameri. can nationals in these foreign ven. tures . He said that the guarantee activity will be largely experimental at the outset and that some investments may only ? require guarantees against the danger of inconvertibility . But the bank has sufficient resources at the present time to begin the guarantee program . Enactment of his two legisla ? tive proposals , President Truman said , would constitute a national endorsement of this major goal in United States foreign policy . He urged Congress to act quickly to bring the meaning of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily lives .                     