@@712044

txt Massachusetts highways appear almost certain to receive $100 , - 000,000 worth of attention  --  in repairs and new construction within the next two years . This was evident today as the $100,000,000 bond issue for highways bill came up for debate in the House of Representatives . However , disagreements are likely over some of the provisions of the measure as reported by the House Ways and Means Committee . " We must make sure that expenditures of funds are safeguarded , " Representative Charles Gibbons ( R ) of Stoneham , minority floor leader in the House , commented in advance of a Republican caucus . Opinion Reiterated He reiterated an earlier opinion that the need for highway construction is as pressing as it was when the Republicans originally proposed the $100,000,000 highway program last year . This year , Governor Dever has incorporated the highway bond issue program into his own legislative platform . Consequently , the Democrats who held up the highway program last year ? because they feared Republican control of expenditures  --  now are assumed to be backing the bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recent weeks by a cooling of Republican ardor for the highway program . Control Is Issue Although still admitting the urgency of highway construction , Republicans are wondering whether the Democrats will take undue partisan advantage of highway fund control . Also , some opposition to the highway program has developed because of ' the inclusion of $8 , - 000,000 for the Charles River Embankment parkway . In a close vote , these factors may become exaggerated  --  for a two-thirds vote is needed for passage . Legislative leaders generally assume that Charles River Embankment parkway opposition is not sufficient of itself to defeat the bond issue in a final test . Another factor is the recommendation by the House Ways and Means Committee that the bond issue be for 10 years and not 20. 1No Parallel Tax This suggestion was not paralleled by a recommendation for an increase in the gasoline tax  --  a proposal favored by Governor Dever . Since reducing the bond issue period would call for taking more than $10,000,000 from the already depleted highway fund each year , instead of the $5,000,000 under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be fought out on the floor of the House . As the bill now stands , it provides $8,000,000 for embankment parkway , $53,000,000 for projects outside Metropolitan Boston , $37 , - 000,000 for Greater Boston projects , and $2,000,000 for highway safety devices . Deadline Set The expenditures would be controlled by the Department of Public Works and the Metropolitan District Commission , Construction work is expected to follow the outline advanced in the master highway plan . All contracts must be assigned by June , 1950 , and the bill carries an emergency preamble , which would place it in effect as soon as enacted . Meanwhile , more than 50 organizations have recorded their opposition to a boost in the gasoline tax with the joint ways and means committee . Their communication was forwarded to the committee by Richard F. Paul , secretary of the Massachusetts Highway Users Conference . He said they took this position " on the ground that official figures show present and anticipated receipts from highway-user taxes and fees , at current rates , to be more than sufficient to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The highway bill has the sup-part of the majority of civic , labor , and business organizations which keep an eye on State House legislation . Similar to Staves Bill It is substantially the same as that proposed last year  --  and again this year  --  by Senator Edward W. Staves ( R ) of Southbridge . In Republican circles , it is considered the Staves Bill , not the Dever highway program , as it is likely to be called in future press releases from administration publicity offices . Legislators have received an appeal from a score of interested organizations to treat the measure as a nonpartisan bill . These organizations include the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Association , Massachusetts Selectmen 's Association , Retail Trade Board of Boston , American Federation of Labor , Congress of Industrial Organizations , Associated Industries of Massachusetts , Greater Boston Development Committee , and the New England Council ,                     