@@704503

txt Immediate reunion of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations , with the terms of the " peace " to be decided upon later , was proposed today by John L. Lewis , chairman of the C. I. 0. , as his answer to President Roosevelt 's statement yesterday that he had refused to reopen peace negotiations . Mr. Lewis made his proposal in an extemporaneous speech before the American Youth Congress . William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , said in Miami that first Mr. Lewis should submit his proposal to the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 , negotiations corn- ' mittee . Then federation members of that committee would report the proposal to the A. F. L. for consideration . He intimated he was skeptical of Mr. Lewis 's sincerity . About a year ago Mr. Lewis , in response to pleas for peace in labor 's ranks , suggested that the C. I. 0. , the A. F. L. and the independent railroad brotherhoods all unite immediately in one big confederation and discuss issues later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion as utterly impractical and at ; smacking of communism . Mr. Lewis made his latest offer in his speech to the Youth Congress an hour after President Roosevelt had gently chided members of that organization for adopting resolutions on matters of which they had little knowledge . Mr. Lewis admitted that he had refused to reopen formal peace negotiations with the A. F. L. because they would do no good , but said that if the President and William Green were sincere they would consider his latest formula for settling the dispute " in one day . " Formula Offered by Lewis This formula was as follows : On March 15 , five weeks hence , the federation and the C. I. 0 . would hold simultaneous conventions , not jointly , but in the same hall . They would vote separately upon the resolution : " Resolved , That the C. I. 0 . and all its units this day become a part of the Arnvican Federation of Labor and that charters of affiliation be granted to each unit of the C. I. 0. , and that , further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two organizations shall be taken up for later consid+nation in such fashion as the joint convention shall decide . " The meeting would be held in Constitution Hall , property of the Daughters of the American Revolution , whose use was once denied Mr. Lewis 's own union as a meeting place . The two rival groups , said Mr. Lewis , would sit on opposite sides of the hall . ( It has no center aisle ) . This simple formula , said Mr. Lewis , would terminate the labor war . Admitting freely that he had refused to resume negotiations on the " questions and details concerning the relationships of the two organizations , " Mr. Lewis said : " I have every desire to negotiate , but I have no desire to waste my time or the time of others . " As an added inducement for acceptance of his formula , Mr. Lewis said he would agree not to seek any office in the reunited federation . This , he said , should " dispel Mr. Green 's greatest agony  --  myself . " A. F. L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. officials to Mr. Lewis 's previous similar proposal , their rejection of it was confidently expected on approximately this basis : " Questions and details , " referred to by Mr. Lewis in his proposed resolution are not mere details , but the very fundament of the controversy between the Federation and the C. I. 0 . It would be as logical to suggest a Federal Union of France and Germany without first determining the basis upon which such a union could be effected . The C. I. 0 . is committed in the main to a policy of industrywide organization as opposed to craft unionism , the bulwark and cardinal article of faith of the federation . While there are industrial unions within the federation , they do not dominate it and the federation 's policy is to charter such unions only in cases where craft unionism would be utterly out of the question . The C. I. 0. , on the other ' hand , not only believes in industrial unionism but has extended its organization campaign to occupations which the A. F. of L. considers to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really sincere about labor peace he would be willing to discuss such matters calmly and constructively rather than propose impossible " simple " solutions ( say A. F. L. leaders ) . The real answer is clear ? Mr. Lewis does not want peace , but wants instead to destroy the federation or so reduce it in importance as to force it into a peace dictated by the C. I. 0 . This in genera ' can be said to be the federation leaders ' position , and it illustrates clearly why they may be expected to dismiss Mr. Lewis 's offer with a few contemptuous words . submitted by the C. I. 0 . chieftain to the joint committee already authorized to negotiate a settlement . " If he has serious proposals to make , let him agree to resume peace negotiations and submit his proposals to the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . committee authorized to negotiate a settlement , " said Mr. Green . The A. F. L. president intimated that Mr. Lewis 's " one roll-call " plan , advanced in a speech before the ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Mr. Green called Mr. Lewia 's blocking of peace negotiations . In the past Mr. Greene has said that differences needed to . be ironed out before an amalgamation of the two factions could be effected . He had pointed out , as an example , that if the C. I. 0 . electricians union was brought into the A. F. L. and a settlement of differences between the two then was sought , it would bring the labor . war inside the A. F. L. instead of outside as at present . SUBMIT IT , ' SAYS GREEN A. F. L. Suggests Lewis Give Proposal to Parley Committee MIAMI , Fla. , Feb. 10 ( R ) ? William Green , American Federation of Labor president , suggested today that John L. Lo-wis 's " new and practical plan " for labor peace be                     