@@709694

txt OPINIONS UNDER POSTAGE ROBERT REIFF.CHARLES ROSEN . pg . 56 OPINIONS UNDER POSTAGE To the Art Editor : THE discussions of post-war art problems have been quite stimulating ; however , I find that the attitude of most of the critics and the general art public is undeservingly severe toward native artists . And why ? First of all there are many , many people who tag themselves artists and really are n't at all . This was true in Rembrandt 's time as it is in ours . The insignificant are always with us . Then , too , I think critics expect too much from our immediate contemporaries . They are looking for another Picasso , another Matisse or Rouault . The painting of these men has made all that followed ' seem pale and derivative . With the war over , we find nothing unusually new coming from Europe nor from any of the pioneers . In fact they are holding pretty close to home ground . Yes , the pioneer days are over . The contemporary American can be compared to any young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he will find the West well cultivated and the vast opportunities of the pioneer have disappeared . So our young adventurer will have to join with others and become part of a movement . Perhaps the days of outstanding personalities are over . Perhaps our art output is to be something like the Gothic without its absolute anonymity . The same thing has happened to the scientists .... One can hardly rediscover oxygen and be a Lavoisier , but that hardly discourages the men developing atomic power , whose names are not generally known , less celebrated . Such observations lead me to believe that most critics of art and the art public are still very much nineteenth century , and should take account of themselves . A country that can boast a Marsden Hartley , a John Marin , a Morris Graves , an Everett Spruce , a Stuart Davis , a Hyman Bloom ( and so on ) can be rightfully proud . Yours truly , ROBERT REIFF . Rochester , N. Y. To the ArtEditor : THE discussions of the future development and direction of American art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own crystal ball I find that I was born into a world in which the problemo of artist and student were vastly different from those of today . ' Then anatomy and perspective were of great importance , and so was the painting of fabrics . " Values " was a word to ponder over . Moods of nature , composition , drawing , atmospheric development . . . How different the problem today ! The artist today has been given a new vision and values and a vastly different equipment . He paints with a fairly full understanding of abstract principles . The space he is concerned with is arbitrary and he must create it . His problem is much more complex and exacting , but I feel certain that with this equipment he will be able to bring into being a world of the mind ? creative work with as little or as much of the visual world as suits his purpose . He will achieve a personal expression quite as honest and individual as that of his predecessors . Not necessarily better , but certainly different , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his kind of output . Something will emerge in time that we can be proud of even though it does n't have a regional trademark to identify it . It may even be global in its character and will be ever so much fun . Sincerely , CHARLES ROSEN . Woodstock , N. Y.                     