@@709787

txt President Truman is hanging out a " quiet , please " sign on government ruckuses and controversial issues until after the November elections . The President and his political advisers feel that they should do nothing which might rock the boat  --  that if they can preserve a calm air of administrative equanimity between now and November ? a growing boom psychology , and with plenty of jobs for all , will win a victory for the Democratic Party at the polls . Bearing out this strategy , Mr. Truman has told his latest press conference that he is not contemplating a special session of Congress this fall . He says he sees no national emergency which would require a special session , although when signing the Office of Price Administration extension bill he warned that if prices should kite skyward he would summon Congress back to do its price-control job over again . Labor Not Pleased Leaders of organized labor are not at all pleased with the way prices are behaving and the President is risking their displeasure by avoiding a special session . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of congressmen back to Washington  --  men summoned hastily from their campaigning and in mood to bicker and further batter the President 's legislative program  --  seems still more politically dangerous to presidential advisers . Nor will the call in some quarters for congressional action on the Wagner-Taft-Ellender housing bill produce a special session , the President has assured , remarking that he thinks members of Congress are entitled to campaign from now to November . Nor is the President going to call a labor-management conference this fall . That , too , could turn out to be a political liability , Special Session As for a special session after the November elections , the President will cross that bridge when he comes to it . But Mr. Truman is not all passivity about elections . He may yet do some stump speaking . He did n't say yes and he didn't. say no to a reporter 's questions whether he would speak in New York for Senator James M. Mead , Democratic nominee for the governorship . But he did say the Mead-Lehman ticket in New York suited him fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised he would say all the nice things he could think of about Senator Mead , who , he observed , is a good administrator . And that observation was the first " nice thing , " because the Republicans will be campaigning on the argument that Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , Senator Mead 's rival , is a particularly good administrator .                     