@@706772

txt Burke Sees Mark for Rest of City Queens residents and storekeepers donated scrap metal to the salvage drive being sponsored by New York City newspapers in such quantities yesterday that collection facilities were taxed to the limit and arrangements were made for some further collections today . Total receipts at the four collection depots up to 11 o'clock last night , when further collections were abandoned for the day , amounted to 15,300 tons , according to Deputy Sanitation Commissioner William J. Powell . This represents a per capita collection of twenty-three and two-thirds pounds . In addition to the scrap actually received , uniformed women volunteers who served as " salvage sentries " collected written receipts from householders for 3,050 tons of scrap that was either sold to dealers or given to charitable organizations for sale , according to a tabulation made for Borough President James A. Burke . Inclusion of the amount represented by the receipts brought the borough total to 18,350 tons of scrap and raised the per capita figure to slightly above twenty-eight pounds . Estimates Far Exceeded Results were substantially above most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burke set an original quota of ten pounds a person and , before collections began , raised it to twice that amount . It also was observed that the Queens figures to date cover only household scrap . The industrial type , which requires special equipment for removal and often entails heavy expense , was not collected yesterday . Mr. Burke expressed himself as well pleased with the result , especially since he is sure that additional contributions will be forthcoming in the next few weeks of the drive . " It will give the other boroughs a mark to shoot at , " he observed . Pipes , sinks , safes , sleighs , beds , bedsprings , coat hangers , toys and a long list of other items were picked up from sidewalks and neighborhood collection centers . They represented the result of an apparently thorough housecleaning undertaken by almost every resident to keep the nation 's blast furnaces at operating capacity this Winter turning out the steel and other articles needed to win the war . Shortly before noon . after driving through streets where piles of salvage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he was " very much impressed and more than satisfied . " Mr. Powell reported to the salvage committee of the New York City Publishers Association that in some sections collections amounted to a truckload in each block . By 11 o'clock in the morning it was apparent that the 865 trucks assigned to the collection job were unable to meet the demands made upon them and Mr. Powell , after a call for help from Mr. Burke and others in Queens , dispatched an additional 270 trucks taken from routes in Manhattan and other boroughs to help out . Mayor La Guardia drove to Queens about 4 P. M. to see the progress of the drive . He met Mr. Burke at the Flushing Asphalt Plant , which served as one of the four collection depots , and , slapping him on the back , remarked that " You 've done a better job than I expected . " " It 's not as good as I hope it will be , " the Borough President rejoined . " We wo n't care if the other boroughs pass us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another 6,000 tons in reserve . " The backlog referred to by Mr. Burke consists of scrap metal that was too heavy for householders to get out in time for yesterday 's collection . He said he expected to use most of his highway and sewer maintenance forces in getting this scrap to collection depots within the next ten days . The Borough President added that he has a list showing the present locations of at least 3,000 tons of this scrap . Mr. Burke officially started the collection campaign at 7 A. M. by driving the first collection truck from the asphalt plant . He relinquished the wheel to the regular driver shortly afterward and went on a tour of Queens streets and collection depots . " The results show the temper of Queens people , " Mr. Burke said in the afternoon . " It shows they are very anxious to cooperate in winning the war if some one will tell them what to do . " He cited the appearance in the scrap piles of many articles still in usable condition as evidence of the spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable number of clerical workers on his staff had volunteered to work as laborers , helping drive and load the trucks . After a meeting of his War Cabinet at the City Administration offices at La Guardia Field last night , Mayor La Guardia said he had " nothing but praise for the swell job accomplished by the borough and Sanitation Department crews in yesterday 's salvage collection . " The current drive was described by the Mayor as " only the beginning of what we can do . " Now that the household scrap in Queens has been assembled , he added , " I hope the government will come in and take it now . " Those at the war cabinet meeting , which lasted from 5 to 7 P.M. , were Police Commissioner Valentine , Fire Commissioner Patrick Walsh , Welfare Commissioner William Hodson , Public Works Commissioner Irving V. A. Huie , Marine and Aviation Commissioner John , Deputy Mayor Arthur J. Wallander , Hospital Commissioner Edward M. Bernecker and Joseph J. Meehan , chief engineer of the Department of Marine and Aviation . The Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Four collection depots were set up to receive the salvage . One was in Long Island City , another in Flushing , the third in Maspeth and the fourth in South Ozone Park , None was able to hold all the scrap brought to it and auxiliary depots were set up in each location . Albert Pleydell , Commissioner of Purchase , who will head a threeman board charged with disposing of the scrap collection , visited the depot in Flushing yesterday afternoon . Ha said that the task of sorting , classifying and selling the scrap would be " a real job . " Mobile kitchens were set up near each of the receiving depots to supply the truck crews with coffee and sandwiches . These canteens were operated by volunteers . Each truck had a crew consisting of the driver , three loaders and a uniformed woman " salvage sentry , " who , in addition to noting what was picked up in , various locations and answering the questions of householders also collected receipts from persona who recently have sold their scrap to junk dealers or given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                