@@705829

txt An investigation of the East Coast fuel shortage was unanimously approved today by the Senate Commerce Committee , on motion of Senator Maloney of Connecticut , after three Senate opponent of the President 's foreign policies had challenged the Administration to prove that the shortage was real and not just an attempt to bolster the war spirit . Meanwhile President Roosevelt predicted an easing of the gasoline situation by Spring , because of the absence of a strong Nazi offensive in the North Atlantic , and Federal price officials moved to halt a rise in prices at Eastern points . In a joint statement Senators Nye of North Dakota , Clark of Idaho and Danaher of Connecticut said that the gasoline shortage was a 100 per cent occasion for a performance to create a war consciousness . " There have been so many con-1 meting statements from various government agencies that it is impossible for an observer to ascertain the facts , " said Mr. Nye . " There should be an investigation and Administration officials should come before Congress and present facts and figures demonstrating whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce Committee acted quickly to provide such an investigation and announced that hearings would be started by a special subcommittee on Thursday even before the Senate has had an opportunity to approve the committee 's action . The committee also approved on Senator Maloney 's resolution an investigation of the defense priorities system . In the normal course of events , the five-man investigating committee called for in the committee 's recommendation would be appointed by Vice President Wallace . But to expedite matters a subcommittee comprised of Senators Maloney , Radcliffe of Maryland and O'Daniel of Texas , Democrats , and Burton of Ohio and Barbour of New Jersey , Republicans , was named by Chairman Bailey to act until the Senate has approved the inquiry . At that time , under the novel plan , the Senate 's committee can take over from the special subcommittee . Ralph K. Davies , acting defense petroleum coordinator , welcomed the investigation by saying that the opportunity to present the facts of the situation would serve " as a means for enlightening the public as to the conditions we face . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were materially increased by Nazi attacks the new American tanker building program together with early utilization of new pipelines should improve the gasoline situation materially . He also said , in answer to a question , that he had nothing of reports that 70 to 100 more tankers were to be turned over to the British . Tanker diversion to Britain , cutting the transportation facilities usually relied upon to bring gasoline from Western producers to Eastern consumers , caused the current shortage Henderson Promises " Program " Leon Henderson , Administrator of the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply , in a telegram to Thomas P. Henry , president of the American Automobile Association , said that major oil companies had " adhered faithfully " to an agreement not to raise prices without prior consultation , but that some dealers had independently raised their margin of profit by increasing retail prices , and stated that his office expected " to announce a program for the industry tomorrow . " Mr. Henderson 's telegram said : " Appreciate your telegram Aug. 25 re gasoline price sItuation Eastern seaboard . Price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this office even before allocation program was instituted . " Believe dealers making such advances are either misled by unjustified fear of drastic restriction in operations or in certain cases are wilfully profiteering at the expense of motorists since projected curtailment for next six weeks will not offset additional profits reaped by gasoline dealers resulting from heavy demand petroleum products first seven months 1941 . Dealers apparently do not take into consideration reduced expenses due to night closing . " The Acting Petroleum Coordinator met all day with the industry 's Petroleum Marketing Committee on plans to extend the 10 per cent cut in the supply of gasoline ordered by OPACS to the coming month . M. Quinn Shaughnessy , the OPACS petroleum price expert , attended the conference of the marketing committee to ask for the industry 's cooperation in combating the reported increases of retail prices of gasoline . The committee said it would obtain price information which OPACS requested . 