@@705815

txt The country is hearing A Hand from the hen this year as for never before . While anoththe Hen er of our national birds watches with piercing eye the horizon east and west , the hen enlists in the battle of production in a big way . Last month she did her bit and more , exceeding her egg-laying record by 4 per cent to feed America and beleaguered Britain too . This month she is still going strong . From every mountainside her cackle rings . A hand for the hen , a new feather for her topknot ! She has her failings , true . At times she is broody , at others hysterical . As a bird of prey she can boast few conquests greater than grasshoppers . As a song bird she is no canary . By nature an isolationist trustful of anything but defense and inclined to nest unguarded in the weeds of a predatory world , she is an easy mark for the wily weasel and the stealthy skunk . All the same , she sets a pattern of industry for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twelve-hour day , the seven-day week . Faithfully at rosy dawn she rises to toe the scratch . Sensibly at sundown she turns in . And no feathered friend of man does more than she to perpetuate breakfast and the other institutions of a humane civilization . At first it was said that Cigarettes the cause of the disasan d trous pier fire in BrookFire lyn the other day was a cigarette . Some workman had taken a forbidden drag and tossed the butt away , to drop where it would , and a few seconds later the S. S. Panuco , laden with inflammables , was blazing from stem to stern . But now it would seem that sparks from a barge stove started the trouble . It was n't a cigarette , after all . The fire was one of the five-alarm , million-dollar sort . It destroyed shipping at a time when ships can not be spared . It wasted munitions needed by our armed forces and Britain 's . In short , it was a grand fire to charge against the careless smoker . But for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unfortunately , the careless smoker has so black a record of proved arson , barn-burning , forest fires and allaround incendiarism that a lot of people will persist in their suspicion . They will cling to their own ideas in the Panuco-Brooklyn case no matter what the fire authorities say . This country produces a Change good many billion cigain rettes a year and , presumStyles ably , consumes most of them . Their popularity in our midst is one of the enormous facts of the time . Still , they are not unanimously esteemed . Oldsters can remember a time when only " dudes " smoked cigarettes . Yet other novelties that bobbed up for jeers and contumely about the time ofthe cigarette 's advent have lived down their shady past and won their way into respectable society . Tennis addicts in white flannels , or even in shorts , attract hardly a glance nowadays . The " Love-all , Algernon dear ! " that greeted pioneers of the chalked courts in the early Nineties ceased , after a while , to amuse and gave way to the " Get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobile . Golf , once held to be the pastime of sissified Anglophiles and somehow subversive of our rugged institutions , has bceome the sport of he-men and heroes . " Dessert " is now as honorable and as well pronounced as any other word in our vocabulary . Yet hostesses first using it blushed self-consciously in apology for their affectation , and most people for a decade or two regarded it as humorous and chose to pronounce it " desert . " Before that the American thing to say had been , " Clear away the plates , Maggie , and bring in the pie . " The name of the chaplain Garden of the Twenty-first Brigade of of Marines stationed in IceIceland land is Tennyson . That name has many suggestions , one of which is the Isle of Wight . A pleasant dispatch from Reykjavik printed in this newspaper the other day made you think of Iceland as a little more northern Isle of Wight . It reported , among other things , that our soldier-sailors have set their competent hands to gardening . This is a universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if not too lazy , love to potter at it . Even Napoleon , when he was not growling or grinding out his legend at St. Helena , gardened a bit . Till the industrial age was well advanced , a majority of soldiers and sailors must have been rural . The Roman veterans were settled on the land . The little plot of land , the bed of flowers , the window-box , the roof garden , are still beloved of the military and naval services , as of civilians . If not now , sometime we shall all retire and cultivate our gardens .                     