@@710197

txt In these tumultuous latter days change sweeps in almost melodramatic pageantry over that world-straddling - institution which Winston Churchill refuses to call by any other name than the British Empire . A great-grandson of Queen and Empress Victoria is named to be the last Viceroy before Britain relinquishes domination over India . King George VI , in Capetown , 6,000 miles from Buckingham Palace , creates a precedent by opening the - Parliament of the Union of South Africa in person . He addresses the inhabitants of South Africa as " my people " and speaks of its Government as " my Government . " No one is under illusions . As King of the Union of South Africa , George VI can not act , or even speak , except on the advice of the Union 's Ministers . It is oppressively hot in South Africa . In Britain , still rationed , short of coal , short of labor , in the midst of the most cruelly cold winter in modern history , , the Labor Government issues " A Working Pattern for the Nation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that working hours can be reduced , or that industry can be relieved of priorities of manpower and supplies . Five hundred thousand men are to be called - out of military service , in what would have been called in Kipling 's day the outposts of empire , to do productive - work in Britain . One may think grimly of the days Kipling himself fancifully described in ' Puck of Pook 's Hill " when the weakened Roman legions could no - longer hold " The Wall " that had kept out the Picts . As a Power , exercising dominion by force of arms , Britain has indeed - grown weaker . She can not now ' impose her wishes upon unwilling peoples . But this is not the whole picture  --  she - no longer wishes to . The bak of British democracy , rooted in Magna Carta and the ' Bill of Rights , thrusting out : new branches in the Reform Bills of the Nineteenth Century , in equal suffrage , in social security legislation , resisting the tempests of two world wars , has not ceased to grow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . We can not dispute that it is government of , by and for the people , and that it stands for a national conscience . It is conscience , too , that is changing the Empire  --  indeed , abnlishing it . Lord Inverchapel , British Ambassador to the United States , threw into his speech at Baltimore on Friday an outline of the British world system as it ' now stands . India , with her 400,000 , - 000 , will soon have the opportunity to - join , or not to join , the five existing members of the British Commonwealth 2 ? Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and Eire , with a total population of 80,000,000 . Burma , like - India , may choose whether or not she " will remain in the family . " Sixty million are in the dependencies , some , like Ceylon , already " self-governing in internal affairs , " all " undergoing the process of gradual education in. democracy , witb. , the ultimate purpose of achieving complete autonomy . " Britain is withdrawing her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heartbreaking problem of Palestine before the United Nations . We are witnessing an evolution that is really a peaceful revolution , one that neither William Pitt , nor Lord North ; nor Disraeli , nor Kipling , nor the youthful Churchill could have foreseen . We are seeing the broadening down of freedom , a growing sense that the Bill of Rights is not limited by race , color or culture . The lesser breeds without the law are coming into a law of their own making . And this is taking place in a world in which the freedom of small nations , of unarmed nations and of peopies not numerous depends on union among all nations and the growth of a - universal law . It is taking place in a world in which the freedoms of many - millions have been severely limited by arbitrary power . - Lord Inverchapel came to this point in his address . " If we filled this time , " he said , " it might well be that our generation would witness the decline and fall , not only of the British Empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But , he added , " we shall not fail , for we have found our souls . There is a new spirit abroad which will sustain us and- uphold us on our stead-1 fast journey to our goal . " An old Empire , in its imperial phase , is at its twilight . But the brave spirit which created it need not die , however the needs of the moment and the democratic ideal may transform it . The new Britain is more appealing to the American mind than the old . We can understand it better . In its hour of darkness it breathes courage and liberation .                     