@@706162

txt The Parisian group of French Nazis has suddenly become intensely vocal about its disappointment over the failure of Marshal Petain to achieve a perfect partnership with Hitler . This shrill group in Paris is warning that unless Vichy collaborates fully with the Nazis in their efforts to clamp their " New Order " upon Europe , Hitler 's patience again will be exhausted and he will occupy French Africa . But before that happens , say these collaborationists , who speak with the tongues of Frenchmen but whose hearts beat for the recent enemy , they will take matters into their own hands , thus hinting that they or Hitler , or perhaps both , will replace the aged Field Marshal with some one more responsive to their schemes . The collaborationists complain of the " Mephistophelian " machinations of Admiral Leahy , our Ambassador to Vichy , but there is probably a much simpler explanation of the causes which led Vichy recently to express disquiet at the threatened execution of a hundred or more French hostages . The foundation on which the Vichy Government came into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the only hope for the survival of France was to come to terms with the new masters of Europe . The subservience of the men of Vichy was therefore based on fear . In that they differed from Pierre Laval , Marcel Deat and the other collaborationists , who were French by birth but Nazis by choice . When Britain did not fall , when Russia began beating back the German invaders , when the United States entered the war , the fears of the men of Vichy were lightened and the need for subservience correspondingly decreased . Not so with the followers of Laval . That is the real rift between the Petain Government and its critics who favor collaboration freely and completely . Petain is thus a statesman balancing between two fears  --  the fear of his own people and the fear of the Nazi Wehrmacht . When pressure from one side is reduced , he leans toward the other . Now that the legend of German invincibility is being destroyed , it is doubtful if the Men of Vichy could withstand the wrath of even their disarmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessions and their fleet without obtaining the release of the 1,000,000 French prisoners of war still held by the Axis . Hitler needs the labor of these hapless soldiers of a once free nation , and he dare not send them back to a France already seething with undercurrents of revolt . It may be assumed that what stays Hitler 's hand in dealing with the collaborationists of Vichy is expediency . It is not certain that the most important French colonies could be surrendered to Nazi Germany or , if surrendered , held . Each ship of the French fleet would be a potential traitor to the German cause in battle . And finally , any German move which would destroy such hopes of national salvation as remain in the hearts of Frenchmen might precipitate an uprising on such a scale that it would spread throughout the conquered lands and prepare the way for a return of British arms to the Continent of Europe .                     