@@711251

txt The clash of ideologies which resounds throughout the world today gives the job of intelligent , active citizenship a new meaning and urgency . For that reason the Third National Conference on Citizenship , in session here May 16-19 , is attracting nationwide interest , to be thrown into dramatic focus with " America 's Town Meeting of the Air " on " How should Jemocracy deal with groups tha aim to destroy democracy ? " as a feature of the evening session of May 18 . Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio , Thurman W. Arnold , former Assistant Attorney General , Representative Richard M. Nixon ( R ) of California , and Ralph E. . Editor of the Atlanta Constitution , will be the participants . 1,000 Delegates This year 's conference is drawing together 1.000 delegates from all over the country , and for the first time finds the United States Department of Justice stepping torward as a direct cosponsor with the National Education Association . Speakers will include some of the nation 's most impressive authorities on what makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speakers is Judge Carl B. Hyatt of the United States Department of Justice . Judge Hyatt was the man responsible for transforming citizenship induction from a drab mumbling of words into an impressive , dramatic event through his book . " Gateway to Citizenship , " which established a new manual of principles and procedures for the naturalization ceremony . Another featured speaker , Dr. William G. Carr , Associate Secretary of the NEA , was one of the moving spirits behind the formation of the United Nations Educational . Scientific and Cultural Organization . The conference will open with greetings from the President of the United States , from Charles Evans Hughes , Honorary Chair . man of the Conference , and with a personal message of welcome from Attorney General Tom Clark . Ferreting out the program di- rector , Richard B. Kennan , in the throes of conference preparation behind a paper-strewn desk at the NEA , we learned how the idea of dramatizing citizenship in a national conference first started . Mr. Kerman proved the right source for this information , for it was he who originated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unimportant . " It was in 1945 during the war when Mr. Kennan , a well-known educator and former University of Vermont professor , first came to the NEA , that he saw the need for anticipating and heading off , if possible , the inevitable letdown in patriotic enthusiasm which comes after a war has been won . He queried all national organizations with citizenship programs , such as the American Legion and the Girl Scouts , for their material on citizenship . What he received was disappointingly meager and filled with vague generalization . What he envisioned was something definite and workable in the way of a program . something which would not only fan the impulses of patriotism but carry them into action in citizenship practices . Idea Caught . Fire Mr. Kennan felt very strongly that citizenship training o was not something to be learned in school and then dropped . He felt that training was even more important later , as the student , oftentimes disillusioned in the let-down from theory to practice , becomes of voting age . The idea caught fire , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legion to sponsor a National Citizenship Day proclamation , introduced in Congress as a joint , resolution . Just about that time from out of the West came the " I Am An American Panegyric Society of California " promoting " I Am An American Day . " For some reason Congress seemed to feel that it would be easier to get approval of an " I Am An American Day . " NEA and Legion officials quickly agreed to the compromise , and " I Am An American Day " ceremonies have become a preliminary to the citizenship conference .                     