@@709271

txt Building construction in New England was given a jolt by the strike today of 60 lumber handlers in the Wiggin Terminal of Charlestown , the largest lumber distributing center of this region . The walkout was a sympathetic strike called to back up the Boston warehousemen 's strike , which began Monday .. It was ordered by Daniel J. Donovan of East Boston , Vice-President of the International Longshoremen 's Association ( A. F. of L. ) . The local union of warehouse workers and the union of lumber handlers both belong to this national organization . Mr. Donovan took out the lumber men after a second day of conferences at the State Board of Conciliation . and Arbitration had failed to bring the union and the warehouse employers any closer together on the extent of a wage raise . Twenty-one warehouses are now shut down . The Wiggin Terminal is one of these . Up to today its lumber business was left uninterrupted . " Home building In New England and also other construction using lumber will be handicapped by the , lumber handlers ' strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr. , President of the Terminal , said . " The Wiggin Terminal is the largest lumber terminal in New England and one of the largest on the East Coast . The majority of the lumber used in New England comes from the West Coast . rt is brought here by ship for the most part , and the balance comes by rail . " It is unloaded here and distributed to the smaller lumber yards through New England . In normal times 20,000,000 feet of lumber . a month goes through the Wiggin Terminal for use in this region . " Shipments from the West Coast , which were held up during the war by the submarines , have just started again . We have handled four ships within the past six weeks . " As far as I can see , the cutting off of this lumber supply , if the strike is prolonged , will do much to hold up building construction in New England . " Canadian lumber also comes down by rail to the Wiggin Termi- nal for shipment to Great Britain , Mr. Whipple added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in progress at the terminal , was stopped by today 's strike , " he said . " This lumber is intended in large part for rebuilding homes in Great Britain . Also the United States takes some for crating materials to be shipped back to this country . " The ship was loading 4,000,000 feet . Continuously we have been providing the lumber for one ship right after another . " Mr. Whipple declared the strike was unauthorized by the members of the union and unwelcome to them . " They have nothing to do with warehousing , the local industry in which the original strike was called , " he said . " They work for the same company and belong to the same international union , but they are in a separate local union from the warehouse work , ers . " So far as I know the lumber handlers were entirely satisfied . They had no grievance . There had been no mention of a strike , they had taken no strike vote , and had no intention of going out until Mr. Donovan suddenly called them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made that the lumber workers went out in their sympathetic strike today of their own accord to help the other members of their international union . " The workers in the lumber yard of the Wiggin Terminal are Abated with the International Longshoremen 's Union , the same as are the warehouse workers , " Richard Hogan , Business Agent of the Warehouse Workers ' Union , said . " Whatever we get , they go along with us . That has been always the pattern . They do little negotiating of their own . What the warehouses gain goes to the lumber yard . " They offered us their services in our strike . We did not ask them . They joined in their sympathetic strike voluntarily . " It was said also that most of the lumber now used in New England is produced here , because of the war 's cutting off of shipments from the West Coast . No change in the Local 25 situation relating to 4,500 Metropoli tan Boston truck drivers and their demands was reported today at the State Board of Conciliation and Arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Champlain Company after two days of negotiations at the State House was announced . The concern , which is a lumber and box manufacturing company , has plants at Rochester , N. H. and Medford , Mass. , 200 employees in New Hampshire and 100 in Massachusetts . The workers go back Monday with new contracts , an increase in wages and better conditions . Cleaning up of the differences between labor and management was handled by Joseph L. Tully , an industrial relations adjuster of the State Board .                     