@@711945

txt The official text of the North Atlantic Treaty was published today . The pact proposed a defensive twentyyear alliance between North America and Western Europe , designed to prevent war from starting and to meet it with all due constitutional haste if it comes . The text , which will be signed in Washington on April 4 and submitted as a treaty to the United States Senate thereafter , said that the parties agreed " that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all . " In defense of this principle , it obligated the signatories to take immediate action to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area , but in defense of ? American , political tradition , it authorized each nation to decide what action it should take . Vast New Frontiers for U. S. If the Senate consents to the ratification of the treaty , . the security frontier of the United States will encompass the entire Western Hemisphere ( under the Rio Pact ) , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cancer , the west coast of Europe from the North Cape to the Bay of Biscay , Italy and Algeria in the Mediterranean , and all overseas areas where American forces are stationed . including the blockaded garrison in Berlin . Article 6 of the text stated that an " armed attack " under the pact , would be one ( A ) on the territory of any of the parties in Europe or North America ; ( B ) on the Algerian departments of France ; ( C ) on the occupation forces of any party in Europe ; ( D ) on the islands under the jurisdiction of any party in the North Atlantic area north of the Tropic of Cancer ; or ( E ) on the vessels or aircraft in this area of any of the parties . This was officially said to mean that if an American , British or French aircraft flying into Berlin were shot down by the blockading forces of the Soviet Union it could be interpreted as an " armed attack " under the North Atlantic Treaty . Text Bears Out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaffirmed the obligations of the signatories under the United Nations . It proposed the creation of a North Atlantic Council and a Military Staff Committee to plan the defenses of the whole North Atlantic area . And Secretary of State Dean Acheson said tonight in a radio address that only " malicious misrepresentation " or " fantastic misunderstanding " could see any aggressive designs behind it . " This country , " he said , " is not planning to make war against anyone . It is not seeking war . It abhors war . It does not hold war to be inevitable . Its policies are devised with the specific aim cf bridging by peaceful means the tremendous differences which beset international society at the present time . ' The Foreign Secretaries of twelve nations are expected to sign the treaty here on the eve of the United Nations General Assembly meeting early next month . They will represent the United States , Canada , Britain , France , the Netherlands , Belgium , Norway and Luxembourg ? the original negotiating powers- - and Italy , Denmark , Iceland and Portugal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The text of the treaty suggests that the signatories undertake four specific commitments : 1 . To strengthen their free institutions , promote conditions of stability and well-being and encourage economic collaboration ; 2 . To maintain and develop their . individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack ; 3 . To consult together if any of the parties thinks its territorial integrity or political independ-1 ence is threatened : 4 . To consider an armed attack on any one of the parties as an attack against all , and consequently to take such individual and collective action , including the use of armed force , as each party considers necessary to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area . Mr. Acheson clarified some of these proposed commitments and emphasized some others in his press conference this morning and ( pres radio address this evening . In the first place , he made clear at his press conference that reference in the text of the treaty to an " armed attack " did not necessarily refer only to a full-scale invasion across frontiers by the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A purely revolutionary uprising within a country or a border scuffle would not , in his opinion , be an " armed attack , " he said , but a rebellion planned , directed and supplied from abroad and threatening the security of one of the states in the pact would be another matter . The uprising in Greece , for example , Mr. Acheson said in reply to a question , might very well be the sort of thing that could be defined as an armed attack , since it was , in the opinion of the United States Government , assisted by Greece 's northern neighbors . The Secretary also stressed that while the Government 's immediate interest was in the formation of the North Atlantic pact , this in no way diminished the concern of the United States with acts of aggression anywhere in the world and specifically did not lessen our suppdrt for Turkey , Greece , or Iran . Four persistent questions have been raised about the text on Capitol Hill , and the Secretary of State defined his policy on them all today . 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military supplies to the signatories ? Mr. Acheson said that the pact did not " bind then United States to any arms program . " He observed , however , that under Article 3 of the pact all signatories would be obliged , by self-help and mutual aid , to maintain and develop their own capacity and that of their partners to resist aggression . " We all know , " he said , " that the United States is no wthe only democratic nation with the resources and the productive capacity to help the free nations of Europe to re cover their military strength . " Therefore , we expect to ask Congress to supply our European partners some of the weapons and equipment they need to be able to resist aggression . " 2 . Will the proposed arms program interfere or compete with the European Recovery Program for men , money and supplies ? " In providing military assistance to other countries , " Mr. Acheson said , " we will give clear priority to the requirements for economic recovery . We will carefully balance the military assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both at home and abroad . " 3 . Will the North Atlantic pact bypass the United Nations ? The pact , said Mr. Acheson , is carefully and conscientiously designed to conform in every particular with the Charter of the United Nations . In the United Nations , however , as in all institutions requiring cooperation and restraint from its members , he observed , violence and obstruction can be used to defeat the common purpose . The Soviet Union , he added , by misuse of the veto and other obstructive tactics , had " seriously interfered " with the work of the United Nations Security Council , but fortunately , the United Nations charter was a " flexible instrument " that permitted the formation of limited associations of its members provided those associations were consistent with the purpose and principles of the charter . The North Atlantic pact , he asserted , is definitely such an associplion. 4 . Does the text imply a moral commitment to go to war in the event of an armed attack on one of the parties ? Secretary Acheson said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be bound to take promptly the action it deemed necessary to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area . That decision , he added , would be taken in accordance with our constitutional procedures . We would have to consider , on the one hand , he said , the gravity of the attack , and on the other , the action we believed to be necessary to restore and maintain the security of the abea . " That , " he said , " Is the aim to be achieved . We are bound to do what in our honest judgment is necessary to achieve that result . If we should be confronted again with a calculated armed attack Such as we have twice seen in the One lesson we had learned , he said , was that the control of Europe by a single aggressive and unfriendly power would constitute an intolerable threat to the security of the United States . Another lesson , he observed , was that if the free nations do not stand together against an aggressor they get picked off one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that it was a good idea to let potential aggressors know ahead of time that we did not intend to permit that strategem to be used against us for a third time . Though the Secretary of State warned the Soviet Union on this score and also gave it notice that we were concerned with aggression anywhere in the world , the wording of the pact carefully avoided a complete break with the Moscow Government . For example , Article 7 was intended to make clear that the signatories did not consider the Atlantic alliance to be incompatible with the Anglo-Soviet and Russo-French treaties of alliance . In that article each signatory would state that it had no international obligation in conflict with the Atlantic treaty . Mr. Acheson clearly implied at his press conference this morning that the Franco Government , which is not popular in Moscow , would not be supported by the United States for membership in the pact . The Atlantic Treaty will enter into force among the states that have ratified it as soon as a majority of the states , including the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgium , and Luxembourg have deposited their ratifications in Washington . twentieth century , I should not suppose that we would decide any action other than the use of armed force effective , either as an exercise of the right of collective selfdefense , or as necessary to restore the peace and security of the North Atlantic area . That decision will rest where the constitution has placed it . " In his press conference , Mr. Acheson said he did not like this distinction between legal and moral commitments , since all legal commitments rested on the moral will of the participants to carry them out . The main objective of the treaty , Mr. Acheson emphasized , is to prevent war . The pact was not an improvisation but a statement of the facts and lessons of history .                     