@@710124

txt A world foOd plan calling for a world food council , buffer stocks , famine reserves , and certain standards for price fixing has been proposed by the Preparatory Commission of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations . This plan is seen to include many of the features of the much-disputed world food board proposal of Sir John Orr . Buffer stocks and the two-price system were seriously questioned by the United States delegate at the opening session of the commission . Great Britain , also , looked somewhat askance at that time at the two-price plan  --  one price for agricultural products traveling in the regular channels of supply , and another lower price for foods in areas of malnutrition . Major Features Listed The plan now ready to be placed before member nations of the FAO and their governments indicates an altered view on these points , as well as modifications of the original outline . Major features of the world food blueprint include : 1 . Formation of a world food council , composed of 18 member nations , to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tabs on food and agricultural trends . 2 . Development of commodity agreements " as a major device for stabilizing prices and expanding production and consumption . " These , it was stipulated , should include provisions for famine reserves , price stabilization reserves or " buffer stocks , " and sales of , foodstuffs " at special prices to Ipplement diets of needy groups . ' 3 . Annual review at the FAO conference of ' national agricultural and nutritional programs . Orr Features Skirted The prospect , under the Orr plan , of an over-all international agency or board , over whose operations and price policy individual nations would have little direct control , was one of its most objectionable features , in the opinion of some of the delegates . Thus . the new plan appears to have skirted that obstacle by placing its tasks within the province of existing agencies , including the FAO , where some ad ditional " new machinery " might be necessary . It is the recommendation of the commission that all commodity agreements meet three standards : 1 . Contributing toward price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an improvement of nutrition . 3 . Encouraging the shift of production to areas where the commodities can be produced most economically and efficiently . Annual Review Slated One of the most valuable services of the FAO under the proposed plan is seen in the provision for an annual world agricultural review . The commission noted that governments too often tend to go their own ways in national programs without enough regard to what other nations are doing or to the world effects of their own plans . With a world food review available , provided the information for it is freely forthcoming , each country would be able to make its own plans more intelligently in light of what other nations are doing or are not doing . Regarding commodity agreements , by which the major objec lives of the plan would be accomplished , the commission expressed the hope that such agreements might contain provision for : 1 . Price ranges or fixed prices for commercial sales on the world market . 2 . Working stocks , held by each nation to cover its own requirements . Reserve Stocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held nationally for use on internationally agreed terms , with the world food council authorized to call for shipments to meet urgent needs . Carrying costs and losses incurred in famine distribution would be shared equitably by participating nations . 4 . Price stabilization reserves or buffer stocks , with-stocks nationally held and administered under internationally agreed rules . This device would be used against short-term fluctuations , with the holder buying when prices reach the floor and selling when they reach the cerung agreed upon . 5 . Sales at special prices for disposition to people in need of products for which there is no pcormicemsercial demand at reasonable 6 . Export or import quotas , subject to certain safeguards .                     