@@711572

txt Representatives of the three Western powers conferred this morning on the suggestion by nations not directly concerned that the German question be referred to the Council of Foreign Ministers on condition that the Soviet Union raise simultaneously the blockade of Berlin . Implicit in the suggestion , which has been conveyed also to Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky , is the idea that the Council would not express condemnation of the blockade . Dr. Juan Atilio Bramuglia , the Argentine Foreign Minister , who had conferred previously with Mr. Vishinsky , is understood to have presented the suggestion yesterday at separate conferences with Dr. Philip C. Jessup , Sir Alexander Cadogan and Alexandre Parodi , the United States , British and French representatives on the United Nations Security Council . No concrete information is available on the reaction at the conference this morning of the three Western power representatives and their advisers . . However , members of both the United States and British delegations insisted previously that they would agree to suspend Security Council consideration of the case only on the additional con ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy it has followed in the Berlin question . Such action , it is believed , would I be unacceptable to the Soviet Un- I ion . It is not clear whether the veto is applicable on the question of suspending action on the Westera , powers ' complaint that . the blockade constitutes a threat to international peace and security under Chapter VII of the Charter . This chapter deals with actions with respect to threats to the peace , breaches of the peace and acts of aggression . In any event it is obvious that the proceedings of the Council of Foreign Ministers would be doomed to failure in advance unless the Soviet Union agreed to a procedure for suspending the Security Council deliberations . It is understood that two days ago , when Sefior Bramuglia asked Mr. Vishinsky for Soviet oPinion on the compromise suggestion , the . Soviet representative expressed no opinion but agreed . to ask the . Kremlin for its views . Obviously the Western power representatives in their turn are referring the compromise suggestion to their respective capitals . Most delegates are maintaining a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that both sides may refuse to agree to the suggestion , there is still general belief that a Security Council vote  --  which it is thought would be sure to produce a Soviet veto  --  can be avoided . Whether this is merely wishful thinking should be determined early this week , for the Security Council can hardly afford to continue to postpone consideration of the issue that is by all odds the most important ever to be brought before* the United Nations . After the three Western representatives had presented their indictments last week of Soviet tactics , the Council adjourned without having fixed a date for its next meeting . Next Meeting Is Uncertain It was given out , however , that it would meet on Saturday . Such a meeting was postponed , and it was said that the meeting would take place Monday . It was disclosed tonight , however , that there would be no meeting tomorrow , and it is by no means certain that the Council would meet on Tuesday . The decision to call a meeting is contingent upon the replies from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If either or both reject the compromise suggestion , presumably the Security Council ? though reluctantly ? would have to hold a meeting and register its views . A number of delegates were still unaware of the Washington tempest over President Truman 's proposal to send Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson to Moscow . According to reports published here Saturday afternoon , Justice Vinson was to attempt to negotiate a settlement with Premier Stalin on the German question or at least on the question of the Berlin blockade . Many delegates were puzzled by the idea of such a unilateral approach on the heels of the decision to place the question before the Security Council . They were even more pm:vied , however , by Mr. Truman 's final statement to the effect that Justice Vinson would have had the task of explaining United States atomic policy to Mr. Stalin . Apart from the question of whether Justice Vinson has the detailed knowledge necessary , many delegates did not attach any particular significance to Mr. Vishinsky 's denunciations of United States atomic policy at the present session as his speeches had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Andrei A. Gromyko at Lake Success .                     