@@711796

txt With less than two weeks to go before the vote is cast that will elect her first permanent Government and determine what type of republic Israel will be , the ' political campaign is just getting under way . A meeting this week of leaders of Mapai , the dominant labor party , three Ministers of which hold key posts in the provisional regime , outlined their party platform and defined the issues that will dominate the political debate . Other parties are swinging into action . Overnight the ** and kiosks are plastered with posters . Party organs and orators compete in promises and denunciation . Menachem Begin , shouting leader of the " Freedom Movement , " political successor of Irgun Zvai Leumi , calls the present Government Fascist-minded . Other parties , including the Communists , charge that Mr. Begin is a real Fascist and would destroy democratic government . Israel is a new political entity , but in her first full dress campaign her politicians fall easily into the electioneering habits and postures of veterans in the game . The election will take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including new immigrants who arrived in the count try before Nov. 8 , and about 30,000 I Arabs . They are divided into no fewer than nine parties , not counting various splinter groups with insignificant followings . The main task of the Assembly to be elected is to write a constitution , but the importance of this framework for the new state is overshadowed by the immediate problem of bringing it into existence and insuring its survival This accounts for the lack of popular excitement in the election as such . There is very little discussion of the constitution , shining landmark as it is in the history of Israel . The party mosaic presents a picture of division of thought among people who come here from different social backgrounds and political systems . It forms , in fact , an astonishingly divided society , and the divisions are unlikely to be lessened by proportional representation provided for by the new constitution under instruction of the United Nations . But the campaign will overlap the crisscross of party lines . It will not hinge on the questions of administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problems involved in the organization of the new state . It will be fought on war issues . At the meeting of the Mapai couneil opening its campaign , Foreign Minister Moshe Shertok declared that the time had come to decide whether to strengthen the state , build up the country and create the condition for the absorption of huge numbers , or go on fighting for the eastern part of Palestine . Prime Minister David BenGurion emphasized the problem of security . To achieve this , he said , the land needs immigration on a scale hitherto undreamed of , quick development of barren stretches of the Negeb and Galilee and a foreign policy based on a refusal to join any bloc . The nation can not afford a large army , he asserted , and an effective army can be maintained only under a single authority . Palmach Dissolution an Issue Both statements are In reply to planks in opposition platforms . Mr. Begin 's Freedom Movement demands Ole inclusion in Israel of all Palestine and Trans-Jordan . Mapam , the United Worker party , more radical rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Palmach , composed of units that played a heroic defense role and now , under orders of Mr. BenGurion , are incorporated in the regular army . The Prime Minister 's statement coincides with the first tentative steps toward demobilization of the armed forces . On the eve of the election , the release of certain categories of soldiers is significant ? not only of confidence that peace is on the horizon but also of economic strain caused by the desperate need of labor and skills blocked up in the army . Most of the forces will be kept intact , of course . Israel lives on the alert amid tensions and alarms that will not be allayed for a long time to come . But token demobilization is one of many signs that moderate political leaders , those who rely on United Nations supwort , feel that they have gone about as far as it is safe to go at present . The current crisis has driven home the need for caution . Issues like these will decide the election . It will be a great surprise if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Provisional Cabinet and Provisional President Chaim Weizmann are not continued in office as the first government of the nation that they have done so much to bring into being . Not Starting From Scratch Politically Israel is not starting from scratch . Today 's leaders and nearly all the parties bidding for votes were active during the British mandate . The same is true of the civil ' servants . They learned their politics and administration in a hard school , and so effectively that one foreign observer , himself a successful politician , remarked today that the top men in Tel Aviv , or Hakirya , as the seat of government is called , have little to learn in the theory and still less in the practice of politics . The two labor parties control sol large a proportion of the vote that Israel appears bound to begin life under a labor government . Membership of the Histadrut , or General Federation of Jewish Labor , comes from both parties , and they worked together for the Zionist state . Ideologically , howtver , they face in different directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and leans definitely toward the Western democracies despite its declared Il lliey of " neutrality " between East and West . In the Provisional Council of State it holds ten seats of thirtyseven and has four out of thirteen cabinet posts . In the last conference of the General Federation of Labor , Mapai polled 53 per cent of the vote as against Mapam 's 38 , and tin ; prediction is that something like the same ratio will be maintained in the election . Mapam demands a more vigorous class struggle at home , and in foreign policy " elimination of im-1 perialistic concessions and stronger ) ties with the progressive forces ofi the world , with the Soviet Union and the new people 's democracies at their head . " This platform indicates where its sympathies lie , but the leaders vehemently disclaim any tie with Russia . It is not allied with the Communist party , which comprises about 3 per cent of the electorate , and vetoed a suggestion to form a merger because the Communists refuse to subscribe to the principles of Zionism . Reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacking the movement are being distributed . it is said , tend to cool the gratitude for Soviet support of the state . To Israel , Russia is a friend and Britain an enemy , but the proRussians are disturbed by obstacles put in the way of Jewish emigration by governments in Rumania and Poland . There are some Communists among the newcomers from countries behind the Iron Curtain , but the great majorMy have left all their possessions behind in an eagerness to get away from the " new people 's democracies . " Of the new parties , the Freedom Movement is regarded as the most dangerous and unpredictable . Its leader , Mr. Begin , is a demagogue who works on the emotions of extreme nationalists and appeals to the most violent anti . ' British sentiment . People hesitate to guess how large this movement is , but it is agreed that he is a potential dictator if he acquired any substantial support and was joined by the Revisionists . The two groups were once together and are expected to combine again . The religious parties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merged for the election period , but the new state is born in a high tide of nationalism rather than an upsurge of the religious faith that inspired the early Zionists . For the present , at least , nationalism replaces religion as a bond of unity , and the religious groups will not exert great weight in the first election in tin : Zionist state . The General Zionist , ( right-of-center ) party carries on the tradition , however , with a new Progressive party whose new deal program is expected to cut into the majorities of the labor groups . A Brilliant Attempt The proposed constitution , which will be analyzed in a subsequent article in this series , is a brilliant attempt to integrate the Jewish spiritual tradition into the structure and life of a modern democracy . Its author , . Dr. Leo Kohn , is an expert on constitutional law . He spent a year studying the operation of the constitution of the Irish Free State and wrote a book that is recognized as the definitive treatise on that experiment . The draft charter he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutions but is modeled on none . It will be thoroughly debated , for Israel 's deputies are intensely conscious of their historic responsibility in founding a new society , . but it will probably be adopted at last with few important changes . This is the fourth of ten articles by Mrs. McCormick constituting a Report on Palestine . The remaining articles will be published . in TEE NEW YORK TIMES next week , . starting Monday .                     