@@705295

txt Speaking with all the moral force for which he is famous , Cordell Hull , Secretary of State , opening formal hearings on the loan-lease bill before the House Foreign Affairs Committee , indicted totalitarian states by name today as ruthless violators , and told Congress that America 's most pressing problem is whether it will allow the high seas to " pass into the hands of powers bent on a program of unlimited conquest . " Speaking with deep earnestness , Mr. Hull carried America 's strained relations with Germany , Italy and Japan to a new stage of frankness as he cited case after case of aggression and conquest in defiance of international law . " It has become increasingly apparent that mankind is today face to face , not with regional wars or isolated conflicts , but with an organized ruthless and implacable movement of steadily expanding conquest , " he declared . " Law of Self-Defense " America 's position as a theoretical " neutral " appeared to reach a new stage of attenuation today , as Mr. Hull denied that the strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States under the present circumstances , when a " world movement of conquest " is under way . Answering questions from the Committee after his 11-minute formal statement , Mr. Hull asked whether the United States may not invoke the " law of self-defense " under the present conditions . Mr. Hull 's statement marked a new high point in specific condemnation of Germany , Italy , and Japan . and tore to shreds diplomatic hesitancy in dealing with the subject . " I could not advise my country to follow the suicidal course of Holland , Belgium , and other peoples who relied on the ordinary rules of neutrality , " Mr. Hull said at one point to a questioner . New Policy Emerges I His appearance appeared to I mark a definite end to the limitations of neutrality in America 's foreign relations , and the emergence of a new policy based on " self-defense . " Mr. Hull was even more blunt in oral answer to questions than in his prepared text . He said he had come to accept the pending loan-lease bill " with extreme reluctance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger of war under the new policy than under so-called " neutrality " of the type which the aggressor States approved for small European States ? " until they were ready to swallow them up . " Mr. Hull told a questioner : " I want to be frank with you . There is danger in any direction . If aggressors have their way you will probably see in a surprisingly short time a new world order of the vintage of 10 centuries ago . " Aggressor States " will probably head straight for South America , " he declared . Assails Aggressors In his prepared text , Mr. Hull excoriated the aggressors for following " a rule of tyranny frequently reminiscent of the worst pages of ancient history . " Speaking in a restrained voice that frequently betrayed moral indignation he traced the historical steps in Asia and Europe leading to the present crisis . Democratic questioners were sympathetic to Mr. Hull . Representative Hamilton Fish ( R ) of New York , ranking minority member of the Committee , crossed swords with the Secretary of State , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hull envisaged . Mr. Hull frequently stressed the need of speed but told Representative Charles A. Eaton ( R ) of New Jersey that he hoped for appropriate congressional scrutiny of the bill .                     