@@711616

txt Color and Fabric Co-Starred In 7th Fashions of the Times ' Story of Next Season 's Styles Is Told in 12 Scenes in Television Terms-140 Costumes Show Continuing Lavish Trends By DORIS GREENBERG The seventh edition of " Fashions of the Times " came to life yesterday on the stage of Times Hall , 240 West Forty-fourth Street . Before capacity audiences , the style prophecy presented by THE NEW YORK TIMES proved this point : that the post-war trend toward the lavish in feminine attire has far from run its course . The two-hour production , which draws on the combined talents of the fashion world and the Broadway theatre , will play twice daily through Friday . All eight performances were sold out weeks ago . Proceeds of the show designed to spotlight New York 's role as a world fashion center will go to the scholarship fund of the Fashion Institute of Technology and Design . The star of this year 's " Fashions of the Times " was color  --  flame red , soft pearly gray , rich terra cotta brown . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rustling taffeta , fragile nylon net . These were used for formal wear and even for some daytime attire with an artistry that has probably never been surpassed in fashion history . The whole glittering story , of next season 's styles was told in terms of television . Each of the twelve scenes was a separate show created for the new medium . Knitting them all together were a program director who was planning the series and a bemused blond little girl named Alice ? Alice in Video Land . Throughout the travelogue sequences that transformed a television studio into a bit of Paris , of New Orleans , of New York , a fully rounded fashion picture for the coming months was presented . This year there was no startling " new look , " no seed of another style revolution . But there were trends aplenty . These all foretold impending variations of the graceful feminine // look that has succeeded wai time 's rigid design restrictions . On the once controversial question of hem lines , a happy compromise was effected . In effect , each designer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costume . Not that any reversions to the of just-below-the-knee standard were noted . But there was ample evidence that some of last season 's extremes have become outmoded . The most common length for daytime wear was between twelve and thirteen inches from the floor . Late afternoon dresses were two or three inches longer and several had graciously dipping skirts complementing lavish draped effects . Still , despite the magic touches , it was color and it was fabric that " made " most of the 140 costumes in the show . All of them were selected from designers ' workrooms by Miss Virginia Pope , fashion editor of THE TIMES , who originated " Fashions of the Times " in 1942 . Chosen after careful search , each dress , each hat , each suit represented the important new ideas of the foremost figures in the fashion world . Many of the costumes were designed especially for the show ; all were brand new . From the opening curtain to the grand finale there were several signs of agreement among fashion 's leaders . Skirts for daytime wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spring . And the Empire silhouette , with its higher waistline , will be popular . Shoes stole the main attention among the accessories . In every hue , with every height of heel , they forecast new freedom for the woman with an individual taste in footwear . Inspiration for every component of the costumes could be traced to many sources in both the Old World and the New . There were filmy organdy evening frocks adapted from the wardrobe of a plantation belle and full-skirted brocades that might have graced any eighteenth century court But no monarch ever saw the supremely modern design of an ivory satin , sleek and streamlined as a next year 's motor car . Some of the designs were frankly taken from Paris models and modified for American use . This process of fashion borrowing now goes both ways , though , it was pointed out , and Parisian salons feature " le Gibson girl look " as well as their own motifs . Strong Shades Are Used This year no one color captured the honors . A brilliant red called after the flame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other strong shades  --  gold , cornflower and fern green . But it was sleek black and pure crisp white , alternated in a stunning finale of light and shadow , that drew the most applause . There were black velvet and taffeta with sequinned lace ; white marble silk jersey draped with Grecian simplicity ; black velvet and white ermine ; black satin and white satin . This was the culmination of the television tour that had taken Alice to a cruise-ship 's deck and to a county fair ; through a colorscope and a fabricscope , too ; to far-off cities and to a never-never land where every woman wears a mink coat . The production , which has a cast of forty-six , including singers and actors as well as professional models , was designed and directed by Nat Karson , producer of last season 's " Ballet Ballads " on Broadway . Featured parts were taken by John , Charlotte Manson and Lenka Peterson .                     