@@709996

txt Russia presented to the United Nations today a formal request that information on the manufacture of atomic weapons be included in any future disarmament conference . Turning down a British-American move to broaden a proposed world-wide " troop-count " to take in armed forces at home as well as abroad , Foreign Minister Molotov countered with a promise to the General Assembly 's Political and ' Security Committee that the Soviet Union would reveal the strength within its borders when the arms reduction talks began . In calm , mild tones Mr. Molotov brought the meeting up short with a disclosure of what information Russia would ask from each nation when the disarmament conferences became a reality . The routine information on the number of troops and bases , he said solemnly , would be useless unless along with it came data on weapons ? atomic , jet-propelled and all other kinds . " Men do not fight with empty hands , " he said . Briton Derides Suggestion Philip J. Noel-Baker , the deft and parliamentary-wise leader of the British delegation , indicated that he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He asks if we are ready to turn over information on our atomic and jet-propelled weapons , " Mr. Noel-Baker declared . " Are we ready ? Of course we are not , no more than Mr. Molotov is ready . We will give that information as part of a combined agreement of collective security and general disarmament . We will do it then , when we know the whole thing is a reality , not a shadow . " The debate on the Russian-sponsored suggest'ion for a troop-count began last week and for three and a half hours today it wound inconclusively in and around a whole series of related motions . At today 's meeting , the United States delegation , speaking through Senator Tom Connally of Texas , found itself agreeing and disagreeing with the Russians  --  and agreeing and disagreeing with the British . Senator Connally declared the opposition of the United States to a system of verification of the troop-count . Rejecting the British motion for a system of control on the troop-accounting , Mr. Connally asserted that to insist on it now might delay consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of on-the-spot inspection thus : " When we deal with the problem of the reduction of armaments we shall discuss the question of control over the reduction of armaments . The Soviet delegation will then express its views on control , as , of course , will other delegations . " Separates Two Things " What we do want , " Mr. Connally said , " is to move forward to the general matter of disarmament . And in that respect , of course , we shall insist upon thorough inspection and verification in all branches of the armed services . " But the United States and British delegations were together in opposition to the Russians on the question of including in the investigation armed strength within the borders of the United Nations . Sena tor Connally said he could see no reason for Mr. Molotov 's suggestion that disclosure of troop strength at home await general disarmament talks . " The United States wants to say that it has no disposition to delay or to conceal in any way its armed forces wherever they may be , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's rejection of the proposal to include military forces at home in any survey had been expected , but his introduction of the atomic information controversy provided something of a sensation . In a speech on Nov. 19 Mr. Mol- otov had urged that general disarmament should extend to all countries and all armed services , but he did not refer to the paramount question of the atomic bomb . At today 's meeting , however , he spoke plainly . Mentions Connally 's Gestures Senator Connally , said the soviet diplomat , had spoken eloquently , " and with the picturesque gestures which we have come to like so much , " of the necessity of getting information on troops on foreign soil and in domestic posts . The American and British suggestion , Mr. Molotov went on , was tantamount to an introduction of the whole disarmament question , and in that case was inseparable from the consideration of weapons as well as troops . " We must recognize that that information should deal not only with the total number of military personnel , but all kinds of armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall have to speak of jetpropelled weapons , atomic weapons and all others in order to have an all-embracing picture . " Mr. Molotov made it clear that he knew with what little enthusiasm his suggestion for an atomic " information please " would be received by the British and Americans . He said the British and American suggestion had made disclosure of weapons a prerequisite and asked sarcastically : " Is that really what Mr. NoelBaker and Mr. Connally-want ? " Molotov Extends Proposal The Soviet Union , said Mr. Molotov , is quite prepared to divulge information on weapons . and on troops at home  --  but only when the disarmament conference begins . To make his intention absolutely clear , Mr. Molotov then introduced an addition to the original Russian proposal . It read : at a meeting of the second row " The General Assembly deems it necessary that all states members of the United Nations organization submit information regarding ' armed forces and armaments in their own territory , this informal tion to be submitted when the Security Council will consider the proposals for general reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the room when the Russian had finished , but Senator Connally and Mr. Molotov gave the audience a couple of minutes of laughter with some rapid-fire give-and-take gibing . The Senator was first : ? " I regret to observe , " he said , 1 " that.Mr . Molotov approves of my wgeosrtdusr.es but disapproves of my Mr. Molotov got it through an interpreter and shot back : " I also regret . " The Senator looked at him through the corner of his eye and replied : " But you do n't regret enough . " " I 'll try to learn how to do it , " said the Russian , and the Senator let him have the last word . Connally Causes Confusion Senator Connally caused some confusion in his speech by reading the first part of the Russian amendment , including the words " armed forces and armaments in their own territory , " and declaring that it was " fine , no objections . " He added that he was against making it await disarmament talks . The confusion , and it spread rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator apparently had given a tacit endorsement of the weapons-information clause demanded by Mr. Molotov . A United States delegation spokesman explained afterward , however , that the Senator certainly meant no such thing and that the United States was handing out no atomic data without a foolproof control system . But Mr. Molotov was quick to seize upon the Senator 's apparent slip . " I wonder if I heard him right , " he said drily . " If he agrees on information on armed forces and armaments , it would be a very important statement indeed . It would mean information on atomic and jet weapons . I wonder if the Senator really agrees it should be provided . " The Senator made no reply . For Publication First , Check Later Mr. Noel-Baker , when his turn came , denied that his suggestion of a Security Council spot-check would mean delay . He pointed out that publication of information would come first and then verification and that one would not hinder the other . " We are asking nothing any loyal member of the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to Mr. Molotov : " Here is unanimity . Let him take it . " Alexandre Parodi of France declared his delegation found reasonable the Russian idea of first taking an inventory of troops abroad and then combining disarmament talks with a disclosure of weapons and military personnel at home . For Greece , Ambassador Vassili Dendramis seconded the British suggestion for spot verification and went on to defend the presence of Britisn troops in Greece . " In the Greek people 's view , " he said , " they constitute a guarantee of independence , liberty and peace . The Greek people have reached sufficient political maturity to distinguish between those who wish them well and those who , on the contrary , interpose obstacles to their recovery . "                     