@@710046

txt Ear-muffed Bobby Sanderson of Dedham stands and tries to " figure out " the double Santa Claus act . It seems that three Dedham veterans decided to dress tip as Santa Claus and sell Christmas trees , but the beard question was a little complicated . The bearded Santa Claus Is Paul Hodges of Dedham , the unbekrded helper is Jack Hayes . Edward Keelan , a third partner , in the Dedham venture , is out delivering trees in another jeep These Tree-Selling Santas Curt Their Beards Nightly By Bertram B. Johansson Stoll Writer of The Chrict.rrn Se ; erice Monitor " Oh yes . we put our Santa Claus beards up in curlers every night . " And so they do  --  three enterprising Dedham veterans who decided to dress themselves up in Santa Claus clothes and sell Christmas trees this year . The three young men , who have grown up together in Dedham and who have the reputation of popped up with , " I knoV.T you . You 're Paul Hodges , are n't you ? " And so he was ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprenticeship in the Coast Guard in Greenland . Jack Hayes , the second member of the trio , is becoming a refrigeration expert , and served as a spotter in the field artillery . The third member , Edward Keelan , who is studying law in his spare time , as is Mr. Hodges , sells jeeps as his regular occupation . He sells trees at night . The men decided to sell Christmas trees several weeks ago . When the novel thought came to garb themselves in Santa Claus clothes and pillow paunches , they went at it with all the more zest . A friend agreed to make the red jackets and pantaloons . One of t hem hustled out his warm Air Corps hoots which he had used as an artillery spotter . He needs them these cold days . They ordered a thousand trees from Maine , got permission from the Selectmen to use the Little park , and oiled up their jeep de- ? livery wagons which they ordinarily use for plowing out snow driveways and on estates . The park from which they operate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the country , according to a sign that . once stood there . This is n't the first tirrye the fun-loving men have gone into the Christmas tree-selling business . Back in 1939 , they cooked up a scheme to sell trees not before Christmas , but after the holiday season . How to do it ? Well , they selected the name of a dace friend on whom they desired to play a " gag , " and sent in the following advertisement for a Boston news-paper : Wanted : Old Christmas trees . Will pay up to 25 cents each . Deliver to yard of Mr. Robert L. TibThe response was uproarious . Mr. Tibbets , somewhat mystified at first , got more than a carload of trees in his front yard . It is even said that a riot was started on one of Boston 's dumping places by persons trying to get trees for Dedham delivery . Mr. Tibbets , a man of great resilience and no sow-poke at joking . When Boston newsmen began calling at his house in droves and telephoning to- learn why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious tones : " Well . you see , I have a secret formula for sprouting new roots on the old stems . I 'm getting next year 's crop of trees ready , " Mr. Tibbetts and his three friends are still friends , I 'd gather , for Mr. Tibbetts , who is an electrician , strung up a set of electric lights for the three veterans the other night so they could make their sales at night . It could be that Mr. Tibbetts was just " stringing " them along , but the lights have n't exploded yet . All he required of the three men was that they sell all their trees  --  just so there 'd be no old ones left . From all appearances , it looks as if they 'll succeed .                     