@@706880

txt A potential increase of 45 per I cent in the heating power of fuel oil , with a corresponding saving of available supplies , was indicated yesterday in a demonstration of a new " colloidal fuel " at the plant of the Metropolitan Petroleum Corporation , East 136th Street and Locust Avenue , the Bronx . Perfected by chemists of the Berwind White Coal Mining Company , 1 Broadway , the fuel , which was demonstrated in an industrial oil burner , is composed of a mixture of 55 per cent fuel oil and 45 per cent pulverized bituminous coal . Thirty gallons of the mixture was taken to the Metropolitan plant , where the performance was witnessed by fuel experts and by Warren C. Drake , consulting engineer of the New York Ordnance Division of the War Department . Heated to 180 degrees Fahrenheit , the mixture was injected into the fire box of a large oil heating furnace through the regulation fuel oil nozzle . According to the experts the efficiency of the mixture was no less than that of commercial fuel oil . Directing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metropolitan Petroleum Corporation , a wholesale fuel oil distributing company . Mr. Rapp explained that he had offered the facilities of his plant for the experiment , because boilers for heating fuel oils to expedite the loading and unloading of oil were in operation there at all times . It was further explained that the burning of the new fuel required no conversion of essential parts of the burner and that the regulation fuel lines were merely disconnected while a pipe was tapped into a barrel containing the colloidal fuel . Before the demonstration , Mr. Rapp traced the background of experiments with colloidal fuel mixtures which began here and in Europe before the last war and have continued ever since . As members of the party , including I. R. Hoffman , a consulting engineer with the Central Coal Company , 215 East 149th Street , and A. F. Menken of the Burns Brothers Coal and Fuel Oil Company . 11 West Forty-second Street , examined a sample of the viscous fluid , Mr. Rapp pointed out that it appeared the same as fuel oil . No Coal Particles Felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was explained that so fine had the bituminous coal been pulverized that 100 per cent of the mixture would pass through a 425-mesh screen . Principal quality of the substance , however , lay in the fact that the coal particles remained in suspension in the mixture . Mr. Rapp said experiments in the process of suspending pulverized coal in oil had been in progress for at least thirty years and that failure of all of these had been due to the inability of the experimenters to attain perfect suspension of the coal particles . The group then moved to an adjacent building where two boilers fired by oil burners were supplying heat for the pipe . lines of the Metropolitan plant . One of the boilers was using regulation fuel oil . The other was being started with the colloidal mixture . At first heavy clouds of black smoke belched from the stack . It was explained that this was not unusual , since the boiler was cold . A few moments later the roaring flame under the boiler grew brighter . Mr. Drake peered into the firebox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the stack . Through an aperture in the firebox the observers watched the flame . There was a faint odor of burning coal . Near by an opentopped barrel containing the experimental fuel gurgled as the fluid , heated to 180 degrees Fahrenheit , was sucked into a pipe leading to the burner 's fuel injector . Army Consultant Impressed Mr. Drake , explaining that he was " strictly an observer " and that he was not permitted to give an opinion about the performance , said , however , that the demonstration was " very good . " 4 Mr. Rapp said he was prepared to set up a mixing plant for the manufacture of the colloidal fuel , the cost of which would be " negligible . " He added that pulverizing machinery could be obtained and that heating units for the mixing process would have to be installed . The Pennsylvania Railroad is understood to be operating such a plant for experimental purposes . J. G. Content , a consulting engineer on powder fuels at 15 Park Avenue , who was reached by telephone , declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme had been applied for in this country , it appeared that the fuel demonstrated yesterday represented the final achievement in this field . Mr. Coutant explained that although there was little increase irr the bulk of the fuel oil to which pulverized coal had been added , there was an increase of 45 per cent in its heating performance , meaning that " one barrel of fuel oil will do 45 per cent more work . " Earlier Experiments Here The pioneer in experiments with coal-fuel oil mixtures in this country , Mr. Content said , was Linden Bates , an engineer . The Cunard steamship lines of Great Britain , Mr. Coutant said , experimented during and after the last war with the mixture aboard oil-burning ships with " some success . " Germany , however , experimented extensively with the process during the last war and in the years following , he added . In this country , theiArmour Institute of Technology in Chicago , Mr. Content declared , conducted extensive experiments in 1939 , in which an automobile was successfully run on the colloidal fuel . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying it had a higher iame temperature than oil , that it was non-volatile iii storage and might be stored indefinitely without precipitation of the suspended coal particles . If mixing plants could be established in oil-using areas , Mr. Content ? Rid , the colloidal fuel could be processed speedily and cheaply . Since sources of bituminous coal in this country were " practically limitless " a " partial " solution to the fuel oil shortage " is indicated , " he said . It was pointed out at the conclusion of the demonstration yes-I terday that no plans were being made to provide the substance for home use . Present plans envision commercial and industrial use of the fuel                     