@@704557

txt A sample of the long and technical process which 15 ahead of the utility holding companies now being called upon to present their integration plans took place at the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday when American Gas and Electric Co. resumed hearings on its voluntary integration plan . Meanwhile , the SEC issued its fourth and fifth integration orders , one against Cities Setvice Power and Light Co. and one against United Gas Improvement Co These two companies were called upon to report to the SEC by April 12 bow they plan to comply with section 11B of the Public Utility Act of 1935 which requires that each holding company 's operating properties be confined to a single interconnected , coordinated system . American Gas and Electric Co. , which has already submitted such a plan to the SEC , yesterday again took up the burden of defending it . It was the tenth working day of the American Gas hearing , which began on January 29 , continued through February 8 and then adjourned until yesterday . Already the record of the testimony covers 1,200 pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including maps , charts , graphs and photographs . First Witness Still on Stand In spite of this bulky transcript , the that witness is still on the witness stand giving direct testimony . He is yet to be subjected to cross-examination . Moreover , he is still talking about the main American Gas system and must later give similar testimony about the systems which Ametican Gas controls in Scranton . Pa. , and Atlantic City , N. J. The witness is Philip Sporn , vice president and chief engineer of American Gas . Beside being long . Mr. Sporn 's testimony has had to be highly technical . The law defines the " single integrated " system to which each holding company is to be confined as a system which is " physically interconnected " and capable of operation as " a single interconnected and coordinated system " To prove that his company meets this definition of an " integrated system " , Mr Sporn has testified to a wealth of technical details and it is upon this technical evidence that the company  --  like other companies which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulk of its case . Yesterday , for instance . Mr. Sporn spent much of his time explaining how American Gas was able at certain periods of the day to send power from the southern tip of its system in Virginia to the northern section in Michigan and how at other periods , when the load conditions required it , the company could reverse the flow and send power south . Mr Sporn is to be followed on the witness stand by H M Sawyer , vice-president , who will testify on the selling of power to customers and by Joseph Xi Burchill. vice-president , who will discuss the corporate structure of American Gas &; Electric . Not until SEC lawyers begin cross examination of the witnesses will the commission disclose , even in part , whether it has in mind an integration plan which differs from the company 's . Against Power Unit The integration order was directed against Cities Service Power t Light Co rather than against Cities Service Co. the top holding company , because the latter has applied for an exemption from the holding company act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is outside the reach of the integration order , but , should the application be denied , Cities Service Co might be made a respondent under yesterday 's order . The integration order against U. G. I provided for several exemptions of its subsidiary companies , the most important of which is Public Service Corp . of New Jersey and all its subsidiaries . Also exempt from responding to the integration order against U. G. I. were the Hartford Gas Co. and the Reading Gas Co . These companies together with Public Service Corp . of New Jersey have applied for exemption from the Holding Company Act , and uttil their applications are disposed of . they will not be considered parties to the U. G I. integration proceedings . However , U. G. I. must defend or abandon its connection with Public Service Corp . of New Jersey . The integration order against U. G. L cited as respondents , together with Midland United Co. , Midland Utilities Co trustees and Gary Electric &; Gas Co . The order also listed 38 electric and gas subsidiaries of U. G. I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidiaries were 33 companies which also arc subsidiaries of the Middle West Corp . Most Important of these were Northern Indiana Power Co . Public Service Co. of Indiana and Central Indiana Power Co.                     