@@710129

txt Legislation to effect the transler of Logan International Airport in Boston from the State Department of Public Works to the Massachusetts Aeronautics Commission in accordance with Governor Bradford 's recent recommendation has been drafted by the Special Recess Commission on Aviation , ' it was learned today . This was one of a series of developing factors of importance to aviation in Massachusetts today . Others are : 1 . Formation of a Legislative Advisory Council on Aviation comprised of legislative agents of five prominent aviation organizations . Weymouth Base 2 . Increasing expectation that Weymouth Naval Air Base will become the National Guard Air Wing headquarters . 3 . Announcement of the election of Miss Ann Cutler , daughter of Representative Leslie B. Cutler ( R ) of Needham , Chairman of the House Committee on Aeronautics , as New England Governor of the " 99 's , " women 's national aviation organization . 4 . Report that there are sufficient funds left from 1946 to maintain and operate the ground-control approach system soon to be installed at Logan . 5 . Expected shuffle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now held by Edward M. Lynch , a Democrat , passing to the Republicans . Funds Allocated Several other items cropping up in Beacon Hill discussions on aviation include the allocation of . $3,541,869 by the Federal and State governments for the first year 's installment. on a three-year airport development program in New England . Massachusetts received 5707,678 from the Federal Government and met this with $827,511 . The Legislative Advisory Council on Aviation is a new agency formed by Fred Tobey of Norwood , New England Aviation Trades Association ; Mrs. Mildred Morey of Marblehead , the " 99 's " ; Ralph Eastman of Boston , Aviation Committee of the Boston Chamber of Commerce ; Richmond Skinner of Brookline , Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association ; and Miss Cutler , the Aeronautics Association of Boston . They will hold an organizing luncheon at the Bellevue Hotel Jan. 30 . Among the legislative matters scheduled to come up before the new group for consideration are two bills of Representative Cutler . Transit to Airport One bill would authorize the Boston Elevated Railway Company to provide motor vehicle transportation from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sutcliffe incident of last year , when similar legislation was vetoed by Governor Tobin . The second bill would provide for an Aviation Ground Transportation Commission of three men , the Commissioner of Public Works and the Chairmen of the Public Utilities and Aeronautics Commissions . These three , incidentally , are all Democrats . However , the Governor is expected to rearrange the Public Works Commission and Public Utilities Commission as well as the Aeronautics Commission this week . The terms of Joseph F. Cairnes , Commissioner of Public Works , and Hirsch Freed , Associate Commissioner of Public Utilities , expire Jan , . 31 . Few Revisions Needed Actually , little revamping was necessary for the legislation taking control of Logan Airport out of the hands of the Department of Public Works . It was drawn up last year but did not pass . The recommendation is expected to figure largely in the report of the Recess Commission on Aviation March 1 . 