@@707572

txt The Moscow radio announced tonight the terms of two decrees giving the constituent republics of the Soviet Union a certain degree of autonomy in the conduct of their defense and foreign relations . These decrees form a legal basis for the new Russian Commonwealth plan outlined by Foreign Commissar Vyacheslaff Molotoff in his speech before the joint meeting of the Supreme Soviet in St. Andrew 's Hall of the Kremlin yesterday . One decree gives the constituent republics the right " to enter into direct relatioqs with foreign States and to conclude treaties with them . " The second decree , dealing with the transformation of the Central Commissariat for Defense into " Union Republic People 's Commissariat , " grants each republic the right to its own " republic battle units . " These decisions are certainly the most explosive " Molotoff cocktail " thrown into the world political sphere since the Soviet Foreign Commissar signed the Russo-German pact of August , 1939 , and , whatever their significance , they have added greatly to the discussions in diplomatic circles about the future foreign policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political questions were discussed but not solved , and especially since the Russo-Polish dispute over that strip of territory between the Curzon Line and the 1939 RussoPolish boundary , Russia has surpassed the United States as the great question mark in future world policy . What is Premier Joseph Stalin trying to do ? Is he sincere in his United Nations policy ? Has he really abandoned his isolationist revolutionary tactics ? Is this latest action designed to increase democracy and self-determination within the constituent republics of the U.S.S.R. ? Or is it a maneuver to strengthen Soviet Russia in her dealings with other powers now and after the war ? This correspondent has put these questions to all responsible United Nations ' officials and diplomats available to him in the last two days and reminded them that this dispatch is a report of their tentative conclusions : 1 . Soviet Russia , these diplomats believe , is prepared to collaborate with the United States and Britain under certain conditions . She is sincere in her determination to wipe out Germany and will abide by her military commitments Under the Teheran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grant to the United States or Britain the right to interfere in the settlement of the Baltic states and Poland or , indeed , the right to intervene anywhere in eastern Europe , though she is demanding the right , and has received the right , as a member of the Italian Advisory Council and the European Advisory Council , to help settle the fate of Italy and other European countries . 2 . Soviet Russia , in other words , has not acepted the principle that spheres of influence should be abandoned and that a general European settlement is to be arranged with each power having an equal say in the settlement of every area of the Continent . There is , in fact , a growing feeling that Russia , while willing to cooperate with the United States and Britain in other parts of the world , is demanding the right to establish a Russian sphere of influence to the east of the line running roughly from Trieste to Prague and Stettin and that east of that line she is going to insist upon the creation of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanitaire in reverse , a chain of states , not to protect western Europe from Russia but to protect Russia from the possibility of any coalition that might be formed in western Europe . 3 . Diplomats here differ in their interpretation of what Premier Stalin means by " friendly " governments , some thinking he means governments that would be dependent upon the Soviet Union and others thinking he means governments that would be both independent and friendly in the true sense of both words . In general , however , there is a tendency among observers here to believe that Premier Stalin 's sphere of influence policy is intended as defensive and not offensive , that he is going to pursue a Pan-Slav policy , more or less as the United States is pursuing a Pan-American policy , and that he is going to favor friendly governments in his sphere of influence in much the same way that we tend to favor friendly governments in Central America . 4 . As to the immediate decision to give a great degree of autonomy to the constituent Soviet . Republics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , essentially an internal affair of the Soviet Union though it has potentially far-reaching consequences to the rest of the world . Peace Table Angle Indicated Three reasons for the move were generally ascribed : A. The move was designed as an attempt to increase the Soviet Union 's voting strength in interimtional organizations dealing with the post-war world and to give Premier Stalin a bargaining counter against Britain , which usually manages to get the votes of the British dominions on her side , and against the United States , which usually succeeds in carrying the Latin-American republics with her in foreign affairs . B. It was designed as a device to ( give a more legal aspect to the in- ' corporation of the Baltic States . C. It was a convenient way to ' , invite any other Governments , such as the Bulgarian , Polish , Finnish or Persian Governments , to join the Russian " commonwealth of nations . " Most observers whom this correspondent approached , however , while admitting in various degrees the . force of these three reasons , are inclined to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well : D. The idea of self-determina- tion , it is pointed out , has not escaped Russia , where there is Ukrainian patriotism , just as Canadians have Canadian patriotism , and there is Georgian patriotism just as , indeed , we have a Georgia patriotism in Atlanta . ? Thus , it is argued , Premier Stalin , whose first major job was Commissar of Nationalities , believes that the U.S.S.R. , with Germany and Japan defeated , will be able to give over more autonomy to the constituent republics . E. The acceptance of the principle of States ' rights and the decentralization of the Government in such a vast empire will , it is believed , be more efficient . For example , it is pointed out that in many cases , admittedly on small issues , the Asiatic republics might very well be able to negotiate with China more quickly and efficiently than Moscow could . F. Finally , it is pointed out , Premier Stalin is scarcely in such a weak condition , nor is he so legal- istic in his approach to interna1 tional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solely to get extra votes at international Ito where votes seldom settle great issues , or to get the approval of the rest of the world for his territorial aims . In summary , the consensus here is not that Russia is retreating from the world nor rejecting the offers of United States and Britain for cooperation but that she is laying the groundwork for an even greater empire than she now has and is pointing the way , , not to a system of the present collective security but toward a world divided into these four great spheres of influence as follows : A sphere dominated by Russia and extending from the TriestePrague-Stettin line east to the Pacific ; another sphere dominated by the United States and taking in the Western Hemisphere from the Canadian border to the Falkland Islands ; a third dominated by Britain and including the British Empire and western European democracies from France in the south to Norway in the north , and fourth , a sphere ? though Russia may not support this one  --  including southern Asia am ' dominated by China . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them admit that the trend is growing and that it is being pushed forward by political activities of the Soviet Union .                     