@@712171

txt A motion to bar Communists from membership in the National Education Association . comprising 825,000 A m er i c a n schoolteachers . was placed before the NEA convention in Boston by William P , V. Saunders of New York . The 3,000 delegates are expected to take action on the issue later this week . Representatives of thousands of American school teachers . who already have gone on record as opposed to loyalty oaths , today soteght ways to introduce more democratic procedure in their own local school systems . Delegates of state units attending , the week-long National Education Assflciation conference in Mechanics Hall . Boston . came to grips with the vital challenge of teaching discipline and at the same time encouraging full democratic participation in the nation 's classrooms Participants in the dishssion groups  --  where the issue of more democracy in school systems came up for discussion  --  saw this question as being only part of the greater subject of civil rights in the schools . Discrimination Seen The resolution passed yesterday against loyalty oaths at the meeting of the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educators who deplore " the growing practice of enacting discriminatory legislation that singles out teachers . " " Learning to work together in a democratic way will make us better teachers . " said Earl F. Bopp of Cleveland . in one of today 's discussion groups " I would ask these questions of every teacher : Does freedom disappear when you enter your classroom ? Are your pupils working together under guidance or are they working under arbitrary rules imposed by you ? Learning to live in a democracy requires practice and can not begin too early . " Formation of Council Mr. Bopp and other leaders of discussion groups on this subject further described a trend toward forming advisory councils of teachers throughout . the school system to work with the superintendent . Such a counsel should not develop into a grievance com mittee , but should be professional in its approach to matters of school procedure , " it was explained . " Its establishment was wel- corned by all groups of educational employees as a democratic procedure through which they might have the opportunity and would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schools without the stigma of their being considered criticisms or complaints , " said Mr. Bopp , of such a council in his own city . The council should be large enough to be representative of the teaching force and small enough to be a working unit , ' probably a maximum of 50 for a large city school system . " and at first of educational employees only , and later including non-1 teaching groups . parents and others. - said Edward E. Keener , an assistant superintendent of ? Chicago schools , in another discussion group . The convention , which opened Sunday afternoon with patriotic vesper services in several historic Boston churches and in Faneuil Hall , was addressed at its first general assembly Monday evening at Mechanics Building by Miss Mabel Studebaker , NEA president and Erie , Pa .. high school teacher , and also by Gen. Carlos Romulo , chief of the Philippine mission to the United States . Business sessions , attended only by official NEA delegates from the state and territorial NEA organizations , are alternated with general assemblies and by afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oaths. teacher shortage , and other problems . Problems Cited Declaring that " the cost of poor schools is greater than the cost of good schools , " Miss Studebaker defended the association 's active fight for federal aid to education . Describing the association 's efforts as " a slow , uphill struggle " she asserted that " this very struggle has interested and aroused many people to whom public education would otherwise have been only an academic question . " Miss Studebaker. who has been en leave of absence this year from Erie to travel throughout the United States to visit schools and confer with teachers on their problems , cited for the delegates some of the crowded and other substandard conditions she had seen . In Nebraska . she said , " I visited a primary teacher who taught 64 children each day  --  half sessions of 30 and 34 . " In Kentucky . she learned of a school with 72 in the first grade . "                     