@@711342

txt AID HELD A ' MUST ' Taft , Supporting View of Vandenberg , Favors Satisfactory ' Sum HOUSE PASSES 73 SILLS Adjourns Early in Evening ? Session Through Monday or Convention Recess Possible By WILLIAM S. WRITE Special to Tits Ma , Tom Timm WASHINGTON , June 18 ? The enactment of draft legislation and a " satisfactory " European recovery appropriation were laid down tonight by Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio as " must " accomplishment before the Eightieth Congress could adjourn . The Senator said Congress might be held in session through next Monday in an effort to reach agreement on the foreign aid appropriation , or might reconvene after the Republican National Convention opening in Philadelphia Monday . Senator Taft made his announcement that the recovery funds as well as the draft were a " must " after the Senate Republican Policy Committee , which he heads , had held a long meeting while a filibuster against the draft bill still field the Senate floor immobilized . The committee 's decision , he said , was that Congress should adjourn tomorrow night , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it could not quit for good without action on military preparedness . For his own part and as a leader who for all practical purposes nearly always speaks for the committee in general , he added to this I imperative category the recovery appropriation . , As to the latter , Senator Taft declared that , speaking only for himself as the Republican leader of the Senate on domestic affairs , he would be " quite prepared to stand by the view of Senator Vandenberg as to what is essential to carry out our moral commitments to Europe . " This was a declaration of sup // port for Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan , the Republican Senate foreign policy leader , in his fight against deep cuts in the recovery funds made by the Republican-controlled House . Mr. Taft thus said in substance not only that Congress could not close the books without action on the draft and on the foreign-recovery funds , but that this action , so far as recovery was concerned , must be " satisfactory . " Thus he laid down this prospect : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back and attend to them after the Republican convention . The key to the whole position earlier had been the duration of the filibuster under way in the Senate against the draft legislation . At that time Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska , the Republican whip , had observed : " If we break this one in time , to pass the draft bill this Congress ' will end Saturday night  --  or Sunday morning at any rate . " The Senate , as is nearly always the case , was the center of the sit- ' uation , and the center of the Senate 's situation for the time being was the Wallace third-party Vice Presidential candidate , Senator Glen H. Taylor of Idaho . Senator Taylor , who had been poised for the effort since 11 o'clock this morning , began the first of two expected anti-draftil filibusters at 4:36 P. M. His point of departure was a technical one . He was filibustering for the time being not against the draft bill as such but against a routine motion to appoint the Senate half of a Senate-House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ version and the far softer House plan . Yet to come was another , and in all likelihood more determined , filibuster against the compromise ultimately to be brought back from the Senate-House conference . While he did not actually begin his delaying action until late in the afternoon , Mr. Taylor had posed a threat of time-killing all day . The Republican Se , Ate leaders , taking a philosophical view that it would be as well to pass what they could in the meantime , would not afford the direct opportunity for him to take the floor until they had disposed of five and a half hours of miscellaneous business . Wherry Confident of Quorum It was made plain among the Republican Senate command that the draft bill would not be permitted to die , come what might , and that this measure could force Congress to forego adjournment . If this came about , the tactic would be simply to order a short ecess until the conclusion of the Republican convention and then return here for the business in hand . Senator Wherry declared himself unworried at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early evening of tomorrow , in spite of the fact that many members had tickets in their pockets for- tomorrow night 's Philadelphia-bound trains . While the Senate was thus heavily and anxiously engaged , the House , under the spur of its implacable rules and under the complete and unchallenged command of the leadership , worked away at a great rate so far as all tasks which did not immediately involve the Senate as well were concerned . At times bills on the House calendar were being passed at the rate of one every three minutes . Most were minor . ? The Democrats vehemently protested the parliamentary procedures adopted in some major instances by the House Republicans to forbid all amendments , calling them " arbitrary and undemocratic . " The House called it a day early ? at 7:29 P. M. ? after having passed seventy-three measures in today 's sitting . The situation on the major items pending before Congress was as follows : Admission to This Country of Displaced Persons ? A proposed Senate-House compromise was locked up behind the draft controversy in the Senate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and House conferees were still arguing . Long-term Farm Legislation ? Conferences between Senate and House were still inconclusive . The likelihood was that in the end , the Senate would have to abandon its bill for a major revision in farm policy and accept the House bill simply to extend the present price-support system . Housing  --  Senate and House bills so far apart as to make any legislation unlikely . Communist Control Measures ? Hardly any prospect of enactment . Federal Aid to Education  --  Dead , in all likelihood . The So-Called Civil Rights Program  --  Dead , in all likelihood . Measures to Give to the States Title to Tidal Oil Lands  --  Dead , in all likelihood . The $65,000,000 Non-Interest United States Loan to the United Nations for its Permanent Headquarters in New York ? Passed during the day by the Senate , complete with an amendment which would make $25,000,000 of this money available immediately , but not likely to pass the House . The Oleomargarine Tax Repealer  --  Dead , in all likelihood . 