@@712326

txt Supreme Court Tustice Wiley B. Rutledge , who had served on the nation 's highest bench for six years , died at 9:05 o'clock tonight in York Hospital after a two-week illness . His age was 55 . He was the second member of the court to die within two months . The Kentucky-born jurist was the last appointee of President Franklin D Roosevelt to the Supreme Court . Like Justice Frank Murphy , who died in July , he was considered a member of the " liberal " bloc on that body . His death gives President Truman an opportunity to make his second appointment to the high court within five weeks , and his fourth since he became President . Death was due to a circulatory ailment which struck the Justice Aug. 22 while he was on a vacation in Ogunquit , Me . He was taken to York hospital ; where it was announced a week later that he was suffering from a cerebral Wiley U. Rutledge The New York Times Studio hemorrhage . He had been in a coma much of the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn for the worse and Dr. Fred A. Geier , his personal physician , was called from Washington . It was then that Justice Rutledge lapsed into his final coma . At the jurist 's bedside when he died were his widow , Annabel , and his two daughters . His son , Neal , summoned from Portsmouth , N. H. , arrived there after his death . He had rallied several times since his illness and hope had been held out for his recovery . Roosevelt 's Eighth Appointment ' The appointment of Justice Rutledge to the United States Supreme Court by , President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1943 was widely approved for several reasons other than the fact that he was a trained jurist . His appointment amounted to a promotion after nearly four years of able service on a lower Federal bench , a principle frequently ignored in filling Supreme Court vacancies . Justice Rutledge was President Roosevelt 's eighth Supreme Court appointment and the first of these appointments to be made from west of the Mississippi River . He had been considered for the highest court on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William 0 . Douglas were named . Although his appointment was oveiwhelmingly approved by the Senate on a voice vote , he was not without his detractors in the Senate debate that preceded the vote . In a thirty-minute speech opposing the confirmation of Justice Rutledge , Senator William Langer , Republican , of North Dakota , said : " So far as I can learn , the nominee never practiced law and never even had been in a court room until he took his seat on the Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington a few years ago . The only justification that I can find for his appointment is that he comes from Iowa City , the home of Harry Hopkins . " Expert on Corporation Law At the time of his appointment , however , Justice Rutledge had not only nearly four years of experience on the Federal bench but had established a national reputation as an authority on the theory of corporation law . Besides , he had had extensive experience as a teacher of the law . When his appointment was announced , it was recognized immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberals " in the Supreme Court . His subsequent opinions more or less confirmed this expectation . The son of a circuit-riding Baptist preacher , Wiley Blount Rutledge Jr . was born at Cloverport , Ky. , July 20 , 1894 . His mother was the former Mary Lou Wigginton . On his father 's side he was descended from Tennessee backwoodsmen . After receiving preliminary education at Maryville College , Tennessee , he received a B.A. degree in 1914 from the University of Wisconsin . Then came a year of teaching commercial subjects at the Bloomington , Ind . ' High School , and law study at the University of Indiana at the same time . Justice Rutledge thereupon became a fulltime high school teacher at Connersville , Ind . A lung ailment from which he fully recovered caused him , in 1917 , to go to New Mexico , where he became secretary to the Albuquerque city school board . Five years later he obtained his law degree from the University of Colorado . In 1923 he began his career as a law teacher at the University of Colorado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louis and at the University of Iowa . He became dean of the University of Iowa Law School in 1930 , and his liberal views attracted the attention of United States Senator George W. Norris of Nebraska , who was ever on the search for recruits for the ranks of American liberalism . In 1936 President Roosevelt named Justice Rutledge an associate justice of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia . His tenure in this court was marked by his decisions reflecting the liberal point of view. , He was one of the three members1 of the court sustaining the conviction of the American Medical Association and the Medical Society of the District of Columbia on charges of conspiracy to violate the Sherman Anti-Trust Law in blocking the work of a cooperative enterprise called the Group Health Association . Early in 1943 Associate Justice James F. Byrnes resigned from the Supreme Court to become Economic Stabilization Director , whereupon President Roosevelt appointed Justice Rutledge to the vacancy . The traditional regional exigencies were taken into consideration in making the appointment ; which called for somebody from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had ' caused Justice Rutledge to go West for his health had resulted in his eligibility for appointment under the unofficial custom of appointment from regions . Center of Key Rulings Chief Justice Harlan F. Stone presided over the Supreme Court when Justice Rutledge took his seat as an associate justice . The other associate justices . were Stanley F. Reed , Owen J. Roberts , Hugo L. Black , Felix Frankfurter , Robert H. Jackson , William 0 . Douglas and Frank Murphy . Shortly after Justice Rutledge joined the court , it was announced that several cases would be reopened because of a four-to-four deadlock , which could be broken only by the opinions of the new associate justice . Official Washington was watching closely to see how the new justice would stand in relation to this deadlock , which had resulted in an unusual amount of acidity among several members of the court . The cases stalled by the deadlock included an appeal taken by the Jehovah Witness sect from a decision of the Massachusetts court to the effect that the state child labor statute took precedence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of a member of the Jehovah Witness sect . The court was also deadlocked on a rehearing of a case involving the status of William Schneiderman , an official of the Communist party in California whose naturalization had been canceled by a Federal court on the grounds . that he had concealed membership in the Communist party . In rendering opinions in these cases and others at that period Justice Rutledge affirmed his liberal views . He usually was found aligned with the so-called " liberal bloc " made up of Justices Black , Douglas and Murphy . This group was joined on many issues by Justices Frankfurter and Jackson . During his tenure in the Supreme Court Justice Rutledge rendered several opinions that attracted nation-wide attention . Several of these were of a nature that might have tempted another judge to express his dissenting views in a manner calculated to dodge the issue . This Justice Rutledge never did . Over the protests of Justices Murphy and Rutledge , the six other sitting members of the Supreme Court refused , on Feb. 4 , 1946 , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Japanese commander of occupation forces in the Philippines , to save him from a sentence of death pronounced by a United States military tribunal in Manila . In his thirty-two-page dissent , Justice " Rutledge attacked the legal basis and procedure of the commission that had tried General Yamashita , and charged that improper evidence  --  much of it in the form of newspaper articles and letters  --  had been introduced at the trial . " In this stage of the war 's aftermath it is too early for Lincoln 's great spirit , best lighted in the Second Inaugural , to have wide hold for the treatment of foes , ' " Justice Rutledge wrote . " It is not too early for the nation steadfastly to follow its great constitutional traditions , none older or more universally protective against unbridled power than due process of law in the trial and punishment of ? men , that is , all , men , whether cit- , izens , aliens , alien enemies of enemy belligerents . " A few days later Justices Murphy and Rutledge took similar dissenting positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to interfere in the trial of Lieut . Gen. Masharu Hornma , the Japanese conqueror of Bataan and Corregidor . On March 6 , 1947 , the Supreme Court voted , 7 to 2 , to uphold the contempt conviction of John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , in connection with UMW threats to call a strike . Justices Murphy and Rutledge voted not to uphold the conviction . On a vote as to whether the NorrisLa Guardia anti-labor injunction statute applied in this case Justices Murphy and Rutledge were joined by Justices Frankfurter and Jackson in a minority opinion . The forty-four-page dissenting opinion written in this case by Justice Rutledge was widely studied in legal circles . It stated in conclusion : " No man or group is above the law . All are subject to its valid commands . So are the Government and the courts . If , as I think , Congress has forbidden the use of labor injunctions in this and like cases , that conclusion is the end of our function . " On Aug. 28 , 1917 , Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a short time at Maryville College . Three children were born to them , Mary Lou , Jean Ann and Neal . Justice and Mrs. Rutledge entertained extensively in their home at Spring Valley near Washington . The justice was affiliated with the Unitarian Church in Washington and was a Democrat .                     