@@708759

txt Letters to The Times FREDERICA RHINELANDER LANDON.CAROLYN DARLING.I . MONTEFIORE LEVY.JARDINE JACQU ... Letters to Scholarships as Memorials Education of Future Leaders Urged for Progressive Democracy TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Those of us who have lived through two wars , and have lost brothers and sons in both world conflicts , must wait no longer to act upon the great affirmations which lie at the foundation of our hopes for the future . We have not suffered either the bitterness or the agonies of the war-ravaged countries , and the depth of our own sorrow has not weakened our conviction that western civilization need not collapse if forces for understanding and cooperative effort are unleashed with as great a plan in the post-war world as those we have mustered for the defeat of our enemies . That it is indeed our business to join with others to create a better world can not be questioned by any reasonable man who has seen the achievements of enlightened self-interest during this war and the magnificently practical force of joint action with our allies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home should again follow war , this time we must actively oppose and vigorously answer those who would paralyze us with their negative philosophy . We can no longer doubt that freedom itself depends upon responsibility , justice and respect for the rights of all men everywhere . We must see that this faith is applied intelligently to racial problems and labor differences as well as to our foreign relations . Places in Government Men and women who see that our greatest need today and tomorrow is for young and energetic leaders in democratic thought to take their places in our country 's Government are bound to urge their fellow-citizens to demand such leadership . To emphasize the need of good minds and well-equipped intelligences with high standards of human relations , in Government positions big and small , is the minimum leadership which our universities should be willing to give in the coming years . We need not be ashamed to demand this act of faith on their part , or to expose our youth to its excellent contagion . In the past our universities have done little to lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and privilege of public service . The professions have received their regular quotas , and the wave of young men of ideals who are so worth bending to great purpose , from the ages of 19 to 23 , is drawn into every line of activity and thought , but seldom into public life . One of the ways in which we can help to bring about a needed revolution in thinking about the whole field of public service is the establishment of scholarships in the colleges of our choice , to encourage young men of gifts to follow through into law and eventually into public life . The study of classical thought would seem essential at least for the student 's first two years of college , not only because of the training in clear and precise thinking which such study gives him , but because there is no other way for a student to acquire what constitutes the spiritual heritage of our western civilization , the wisdom and beauty of Greece and the religious heritage of Christianity . Special Committee Suggested It is suggested that a special committee made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dean of the college be appointed to select the boy for the award in his junior and senior years , to encourage him to go into law and aim at service to the state . In his selection the scholastic record of a student would of course count for much , but still more important would be his character and his desire to prepare himself for public life . Some of our law schools have done a splendid service to our country at war by contributing to its various departments and many war agencies men capable of doing an excellent job of administration . For this we may well feel grateful and proud . However , the ideal method of entering public life is the democratic one , of advancement through demonstrated public confidence in ability and powers of leadership . I believe that the influence of scholarships on a grand scale with this in mind could do more to help to raise the general standard of Government and even of business in this country than any other action on our part . The plan is practical from every point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasing to our sons , or more alive and enduring ? They have sacrificed their lives and their futures for a decent freedom . Can we do less than carry on with their faith and continue their battle for a better world ? Such a scholarship has been given to Harvard University in memory of our son , and our hope is that there may be a generous giving on the part of hundreds of friends and families of our heroic dead , to renew our faith as a nation in the certainty that the world can be transformed by a practical idealism and an understanding of the responsibilities of freedom . We must try to match our heroism to that of our sons , accept our destiny , and no longer flee from a revolutionary age , for we know that when the war is finally won , nothing can bring peace to the world except the triumph of principles . FREDERICA RHINELANDER LANDON . New York , June 25 , 1945 . Little Old New York To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : Albert Ulmann , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street derives its name , according to the record , from the fact that " a ' wooden barricade was put up to guard against domestic cattle from the outer world . " The fact is that the original wall was The Times put up as a guard against Indians . That there may be at present a few Indians within the wall does n't alter the fact that Wall Street deserves to keep its name . Those fascinated by the past Of New York may be interested to know that Trinity Church was founded on a wheat field , and that the original site of New York Hospital was an apple orchard . This orchard , chosen by the vestrymen of Trinity as the ground for the island 's first hospital , is now part of Worth Street . CAROLYN DARLING . New York , June 27 , 1945 . New Navy Dress Suggested Present Uniform of " Gobs " Called Ugly ' and Wholly Impractical TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Whether or not we agree with General Eisenhower 's comment on merging the uniforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond doubt needs correction . I refer to the ugly gob naval uniform . From the standpoint of utility it is indefensible . The juniper has only a small pocket . It is difficult to put on and take off . A kerchief is required to hide the undershirt . The long collar is superfluous . In the olden days it was used to catch the tar and oil that sailors used on their pigtails . The wearer is exposed to adverse climatic conditions with scanty protection . The trousers have thirteen buttons . Narrow at the knee and baggy at the bottom , they present a clownish appearance . They made the trousers to facilitate washing the deck , to easily roll up and stay up . At work the gob now wears dungarees . The thirteen buttons are shrouded in mystery . They are supposed to conljnemorate the thirteen original American colonies . They certainly are a nuisance to the sailor . The present uniforms have been characterized as " monkey suits . " The sailors feel silly in them . I brought this matter to the attention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy , he was particularly interested in the subject . The matter was referred to our present capable Secretary of the Navy , Mr. Forrestal , who , on Oct. 10 , 1944 , wrote me that it was under advisement . I have received hundreds of letters from gobs and their relatives commending and pleading for a change . The Pelican , newspaper of the New Orleans Naval Base , has suggested new uniforms for sailors . The item drew more than 6,000 approving letters from Navy personnel . The gob has the ugliest uniform in the service . A former assistant conducted a poll among the gobs in his division . Ninety-five per cent of the men wanted a change . The men like the battle jacket . This , with conventional fly front trousers , could be made up in any material for all uniforms , winter , summer and work . With all the beauty that we have injected into uniforms and in civilian clothing , why has the gobs ' uniform been neglected ? An obvious reason may be the difficulty attending a change . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government orders new blue uniforms it provide something suitable and use the old uniforms until they are exhausted . I. MONTEFIORE LEVY . New York , July 2 , 1945 . Negroes Seek Economic Equality To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Permit me , a Negro , to say a fey words regarding the statements of Governor Arnall of Georgia on Negroes and equality . I think that I express the conviction of many Negroes when I say that I am in complete agreement with the Governor when he said that " the important thing for Negroes is not social equality but economic equality . " That is just what we had been expecting for years and demanding lately . We are not primarily interested in social equality , for , like mental equality , we believe and know ourselves not to be socially inferior . Even if we were to concede social inferiority , given economic equality we would be able in the not too distant future to command social equality . What Negroes are interested in most is the chance to work and earn on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hindrance , so that we too may enjoy some of the comforts of life and to educate ourselves as any other group . This is our right not only as a minority but as citizens . JARDINE JACQUES FIEULLETEAU . New York , June 28 , 1945 . Death to Poison Ivy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEVir YORK TIMES : There has been much discussion about ways of destroying poison ivy . Scattering borax over the ground where the ivy grows will kill it . Two weeks or more may be needed to complete the process , but it will do the job . ALICE STONE BLACKWELL Cambridge , Mass. , June 26 , 1945.                     