@@705064

txt Attorney General Jackson has written to THE NEW YORK TIMES to explain that his own ruling on defense contracts was a narrow one : all that he ruled , he declares , was that a decision of the National Labor Relations Board was " binding " on the Defense Commission and that an appeal from a decision of the board did not operate as a stay . His letter goes on to imply that it is the National Defense Commission itself that ruled that violators of the Wagner Labor Relations Act could not receive Government contracts , and he cites in evidence the President 's message to Congress on Sept. 13 making public the text of two commission statements . The only paragraph in that text bearing on the present point follows : All work carried on as part of the defense program should comply with Federal statutory provisions affecting labor wherever ' such provisions are applicable . This applies to the Walsh-Healey act , Fair Labor Standards Act , the National Labor Relations Act , etc . There should also be compliance with State and local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages , workmen 's compensation , safety , sanitation , etc . This statement of principle sounded so innocuous at the time of its publication that it attracted little attention . It used the phrase " should comply " and not " must comply . " There seemed no more reason to assume from it that concerns held to have violated the National Labor Relations Act would be denied Government contracts on that account than that they would be denied such contracts if one factory of such a concern were held to have violated some minor local sanitary provision . But the most important question is not whether the responsibility for the decision to deny Government defense contracts to alleged Wagner act vio , lators is mainly Mr. Jackson 's , or the Defense Commission 's , or the President 's . What is most important is that the policy itself , whoever is responsible for it , is not only one for which there exists no legal necessity , but one that could do irreparable injury to the national defense program . The Wagner Labor Relations Act is an ambiguous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes been administered with shocking bias . But even if none of these things were true about the law or its administration , it would still remain true that like any other law it can be enforced by its own appropriate penalties and on its own merits . The Administration 's policy is simply an attempt , without any authorization from Congress , to pile still further penalties for violation on top of the penalties provided by Congress in the Wagner act itself . And on whom would these further penalties really fall ? It is a symptom of how profoundly the Administration has failed to understand the nature of the industrial process that it has apparently not raised and certainly not answered this question . To deny a concern Government contracts on the grounc. : that it has done an injury to some of its workers is to do those same workers a much greater injury by removing the source of their jobs . The great corporations , incidentally , pay immensely larger total sums to their workers than they do to their stockholders . But far more important , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whom are held by the Labor Board to have violated the Wagner Labor Act , would be to retard and imperil the ; whole defense program . The truth is that ' the Administration 's whole labor policy is in need of re-examination and drastic revision . It has needed this in any case , but the armament program has now made it imperative . The Walsh-Healey act , for example , directly regulates the labor conditions of all concerns that receive Government contracts . It does this by insisting on wage and hour standards that are higher than those applied to other concerns . Under the Wage-Hour Law , for example , a steel concern need merely pay a minimum wage of 30 cents an hour , but wider the Walsh-Healey act it must pay a minimum wage of 621 , cents an hour , or 108 per cent more . In other words , the Government applies one set of labor standards to workers in general , but a much higher set to workers in concerns getting Government contracts . There is no sense or justice in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to encumber the defense program in red tape and needlessly to restrict the number of bidders .                     