@@705007

txt CITY WINS RESPITE : first Night 's All-Clear in Week Sounds , but Attackers Return NAZIS ' BOAST BELIED Roar of Guns and New Balloon Curtain Show Defense Is Firm By RAYMOND DANIELL Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMER LONDON , Sunday , Sept. 15 ? Airraid alarms sounded in London early today after German raiders had been driven off twice between nightfall yesterday and midnight . It was the first time since the intensive night bombing of the - capital began a week ago that the " all clear " signal had sounded before daybreak , although the . raiders came back at 1:16 A. M. , remaining for two hours and eleven minutes before the final all-clear sounded . For the first time in a week , Big Ben tolled midnight with skies over London free from Nazi raiders . They had been gone for hours . Still expecting their return , most of this weary city stayed underground to make the most of the possibilities of rest that the week-end offered . Despite the fact that London 's sirens remained mute long after midnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distant explosions in the skies in what appeared to be a determined effort to prevent more German planes from crossing over the capital . Four Daylight Raids Four earlier daylight raids , in some of which bombs were dropped , had likewise been repelled . The longest had lasted from before teatime until after the cocktail hour . This delayed homegoing commuters and was accompanied by heavy attacks upon various towns and cities in the provinces . Despite Reich Marshal Hermann Goering 's recent assertion that London 's defenses had been almost silenced , the din heard by residents of this city indicated the contrary to be true . The defiant bark of anti-aircraft fire , the dull booming of artillery and the rapid fire of machine guns were heard more frequently than the terrifying whistle and earthshaking blast of Nazi bombs . The pyrotechnics of London 's starlit , moonlit skies and the reassuring defiance of defending guns are cheering for the people , who are learning to sleep in underground shelters and pay no attention to warnings or all-clear signals until they have had a night 's sleep . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear , " they hustle home to shave or make up their faces and return to their jobs in homes , offices or factories . Civilians in London are adapting themselves to the necessities of total war as the soldiers of the last war during the long deadlock on the Western Front grew accustomed to rats , cooties and mud . New Defenses Developed It is axiomatic that new weapons develop new defenses . The Germans ' use of poison gas in the last war was the necessity that mothered the invention of the gas mask now carried by every man , woman and child in this country . It is reliably reported here that Reich citizens are not so well provided because of Germany 's shortage of rubber , which is held here to explain the failure of this weapon to follow up the air force 's attempt to pulverize London by means of incendiary and explosive bombs . Although words connoting retaliation still are in disfavor here , the bombs that landed close to the Brandenburger Gate in Berlin not far from Chancellor Hitler 's residence in the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influences rather than incitements to new outbreaks of frightfulness . At the same time , the increased strength of London 's gun power is not the only form of improvement in this capital 's defenses . Old weapons have been put to new uses , and the balloon barrage , which the Germans first sneered at and then adopted for themselves , has been // LONDON DEFENSES REPEL NAZI RAIDE // improved . These snares for raiders seeking the protection of the darkness of night and covering clouds now fly higher and their cables conceal surprises that have already brought one German plane crashing to earth . Just as Admiralty experts worked out the degaussing device for rendering ships immune to the menace of the magnetic mine Britain 's scientists have developed a method now for minimizing the paralyzing effects of the delayed-action bombs , which , once they have been planted by enemy planes , have forced the evacuation of homes , factories and office buildings for blocks around for days until they have exploded or have been written off as duds . There are five of these projectiles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul 's Cathedral . Everything considered , there is an upswing of morale among the people of London . This has resulted directly from the more audible defenses , the diminished wreckage in Central London and the acclimatization of the people to the new way of life necessitated by the recurrent raids . It is true that there is a deep crater before the Bank of England , that windows in the law courts have been shattered , that churches and the district headquarters of the American Ambulance unit at Tunbridge Wells have been damaged , and that other parts of London look like the cities of Belgium after the last bombardment . But still life goes on . Whole Streets Roped Off Here and there a house has been burned down and the ruins are surrounded by sad-faced , black-eyed buildings with broken windows , Occasionally a whole street is roped off while men trundle wheelbarrows of stone and gravel to fill up the bomb holes . Now and then one comes across a downtown section where the buildings ' facades have been scarred by bomb splinters , but except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack last Saturday and Sunday night , before London 's defenses reached the present state of perfection , the capital presents an almost normal appearance until dusk . Then the traffic diminishes and millions begin to plod their way home or to their favorite shelters . The development of the system that Prime Minister Winston Churchill sanctioned in his last speech , in which a general air raid warning merely serves to notify the people that they must be on the alert for the warning of imminent danger by roof-top watchers , is cutting down the loss of industrial production that had been caused by repeated raids , sometimes by lone enemy planes . Now , not every one runs to shelter when the sirens sound . Far from it . Most factory workers have remained at their tools and machines until the enemy planes were spotted through glasses by the roof-top lookouts , who then sound the building alarm . An idea of what this means may be gained by the timetable of yesterday 's daylight raid , which follows : The first warning after the all clear at daybreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9:42 . Again at 11:04 the warning sounded . Forty minutes later the sirens told that the raiders had been driven off . The next alarm sounded at 3:50 P. M. and lasted until 5:07 . From 6:19 until 7:14 the " flap " was on . The fifth alarm sounded at 7:49 P. M. At 9:01 , which was the time at which the raiders had come over the previous night , the all clear sounded . The sixth alarm was sent out at 9:39 and was called off at 9:52 . This is the third time that night raiders have been driven off by London 's defenders , There seems to be indication that the improvement of London 's anti-aircraft barrage , which shoots up a flaming fence of steel at varying altitudes , without the benefit of searchlight , against the waves of a small formation of German bombers , is causing some second guessing by the directors of the Blitzkrieg across the Channel . Since the barrage improved , London has had longer daylight raids of greater nuisance value to the Nazis , but there have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , to the opening tactics of hurling large mass formation bombers against London during the daylight hours , and the ratio of enemy fighters to the flying battering rams of this machine age are a refinement as the siege warfare tends to increase . Invasion Threat Seen The threat of attempted invasion continues to hang over Britain , but the defenders are ready for anything that the German land and air farces may send . Britain has her sea power and the greatest army that has ever been concentrated to defend the homeland . These defenders are itching to see what the Nazis would do if confronted by another Dunkerque. this time in what might be called reverse English . Expert opinion here tends to agree with Mr. Churchill 's view that " Der Tag , " if it is coming at all in this year 1940 , is at hand . Some quarters here regarded reports from Berlin that the Germans questioned the necessity of an invasion for the conclusion of the war as a warning signal that the invasion was coming . Others , equally well informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wiihelmstrasse had decided was inexpedient . In any case , the weather conditions off Dover at present are slightly less favorable for the success of any such desperate Nazi throw of the dice than they have been for many weeks past . A stiff southwesterly breeze has sprung up , ruffling the surface of the sea , and a mist has formed a thin gray veil over the far-away French coast . When Parliament reconvenes this week it is expected that Mr. Churchill will make a statement removing the lid from much of the hush-hush stuff , which , could it be got by the censor , would tend to restore the confidence of Britain 's friends that in this war , as in all others , it is the last battle that counts and that this one now raging incessantly miles high over London is not going to be lost , or if it is , that it is not going to be the finish as long as there is one Dominion beyond the seas . flights over London preceding the last week of all-night onslaughts . In last evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Catholic church in a London district and killed and injured an unannounced number of persons sheltered there . The bomb fell just outside the church and went straight through the ground into the crypt . The church was not damaged  --  even the windows were not broken . Some persons were killed by an explosive bomb dropped by a lone raider on a Midlands town . Coast Defenses LONDON , Sept. 14 ( 21 ' ) ? Yesterday 's three daylight attacks seemed to be intended principally to feel out the state of the English coastal defenses  --  a significant detail in the light of the declaration of neutral military observers that this week-end would be one of " intense danger to invasion . " The government took steps to free telephone and telegraph communications  --  vital in any military emergency  --  from as much of the civilian load as was possible . It asked the public to confine their use to urgent messages . London casualty lists are posted each day in town and borough halls , but the press it not permitted to publish them . Through Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured at 4,810 . Few Bombs Hit London LONDON , Sept. 14 ( UP ) ? Heavy waves of German planes battled over London tonight , but only a few bombs had fallen on the city itself up to midevening , although some of the largest formations of German bombers and fighters yet seen by the central part of the capital zoomed across the sky at high altitudes . Spectators believed that never before had so many British pursuit craft been seen in action over the city . The Germans attempted to switch their course to dodge the fighters who were awaiting them in the clouds at a great altitude , but the manoeuvre failed . The British fighters hit the raiders from two directions at the same time . They had patrolled over the Thames estuary approach to London all afternoon , the customary route of German planes for attacks on the city . They cruised at varying altitudes , maintaining a constant watch for attacking planes . At one time during the dog fight over London an observer high over the city counted at least sixty-one planes swerving and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a height of about 8,000 feet and quickly passed out of sight . Attack Lightest in Week LONDON , Sunday , Sept. 15 ( .1 " r ? This morning 's air raid by a few German planes shuttling over the capital was the lightest in more than a week . Only odd bombs were dropped , and the raid appeared similar to the " insomnia "                     