@@710853

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. ** important contributions were made in Washington today toward order and clarity in carrying out the foreign aid policy and attacking the domestic problems to which it is intimately related . The contributions were bipartisan . The President made one . The other was furnished by his statutory successor in event of a White House vacandy  --  the Republican Speaker , Mr. Martin . In his announcement on Oct. 23 that he had summoned Congress to meet Nov. 17 in extra session , the President stated " two compelling reasons "  --  the upward surge of prices in the United States and stop-gap relief this winter for Western Europe . But he mentioned prices first . And by some this was taken to mean that he wanted Congress to defer consideration of the stop-gap aid until it had passed on his anti-inflation program . Order Brought Anxiety It was plain , and Senator Taft at once ? made it plainer , that whatever program Mr. Truman proposed would invoke a partisan and economic struggle that might imperil emergency foreign relief of carry it over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President stated his " compelling reasons " brought anxiety to Europe and to those in the United States who consider its immediate relief paramount . Today at his press conference Mr. Truman relieved the anxiety by saying that he wanted the stop-gap program to be the first order of business . He added the irrefutable statement that domestic prices must be restrained to make sure that dollars voted by Congress to buy specific quantities of food and fuel over a period will be sufficient to buy them . But - he thought this control could safely await the allocation of dollars , and Congress in all likelihood will be governed by the order of business desired by the President . Speaker Martin 's contribution was an opinion with good sense and a show of official responsibility on the part of a majority leader in Congress . It was designed not only to clear the track for stop-gap relief as soon as the special session assembles but also to maintain order in the consideration of &monde; domestic problems . Martin Would Defer Tax Bill ' The chairman ? of the Ways and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention to introduce a bill for individual tax reduction on the day Congress meets , and the impression was that he would press for action in the extra session . Mr. Martin himself , when he reached Washington yesterday , predicted that income taxes would be reduced in 1948 , despite a Presidential veto , and said this would be considered separately before proposals for general revision of the tax structure But today he made clear what was not yesterday  --  that he opposes any consideration of taxes in the extra session . This improves the prospect that it will be confined to stop-gap European relief and such progress on the President 's anti-inflation program as it can make if freed of the acute complications of a debate on tax reduction . The House Steering Committee is not likely to go against the wishes of the Speaker , and the Senate can not because the Constitution requires that revenue legislation must originate in the House . Limit to Rope With these clouds apparently brushes away , the sun of hope that the special session will make a good start on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expressed that adequate stop-gap aid in time is now a certainty ; that there is a fair chance . the less controversial proposals of the President to halt inflation will be adopted ; and that real progress will be made on first-year credits for the European Recovery Plant- But the second and third problems are deeply entangled in partisan politics and sincere differences of opinion as to methods and measures . Therefore the wise obsrver will not hope for too much and will be content for the moment with the help to sound and appropriate action which was given today by the President and the Speaker . A Lost Opportunity When Mr. Truman issued his extra session statement , many members of the press intended to question him on the point he clarified today . They were surprised that anti-inflation was given priority in his statement of reasons for calling a session which had been urged on him for stop-gap aid only . But some one in the room burst out With the " Thank you , Mr. President " that invariably signals the end of a press conference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioners could move to prolong the meeting . If this had not happened , Mr. Truman might have anticipated and disposed of the anxiety caused by the form of his statement . He might have explained that a report from his economic advisers , showing an alarming upsurge of prices in the previous month , had persuaded him he must in ; : lude anti-inflationary legislation in ps call , and added what he said today . After . the Oct. g3 meeting both Senators Barkley and Connally expressed .... ertainty that the President wanted Jongress to . consider stop-gap relief Is its first business . But not until Mr. Cruman confirmed it , two weeks later , lid it become official .                     