@@710469

txt Abroad Act II in the Liberation of - Europe By ANNE O'HARE McCORMICK On the page opposite the text of the address of the Secretary of State at aarvard there appeared in this paper yesterday a picture of children playing in what 's left of an invasion barge on Omaha Beach . This three-years-after I view of the landing place of the American troops in Normandy was not intended to be an illustration of General Marshall 's speech . Yet by a process of association it was . Children are playing today where shells were whistling and American boys were dying three years ago . People from the ravaged towns near by are sunning themselves on the sands that looked so exposed and desolate to the shivering soldiers who stepped out of those barges under withering fire from the cliffs above and started from there on the great venture that won the war . The former Chief of Staff was the man who had most to do with planning the expedition for the liberation of Europe . As he made his grave survey of its present state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the problems of statesmen , he must have looked back at the scenes and thoughts that filled his mind on D-Day . On Omaha Beach the drive began that led straight through the hedges , down the Red Ball highways , across the bridgeless rivers , past the green dragen 's teeth of the Siegfried Line , to the meeting of the Western and Eastern armies over the carcass of Berlin . - By way of a thousand battles , lonely battles for the most part , in streets and farmyards and mined ditches , it led to the line that divides them into hostile camps before they have organized their common victory . Saved From Nazi Domination Nevertheless , that picture of peace on the beachhead , regarded as a backdrop for Secretary Marshall 's words , is a reminder of two pertinent facts . One , almost forgotten in the sense of frustration and exasperation enveloping the West , is that every European country has been saved from Nazi domination . The world would have had to face that result , and its long consequences , if the invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been still at war or defeated . Despite the treaties rushed through the Senate because nobody wanted to talk about them , there is no peace for the countries involved , nor can there be peace for anyone until there is peace for all . But neither is there war . The polftical and economic contest spreading like a malignant growth between East and West , and particularly between this country and the Soviet Union , is a danger , of course . Tensions , recriminations , deadlocks , campaigns of hate , stir up uneasiness everywhere . The hate campaign now focuses on the United States . Mr : Rakosi , Communist boss in Hungary , whose venom against this country was apparent even when he was trying to hide it , brags about his coup as if its main object was to " put something over " on America . This is perilous enough . And no one can forget that millions of people in this dreadful interim are enduring sufferings worse than war . A vast reservoir of agony , want and bitterness is poisoning the body of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A disturbing report brought out of Russia by several- reliable observers is that many of the demobilized soldiers complain that war , when they were well fed , well clothed and on the move , is better than peace . Better Than Shooting War But the bombs are n't falling , the boys are n't dying on distant battlefields , the big guns are quiet . At its worst , the present form of conflict is better than shooting war . It has the immense advantage , moreover , that it need not degenerate into military combat . Surely there is restraint , horse sense , self-interest and courage enough in great governments to avoid a catastrophe that everybody dreads and everybody is unprepared for . To warn Russia not to go too far lest she provoke war is certainly the leitmotif of the Truman Doctrine , and if Russia seems to be hurrying to gain absolute control of Eastern Europe , this may indicate that she is setting limits to her sphere in anticipation of the organization of the West . It is just possible , in other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the present moves represent a stand rather than an advance . The other fact is that the rescue expedition launched in Normandy was to deliver not one country but all of Europe . The rendezvous the Western Armies kept with the Red Army in Berlin was the climax of a two-fronted campaign to break German domination . Now the Secretary proposes a program broader than one of supporting feeble governments - here and there to resist what has happened to Hungary . " Our policy , " he said , " is directed not against any , government or doctrine but against hunger , poverty , desperation and chaos . " The outline of a policy to save Europe as a whole , with the cooperation of Europe , is beginning to take shape ; " there must be some agreement among the countries of Europe as to the requirements of the situation and the part these countries themselves will take in order to give proper effect to whatever action might be taken by this Government . " The governments ' of Western Europe are challenged to set up at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of wisdom on our part . The question , highlighted by the comments of London and Paris , is whether Europe  --  meaning for the present , alas , the nations of the West  --  will have wisdom . enough to take the initiative and work out with us another campaign of liberatina.                     