@@704578

txt The first definite step in negotiations toward a possible northern defense alliance was ' seen today In the arrival here of C. J. Hambro , President of the Norwegian Storting . Observers expressed belief that Mr. Hambro would establish his first contacts with Swedish political leaders on the question of whether such an alliance would be feasible . These sources said military staff conversations would follow to consider important changes in Scan- 1 dinavian defense policy which would be involved . In Oslo , Norwegian s'orelgn Minister Halvdan Koht today issued a statement in which he emphasized that Norway so far has pledged itself to nothing beyond a willingness to discuss the possibility of a pact . No Draft Prepared " So far as I know there exists at present no draft or detailed working out of plans , " Mr. Koht said . " I can , however , well appreciate the different conditions which may make it desirable to take the program up for earnest consideration . " The Foreign Minister denied that the matter was " aired before the Finnish delegation went to Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducted earlier about this question ? that is , during the Finnish-Russian war  --  the Norwegian Government has not participated in such negotiations . " Reservations Expected Opposition is voiced to any alliance or definite commitment binding Sweden and Norway to give Finland direct military ' aid , but some form of precautionary action generally is expected . In both Sweden and Norway anxiety is felt that Finland might within a few months face a problem like that of Czechoslovakia , bringing a potential Russian threat to the borders of the northern kingdoms . With Finland 's attitude clear-cut regarding the desire for a pact , the burden of the decision appeared to rest in Stockholm and Oslo , with a formal conference regarded probable in the near future . The main question today seemed to be : Will the three countries simply Ignore or can they circumvent Article Three of the Russian-Finnish Peace Treaty with its prohibition of alliances directed against either contracting party ? Clarification Sought Unconfirmed reports circulated that Sweden had asked Moscow for clarification of certain points of the Treaty , especially the provisions for Russian transport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-power alliance would eliminate any difficulties in the path of future outside help to Finland . There Is a growing belief here that Swedish fears that Germany would object to a northern defense alliance  --  which may have been an important factor in the past  --  no longer apply . Informed quarters believed Germany now would object only if the alliance could be regarded as a camouflaged move by the Western  --  Powers .                     