@@709759

txt President Truman switched vacation plans because of the weather today and headed the yacht Williamsburg southward instead of toward the Maine coast . Charles G. Ross , presidential press secretary . radiotelephoned reporters aboard the accompanying destroyer escort Weiss that the party is heading in a southerly direction with no fixed destination . " The ship , he said , will not anchor tonight . Original plans called for a trip up to Eastport , Maine . Said Mr. ROES : At the moment it 's a sort of journey into nowhere . It 's just a vacation and the President can frolic around in the Atlantic if he wants to . Warm Waters Beckon " The boss. - Mr. Ross added . " decided last night to go into warm waters . " The ship was berthed last night at the Quonset Point , R. L. Naval Air Station . and rer.orters were told then that the Williamsburg would head into the Cape Cod area . The President , taking his usual two-mile stroll before this : morning 's departure , made no reference to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gangplank at 6:15 a. in . ( E. D. T. ) Mr. Ross was asked if the President 's decision meant that the trip up the Maine coast had been abandoned . ' Where To ? ? No Know The whole thing , he said , has been " tentative from the beginning " and " the President has a right to change his mind . " " He wants to go into warm waters , " Mr. Ross said . - He likes warmth . " Reporters aboard the Weiss sought in vain to know where they were heading . " It 's only an idea . " Mr. Ross said , " just a vague idea . As soon as it is less vague we 'll let you know . The President changed his mind  --  it 's that kind of vacation : ' On his before-breakfast walk at the Training Station this morning . the President was accompanied by Capt . James H. Foskett. his naval aide , and Clark Gifford . his special counsel . White Shoes- 120 Paces Mr. Truman wore his new , especially designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the costume as they shivered in the breeze and a 59-degree temperature . Laughing off this idea , the President said he would walk fast enough to keep warm . He stepped off at his regular speed of 120 paces a minute . Apparently it was his intention to steer the vacation yacht clear of the headlines . He volunteered no news . He dodged provocative questions . His intention , he made clear to reporters , is to rest , relax , and recuperate from the strain of 16 months in the White House .                     