@@708593

txt Governor Dewey has now vetoed the bills which would have permitted students from medical schools which the American Medical Association rates as " substandard " to take the State examination for license to practice medicine in the State of New York . In his veto message the Governor made two serious errors . First , he assumed in his statement that the Department of Education is in the hands of the elected representatives of the people of the State . This is not correct because the Department of Education is in the hands of the American Medical Association . The second error which the Governor made was that he assumed ' that the signing of this bill would lower the standards of the medical profession . After all , the bill does not give these students a license ; it merely permits them to take an examination to decide whether or not they should receive the license , and that is a very different thing . Opportunity Held Missed The Governor has overlooked an opportunity to take a very important step in the interest of public health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strike a real blow in favor of tolerance and opportunity for ails people , regardless of race , creed or color . What the Governor does not realize is that many of the so-called substandard medical colleges are substandard because the American Medical Association refuses to help them raise their standards . There is. for example , in the State of Massachusetts a medical school which is l  --  ated as substandard because it does not have connections with a hospital . Yet when the institution attempts to secure a connection with a hospital , the American Medical Association prevents this . The real objection to this institution in particular is that it has 80 per cent Jewish students , and this does not accord with the quota of 312 per cent which the American Medical Association has set for Jews throughout the country in the medical profession . One is inclined to wonder who gave the American Medical Association the right to decide that a man might join the medical profession in accordance with having , or not having , the " right " grandmother or grandfather . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is being practiced by the American Medical Association . If the American Medical Association has the right to decide that only 312 per cent of the doctors in this country may be Jews , then it equally has the right to apportion to each race or religion a certain percentage of the medical profession . Where does this leave the colored people ? An entirely separate quota ? All this totalitarianism on the part of the American Medical Association overlooks the only reason for the existence of the medical profession , and that is the health and welfare of the people of this country . Scarcity of Doctors Stressed Governor Dewey would have been quite exercised if he had been told that the number of doctors from the State of Michigan would be limited in the future . Yet he has taken an action which certainly limits the number of doctors who may practice in the State of New York within the next few years . The problem which the people of this country face today , and will face for the next ten years , is not a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a question of whether whole communities are going to have doctors at all . So as to bring the matter home to the State of which Mr. Dewey is Governor , if the A. M. A. 's plan of limiting Jewish doctors works out , then the State of New York will have 31/2 per cent Jewish doctors in a State in which the proportion of its population is already 28 per cent . Every citizen knows the difficulties of getting medical attention . Doctors are overworked to the point where many of them will break down if the strain continues . The needs of the returned service men and the many veterans ' hospitals will take doctors out of private practice , and the A. M. A. is doing nothing about this increased demand . It seems strange that 1,000 boys who graduated from this sb-called substandard medical college are now reputable practicing physicians in the State of Massachusetts . It is equally interesting that thirty-five out of thirtyeight of the boys who are now studying at the college passed the Army and Navy examinations for commissions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's criticism as to the type of men who come ' from these " substandard " medical col. leges with an unr.nswerable finality . It certainly will be an unforgettable memory for all admirers of our late great President to hear his friendly voice at home  --  again and again  --  as he himself said in his last campaign speech . The net profit of the sale of these records should go to his beloved fund for the victims of infantile paralysis , as a living memorial for Franklin D. Roosevelt . ERIC G. HAGEN , New York , April 29 , 1945 . More Child Guidance Asked Strong Social Service Staff Advocated to Aid Community Agencies TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We were very much interested in the account , reported in THE NEW YORK TIMES on April 27 , of the proposal of a committee of assistant superintendents of the Board of Education that the old parental school for truants , discontinued ten years ago , be re-established by the board . Our concern with this proposal stems from our daily work with children and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin to evidence signs of truancy and other forms of difficult behavior . Whether or not another special school is opened is of subsidiary importance to the main need of providing in much more adequate measure throughout the school system the skills that are required to reach a real understanding of the base of each individual child 's problem and to provide the necessary professional treatment . To this end a strong and well-trained social service staff and access to psychiatric consultation as needed are fundamental requirements , without which neither a special nor a regular school is suitably equipped to deal with the children who appear as problems . The Bureau of Child Guidance of the Board of Education is doing a fine job , but even when its units are increased to eighteen next winter , it will be able to give individual attention to all too limited a. number of youngsters who should have that kind of study and treatment . The schools need much more of this excellent service . A strong social service staff throughout the school system , working in a liaison role with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , the children and their families , a wealth of community resources existing in this city of which the schools now avail themselves only in small part . Such a plan of appointing , particularly in those schools where problems are rife , a social work consultant to work with the staff of the school in spotting early the children with problems and referring them to just the right agency , clearly is the place to begin . This would put the emphasis where it belongs  --  upon the recognition of maladjustments in their beginning stages , when , with skilled help , the necessary preventive steps can be taken with much greater promise of success than in the more advanced stages . At the hour of Germany 's defeat it should be remembered that the Fatherland went to its doom because it had been deaf to the prophetic warnings of its greatest poets , Goethe , Heine and Nietzsche . Goethe had warned his nation against political union ; lie had , in the interest of culture , asked his countrymen not to rely upon power and politics but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century later , when the Germans , in disregard of Goethe 's warning , had founded their " Reich , " frankly denied them any future : " Die Deutschen haben keine Zukunft , " he wrote in " Nietzsche Contra Wagner . " But the most elaborate vision of this future was uttered by Heinrich Heine in " Deutschland : ein Wintermaerchen , " Chapter XXVI , which should delight all those who are not frightened off by the truly Aristophanic manner of this most gifted and most un-German son of the Muses . Our organization , comprising 10,000 American-born citizens and citizens of Italian extraction and all other origins , wishes to express its concern about the covetous claims laid at Moscow by Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia to Trieste and all of Istria . Recognition of such . claim by the United Nations would be tantamount to the sowing of new seeds for future strife between twat peoples now fighting a common enemy , and more wars in Europe . In the interest of democratic Italy , America and western civilization we appeal to your sense of justice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity of Italy . President Franklin D. Roosevelt built an unforgettable monument himself by his wonderful fireside chats and campaign speeches . Millions were eager to listen to this born phonogenetic orator and to his speeches , so full of wisdom , humor and farsighted ' philosophy , combined with an extraordinary art of timing and careful diction . All these speeches have been recorded by our great broadcasting stations and often repeated from those records . I think it a timely suggestion that these records , as historical monuments , should be made available to the public and be sold by our recording companies at a moderate price .                     