@@707337

txt News streamed over the ramparts of the home front today from five different directions . A panoramic view of activity in the Capital gave this nicture . Fathers ' Draft : The effort of Senator Burton K. Wheeler ( D ) of Montana to prevent the Army and Navy from drafting fathers laces nothing but defeat . His bill to stop the Oct. 1 draft ca n't muster more than 20 votes , possibly less , but the Montana Senator is determined to force a showdown vote and has refused proposals for a " face-saving " recommittal of the bill to committee . Debate will open Sept. 28 and Senator Wheeler himself is scheduled to talk most of the next day , two days before the induction of fathers is due to start , A substitute for the Wheeler bill already is being drafted by Senator Josiah W. Bailey ( D ) of North Carolina . His proposed alternative , which , however , would deal with only a minute part of the military manpower problem , would seek to hustle into the armed services every physically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occupational deferments of all military-age nonfathers in the Federal employ unless their indispensability were absolutely proved . To fill the jobs of physically fit bachelors and childless husbands holding Government positions , Mr. Bailey 's measure would provide for replacements by qualified fathers . Survey Board : In a move emphasizing how fully the Allies are taking the offensive on every fighting front , President Roosevelt has appointed a new Army-Navy production survey committee to make sure that all the nation 's manpower and productive power is used for the procurement of offensive weapons . This step is announced by James F. Byrnes , Director of the Office of Tar Mobilization , and Mr. Byrnes cited the cancellation of contracts for some of the construction and development work in the Caribbean bases as an illustration of the shift from defensive to offensive emphasis . As explained by Mr. Byrnes at a press conference , the duty of the new committee will be to recommend shifts in procurement from things no longer needed to things needed now and for the future . He indicated that the present military picture  --  with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had eliminated the need for as many bases as originally planned in the first dark days after the attack on Pearl Harbor . Military officials " no longer believe there is a danger " of invasion of this country , he also declared in connection with his illustration of how procurement was to be brought into better balance  --  and manpower , materials , and money saved . Mr. Roosevelt explained that he had " critical shortages in material and manpower " in mind in establishing the new survey committee , which will be composed of two Army and two Navy officters of high ranks who have no present responsibility for the establishment of current procurement programs . Manpower : The War Manpower Commission and the Selective Service Administration are joining forces to make a nation-wide investigation of specific complaints of labor wastage , overmanning of war plants , and discrimination in the granting of draft deferments . Examples of these complaints were read to Bernard M. Baruch , principal adviser to Mr. Byrnes , when he testified on the bill earlier this week . He promised that they would all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that a joint survey already was under way . Diplomacy : President Roosevelt is expected to make an appointment soon to replace Sumner Welles , Underseretary of State , whose resignation , now five or six weeks old , has not yet been acted upon . Reports today were that Lewis W. Douglas , First Director of the Budget under the New Deal , a supporter of Wendell L. Winkle in 1940 and currently Deputy War Shipping Administrator , is being advanced for the Welles post . Peace Policy : Whatever the reason , Senator Tom Connally ( D ) of Texas is determined that his Senate Foreign Relations Committee should not appgar to be hurried by the House passage of the Fulbright resolution into action . Senator Connally let it be known that the Committee has no present intention to take the House declaration or any similar ' resolution to the floor of the Senate in the immediate future . Senator Connally believes in waiting . He wants to wait to see what comes of the projected tripartite conference between Moscow , London , and Washington . He wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a two-thirds vote . He wants to wait to find out what will be the tone and temper of the debate . ... " It is not the desire of the Committee on Foreign Relations . " he said . " to invoke ill-considered debate in the Senate with regard to subjects of vital interest to our Allies and which might produce irritations or vexations at a critical period in the prosecution of the war . " Senator Connally suggested that the considerations would include not only the United States ' point of view , but the plans and aspirations of other United Nations . He remarked : " On Aug. 6. in a nation-wide broadcast . I said : ' The United States can not alone provide a pattern of international peace machinery and impose it upon the will of its allies . The United Nations must be consulted and issues involved in the war must be considered . ' That statement still stands . " My own view is that any international peace machinery must have the support and co-operation not alone of the United States but of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . " The great nations that are shedding their blood and expending their treasure in fighting this terrible war must act in harmony and unity in bringing about , first , a crushing victory , and then , peace and the preservation of that peace through appropriate instrumentalities and agencies . The matter of the most superlative importance at the moment is the winning of the war . " The Committee on Foreign Relations does not desire at this particular moment to afford opportunity for intemperate and troublemaking debate on the floor of the Senate . It is known to all well-informed men that the utmost freedom of debate is permitted under the Senate rules . " It is lurther known that Senators do not hesitate to avail themselves of that unlimited freedom . International relations are delicate and sensitive . Unity and harmony require consultation and co-operation . We can not perform the Iasi ; alone . " Senator Connally emphasized again that in. his judgment , an international peace agency should be established , and that it should be empowered to invoke economic and military and naval sanctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                