@@708592

txt Korea has been under ruthless Japanese oppression for the last four decarres . And yet she never has lost her hope and faith in her eventual freedom . She has not submitted to her subjector . She has given no comfort to her enemy , but has been resisting him in every possible way . Thus Korea has determined to live , and live in freedom . When the three great statesmen , our late President Roosevelt , Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek and Prime Minister Churchill , solemnly pledged at Cairo that " Korea shall become free and independent , " Koreans everywhere felt that at last their grievance had been redressed and their hope for the realization of their struggle for freedom had dawned . Strange as it may seem , but recently some of the experts , analysts , observers and doubting Thomases of international affairs have begun to " worry " over the future well-being of Korea . They minimize Korean ability for self-government , predicting the possibility of Russian domination of Korea , and finally claiming that there might be a secret agreement at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea as the price of Soviet denunciation of the nonaggression pact with Japan . Furthermore , some observe that even if such a price or secrecy exists , the American people would not disapprove . This sort of statement certainly dampens the spirit , hope and courage of the Korean people , who ' have been fighting for the objective for which the United Nations are spending millions of their men . This is not all . It makes other small nations suspicious of the intentions of the great powers . It also gives comfort to our enemy and gives him ammunition for his propaganda . Find Own Solutions It should he remembered that under the domination or dictate of a great power no small nation can rule itself . In the case of Korea it would be best for the interest of Korea and her neighbors to leave her alone to solve her own problems . After the last war Bolshevik Russia not only emerged from the chaos of her revolution but became one of the world 's great powers . There is no valid reason for presuming Russia would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural resources , sparsely populated . Will she want more land ? There is : no Russian population in Korea . Nor has Korea committed any overt act against her great neighbor . If the U.S.S.R. feels that it must dominate Korea for security reasons , how would her great neighbor China feel about it ? The Japanese militarists used to say that Korea is a dagger pointing at the heart of Japan , but when they got it they stabbed China . If Russia can not protect herself without Korea , she can not protect herself with Korea . Korea has been a bone of contention in the international power politics of East Asia . Are they proposing to revive the old system of imperialism , aggrandizement and spheres of influence ? Are we willing to repeat the present global tragedy a generation hence ? America will honorably fulfill this obligation . For reasons of strategy  --  for the maintenance of peace in East Asia ? Korea must be free and independent In this America is directly affected . Every day for thirty years I have read THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , each morning I read a NEW YORK TIMES editorial page , lovingly sent by my wife , who sees to it that I never miss one . I have always considered this my most enlightening and productive reading , but now I have my doubts . Never have I witnessed such shocking and wanton use of editorial space , such misuse of editorial prerogatives and such utter abandon of editorial scruples , as when I read in your editorial of April 3 the dissertation on " Clam Chowder . " My dear fellow ! Do you not realize that you were describing an insipid dish concocted by a few people who sought use for an excess supply of milk  --  a dish served by a paltry few innocuous tearooms on the Boston Post Road ? Whole milk , indeed ! Ask Cavanagh 's cook , ask Keene 's , dig up Mori 's recipe and Hahn 's and Beefsteak John 's ? ask Oscar ! Better still , go to the Campbell Soup Company and ask them why they adopted the recipe they use . Ten chances to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pork fat ! As early as 1906 I sat in restaurants at Coney Island eating clam chowder and spilling some of it on my shirt front because my eyes were on the flickers that came free with every dish of chowder . They had a perforated movie screen in those days  --  perforated so that a phonograph could be played abaft the screen while the film showed a gal ostensibly singing the number . And that was long before the people in New England even realized that you could heat milk without curdling it ! Clam chowder , my friend of the na ? ve pen ( and I employ no qualifying adjective such as " genuine , " for there is only clam chowder ) , contains no milk and none of your pork fat either ! And no flour ! A good , clear stock , a delectable blend of vegetables , including tomatoes and diced potatoes , plenty of clam juice and medium size pieces of clams , with a sprinkling of thyme , the sine qua non , and you have clam chowder . And by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is nutmeg ? The news in this morning 's paper of the death of Edith Elmer Wood awakens old memories in the hearts of those who have been active in the movement for better housing . Dr. Wood was a pioneer and her outstanding service must not be forgotten . A quarter of a century ago , when slums and disgraceful housing conditions were accepted with indifference by 99 per cent of the population , Dr. Wood fought almost single-handed to bring the disgraceful conditions to the attention of Government , press and public . She was no mere enthusiastic zealot . It was her unique contribution to marshal facts and figures so as to show the cost of bad housing in crime , delinquency , infant mortality and warped human lives . Those of us who sat at her feet can never forget the courage and determination of this fragile little woman whose slight frame was so strange an embodiment of an indomitable spirit . The one-minute silence at the opening of the San Francisco Conference was probably the best opportunity for each one of the delegates to pray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never answer the need of everyone present , but a silent one seems most fitting at a time when the spirit in which this conference is held is most important . May silence he respected as a tremendous power to unite " men of good-will . " Yes , they will say that Russia wants a warm-water port . This too is quite illogical . Compared with western Russia , Siberia is a wilderness . Why should Russia haul her goods over long , costly Transsiberian railways and use Korean ports while there are many near-by ice-free ports ? Furthermore , Russia could use ports in any part of the world under reciprocal arrangements or freetrade agreements . Russia 's best interest lies not in domination but in friendly relations with Korea , and Korea would maintain a good-neighbor policy toward all . Therefore it is more rea ; 3nable to expect that Russia will be wise enough to help her small neighbor and not dominate it . If Russia is worthy of membership in the United Nations family , we should respect her statesmanship instead of suspecting it . Suspicion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pawning of Korea , and if this expert observation is an accurate gauge of American ' opinion ? if the American people still are willing to sanction the selling out of small nations to the great , the setting up of spheres of influence without regard to the wishes or desires of the people of the little countries  --  then all we have fought for in this war is lost , and all the billions of dollars and millions of lives have been expended vainly . If we are fighting this war for such a purpose , what price victory ! We do not , and we refuse to , believe the great champion of the common man and freedom , the late President Roosevelt , would have renounced his solemn pledge and betrayed the principle for which he fought . How could he ? We revere him too much even to imagine it . We also refuse to believe the American people would approve such an act of treachery against human decency . We know the American people are too great and too decent even to entertain such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a secrecy exists and the American people approve of it , who again will trust America , which has been the hope of the oppressed peoples ? It will be an appeasement of the worst kind . We can only expect a world bright red with blood ! Must Korea again be crucified to foster another human carnage ? In his first message to Congress President Truman said , " The responsibility of the great states is to serve and not dominate the peoples of the world . "                     