@@705384

txt The enactment of the lease-lend bill is looked upon as the likely occasion for any major changes in our defense organization , because of the new powers that the bill gives the President and the necessity for putting these powers immediately to use . One step was taken last week in the announcement of the appointment of a Production Planning Board . It will remain for the future to make clear the exact role that this board is to play . The announcement asserts that it will " advise as to industrial planning , " which seems like doing now what ought to have been done at least nine months ago when the new defense program was launched . But one cause for encouragement is the hint that the new board will study afresh the Industrial Mobilization Plan . This plan is still the most comprehensive and promising on its subject that has been put forward , though it has long been gathering dust in a Washington pigeonhole . The moves that the Administration has made to date toward defense orgs nization have fallen far short of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sound military organization requires : 1 . There is needed a general Defense Planning Commission . Such a board is needed to advise the President on questions of " grand strategy , " which would include diplomatic and economic as well as military measures in the narrow sense . The commission could advise the President on such questions as what hemisphere defense means in military terms ; what portion of the defense dollar could most profitably go for airplanes , what for ships , tanks , men , subsidizing other nations and so on . Such a body should consist not only of the best brains in the Army and Navy but in the State , Treasury and other departments , and might include eminent civilians chosen for experience , ability and breadth of vision .. This board should exist not to execute or to act , but to investigate , to study , to think and to serve as a funnel for the study and thought of other experts . It should , in other words , be purely advisory . We still lack such a body , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Next is needed an organization to stimulate the production of and procure the war supplies that the Defense Planning Commission finds necessary . We have an organization to do this in the OPM and the Defense Advisory Commission . But this organization ought not to be a commission or a board except to the extent necessary to insure coordination of activities . Production and procurement should be centralized under a single head with full authority . Other individuals , though subordinate to that head , might also be granted full authority and a free hand , except to the extent necessary to insure coordination . For example , as Mark S. Watson has pointed out in The Balti more Sun , after nine months of the defense program there is literally no one in high authority whose exclusive concern is with aircraft production , though this is the most critical of all our military needs . This situation is the more remarkable in. that it is in complete contrast with the situation in Great Britain , where Lord Beaverbrook has attained amazing success as the undisputed czar of aircraft production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made and supplies secured , there is needed organization to insure coordination of all arms of the military service , both in preparedness and in the conduct of a campaign . It is to be hoped that the defense reorganization which the President is now reported to be contemplating will meet these vital requirements .                     