@@706260

txt A pretty girl was shot to death late yesterday afternoon as she sat watching a movie thriller in the Palace theater at 159 West Randolph street . Her slayer and companion ? a young man dressed in gray  --  melted away in the darkness of the theater , and disappeared just before police arrived to block all exits . For nearly 12 hours the mystery of the sensational crime , which sent dozens of movie patrons scurrying from their seats , was complicated by the lack of identification of the victim . Not until shortly before 3 o'clock this morning was she identified . She was Miss Dorothy Broz , 17 years old , of 2124 Scoville avenue , Berwyn , daughter of Frank J. Broz , well known as a real estate dealer and community leader in the western suburbs . Miss Broz was once named the " All-American girl " at the J. Sterling Morton High school in Cicero , which she attended . Police Seek Berwyn Youth . Immediately with the identification , police speeded squads out on a search for a young man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on several occasions . His name was not revealed , but it was learned his home also is in Berwyn . He was sought for questioning . Miss Broz 's body was identified at the county morgue by her uncle , Emil J. Broz , 1919 AUport street , an assis ? tant corporation counsel , who acted in place of her parents , who were pros . ! rated . Altho they knew of the shooting from newspapers and radios , they did not suspect the victim was their daughter until after midnight when she failed to return home . This fact , plus a description of her clothing . confirmed tragic suspicions , and they asked Attorney Broz to view the body . Considered a Home Girl . The lawyer was met at the county morgue by Coroner A. L. Brodie and his police Investigators , Sergts. 011ie Harwoski and Francis Donohue . After taking a brief statement front Broz , the coroner asked police to apprehend ' the Berwyn youth . According to Broz , his niece VMS considered strictly a home girl with a wide circle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no enemies who might have wanted to kill her . This description deepened the police conviction that the apparently motiveless murder was the result of an impetus puppy love affair , with a mixture of jealousy added . Slaying Was Melodramatic . The slaying was executed in melodramatic fashion  --  in a theater on Chicago 's gay Rialto , within sight of many of the hundreds of patrons while a mystery movie , " Sealed Lips , " was unfolding in light and shadow on the distant screen . Up In the balcony , where sweethearts usually sit , sat Miss Broz and the young man who soon was to kill her . They were almost alone . Here and there were little islands of other spectators . A few minutes before they had laughed hilariously at the mad comedy " Hellzapoppin ' , " which closed with a roar and a bang . Now they were grim eyed at the mystery drama . Suddenly a shrill , frightened cry echoed thru the theater . The time was 4:27 p , m . The cry came from the balcony . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Brew Little Attention . The plea and the warning came from Miss Broz . Only a few of the balcony spectators turned . The cry was reminiscent of the noisy comedy just ended . But those who turned saw Miss Broz leap from her seat . Then they heard a shot . Then they saw Miss Broz collapsed in the aisle , and the grayish figure of a young man standing above her and to one side . In his hand he held a revolver . That much they could make out in the dim light . In another second he had passed upstairs to the nearest exit , then turned north , and down a main stairway . Pursuer Starts Too Late . Thomas Bresnahan , 6408 SoutI Seeley avenue , a sales manager , and his wife , Louise . recovered from their shock to pursue the killer . but . the few seconds ' start he had frustrated them . An alarm was sounded . Theater attaches called truffle police front Rnndoph and La Salle streets . They stood guard at the doors . Within . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene and completed the bar . ricade . However , , the killer had flown . For hours , until closing time , police remained on guard , watching all de ? parting patrons and searching for any one answering the slayer 's description . This search lasted until nearly I a. m . After the theater had closed all lights were turned on and a seat to seat search was made for the gun or other telltale dews . None was found . Dressed in Gray Suit . The best description of the slayer was given by the Bresnahans , who were sitting 25 feet from him and his attractive victim . They said he was young , and dressed in a light gray suit without hat or overcoat . Police voiced some criticism of the theater management for not immediately halting the show and turning on the lights so that the killer , it he were still in the theater , might have been captured . Even while police were in the theater ' investigating , patrons continued to purchase tickets and enter , many of them  --  like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real life tragedy which had just taken place . It was established that Miss Broz arrived at the theater at 1 ; 48 p. m . Ticket Taker George . Hatley and Usher Joseph Stauder said they believed that she was with another girl . Two ticket stubs were found in Miss Broz 's purse. , indicating that she had a companion . Other theater employes recalled having seen her at the theater almost daily during the last two weeks , often accompanied by a young man .                     