@@705586

txt The Federal government is going into the aluminum manufacturing business . Final decision has been reached and arrangements are being made to invest $300 million in a manufacturing program designed to produce 500 million pounds of aluminum annually . The government 's direct investment in this field was decided upon after a survey of potential requirements and sources of supply for the metal Officials said that from 11-2 billion to 1.800,000,000 pounds of aluminum will be needed in each year of the defense program to meet all military requirements , including an expanded airplane production program . Ways and means of solving the supply problem have been under consideration for several weeks but the final decision to put the government into the business came just a few days ago , it was learned . Authority to engage in this type of enterprise is found in the law passed by Congress last year giving the Reconstruction Finance Corp . the right to acquire , construct and operate plants for producing essential defense materials . A special subsidiary . Defense Plant Corp. , was later created for that purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to operate the proposed plant on a lease contract basis The arrangement is somewhat similar to that employed by the War Department in setting up ordnance plants which arc government-owned but are privately-operated Presumably . Reynolds will lease the plant at a nominal figure , say $1 a year , and receive supply contracts to furnish for the total output , making delivery to companies needing aluminum in the production of defense materials . Actual production will not begin for lb months or two years , officials estimate . The plant possibly will be located in the Pacific Northwest where Columbia River power can be utilized . Power expansion will be undertaken at the same time that the aluminum-producing facilities are being built . In order to produce 11- , billion pounds of aluminum annually , it is estimated , total new power requirements will he around 600,000 kilowatts over present expansion plans . No Further Manufacturing Plans There are no plans for extending the government 's manufacturing activities beyond those now contemplated for aluminum , according to officials in the production division of the Office of Production Management . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing business even on a limited basis could not be made , say , for steel , officials explain They insist that there has been a little talk of the government going into the manufacture of steel but that such a move could not be Justified at this time . Entry into the aluminum field as a plant owner is justified by officials on the grounds that the industry " needs competition " among other things . Until the defense program came along , Aluminum Co of America was practically the . sole producer in the United States Since then , Reynolds Metals Co. , whose activities were limited to the fabricating end , has gone into the business as a full-line producer from ore conversion to the finished product .                     