@@710171

txt A hand-picked panel of pet-finders is working hard to make the 80th Congress the best-informed in history . When Senators and Representatives cry information , Please , " it 's the job of the legialative Reference Service to pop up with in answer . This division of the Library of Congress is handling legislators ' queries at Ale rats of 33,000 a year . That 's double the &umber; it got last session , and more than 3142 limes the activity in 1940 . The calls for help are increasing every reek . " Not only are we getting more queries . " says Dr. Ernest S. Griffith. the Mrvice 's director , " but we 're getting more Important ones . " Reports currently supplied by Dr. Griffith 's staff range all the way from an analysis of how to manage the public debt to the effect of the atomic bomb on navies of the future . A midwestern Congressman wants a ' survey of Communism in the State DepartMerit : an eastern Senator must have a sumhiary of food shipments to Britain . No Voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reference Service can do practically any Congressional chore except casting votes or kissing constituents ' babies . Besides answering specific calls for information , research and analysis , the staff does translations , issues a daily sumMary of all public hearings in Washington . writes abstracts of important books , compiles bibliographies , and even drafts bills and resolutions . A consultant service is becoming increasingly popular . Dr. Griffith describes its opPration as a means of " straightening out new Congressmen on old issues , or old Congressmen on new questions . " Suppose an unusually candid legislator Mlle up the Library with the admission , " Fm tll confused about reciprocal tariffs . Send X meone over to talk to me . " Promptly , the .11 . S. tariff ' expert visits the Congressman 's Mace. tench for one , - tw6. - or ' three - Itotars4 presents all sides of the question , suggests reading references and answers questions . Leave Him Guessing " The ideal of our specialists . " Dr. Griffith remarks , " is to talk to a Congressman for a couple of hours and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . " Three reasons account for the boom in L.R.S. business : Congressmen are gaining aonfidence in the reference staff ; the Congressional Reorganization Act passed at the last session dramatized the division 's duties and brought it to the attention of people who had n't heard about it before ; and , finally , the political shift on Capitol Hill seems to have Intensified the search for all sorts of facts . " It 's not that Republicans are more inquisitive than Democrats , " an L.R S. factfinder explains . " It 's Just that when the Democrats were the majority party they felt they could get their information directly from the executive agencies . The Republicans are n't quite as trusting . They want any information from ' downtown ' to go through a non-partisan filter . " Contrary to popular Washington opinion , the Legislative Reference Service was not newly created by last session 's Reorganization Act . It dates back to 1915 , when it was set up at the insistence of the elder Robert M. LaFollette chiefly to supply comparative reports on the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did n't attract much Interest until about 1939 . Lately it 's been getting busier and busier . Most of its work until recently , however , has concerned minor queries , lots of legal indexing , and other routine chores with few really important jobs . Cash from Congress - That Congress recognized the need for an expanded Reference Service even before last session is shown by the fact that in 1945 the Congressional Library 's appropriation  --  for this purpose was increased by 850.000 and an expansion of its activities was authorized . The legislative Reorganization Act did these things for the Service : It spelled out its exact functions , increased salary scales , and authorized the appointment of " senior specialists . " Under the act , the Service was given full responsibility for research and information for individual members of Congress and was detailed joint responsibilty with Congressional committee staffs for committee research . Funds were doubled , to a total of 1425,000 for fiscal 1947 , and $650,000 for 1948 . The backbone of the L.R.S. is its chain of " senior specialists , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one expert for each major field of interest  --  international relations , labor , money and banking , taxation and fiscal policy , congressional organization , etc.  --  and In his field he 's the panel 's ultimate authority . There are twelve such specialists at present . Offers have been made to three others , and there may be as many as 20 full-time specialists when the Service gets its full appropriation . Dr. Griffith. a former Rhodes scholar and university professor who is considered a middle-of-the-roader in his economic thinking , makes the assignments to the experts and edits the material they turn in . His aim is to present as impartial a report as possible . all sides of an issue are presented . Recommendations are n't made unless the questioner specifically asks for them . A Growing Staff The complete staff of L.R.S. , including clerical help , numbers about 150 , of whom some 100 are professional workers . This group will be expanded eventually to about 225 , with a higher proportion of trained experts . Hiring the specialists is quite a task Legally . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . But Dr. Griffith first likes to make sure the candidate will be accepted as being non-partisan and impartial , and he does considerable checking on qualifications . Dr. Griffith 's latest headache has been in trying to find a housing expert who 'll be acceptable both to public housing partisans and to the real estate interests . He thinks he 's hit on the perfect choice ? Dr. Ernest Fisher of Columbia University . Dr. Fisher spent six years as director of research for the Federal Housing Administration , then several years directing research for the American Bankers ' Association . With that background , Dr. Griffith thinks , this housing expert is pretty firmly on the fence . Typical of the new functions of the Service is the task of boiling down committee hearings for Congressmen , so they wo n't have to wade through the mounds of testimony . The staff is proud of a recent condensation of Pearl Harbor testimony from 4,500 pages to 12 One Senate committee thinks so highly of this service that it is negotiating with Dr. Griffith for his staff to abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Senate Foreign Affairs and Senate Judiciary  --  are also arranging for the L R.S. expert in their fields to sit in at committee sessions , answer questions , and block out the committee 's research needs . Senator% Ask More Questions Last year . Senators were a little more in- he made an oration . The next day , the Sere:ise supplied information for another legislator to answer the speech . The staff 's favorite query . up to now . was the request for a poem to celebrate the birth of triplets . An eNtensi%e search of existing literature proved fruitless , so a member of the reference staff was appointed to Write one . The poem duly found its way into the pages of the Congressional Record . The opening line read , " Hail Thrice-Blessed Morn .. . " 