@@706352

txt When the Price Control Law was being debated last year Administration spokesmen argued strongly for selective control rather than an over-all ceiling on all prices . But it was clear then that no price regulation could be effective if wages and farm prices were left uncontrolled . It was also clear that price control by itself could only hope to do part of the job . The more important part would have to be accomplished by fiscal policies , chiefly by taxes designed to siphon off a large part of the excess consumer purchasing power being created by Government war spending . Now there has suddenly sprung up in Washington much talk of the need for " freezing " all prices , wholesale and retail . There is talk of freezing everything  --  prices , profits and ( sotto voce ) wages . In ' explanation of this change of view it is explained that selective price control is not succeeding in preventing general price inflation . Judging by the price indexes of the Bureau of Labor Statistics this seems to be the case . The weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadily advancing to the highest levels since 1928 . It is up 30 per cent since the war started and 19 per cent in the past twelve months . The daily index of twenty-eight basic commodities g up more than 67 per cent since August , 1939 , and still climbing . Evidently inflation is not being checked . But a closer examination of the figures is illuminating . Taking the broad wholesale index , we find that , in contrast to the rise of 19 per cent in all items in the past year , farm products have gone up more than 41 per cent . Against this , the index of all commodities other than farm products and foods is up less than 12 per cent . Of the twenty-eight basic commodities in the daily index twenty are under Government regulation , while eight are uncontrolled . The price rise in the uncontrolled items has been 25 per cent greater than that in the controlled items . Yet every one of these uncontrolled items is a farm product . Many of them are in large surplus . The price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is up 133 per cent , while the price of silk is up only 19 per cent . If selective price control has failed it is because the selection has been cravenly political . The Office of Price Administration has clamped down ceilings on many products , with astonishing success in preventing price rises throughout the whole field of manufactured products . But it has been stopped by Congress from touching farm products . Instead , farm products , even those of which we have a burdensome surplus , have been spurred on to ex ' travagant advances by a Congress completely ? ubservient to the inflationist farm bloc . A similar situation prevails with respect to wages , although here the Administration , rather than Congress , is the chief offender . It has been acknowledged repeatedly that it is impossible to hold down prices when one of the major elements of cost  --  wage rates  --  remains free to rise . Yet that has been the course attempted . While the prices of all commodities other than farm and food products was rising 12 per cent , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the average weekly earnings in all manufacturing industries combined rose 27 per cent from January , 1941 , to January , 1942 . It is hard to escape the conclusion that all this talk about freezing prices and freezing profits is brought about by the lack of . nlitical courage to tackle the two vital elements of farm prices and wages except under the cloak of a blanket ceiling on everything . It is hard also to escape the belief that there would be far less danger of inflation and far less need of further price . controls if the Administration had acted promptly and decisively to secure a tax bill that would mop up some of the increased consumer income now forcing up prices . For want of adequate fiscal measures and for want of straightforward courage to put reasonable restraints upon two important factors of inflation that are running away  --  farm prices and wages  --  it is now proposed to penalize , and perhaps paralyze , the entire business system of the country by " freezing everything . " If Congress and the Administration can not bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceilings on everything that course may become necessary . But it should be clearly understood that the reasons are not economic ; they are political .                     