@@707123

txt The helicopter is aviation 's bird of paradox . It has defied gravity and pessimists ; its potentialities are enormous ; but it is not doing a lot of things the public thinks it is . Demand for it already has reached ahead into the post-war world , but the helicopter 's actual engineering advancement is n't much farther along than the airplane before World War I. The Army , the Navy , the air lines and the public all want it . but It 's still experimental . However , the helicopter is a reality , and certain fundamental facts about present models are available . Igor Sikorsky. designer of successful helicopters already ' flown and ordered by the Army for quantity output . started work on his model in 1909 . The best estimates place its lifting power at about 12 pounds per h p. , a fairly favorable comparison with the regular airplane . Vertical ascent , strangely enough . has not been the major problem  --  the difficult thing has been to devise the controls which will vary the pitch and action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but two blades may be practicable ) to permit forward . sidewise and backward as well as vertical motion . Controls Are Far Advanced These controls have been far advanced in the Sikorsky models , and so far as is known no other American or British manufacturer has made as much progress . There are several other designers in the field and the Army has given some experimental orders also , but the Sikorsky Division of United Aircraft appears to be definitely in the lead . The limitations of the helicopter are its relatively short range , limited lifting power and comparatively low speeds . Igor Sikorsky believes that helicopter " buses " after the war will be capable of transporting 12 to 20 people , and that its traveling range will be greater than that of an automobile starting out with . a full gasoline tank , although-not approaching the 2,000-mile-plus transport plane figure . Mr. Sikorsky also envisions multi-engined helicopters . designed for safety ; if.one engine dies the other will keep the rotor turning ; the dead one would go into a sort of harmless free-wheeling . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Probably six or eight miles per gallon can be obtained in flight , and with speeds up to 140 miles an hour possible , the civilian or commercial airline user will find it fairly cheap to run . Engine prices should come down as quantity production is achieved , and it is hoped that the machine will come within the pocketbook range of a large percentage of the populace . How a Helicopter Works The helicopter is supported entirely by its big over-head rotor , which in itself is a limiting factor . Heavy weights can be carried only by larger rotor surfaces , and when the blades are expanded to a certain length , their speed at the tips is apt to approach the speed of sound , a critical point which ca n't be controlled by present-day engineering . The forward motion of the machine itself further augments this speed . In other words , if the machine moved ahead at 300 miles per hour . the rotor would have to be slowed down to prevent the tips moving at much more than 300 miles an hour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be approached . The Sikorsky helicopter has been watihed in flight by many observers in the East . As distinguished from the autogiro , which relies on a normal propeller in the nose of the craft for its ability to move forward , the helicopter has a three-bladed two blades have been experimented with ) overhead rotor for both vertical and horizontal flight . Variations of pitch in the rotor. coupled with changes in engine power . permit movement in any direction or complete immobility in the air . A small propeller in the tail of the ship compensate . " for the torque , or twisting motion . imparted by the large rotor . The autogiro. on the other hand , has its overhead rotor revolving free , with no connection with the engine : It requires a certain amount of forward movement to land or take off . When the helicopter 's engine is shut off , it is disconnected from the rotor , which then revolves freely , sustaining the machine in the same way as in an autogiro . The military aspect , which is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in detail . A number of the machines arc on order . It is believed the Army will get quite a few this year . Engine horsepower still is comparatively low ( Sikorsky 's familiar successful model used only 90 h.p. ) . but engineers of the Sikorsky Division of United Aircraft Corp . are trying to incorporate larger power plants . Designs currently are for oneseater machines , but with larger engines , presumably larger loads will be carried . The Navy Is Interested The United States Navy is much interested in using helicopters for anti-submarine warfare . At least one Navy official has been quoted as saying such machines were actually in service , but Navy public relations headquarters later conceded that there are none flying with the fleets . The British have been reported to be using them , but the highest authorities here insist that the British have none either . and in fact , have shown some interest in obtaining American models . With full-scale production on Army orders not yet achieved , the Navy may have a little while to wait before a practical service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be increased to carry adequate depth charges or other armament , and big rotors would be unwieldy aboard modern-sized ships . But these problems are under study by the engineers of Sikorsky and other manufacturers . One Sikorsky model has been flown to Wright Field at Dayton from Bridgeport , andback , and the Army , it is presumed , is proceeding with this type of two-place craft . Just before the war , Congress appropriated funds for developing rotary wing flying craft ( helicopters and autogiros ) , and it was decided that the Army take over this development . This explains why the Navy has n't any to date . Among other manufacturers working on the helicopter are two or three in the East . one on the West Coast , and Henry Kaiser . Kaiser is a late entry in the field , and experience of his engineers would appear to be considerably behind that of Sikorsky and some of the others . The airplane industry is wondering how he expects to get into production soon on something which long-experienced designers and engineers have only brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helicopter is so great that people have sent in money to United Aircraft to be first on the list when they become available . Air lines have applied . for helicopter routes , and enthusiastic plans arc being made everywhere for using the machines , which can be flown from backyards , roofs , or any small cleared space . Igor Sikorsky , probably the greatest living authority on the subject , believes that after the war thousands of them will be made , and the price will be brought within reach of most citizens .                     