@@706831

txt It was inevitable that the extent of the Republican victories in the elections should put new courage into the forces in Congress that have been seeking revision of the labor laws . But already there are signs that many Congressmen in their zeal to correct faults in existing legislation will go to at least equally dangerous extremes . Already we find Senator O'Daniel of Texas asking complete suspension of the Wage-Hour Law and talking glibly of a seventy-two-hour week , while Congressman Rankin of Mississippi demands also the complete repeal of the Wagner act , and tells us that in urging the removal of " the Communist crackpots in key positions " he is speaking for " the white Anglo-Saxons of the South . " Such extremists can do as much to discredit the movement for the reform of the existing labor laws as many New Dealers , defending excessively short war hours and every dictatorial power by union leaders as a " social gain . " did to discredit really necessary labor protection . If an extreme bill is now rushed through the House , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration would see that it was smothered to death in Senatorial committee , like the Smith bill , passed a few days before Pearl Harbor , or the President would veto the final measure . Meanwhile an acrimonious discussion , ending in deadlock , would divert the country 's attention from the imperative necessity of winning the war and delay or imperil measures essential to that purpose . The labor problem , therefore , must be considered not only from the economic but from the political aspect . Let us take the economic aspect first . Our present labor laws are ill-adapted even to times of peace . The main effect of war is to clarify and enormously to increase the amount of harm they do . This newspaper has long called attention to the many labor reforms that are desirable . Some of these , in total war , become imperative . It is desirable to suspend the fortyhour provisions of the Wage-Hour Act , so that overtime rates do not become legally obligatory until forty-eight hours . It is desirable to remove legal protection from innumerable " makework @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to force the employment of unnecessary workers . It is desirable to end the immunity of union labor from the anti-trust and anticonspiracy laws that apply to every one else . It is desirable to revise the Wagner act , to balance its present onesidedness . It is desirable to insure responsibility and democratic control in the unions that employers are legally forced to recognize . It is desirable to forbid exclusions from union membership by excessive initiation fees or other unreasonable entrance requirements . One could go on listing the changes that are desirable on purely economic grounds . But we must keep in mind that no reform of this kind can be achieved unless it is accepted by the Administration . We must keep in mind the need for averting a senseless struggle between embittered extremists . This means that the present situation calls for the highest statesmanship both on the part of Congress and of the Presi dent . The essence of this statesmanship will be the spirit of compromise on both sides . In applying this spirit of compromise two specific measures suggest themselves . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee to frame a minimum program of labor law reform . This must include a lengthening of the present basic working week , and the removal of encumbrances to the most efficient use of our limited labor force . This measure will call for the spirit of compromise on the part of the President and his advisers . The second measure should be an agreement , written into the law , that whatever changes are now made in the labor laws are to ' apply only for the duration of the war . The latter provision is one of the compromises that those Congressmen must make who are eager to reform the present labor laws permanently . Such a provision would remove the misgivings of those who fear that the war emergency would be exploited to make permanent changes in the labor laws that may not be desirable in times of peace . An automatic termination of this sort would do nothing more than leave open the question concerning which reforms adopted now would be reimposed after the war . It would merely force Congress to reconsider the whole question in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our labor legislation now we must act to meet the conditions imposed by war .                     