@@711493

txt Taking no chances , despite ample current supply of food and other necessities , Mayor O'Dwyer reactivated yesterday his Board of Planning and Operations to handle whatever emergencies might arise from the truck strike . The board , a standby body created to act in emergencies or disasters , set up at Police Headquarters a liaison committee of representatives of nine city departments as the/work stoppage went into its second day . The strike impeded manufacturing and merchandising operations in some other industries , and business men said some costs were being ' increased by use of substitute shipping . Housewives and consumers , however , felt no ill effects yet , and a combination of circumstances made it unlikely that the general public would be inconvenienced for at least ten days ? if the strike should continue that long . Shoppers found milk , meat , fresh vegetables and fruits , anddicatmed and packaged food in plenty at all stores . Commissioner Eugene G. Schulz of the Department of Markets said there was no danger of a food shortage . Mayor O'Dwyer said he would receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representatives of the city departments on the emergency committee . As soon as a bad situation threatens , whether in public health , price gouging , supplies for hospitals or some other field , the combined resources of all city departments will be used to remedy it . The possibility that some food chain stores might close after ten days was mentioned by an official of one of the major chains . Most of the chain stores received no deliveries yesterday other than milk and bread . The milk company trucks are not affected by the strike nor are those of baking companies , which increased their sales to chain stores . The ovens of the A. &; P. food stores and H. C. Bohack Company remained cold yesterday because there was no way of taking bread from their own bakeries to the retail stores . Both companies increased their orders from baking companies not involved in the strike . ? The Department . of Hospitals used city trucks to pick up 120,000 loaves of bread offered by the A. &; P. . stores to the city . The bread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bakery . Chain Store Well Stocked Chain stores are well stocked with all staples , including meat , and will not shut until they run out of most of the items in daily demand , a store official said . Independent food siores , as yet unaffected , could carry on indefinitely unless the strike were to spread to union locals that are at present not a part of it . The men who truck fresh produce to market and those who bring meat to the wholesale district here are not on strike . The truckers of canned goods ' are on strike , but most stores have Several weeks ' supply of this type of food on the premises . Milk company executives said ' they were worried over their dwindling stocks of paper containers . The containers were piling up at the Brooklyn plant of the Amer-1 ican Can Company , which continued production although no deliveries had been made since Tuesday afternoon . The Milk Dealers Association of Metropolitan New York and the Milk Plandlers and Processors Association warned , in a joint statement , that delivery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today , unless arrangements were made to get the paper containers from the factory to the milk plants . Spokesmen for individual companies said , however , that there were enough glass bottles to make up for the . paper container shortage until next week . By that time , they said , they hoped delivery of containers would be permitted as " essential " even if the strike continued . Milk Bottle Returns Urged . Milk companies asked housewives to return all empty bottles promptly to stores or route salesmen . An official of the American Can Company said that 10,000,000 quart-size paper containers were delivered each week to milk plants in this city , and 5,000,000 containers of other sizes . While the effects of the truckmen 's walkout were most noticeable in the garment center and at the chain store warehouses , manufacturers of a variety of prbducts sought substitute Shipping facilities . A sharp increase in the amount of freight sent by air was reported at La Guardia Field . Some of the airlines reported freight shipments of 40 to 60 per cent above normal . Others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in and out of the garment district despite the strike . Dress manufacturers said that at the present stage they were not so much hard hit as worried about what might happen to their operations next week if the strike continued . The impact fell heaviest on the packaging agencies that normally pick up small parcels from many manufacturers and then consolidate into larger packages , for shipment bi air or air express , those from different origins intended for the same out-of-town stores . Such combination shipments represent a saving in charges to the manufacturers . The largest of such services , the National Packing Company of 327 West Thirty-sixth Street normally handles about 16,000 parcels a day . Edgar A. Loebl , vice president , said yesterday : " We are closed . " According to Mr. Loebl , the National and other packaging companies are continuing to - pay salaries to workers made idle by the truckers ' stoppage . Whether there would be lay-offs depended on how long the strike would last , he said . Dress Industry in Good Shape The manufacturers situation was expressed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manufacturers Group , which does more farming ' Out of work to other areas than perhaps any other branch of the garment industry and is therefore More dependent on trucking . " We 've not been affected to any great extent at the moment , " Mr. Rubin said . " Stuff is coming in . We 're not shut down . It seems our trucks are clearing to an extent . We 're not f ? ' Mg any hardship yet . But if the dispute is n't settled by the middle of next week- , it will be a different matter . " Businessmen , iho suffered hardship in the trucking strike of 1946 pointed out that their troubles did not become eprious until that strike , which ? lasted . fifty-eight days , had gone - on for a week or two . Although some garment manufacturers , deprived of the services of the packaging services , brought I their parcels yesterday direct to the Railway Express Agency receiving stations , a spokesman for the Agency said it was handling only normal shipments . E. W. Hull , general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day that there was " a substantial increase " in the Agency 's business , declared later that it was no more than normal . The strike had little immediate effect on steamship business , but navigation officials said the industry would be seriously handicapped if the truck strike lasted another week . Vessels that sailed yesterday had most of their cargo aboard before the strike was called . Incoming vessels deposited their cargoes on piers , where they will remain until the strike is over . Shipping men expected that the Association.of American Railroads would ease its embargo on freight for the New York metropolitan area for those railroads that will move the freight by lighter when it reaches this port . The railroad freight embargo , which permits many exceptions , caused no serious curtailment here yesterday . Many of the shipments that arrived had been under way when the embargo was declared : There was no congestion at any railroad terminal . William Mapel , vice chairman of the Publishers Association of New York City , said that newspaper plants had on hand from nine to fourteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been impossible yesterday to get in touch with union leaders to see if they would permit trucking . of newsprint as an essential . Meanwhile , said Mr. Mapel , he was in hourly touch with the Mayor 's office . The most alarming note sounded so far in the strike came from the Commerce and Industry Association of New York , which warned that 1,800,000 workers in this city 's industries would be , p.ffected if the trucking strike developed into the proportions of two years ago . " Aside from the trucking and warehousing group , employing 32 , - 306 workers , and water transportation , with 21,217 , there are twenty-five other general classifications facing lay-offs and shut-downs because of ! ack of raw materials and the inability to transport finished merchandise , " said Thomas J. Miley , executive vice president . Mayor O'Dwyer directed Commissioner Schulz to make sure that retailers di not take advantage of the strike by increasing prices . Mr. Schulz said a spot check of 300 food stores showed no gouging . Edward A. Hausman , executive ' secretary of t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that the wholesale price of lettuce had risen . ,  - -  ernight from $6 a crate to $7.50 and plums had gone up from $2.50 to $3.25 a crate . Mr. Hausman said the increase was not due to the strike . " They always do that before a holiday week-end , " he said . Principal issues in. the truck strike arg called by the union " self- ' defense ' dernands , " ? - such " - as an employer-financed. welfare . plan , standard hospitalization firovisions , pensions , added vacation benefits and seniority . . Wages are also at issue . The strikers say , that the 15-cent-an-hour rise approved by union leaders last Friday inadequate in view of the sharp increase in living costs since the last contract-was negotiated two . years ago . Present-wages for a forty-hour week range- from $53.90 for platform risen and helpers to a top of 571.40 for drivers of trailers who bandle - their own - unloading . Overtime is from $2.02 to $2.68 an hour . ' Most of the striking drivers handle five-ton trucks and their pay is $63.90 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and one-half the regular scale and Sunday and holiday work calls for double pay for the first eight hours and double the ? overtime rate for added hours . The striking members of Local 807 , International Brotherhood of Teamsters , are asking now for a 25-cent-an-hour wage increase , a welfare fund of 5 per Cent of an employer 's - payroll , strict observance of seniority in- issuance of preferred equipment and assurance that when a contractor hires outside equipment he still will use his own men and on a seniority basis . Other demands include " signing out " at the same location from which a truckman started , banning the shift of drivers in one day to more than one type of truck and adding a helper on heavy equipment , such as tractors and trailer trucks . Employer representatives previously have refused to agree to any welfare plan .                     