@@706040

txt President Roosevelt told organized labor in general and the United Mine Workers in particular today that " the Government of the United States will not order nor will Congress pass legislation ordering a so-called closed shop . " Talking face to face to John L. Lewis and other spokesmen for the miners ' union , and representatives of the major steel companies about the threatened strike in the companies ' " captive " coal mines , Mr. Roosevelt said : " It is true that by agreement between employers and employes in many plants of various industries the closed shop is now in operation . This is the result of legal collective bargaining , and not of government compulsion on employers or employes . It is also true that 95 per cent or more of the employes in these particular ( " captive " ) mines belong to the United Mine Workers Union . " The government will never compel this ( remaining ) 5 per cent to join the union by a government decree . That would be too much like the Hitler methods toward labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferees , who met in the White House , that coal for steel plants was essential to national defense and that a halt in production would create " a further danger " to America . It was his " indisputable obligation " to see that coal production continued , he declared . Mr. Roosevelt called on the disputants to confer , emphasizing that production must continue , even though the union had set a strike deadline for midnight tomorrow . He asked for " some kind of a report on Monday " and adjourned the conference . Promptly after luncheon the six chief figures from the two sides met at the Wardman Park Hotel and for three and a half hours Mr. Lewis , the mine union president , seconded by Philip Murray , vice president , and Thomas Kennedy , secretary-treasurer , argued in support of their demand for the union shop in the " captive " mines with three men on the opposite side of the table who are to be the final employer arbiters on the question . They were Eugene G. Grace , president of the Bethlehem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Steel Corporation , and Frank Purnell , president of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company . Parleys Will Continue Today At the end of the meeting it was announced that no conclusion had been reached and the conference would resume at 10:30 A. M. tomorrow . Both sides have before them the shadow of possible anti-strike legislation , for the President had stated to them " with absolutely no element of a threat " that if legislation became necessary , Congress would " without any question pass such legislation . " By his positive assertions against the governmentally sponsored closed shop the President took this issue out of the hands of the National Defense Mediation Board , which had stated in its decision refusing to recommend the union shop in the " captive " mines that it might or might not grant the closed - shop in the future despite its disapproval in this case . The President 's statement now forecloses any recommendation of the closed shop by governmental agencies , either the Mediation Board , the Labor Department 's Conciliation Service or any other official labor body . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation tonight . The miners ' policy committee of 200 men is standing by to await the results of the union-company conference tomorrow in order to ratify any recommendation submitted by the union committee . No one could say tonight whether or not the automatic truce in the " captive " mines covering 53,000 men would expire without- union action to defer the effective strike date or whether , by afirmative action , the truce would be extended to another time . Even if Mr. Lewis allows midnight tomorrow to arrive without expressly putting off the cessation of operations it may not necessarily mean a strike on Monday , the first working day after the week-end intervaL For if the conference continues on Sunday and ends with an agreement the " back to work on Monday " order can be prepared and wired out to all locals in time to insure resumption of operations normally on Monday as if nothins , had happened . Today 's eventful developments in the miners ' struggle for the union shop began with a meeting of the policy committee , convened from all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report on the situation . Committee Backs Lewis 's Stand The meeting was addressed by Mr. Lewis and Mr. Murray . Applause and unanimous approval marked by a rising vote followed Mr. Lewis 's summary , and then the group adopted a resolution that it " approves , commends and sustains the position taken and the policies followed by the Presider ' : of the union and his associate officers in all matters heretofore affecting the captive mines dispute . " The policy committee ? also approved the action of Mr. Murray , who is also president of the C. L 0. , and Mr. Kennedy and other C. I. 0 . spokesmen in resigning their membership on the Defense Mediation Board in protest against the board 's ruling . In conclusion the committee directed the executive officers to " continue their efforts to secure a settlement which will conform to the provisions of the Appalachian agreement " Under this agreement , commercial soft coal mines granted a union shop . The union meeting , which began shortly after 10 A. M. , was over at 11 A. M. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the White House , a few blocks from the headquarters of the miners ' union . The steel executives had arrived a little earlier , and promptly at 11:15 the six men were ushered into the President 's study , where he gave them a friendly but grave welcome . Fralf an hour later the union executives filed out . They looked grim . After posing for the newsreels and newspaper photographers they departed saying that the White House would issue a statement . Messrs . Grace , Fairless and Purnell remained longer and left the                     