@@705237

txt Bottlenecks now developing in connection with the defense program may result in curtailment of normal automobile output within the next four or five months , or a few months earlier than had been generally anticipated previously . This is the opinion of a sizable , although by no means unanimous , crosssection of representative industry leaders . Shortage of labor ranging from top executives and supervisory employes down to unskilled factory workers is believed to constitute the most serious threat to normal business . Already the lack of key men to direct administrative and supervisory work in connection with new armament plants has been keenly felt by several companies and this need is expected to become more acute soon . Auto executives here believe that the defense commission shortly will announce a plan for speeding aircraft production and that . in part at least , it will be based on adding to top aircraft personnel by drafting outstanding production men from other industries . Unskilled Worker Shortage Contrary to the widespread belief that a shortage of steel or other materials probably would be the primary influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective at some indefinite future time . recent labor supply surveys indicate that a shortage of unskilled workers might develop first This would be a hurdle that could be overcome only by curtailment of auto manufacture and shifting auto workers into defense plants . To virtually all top men in the auto industry the subject of curtailment  --  either voluntary or involuntary  --  is only a matter of timing . One opinion inclines to the belief that arms production shortly will be placed on a war time basis with all other manufacturing activities ranking as secondary in importance . These executives feel that tha auto industry 's normal operations may be disturbed somesyhat. by late spring or early summer . The other opinion IS that armament work at the earliest will not affect auto output until sometime next fall when the arms plants now being erected in this area are ready to operate at a high level . When that time comes approximately 75,000 men will be needed for armament work alone in this area . Earlier Curtailment At this time , however , the feeling seems to be spreading that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find auto production curtailed somewhat in favor of armament work . Particularly timely is a survey just core pleted by the Michigan Unemployment Compensation Commission which shows how rapidly unemployment in Michigan has been reduced in recent weeks . Applications on file with the Commission for jobs have dropped eto 158.801 as of December 14 from 203.746 on November 5 . This is a decline of 22% in less than six weeks . In Detroit the number of unemployed , as indicated by similar figures , has dropped to 67,623 from 115,92 in the same period . Here the decline is about 42% . In Flint the Commission 's figures show only 5.647 unemployed . in Lansing 5,405 and in Pontiac 9.644 . Surpassing in importance the downtrend of unemployment is a breakdown analysis of the proportion of unemployed workers that would be available for factory work in the unskilled classifications . A case study of 62,000 yob applications in Detroit , classified by primar. , and secondary skills or occupations , age , sex , color . etc. , has shown that only 11,500 adult white applicants have previous factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts plant and immediately ' become productive . This is a ratio of only 18% . Some Negroes might be acceptable and some women might qualify for a limited number of jobs , but it is not believed that the ratio would be increased to more than 25% , even with such additions . A maximum therefore of 15,000 ? o 16,000 workers are available from the unemployment rolls of Detroit for factory employment Small Surplus Available If the 25% ratio is applied to the whole state , the available surplus labor supply would be indicated at only about 40,000 factory workers . Not all unemployed persons , however , either in Detroit or in the state , are signed up with the Commission . Therefore the total official unemployment figure for the state-158.601 men and women  --  is lower than actual . But even it the real figure is measurably higher , the " 25% employable " ratio probably still would hold . The conclusion is inescapable that the surplus labor supply is too small for complacency and that a pinch is inevitable  --  certainly by the latter part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling in Detroit automotive circles ? greatly augmented since Defense Commissioner Knudsen 's speech to the National Association of Manufacturers last week  --  that the industrial phase of the defense program shortly is to be placed on a six or seven day week with three turns daily . While defense work oeing handled by the automotive industry still is in the construction and tooling stages in most instances , it is believed that a " war time " production schedule easily could disrupt the autonipbile industry 's " business as usual " planning in a relatively short time . Supervisory and other executive personnel now working on auto 7 . , Z ( AMCdon could be " drafted " to assist on armament work and eventually skilled , and unskilled auto workers likewise would be drawn into the arms picture . Curtailed In 1941 This is not to say that auto output would be stopped , for nowhere in the industry is there any feeling at this time that such a necessity will arise under present conditions . It may ? and probably will  --  be curtailed sometime in 1941 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting its munitions production will adversely affect profit margins of both primary auto producers and parts suppliers . In considering the potential severity of a labor shortage there arc , of course , some mitigating factors . One is the feasibility of increasing the present 40-hour week to 4S or even 56 hours in an emergency Tinian labor 's position to date has been opposed to such proposals and probably would so continue unless Government intervention of some kind entered the picture . Another factor , the potential importance of which can not be definitely determined , is probably that young men and women from the farms and small towns will be attracted to the factories by the promise of high wages . A third consideration , probably quite important in its bearing on the imminence of an auto labor shortage , is the fact that motor production normally may be expected to hit a slower pace after the year-end . This would increase to some extent the present small surplus of unskilled workers . DETROIT ( r.r ) - The automotive industry will adopt a seven-day work week for national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Factory and Shop production will be pushed " to the limit " to fullfill production chief William S. Knudsen 's plea for " speed and more speed , " automotive leaders said , if the government readjusts contracts to allow for the added costs and if unions permit extensive overtime work . Longer working hours would speed production in lagging machine tool and die shops which are the principal bottlenecks , but the workers themselves must make the decision . Ford It . Lamb executive secretary of the American Society of Tool Engineers , said . Machine Equipment " The machine equipment we have has not been running full capacity but there is no reason it ca n't , " Lamb said . " However , operation of the machines on week-ends would send workers far over their regular hours , and labor has not yet conceded it owes anything to the government . " Lamb said it would be impossible to place the machine tool industry on a 24-hour , threeshift day , seven-day week because of the shortage in skilled mechanics and tool and die makers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Die Manufacturers Association , revealed that a survey just completed showed a majority of 225 tool and die shops in the automotive area were working two 10-hour shifts five days a week . About 70% of their production is for national defense . he said . Few shops operate on three eight-hour shifts , Cahn said , because it involved transfer of workers and more supervision at a time when skilled labor was at a premium . Labor 's Viewpoint CLEVELAND ** R. J. Thomas of the United Automobile Workers ( C10 ) said there was no prohibition in the union 's policies or contract against overtime work in plants engaged in national defense production provided that " two common sense and reasonable stipulations are observed . " Thomas said the union held that there should be " no extreme cases of overtime work until all available workers are absorbed " and that " overtime work , which is particularly fatiguing shall be compensated for by extra Pay . "                     