@@708345

txt Since this hard-hitting and hard-hit outfit captured Samree Jan. 11 and began the downhill journey toward Houffalize , key point of the Nazis ' east-and-west communications in the diminishing German salient , enemy resistance has lessened . But the going still is slow , owing to continuing difficulties due to weather conditions , terrain , and the effects of battling constantly against these as well as the enemy for 10 successive days . It has been an epic endurance feat apart from anything else , for the Germans had everything in their favor . Weather Aids Germans The escape corridor  --  narrowed down to about eight miles at the time of writing  --  was being held open so that crack Nazi armored formations , formerly at the western extremity of the bulge , could be safely passed through to the broader part of the salient farther east . Owing to gray lowering clouds and gray mists rising up from the snow slopes , the Nazis have been able to conduct this withdrawal almost without interference of Allied aircraft or observed artillery fire . ? That has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor visibility . The haze often makes it impossible to see from one side of the valley to the other , and when snow falls , the Youth and Courage Won Belgian Bulge By the Associated Press With U. S. Forces in Belgium , Jan , 15 Youth and courage were the deciding factors in the Battle of the Belgian Bulge ; weapons played a secondary role because of the terrain and the weather . The new German Tiger Royal Monster tanks , which can outshoot any American armor , had few opportunities to prove it . Mountains . chopped the great struggle into a series of small , comparatively isolated actions . situation is more difficult in all respects . These conditions have been advantageous to the Germans , not only because the weather defended them against air attack and bombardment but because the Germans have not had any opposition ahead of them as the ' Americans and British have while trying to make speed under great transportation difficulties against an enemy stubbornly holding onto defense positions . Tank-Crew Difficulties Tank crews have many difficulties to overcome on slippery serpentining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snow conceals hazards ranging from unsuspected hollows to German mines . But when one rides in a tank , // By William 11 . Stringer Stcff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor SUPREME HEADQUARTERS , Allied Expeditionary Force , Jan. 15 ? Germany 's oil produCtion again is under heavy assault , after a comparative lull occasioned by the necessity of sending Allied heavy bombers in direct support of the Ardennes battle area . Simultaneously , Allied Air Forces are extending their bombing of rail bridges behind the German lines , compelling the Wehrmacht to turn more and more to motor transport and thus consume greater quantities of oil . The combination of these twin assaults is believed to be causing Nazi planners of new offensives plenty of concern . The attack yesterday by the 8th Air Force 's Fortresses and Liberators or Reich oil . plants and storage depots was described today as highly successful , Recently it has been estimated that if the strategic Allied air forces could devote two consecutive days of good flying weather to Germany 's oil targets , they could conceivably cut the Reich 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monthly requirements of Germany 's fighting machine . Yesterday was one such day . Germans Sent Up 750 Planes The Luftwaffe itself disclosed the importance of the oil refineries , underground storage tanks , and benzol plants attacked yesterday by sending up some 750 planes in defense of these targets  --  of which the 8th Air Force Fighters destroyed at least 149. the largest score ever for a single day . Meanwhile , RAF bombers con- tinued the assault last nighht by attacking the synthetic oil plant at Magdeburg in " very great strength . " When Field Marshal Gen. Gerd von Rundstedt launched the big offensive for Ardennes , one estimate was that he had sufficient oil stores for three weeks ' fighting . He evidently expected to capture sufficient petrol en route to keep going . He overran some front-line depots , but none of the big strategic reserves . That may explain the finding of more than 50 German tanks on the western tip of the salient abandoned because they were without gasoline . Lieut . Gen. Carl A. Spaatz 's order of day to the 8th Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Allied drive to deprive the Wehrmacht and Luftwaffe of their mobility . General Spaatz compared yesterday 's mission in importance to the 8th Air Force operations against German aircraft plant last Feb. 20 to 25 , which sufficiently damaged fighter factories to give Allied Air Forces their control of the skies on D-Day . " The output of oil products has been reduced to the point where German reserves now are critical , " General Spaatz declared . A long column of German transport was discovered yesterday by the 9th Air Force fighter bombers parked east of St. Vith . When attacked , the trucks failed to explode . They evidently were without gas . This may constitute a new indication of how critically short of oil is the Wehrmacht . Meanwhile the air campaign to blast the Whrmacht off the rail tracks and onto the highways continued vigorously with the 9th Air Force mediums attacking rail bridges crossing the Moselle at Bullay and across to Ahrweiler . The Ahrweiler span carries the only rail line still open from Cologne to the Ardennes battle front . Nine Bridges Knocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately nine bridges , isolating the Germans ' Ardennes front line from rail communication with the rear . It has been observed that Germans are rerouting trains on a roundabout route southward via SaarbrUcken and Mertzig to resupply the front . Now the 9th Air Force bombers are going after rail bridges on this circuitous route . The result is that motor convoys have been sighted between Merzig and Trier as well as between Cologne and Krefeld to the north , The oil offensive constitutes one of the smartest and most damaging campaigns against Germany 's ability to keep fighting and it is a drive which aids the East Front as well as the West Front . one has certain advantages greatly envied by infantrymen . The main thing is one is warm and dry . Also one saves hist legs and is protected against most types of enemy fire .. When these facts are taken into consideration it is realized what a splendid job the doughboys and Tommies are doing in co-operation with armored formations . Each is essential for the success of both . Speed Urgent Infantryman maintenance problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The hardest of them is keeping warm . One ingenious solution I came across was arrived at by fitting a sleeping bag with legs and enjoying its snugness days as well as nights . Although relative comfort is important to the troops , mobility can not be sacrificed in order to achieve it when maximum speed is the urgent consideration . it is in the present Allied counterattack . Since the 2d Armored Division 's tanks and infantry took Samree , these Yanks of the American First Army have kept pressing up to the limit of endurance . Covering of German withdrawal from westerly areas of the salient has been conducted skillfully , not the least of all in use of mines , booby traps and demolitions . Villages we have captured since we went through Samree look like subjects for Christmas cards . But the most unpleasant things are apt to happen if one uncautiously enters any buildings . The picturesque winding streets had ? trees felled across them by the retreating Germans . Mine laying was made . easy by the thick carpet of snow . All the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , put it in a wooden box with the tuning charge and smooth the surface over again . These have been tricky obstacles in wooded areas along the restricted routes from which the 2d Division has been making its way . The enemy has plenty of cover in such regions and men testing , for mines are apt to find them- selves fired on unexpectedly ,                     