@@711430

txt More than 40 American citizens-to-be , most of them young ; blondes , are traveling to their - future homes today after arriving in Boston from Rotterdam aboard The passenger-freighter Edam of the Holland America Line . The Edam disembarked the last - of her 66 passengers at the United States Army Base here late yesterday , then sailed for New York and Philadelphia . Entering the United States - under the Dutch quota  --  none of them refugees or displaced per-sons  --  the immigrants consisted of several families and about 25 children , ranging from toddlers to ' teen agers . All of them are experienced . farmers from northern Holland and they and their families brought their belongings in crates , suitcases , and huge baskets , turning part of the army - base into one of the busiest debarkation scenes to be witnessed . here since the arrival of the big troopers after the war . More than a dozen United States Customs and Immigration officers were ' used to process the travelers , the - procedure being slowed because few of the immigrants could speak much English : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the men explained that they are coming to the United StateS and Can'ada to find " new opportunity on the soil . " There is no chance in Holland for young farmers , they explained as the country is overcroWded , and ' there is not nearly enough land for all the people who must make a living from it . In this country , they will first work on other farms , then try to buy their own places when they have become settled and learn American farming methods . Two of the families were met at the pier by relatives who are taking them to jobs on big New Jersey truck farms . One of these relatives cautioned truck farmers against trying to get these Dutch immigrants to " work for nothidg . " " They are.veteran farmers , " he said . " They do not come here to be itinerant laborers , but to find a permanent home on the land . " According to Capt . Leendert Van der Graaf of the Edam , his vessel is slated to make " immigrant voyages " every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dutch farmers awaiting transportation to the United States and - Canada . The Edam unloaded only 56 tons of wool here , but it was this trifling consignment that ' brought the immigrants to Boston instead of New York , the law requiring them to disembark at the vessel 's first port of call . A rather puzzling commentary on international trade is the fact that the Edam is bringing 2,500 tons of scrap iron  --  none of it excess war materials  --  to Philadelphia . Scrap iron , men on the ship explained , is one of the materials most needed now in Holland itself . Representing the ship here are Patterson , Wylde &; Co. , shipping agents .                     