@@711540

txt Startling evidence of soviet war time spying at the University of Chicago has been compiled by the house unAmerican activities committee and will be made public shortly , THE ? ITIRTINP IpArnpri today An American scientist who worked at the university between 1942 and 1946 on the top secret experiments in chain reaction which led to the development of the atom bomb has given the complete story in lurid detail to the committee . He is Dr. John Hitchcock Chapin of New York City , a physicist transferred to Chicago from Columbia university when the government decided In 1942 to concentrate Rs atom bomb project in the city 's south side university . Dr. C. F. Hiskey , now a professor at a private school in New York City , is a second atomic scientist who worked at the University . of Chicago and whose testimony has been procured by the committee . Slay Center Of World I Chicago was the soy center of the world for a period , acoording to the evidence which has been taken from these and a number of other witnesses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the conspirators . Not more than a dozen individuals of highest government rank , in addition to the scientists actually employed on the project , were supposed to know of the dramatic experiments being conducted under the west stands at Stagg field , the university 's athletic stadium . One of these , the committee learned with amazement born of subsequent developments , was Henry A. Wallace , then Vice President , who was made a member of the hush-hush top policy board dealing with the project at the suggestion of the late President Roosevelt . Reds Laud Wallace The Communist party of the United States is now vigorously supporting Wallace 's campaign for the Presidency and he has been lauded in Moscowt On Dec. 2 , 1942. the first chain reaction in the atomic experiments was produced successfully in a graphite sphere , containing mom than 12 tons of uranium and outer elements , resting on the floor of a squash court under the Stagg field stands . Thus opened the atomic age . It was a development kept from the world at large imtil the first bomb dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But within a few months , from 1943 onward , sone t spies were clustered around the university like bees around horsey . Testimony given the committee by Chapin and others furnished a shocking tale of how these Russian agents procured secrets of the experiments and passed them on to soviet officials . These agents even trocured samples of the atom splitting material for shipment to Moscow . Documents Stolen Documents containing the intri.eate formulas on which the experiments were based were stolen . Dr. Alan Nunn May . the British physicist now serving 10 years in a British prison for espior.age , made three visits to the Argonne laboratory of the " metallurgical " project  --  the innocent scuff d in g mine ' which had been given the atomic bomb project . He was then a scientist accredited by British intelligence . These visits were in January , April . and August , 1944 , and May spent weeks working with the scientists on the protect . He conferred with Lt. Gen. Leslie R. Groves , in charge of the project who reported that May was given general knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate ' an atomic bomb plant , and was In a position to obtain atom splitting material . Poor Security Setup Gen. Groves ' testimony before the committee was an admission c.1 a roar security setup in the project luSted as the " best Rept secoot of the war . " The ? most appalling aspect of the evidence , committee members said , avas the failure of either President Roosevelt or President . Truman to take any action after the facts became known . The Canadian government , which cleaned its own house of spies thy. : a sensational investigation .. repeatedly warned the Arerican government that a counterpart of the Canadian spy ring was operating in the United States and fic ? . nished the names of agents engaged in espionage . The first warning was given in the fall of 1945 , nine months before the Vey expose of the Canadian , Royal commission was published , but Mr. Truman reported that he had every confidence that security precautions in the United States were adequate . Scandalous Tale The evidence to be made public Shortly will establish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceed against the cOnspirators ? it was said . A man of " exceeding political prominence " is reported to he involved in the evidence concerning the shipment of uranium metals to Russia . A number of former federal bureau of investigation agents have given the committee the story of their activities in connection with the spy ring . beginning . io 1943 . It is a scandalous tale of Official suppression of the facts after a bullet proof case had been built up . Rep. Nixon ( R. , Cal. ) charged today that the administration has gagged FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover for fear of the " political consequences " of his revelations . The committee tonight voted unanimously to publish a full report on the espionage inquiry early next week " in the interests of national security . " Chairman Thomas ( R .. 21 ? 7.1 said the committee decided against open hearings because " some very vital secrets might be disclosed at such sessions . " Rep. ( R. , Pa. ) has announced that he would ask the committee to recommend to the attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are atomic scientists and the third s Communist party ftmctionary . Leading figures in the report include , in addition to Chapin and Hiskey , the following Mrs. Louise Bransten Berman , 39 , formerly of Berkeley , cal. , and now of New York CitY , a wealthy woman identified as the financial angel of the Communist party . Steve Nelson , chairman of the Communist party of western Pennsylvania , whose defiance of a subcommittee resulted in a vote to cite him for contempt . Arthur Adams , a soviet spy who came to the United States from Canada in 1943 with express orders from.Moscow to steal atom bomb and radar secrets . N. Y. Store Owner Miss Victoria Stone , owner of a New York City jewelry store , an intimate friend of Adams . Dr. Martin D. Kamen , assistant professor of chemistry , Washington university , S. Louis , Mo. , who was employed at the atomic bomb project at the University of California at Berkeley . Eric Bernays , a confessed Communist . former head of the Keynote Recording company , New York City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Electronics Corporation of America , which was given 6 million dollars in radar contracts uy government during the war , whose connections with Adams will be disclosed in the report . %%bile spying at the University of Chicago is a featured section in the forthcoming report , the evidence of FBI witnesses and others gives a story of nation-wide espionage . The testimony of Gen. Groves before the committee was highly significant . He reported that Dr. May , the convicted spy imprisoned by the British for giving secrets to Russia , spent his week-ends in Chicago , while he was working with scientists on the atomic bomb experiments , with an American physicist in the latter 's apartment . He said he had no suspicion of May at that time but barred him from al fourth monthlong visit to the university proposed in January , 1945. because he had acquired more knowledge - about the atomic bomb than any other British scientist ' , Leaks " Reported That there was wide knowledge ip the government about the . " leaks " in the prOject , altho the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was indicated . In United Nations discussions between soviet and American delegates in 1946 , it was evident that Russia had tapped the atondo bomb secet , it . was learned .                     