@@709308

txt Letters to The Times JAMES W. RYAN.WILLIAM McC . MARTIN JR . Letters to The Times Aid to Private Trade Rule of Law Essential ings as conducted by the tribunal in charge of the Nuremberg trial , and act accordingly . The essential function of both is the same . The Security Council would especially do well to follow the example of the Nuremberg tribunal and of our Federal courts by keeping its charges and proceedings as far as possible on the lower and only effective level involving criminal acts of individuals , rather than on the higher level involving States . Our Supreme Court has repeatedly held that the fact that the accused is an official of a State does not make the State responsible for his unlawful action , and that subjecting him to proper punishment does not in any way coerce the State . War Defined as Murder There is no use in pussyfooting about the matter . The fact is that under international law as it has stood ever since adoption of the UNO Charter , war is murder . In order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it reaches the hard-to-control stage the Charter prohibits not merely murder , but all acts of international aggression by either States or individuals . Aggression is a broad term which , on the criminal side , embraces the whole gamut of crimes having aggression or attack as their essential element . In addition , by specific Charter provision , breach of the peace and threat to the peace are declared crimes . Operations of the Export-Import Bank Are Explained Security Council . Is Urged to Adopt Code Promptly The writer of the following letter is chairman of the Export-Import Bank . The writer of the following letter , a New York attorney , is chairman of the Committee on International Law of the New York County Lawyers Association . He was formerly Special Assistant to the Attorney General of the United States in Admiralty and International Law matters . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter from Alfred N. Leeston dealing with the policy of the ExportImport Bank on private trade , which appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Feb. 24 , does the bank considerably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bank , by failing to police its reconstruction loans to European Governments , is missing an opportunity to force the use of such loans for purchase through private commercial channels only . In the words of the letter , " it does not appear that the bank concerns itself at all with the manner in which funds are spent . " The answer to this charge is ( 1 ) the bank has done all that it reasonably could under existing circumstances to encourage and induce the return to private hands of the trade with liberated and war-devastated countries which it is financing by means of its reconstruction loans ; ( 2 ) the return of trade to private channels in these countries obviously depends upon circumstances beyond the Bank 's control . With reference to the first point , it will be readily agreed that the return of trade to private importers is not possible in the case of equipment for Government owned and operated facilities , such as railways , harbors and similar basic facilities , which will be purchased in any case by Governments for their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large part of the purchases which are being made out of the Export-Import Bank 's reconstruction credits .                     