@@707172

txt The motive of John L. Lewis in threatening to renew his strike on June 20 is clear . He wishes to hold a club over the Administration to make sure that it grants a substantial wage increase . While this motive is not primarily patriotic , the country should be grateful to him . After each labor crisis has passed since our entrance into the war the Administration has acted as if it were going to be the last , and as if no preventive measures need therefore be taken . By offering a mere truce , at a time when both houses of Congress have passed an anti-strike bill , Mr. Lewis unintentionally but usefully reminds the country and the Administration that this time something definitely does have to be done . Even Administration leaders , for the first time in the war , are now reported to be favorably disposed toward antistrike legislation . Unfortunately , the bills passed by the House and Senate , now to be discussed in conference , are not very good ones . Considering the haphazard and hasty manner in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to be very good . This haphazardness and haste are themselves the result of the bad internal organization of Congress and of the Administration 's policy up to now . Under the system by which Congress is split into different segregated committees to deal with different subjects , Congressmen representing a special interest naturally ask to be placed on the committee dealing with that interest . Men are put on the agricultural committees , for example , not because they understand the relation of farming to the total economy , but because they are " for the farmers . " Men are put on the labor committees at their own request because they are " for labor . " The result is that the sentiment of the labor committees on labor subjects is almost never typical of the sentiment of the two houses . The labor committees will only offer bills granting special favors to labor unions ; they will bury all efforts at control of unions in the general national interest . No such bill has in fact emerged front the labor committees in the last decade . Attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to go around the labor committees . This has been true of all such bills that have passed the House . The present bill is no exception . It was sponsored by the Judiciary Committee in the Senate and went through the Military Affairs Committee of the House . Prior corrective labor bills that have been passed by the House have been buried in the Senate , through Administration influence , without the full Senate 's ever having an opportunity to vote upon them . This is hardly a model of democratic procedure . The anti-strike bill passed by the House on Friday was largely written on the floor . This is the worst possible method of legislating . Yet the Administration 's failure to supply leadership for rational labor legislation , and its blanket opposition to any sort of rational corrective , have invited the sort of haphazard bills now in conference . These bills are unsatisfactory in sev eral ways . They do not outlaw a strike in wartime unless the plant in which it occurs has been seized by the Government . This , at best , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes against a decision of the War Labor Board is striking against government authority , whether or not the plant in which it works has been seized by the Government . To seize a war plant , moreover : . regardless of whether the management or the union is at fault , confuses the issue . Experience shows , in fact , that striking unions often welcome this procedure . and actually try to force it . Other provisions in the bills seem equally confused . Thus they would apparently make it illegal to instigate or induce others to strike but not to strike one 's self . Provisions are included in the House measure from the old pre-Pearl Harbor Smith bill that present conditions render inappropriate This applies , for example , to the thirty-day " cooling-off " period , and to provision for a secret strike ballot under government supervision before a strike . These provisions would by implication give government sanction to any wartime strike called after such a waiting period and secret strike ballot . Some good provisions  --  irrelevant to the main purpose of the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These include the requirements for financial statements by unions , control of political contributions and the granting of statutory authority to the National War Labor Board . It has been the lack of authority which encouraged John L. Lewis to treat the board with contempt . If a measure similar to the House bill should now become law , it would at least break the long-standing taboo against corrective labor legislation . Once this were done , the Administration and Congress should proceed to work out a more comprehensive and better-considered program .                     