@@711357

txt With an assurance no longer brash , and an idealism no longer pretentious , Thomas E. Dewey last night gave the Republican Party a moving , unifying start for its confident 1948 prelidential campaign . His acceptance speech was one of his simplest and most effective of state papers . It could set a splendid keynote . And it was.a far cry from the raucous oratory which has filled Convention Hall most of the rest of this week . There were aspects of the Republican Party here in Philadelphia this week which were not worthy of the tasks confronting the nation in the second half of the 20th century . There was some looking back . But that was not the controlling note . Reactionism did not win . Those- who look ahead have won . And their creed was finely put in Governor Dewey 's speech . A . There is much strength in the Republican Party . It abounds in potential leadership ? as the vigorous rivalry of these candidates has shown . On the whole , the Republjcan leaders who held onto their seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas , are not the men of the future . There are exceptions among them . But the inflexible congressional rules of seniority have brought to vital committee chairmanships some of these men of the past . They made many of the earlier speeches here at Philadelphia . They did not win in the end . Governor Dewey himself has seen plainly that the Party must go ahead . He has seen that America must carry out its world leadership through helping all mankind into the free air . It may not always be easy for him to get congressional majorities for this view , especially in the House of Representatives . But the partisan motives which naturally made congressional Republicans tend to block Truman-sponsored measures will not apply after next January . There will have to be constructive Republican programs then . It 's rash to foreshadow November , but rarely has an American election seemed more one-sided . We may expect the same virtuosity of campaign organization that we saw in the Dewey nomination drive . President Truman will have the negative side of the Republican congressional record as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disavowing the congressional record , can build upon it and outline the forward projects he contemplates . He will not be judged by the Martin - Taber - Allen record alone . He has the Vandenberg record , too . A A All the same , it is likely that Governor Dewey will find his greatest problem in the reactionary and isolationist wing of his own Party , just as President Truman , on issues such as civil rights , has been handicapped by extreme viewpoints in the South . Governor Dewey has had considerable experience dealing with not always friendly legislative majorities . He has not always succeeded , either . But with the right liaison with Congress . and in the flush of his first-term honeymoon , he ought to be able to set up a strong legislative program . The nominee and his principal rivals certainly brought the Party together with grace . skill . sincerity , and purpose , as they made the third ballot unanimous last night . Senator Taft ? through Senator Bricker  --  deserves great credit for starting it off . He did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' some of the others might have done . So ends a remarkable nomination contest , so begins a remarkable electoral campaign . Just a fevii weeks ago , before the Oregon primary , Governor Dewey 's candidacy was on the ropes . Harold Stassen had shown great vote-getting strength . And then two things happened : Mr. Stassen forsook the consistency and courage of the liberal views which hitherto had led him to many political successes , and began to make concessions to the reactionary wing of the Party . Governor Dewey rolled up his sleeves and did a real job at every Oregon crossroads . swinging more to the liberal side than Mr. Stassen . When Mr. Stassen foolishly pressed his ill-chosen issue to a public debate , the tide really turned . And since then , the Dewey drive has never looked back . A A A It is fair to conclude that Senator Vandenberg did not really want the nomination . even if he would have accepted a - draft , or else he might have made the outcome more uncertain . With a little more participation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning point was Monday of this week . When the Senator remained , as he said to the Michigan delegation , a " problem child . " there was no more chance for him . But as Arthur Vandenberg ambles back to his comfortable  --  and powerful  --  Senate seat , I think there will he a rueful spot in his heart all the same . Senator Taft , so ruggedly honest that he never tries to flatter or please a voter , also turns back to his powerful post and will work hard in the cause of good government as he sees it . He retains his party 's deep respect , and the nation 's . They have replaced the cruel quip that Bob Taft has " the best mind in the Senate until he makes it up " with the phrase : " He 's always right  --  the second time . " This means he is n't ashamed to change his conclusions . What national future is there for Harold Stassen ? Well , he could be strong Cabinet timber . But perhaps more important for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall we say of Senator Edward Martin of Pennsylvania , who furnished the lightning rod for the Dewey blitz ? He was not exactly a kingmaker , but he certainly opened the . door to the throne . Next to Governor Dewey , he 's probably the happiest man in Philadelphia . He took the right chance . The . immediate future is his !                     