@@709245

txt PITTSBURGH , Feb. ** the objections of the United Steelworkers of America , CIO , that Federal and State anti-injunction provisions were being by-passed , Judge Sarah M. Soffel of the ComImon Pleas Court of Allegheny County issued ' an order today barring closed-order picketing by steel strikers at the Homestead Works of the Carnegie Illinois Steel Corporation . Judge Soffel 's order granted virtually every type of relief asked for by the corporation and directed that " effective immediately the union limit pickets to ten to a gate , ten feet apart , kept in continuous motion . " No one below the level of department superintendent had entered Homestead since eight days ago , when an agreement over maintenance workers failed . To Obey the Law , Union Says The Court also ordered the union to engage in no type of action and not to make any threat designed to intimidate employes from entering the plant , and set Feb. li as the date for a hearing on the company 's petition to make the order permanent . ' Access to property , " Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corporation , a small business or a large business , is a fundamental right that can not be denied or abridged by unions during strike . " Union officials , stung by the sweeping terms of the order , nevertheless announced that steel strikers at Homestead were being instructed to comply with the letter of the law . James J. Thomas , district director of the United Steelworkers in the Homestead area , said orders had been sent out from his home // office to cut down the size of the picket line even before he had been served personally . Mr. Thomas , who had insisted throughout that the union had given adequate guarantees on the issues of maintenance and protection of property , declared , however , " They can put every supervisor in the valley in that plant and it wo n't run and they know it . " A statement by Lee Pressman , general counsel of the union , released here by international headquarters , termed Judge Soffel 's order " a serious departure from basic principles of law and fairness , " and said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO to obtain a reversal . He contended that ; the order created " precisely the kind of evil : which the Norris-La Guardia Act and the 1937 Pennsylvania antiinjunction act were designed to prevent . Despite the increase in tension , it was indicated on the basis of statements by both the union and the corporation that the company could start sending in new personnel without trouble . The corporation , however , wary of any possible charge of provocation , made no immediate effort to send in relief crews . This , it was said , would be . done sometime tomorrow after the order had been properly served . Men Are Told to ' Avoid Pickets Also , Seward H. French Jr. , of the law firm of Reed , Smith , Shaw &; McClay , representing the corporation in court , said that all- personnel entering the plant were being advised to avoid any contact with the remaining pickets so as to prevent any incident . Judge Soffel 's order was expected to provide a precedent for other steel companies which have the problem of replacing supervisors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks doing maintenance work . In Pittsburgh Mayor David Lawrence continued his efforts to bring the union and the Jones &; Laughlin Steel Corporation to an agreement which would permit the company to release its supervisors . The Mayor , it was reported , was particularly anxious to get a voluntary agreement in this situation because the J. &; L. works are within the city limits , extending along both sides of the Monongahela River for several miles , and would create a serious local police problem if trouble started . Judge Soffel 's order , the first obtained in the present strike by one of the major steel companies , enjoined the , International Union , Local 1,397 , Mr. Thomas and other union members from the following : " Interfering with , hindering or obstructing the agents , servants and employes of the plaintiff engaged in the performance of their work assignments for the plaintiff at the Homestead Steel Works , or in the operation and maintenance of plaintiff 's property at said Homestead Steel Works , by mass picketing , threats or acts of violence , force or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Preventing or attempting to prevent any person or persons , 1whether employes of the plaintiff I or others , from freely entering or leaving the plaintiff 's plants and property at said Homestead Steel Works or from entering or continuing in the employment of the plaintiff , by mass picketing , threats or acts of violence , force or show of force or other means of intimidation or coercion . " Conspiring , combining , confederating , agreeing or arranging with any other person or persons , organization or associations , to interfere with or injure the plaintiff in the conduct of its lawful operations at the Homestead Steel Works , or to interfere with , hinder , or annoy any person or employe of the plaintiff who may desire to enter or leave the said premises of the plaintiff in connection with the performance of his lawful work assignments or for any other purpose , by force or display of force or numbers , by threats , by acts of intimidation or violence , by the use of opprobrious epithets , jeers , suggestions of danger , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any such employe or other person of the free enjoyment of his legal rights of access to and from the plaintiff 's property at said Homestead Steel Works . " , Judge Cites Affidavits In a twenty-seven-page opinion supporting her order , Judge Soffel cited affidavits submitted by the corporation on behalf of Arthur H. and William E. Crouch Jr. , supervisors , stating that they had been forcibly removed from the plants by pickets on separate occasions and taken to union headquarters for questioning , and another affidavit by E. J. Horgan , stating that he had been threatened . " Picketing which results in the intimidation and coercion of officers and employes of the plaintiff and denies workmen having legitimate business access to plaintiff 's plant is not legal picketing , " said the judge . " Picketing which results in the kidnapping of individuals and placing them under restraint and depriving them of their personal liberty is not legal picketing . " Picketing which consists of at least 100 or more pickets massed and grouped together at the main entrance of a plant for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Judge Soffel ruled also that Local 1,397 of the United Steelworkers had broken off what she felt was a valid collective bargaining agreement on the subject of maintenance made between the union and H. G. Malvried , general superintendent of the Homestead works , before the strike . It was her opinion that this agreement was valid for the duration of the strike . Judge Soffel took notice of the 1937 Pennsylvania Anti-Injunction Act , but said she had authority to act on the basis of a 1939 amendment which superseded the 1937 act where a labor dispute represented a " disregard , breach or violation of a valid , subsisting labor agreement . " Eugene Cotton of the CIO legal department left for Washington immediately to confer with Mr. Pressman over possible steps to vacate the order . The union had apparently expected an adverse ruling , for although Mr. Pressman was in Washington his statement was released soon after the injunction was issued . Mr. Pressman termed the order an " extremely unfortunate development " and said picketing had been peaceful and orderly throughout the country in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history . " Original Pact Brought Up He said that the union had been cooperative at Homestead and had sent its own members in as a maintenance crew until the company brought in an extraordinary number of supervisors , totaling more than 700 . He expressed the union 's willingness to , reinstate the original agreement which would permit free access to all supervision and maintenance personnel and said : " The company , however , was apparently more interested in securing an injunction . The court , although aware of the union 's position , has nevertheless issued the present restraining order which embodies serious interference with the employes ' constitutional rights . " The restraining order has been issued without testimony being taken , without any opportunity for examination of witnesses with respect to the fact on which the company makes its claim for an . order . "                     