@@711645

txt The sentences of seven prison inmates , all convicted of murder , were reduced yesterday by Gov . Green as a reward for their participation In war time malaria experiments at Stateville penitentiary . Reduction in the sentences will make the seven men eligible for parole at earlier dates than under their original sentences . The prisoners were part of a group of convicts who participated In malaria control experiments by allowing themselves to be inoculated by the malarial germ to test preventatives and cures . One Eligible Immediately One of the prisoners , John Dempsey , 42 , will be eligible for Parole immediately . Dempsey was convicted of murdering a policeman , William O'Connor , in 1928 . John Dempsey ( left ) , Jseph Ka &; lima , and William Dayolloo ( fight ) . when the latter attempted to arrest Dempsey and two companions ' following a robbery . He was sentenced to 50 years imprisonment . Six months after his conviction Dempsey was brought from Joliet to testify in the trials of his companions . While waiting to take the stand he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woo nrit found until three years later . Dempsey previously had served a term in  --  the Pontiao ? reformatory . Two of the men will be eligible for parole in 1949 . They are W11-. liam Davolio , 38 , found guilty In 1929 of murdering a man during a holdup , and James Hammack , 52 , convicted of murdering a woman during a holdup in 1929 . Both were sentenced to Life imprisonment . Sentenced For Murder Another of the prisoners , Joseph Malinowski , sentenced to 50 years in prison in 1934 for murdering a man during a holdup , will be eligible for parole in 1950 . Ralph Haupris , 46 , will be eligible for parole in 1951 after serve ing 22 years of a 75year sentence . He was convicted of slashing the throat of an aged man in a robbery ; In county in 1929 . Fred Loscombe , 37 , sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of a storekeeper during a holdup in 1931 , will be eligible for parole I in 1952 , The final prisoner is Joseph I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the murder of a woman who resisted his advances . He will be eligible for parole in 1957 . Leopold Not Considered ? Nathan Leopold , 44 , kidnap slayer of Bobby Franks , serving a life sentence and a 99 year sentence , also was included in the malaria experiment and eligible for executive clemency . However , he was not considered with this group by Go v. Green since he never has made formal application for a reduction of sentence or a pardon . Under normal routine Leopold , who was found guilty in 1924 , will not be eligible for parole until 1957 , or until he has served 20 years on the life sentence and 33 years On the 99 year sentence . The group included In the malaria experiment at Stateville and other prisons is credited by the army with playing a major role in the development of a new drug for the treatment of malaria .                     