@@704616

txt Government Triumphs in Canada Landslide Exceeds That of 1935 Mackenzie King Increases House Majority Manion Beaten in His Own District Weather Cuts Down Total Vote By FREDERICK T. BIRCHALL By Telephone to THZ Nsw YORK TIMES . deleted 8 lines tration was returned to power in yesterday 's general election with a larger majority than in the last Parliament . At midnight the indications were that in the next House of Commons the Liberal majority would exceed 120 and the Opposition would be correspondingly weak . In the last Parliament the Liberal majority was 115 . The Liberals had 169 seats against thirty-eight for the Conservatives and thirty-four for the minor parties . In the new Parliament the Liberals will have more , the Conservatives fewer and the minor parties fewer still . A solid Liberal bloc from Quebec wiped out five Liberal losses in the Maritime Provinces . The Liberals gained in Ontario . They broke the Social Credit ranks in Alberta and held their own in Manitoba , Saskatchewan and British Columbia . They go back to office with more seats than they won in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landslide ; it is an avalanche . " You have made history and safeguarded liberty , " Prime Minister Mackenzie King told the electors deleted 8 lines the vote has been taken , being law-abiding citizens , we accept it . The responsibility continues to be Mr. King 's . I have no complaints . " In the avalanche Dr. Manion himself has lost his seat and with him have gone three other prominent Conservative front-benchers . Unless another constituency is found for Dr. Manion in place of the Fort William , seat he has lost , Opposition leadership will devolve upon R. B. Hanson , a former Minister of Trade and Commerce , and Denton Massey of Toronto . Dr. Manion 's deputy leader , M. H. Macpherson of Regina , has gone to defeat with him . Another notable loss is that of Miss Agnes , the first woman ever elected to a Canadian Parliament . She has sat for Grey Bruce , Ontario , since 1921 . Still others are C. H. Cahan , former Secretary of State , Hugh Stewart of Brockville , and R. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Conservatives . Three important additions to Parliament are Colonel C. W. G. // Canadian Liberals Win in Landslide ; Support for Mackenzie King Is Solid // Gibson , Liberal , of Hamilton ; Dr. Cyrus , Liberal , of Prince Edward Island , and Dr. D. K. Hazen , Conservative , of St. John , N. B. , son of a former Cabinet Minister . Ail the Government Ministers have been returned , including Defense Minister Norman Rogers in Kingston and - Pensions Minister Ian Mackenzie in Vancouver , chief objects of the Conservative attack . Every fresh- radio announcement last night seemed to bring a new Liberal victory . There was apparently nothing whatever to soften the shock to Dr. Manion , sitting almost alone in his office in the Parliament Building , and Premier ' Mitchell Hepburn of Ontario ; the Prime Minister 's other bitter foe , listening in from Toronto . For Mr. Mackenzie King there is now envisioned even a further triumph . It has now become by no means improbable that in his next tenure of office he may command a majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commons . This is an advantage he has never yet been able to attain in all of his four periods of power . Closing of the polls at 6 o'clock revealed a heavy urban vote throughout the Dominion , but much lighter balloting in the rural districts of Eastern Canada . In Ontario and Quebec farmers fought snowblocked roads with sleighs , skis and snowshoes to reach the polling places . In some areas even skis were useless against ? en-foot drifts of soft newly ' fallen snow and snowshoes. were the only possible means of locomotion . Hundreds of women voters had to stay at home . In Ontario some of the roads were blocked by drifts 14 feet high , which defeated the best snow plows available . This , normally , should have handicapped the Liberals and helped the . Conservatives , but it did not seem to work that way . Prime Minister Mackenzie King voted in Ottawa , taking with him to the polling place for the fifth time his constant companion , an Irish terrier named Pat , now 17 years old . Pat is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age . He is still " going strong , but his legs are not what they used to be . " He has come with me to the polls for the last five general . elections , ever since 1925 , " remarked the Prime Minister sadly , as he watched the futile efforts of newspaper photographers to get a snapshot of the dog . Dr. Manion , the Conservative leader , also voted in Ottawa , i although he ran for re-election in Fort William , his home city , and was defeated there . The weather overhead was ideal I throughout the Dominion . It was the snow already fallen throughout the Eastern provinces that curtailed the vote . Mackenzie King Quotes Lincoln ; OTTAWA , Wednesday , March 27 ( Canadian Press ) ? Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King , speaking of his election victory over the radio , quoted from Abraham Lincoln 's speech after the Civil War election when he said : ' " It adds nothing to my satisfaction that any , other man may be disappointed or pained by the results . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I give thanks to the Almighty for this evidence of the people 's resolution to stand by free government and the rights of humanity . " Opposition in Ontario TORONTO , Wednesday , March 27 CB  --  Strongest opposition to Canada 's Liberal government , which won re-election yesterday , will continue to be in the Province of Ontario , whose.Premier , Mitchell Hepburn , has been one of the sharpest critics of the Mackenzie King government . The National government group won twenty-five of the province 's eighty-two seats in the Canadian House of Commons , the same number the Conservatives won in the 1935 election . Liberals won fiftyfive seats and independents two . Mr. Hepburn , not a candidate , commented , " I am still taking a long-range view of the situation . " He took no part in the campaign , but his action in obtaining passage of a motion of censure of the Federal Government in the Ontario Legislature was cited by the Prime Minister as one reason for dissolving Parliament last Jan. 25 and 1 calling yesterday 's election . Social Credit Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Alberta , March 26 ? The Social Credit party of Alberta advanced to within six seats of a majority in the next Alberta Legislature in the vote count today . Social Credit now has twenty-three out of the fifty-seven legislative seats , as against the forty-seven it had at ' dissolution , and is leading in fourteen other contests in which the count is still incomplete . The opposition has fifteen seats and has the lead for five more . T. B. Mullen , Provincial Minister of Agriculture was declared elected today in Camrose .                     