@@708066

txt Five prisoners escaped from the NaStau County Jail here at 9:10 o'clock tonight after assaulting one keeper and threatening two others with a pistol to get keys that eventually I took them to freedom over a fifteen-foot wall at the rear of the building . Two of the men were captured within thirty minutes after the break . They had injured their legs , apparently in scaling the wall , and were hiding in bushes on the jail grounds . The three others were reported to have escaped in a sedan driven by a woman . The authorities believe she is an accomplice , but it was conceded that she might have been forced to drive the men away . The fugitives ' automobile was reported in a teletype alarm broadcast to New York City and Suffolk County police to have headed west , in the direction of Queens . Within a few minutes of the break a force of policemen in Nassau County , members of the county and village departments , was looking for the escaped men , all of whom had been put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three still at large is Walter Nartewicz , a so-called " cat burglar , " and the others are Teddy Delmar and John Jackson , also held for burglary . The two who were hurt and are now back in jail were described as Henry Ambroziak of Glen Head , L.- and Ralph Head of Rome , Ga. , both accused of rape . They were questioned by Sheriff Gustav Mederer , District Attorney Neary , Inspector William Jochum and other police . officials . District Attorney Edward J. Neary directed the police to send out an alarm for Maxine Olsten , : identified as Delmar 's fianc  --  e , who , he said , is suspected of having provided him with a revolver during a visit to the jail today . The prosecutor said she had visited his office several times to ask that Delmar be released on bail so they could be married . Delmar , through his lawyer , was to have a hearing tomorrow in court on a motion to permit him to leave the jail to get a marriage license . About 9 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keeper Henry Pecan took Head from his cell on the second floor of the jail , which is on West Street , opposite county police headquarters and west of the old court house , to the office on the first floor to make a telephone call to his home in Georgia . With the call completed , he took the prisoner back to the cell tier , and when Mr. Pecan opened the door to let him in Head and the four others , who had been permitted to exercise in the corridor of the tier , jumped on him , beating and kicking him until he fell . Then they gagged him and started downstairs . On the way , they , ran into Keeper Charles Eihle , whom they threatened with a pistol held by Delmar . Mr. Eihle resisted and called to the other keeper on duty at the time , ' William Haysman . " Hey , Bill , " Mr. Eihle shouted . Mr. Haysman came up on the run , but before he could aid his colleague he too found himself facing the pistol . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rushed to the office and grabbed a ring of keys from the wall , then they raced to the - rear door and turned the lock . Delmar waited until they got - the door open before he joined them . Delmar , the keepers said , waved the pistol around " like a wild man . " How the five got over the high barrier was not explained . Soon after the keepers gave the alarm scores of policemen took up the search , with Head and Ambroziak soon being found hiding near the wall . Neither offered any resistance . After being questioned in the jail , Ambroziak , who had broken a leg , was taken to Meadowbrook Hospital . Mr. Pecan , whose face and ribs had been injured , also was admitted there for treatment . His injuries were not regarded serious . Ambroziac had broken his leg . All the highways leading from Mineola to Suffolk County and to Queens County were under guard soon after the escape , but no trace of the three fugitives had been reported at midnight . The teletype alarm , transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape machine might be traveling on Jericho Turnpike or Hempstead Turnpike in the direction of New York City . Delmar is 30 years old and formerly lived at Bellmore , L. I. A man by the same name was sentenced in the Bronx in 1934 to serve three years in Sing Sing for the theft of jewelry , silverware and clothing valued at $10,000 from the home of John N. Willys , former Ambassador to Poland , at 4643 Waldo Avenue , Fieldston . Nartewicz , who is 33 and whose home is at 206 West Forty-second Street , New York , received the " cat burglar " appellation when he jumped from a garage roof in Manhasset after being trapped in an alleged burglary in June .                     