@@705845

txt It is considered likely that President Roosevelt is going to ask congress for a showdown on the war , accord . ing to the political correspondent this morning 's Daily Express . Under prominent headlines on the front page he writes that the speech of V. L. Mackenzie King , the Canadian prime minister , here yesterday " caused a sensation " among London politicians . Text Sent to Roosevelt . The statement is regarded as so important that the text Is being forwarded to Mr. Roosevelt . Mackenzie King , referring to Prime Minister Winston Churchill 's pledge of Aug. 24 that in the far cast Britain would stand at the side of the United States , . said " a similar declaration on the part of the United Stales as respects Nazi Germany " would servo to shorten the present war . ? 11fackenzie King also cited President Roosevelt 's pledge to help defend Canada from invasion . Chui  --  chill concurred in the Canadian premier 's appeal . Story on page 3 . The Daily Express correspondent attributes to " American sources " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime minister 's appeal in a public speech . Then the writer declares that . " for , some time there have been rumors a a new stiffening of the United States ' attitude toward tile axis . " Worry Over Long War . The prospect of the war dragging on , he says , is " known to be worrying many United States interests " and , the American government , it is stated , " may base Its appeal for more vigorous action on the fact that It ' will get the war over more speedily . " Concern also has been caused , he says , by the " growth of isolationist feeling in the United States " and the knowledge that " the supply of munitions from the United States at present leaves something to be desired . " In view of these facts , the correspondent writes , " It is possible that Mr. Roosevelt will tell the United States plainly that the time has come for a yes or no answer to the cluestion : ' Are we prepared now to give 100 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May Scrap " Short of War . " The aid formula used hitherto , it is pointed out , always included the phrase " short , of war . " " The new policy may Involve dropping this proviso , " he suggests . Tile Daily Telegraph , commenting editorially on Mackenzie King 's statement . says : " There is no mistaking the objective of these trenchant phrases . They are addressed to the people of the United States and tile action for which . Mackenzie King appealed was a declaration from America , parallel to Churchill 's pledge of united action in tile far east , that the United States will stand beside the British commonwealth against Naziism. "                     