@@712231

txt A new naval expedition to the Antarctic , to be headed by the veteran Polar explorer , Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd , is planned for next winter , it was learned yesterday . Some 3,500 men and eight ships are now earmarked for the expedition , which will have as its objective the mapping of a vast area of unknown territory in the Antarctic about as big as Europe . If present plans - are finally approved , the first ships will sail in October ; the expedition will establish an advanced base in New Zealand and will remain in the Antarctic for about four months of the South Polar summer , returning to the United States about April , 1950 . No details and no comment were available yesterday from either the Navy Department or Admiral Byrd , and it was understood that final approval of the Secretary of Defense , who is already familiar with the project , would be sought after the return front Europe of Admiral Louis E. Denfeld , Chief of Naval Operations . But planning for the expedition has been under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for the voyage , and a deputy commander . Captain George J. Dufek , veteran of many Arctic and Antarctic expeditions , has been named . A command ship , the Adirondack , classified by the Navy as an amphibious . force flagship , is tentatively slated to be flagship of the expedition . and icebreakers and smaller vessels will accompany her . The Adirondack has many communications facilities . At one time , it was thought the giant 45,000-ton aircraft carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt would accompany the expedition , but it was learned yesterday that the participation of this big ship was doubtful and that the present probabilities were that she would not go to the Antarctic . Helicopters , Lockheed P2V ** on Page 8 , Column 4 Admiral Byrd Plans an Expedition Of 3,500 Men to Antarctic for Navy // tune naval patrol planes , which hold the world 's distance record , and other naval planes probably will participate in extensive aerial mapping and photography , air-sea rescue work , and scouting for ice leads . Detailed public announcement of the expedition , which has long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after final approval of the project , and after clearance by the State Department with other countries that have indicated interest in the Antarctic . Vast Area to Be Explored The goal of the expedition apparently is to be a great oblong ' stretch of unexplored territory , across the South Pole from Little America , site of the Byrd base camp in the Admiral 's Antarctic expedition of 1929 . A large area , part of it claimed by Australia and Norway , lying south of Africa , and stretching across the snowy wastes of the Antarctic toward Australia and South America , is virtually uncharted , and it is expected that , aerial mapping will reveal many of its secrets . In addition to the aerial mapping and exploration , it is expected that the expedition will continue the technical development work begun by the 1947 Byrd expedition to Antarctica . Scientific explorations probably will be made , and mineral samplings undoubtedly will be brought back for essay purposes . After his previous expedition Admiral Byrd noted that the vast unknown Antarctic area probably contained important mineral deposits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and although the projected expedition will not ' establish any permanent stations , some discussions with other nations looking toward the joint establishment of such stations have been started , it was learned . The expedition , ? if finally approved , will be Admiral Byrd 's fifth to the South Polar regions . He flew over the North Pole with 1Floyd Bennett in 1926 ; he and a crew of three were among the first men to fly the Atlantic in 19.27 . In 1929 , from his base camp at Little America , he and three companions flew over the South Pole . He made another expedition to Antarctica in 1933-34 , and almost lost his life . He was rescued-from an isolated shack 123 miles from - his- main base . He had spent seven months alone in the shack . His next expedition to the South Polar regions was in 1939-40 , an expedition obscured to some extent by the war . Admiral Byrd was on active duty during the war on confidential special assignments in various theatres . In 1947 he made his fourth expedition , a brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of his discoveries on that trip was a warm-water region , the " Land of Lakes " in the heart of Wilkes Land . Admiral Byrd , brother of Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia , is 61 . Captain Dufek , assigned as deputy to Admiral Byrd , was a member of the Byrd expedition in 1939 , and commanded the Eastern group of the 1946-47 expedition . In the summer of 1948 , Captain Dufek commanded Arctic Task Force 80 , a Navy and Coast Guard expedition to Arctic waters , which found hand-written records left in the Polar region more than forty years . ago by Commodore Robert E. Peary , discoverer of the North Pole . The expedition 's work will be limited to the Antarctic summer ; there is no intention of wintering in the South Polar regions , as Admiral Byrd has done in the past .                     