@@705542

txt Two of the Nation 's coast-to-coast broadcasting companies have expressed dismay and a third , deep satisfaction , with the Federal Communications Commission 's new orders designed to bring an era of greater competition and public service to radio . After a three-year investigation . the FCC concluded that chain radiocasting , properly operated , is beneficial to the public , but would be of greater service if there were " an increased number of networks , a larger supply of available network programs , and a wider latitude for all stations in obtaining network programs . " Hardest hit by the new regulations is the National Broadcasting Company which will be required to dispose of one of its two networks . The Commission held that NBC 's Blue Network " has had the effect of acting as a buffer to protect the powerful Red against competition " and concluded that " it is not in public interest for a station to enter into a regular affiliation contract with a network 's organization maintaining more than one network . " While broadcasting officials hinted at the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond its power in the new orders , James Lawrence Fly , Commission Chairman , announced that he would turn the record and order over to the Department of Justice for public antitrust prosecution against the chains . Mutual Applauds Only one of the major networks to applaud the FCC network control plan is the seven-year-old Mutual Broadcasting Company which has been unable to sign up ' large stations* outside of the New York and Chicago areas because NBC and the Columbia Broadcast-ling System tied up most of these ' stations 14 or 15 years ago . The Communications Commission itself divided 5-to-2 on the new regulations , with Chairman James Lawrence Fly describing them as " a Magna Carta for American broadcasting stations " and Norman S. Case and T. A. M. Craven maintaining that " this is no time to embark upon a new and untried course for which no urgent need can be established . " In New York , Niles Trammel , President of the National Broadcasting Company , called the new regulations " a definite step toward complete government control of radio in this country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the freedom of the air . " he declared . Called " Bombshell " " I do not purport to know why such a bombshell should be exploded at this critical time in the life of our country , when the fullest use of the Nation 's radio facilities is demanded . " The " revolutionary " change announced by the Commission , Mr. Trammel held , should have come from Congress . The FCC 's responsibility , he declared , is " not to make laws but to administer them . " Columbia spokesmen also have taken the position that the present network system is necessary to build up good will and advertising value of the affiliates . Chief example of network abuse cited at long hearings held by the FCC ' concerned the failure of thousands of potential listeners to hear the World Series in 1939 and 1940 because the Mutual Network , with exclusive broadcasting rights , could not use stations controlled by NBC and CBS . Under the new regulations , an affiliation contract may not restrain a station from carrying programs offered by any network , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may not bind a station to a network for more than one year , schedule such programs as the station considers to be in the public interest . It may not contain an option clause requiring a station to cancel other programs merely because the network offers a program for the optioned hour ; nor may it deprive a station of the final decision as to what programs shall or shall not be radiocast . Freedom of Rates Finally , an affiliation contract may not deprive a station of the right to set its own rates , and to compete freely with networks for communities , especially in the West and Middle West " wholly without network service or service from only one network . " " To the extent that the networks ' present status rests upon excellence of service rather than coercive power , it will remain substantially unaffected , " it promised .                     