@@706044

txt The diplomatic conversations looking to an adjustment of relations between the United States and Japan proceeded to a point today where the Japanese participants , Admiral Kichjsaburo Nomura , the Ambassador , and Saburo Kurusu , special Japanese envoy , had to refer questions to their government for instructions . Tisitt a favorable reply would be received , permitting the discussions to continue , was indicated when Admiral Nomura upon leaving the conference said he was " still hopeful " of a successful result . The conference was one of the longest on record at the State Department , lasting for two and three-quarter hours , with Secretary of State Cordell Hull conducting it in his office . Yet , notwithstanding all this time and the one hour and ten minutes the Japanese diplomats spent yesterday with President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull , the only matters discussed thus far have been of general consideration rather than of a special nature , according to Mr. Hull . It is obvious , however , that much could be said even along general lines in the course of nearly Sour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese to consult their government . Delicate Balance Seen While details were closely guarded , the picture as it stood tonight was one of a delicate balance , with too much emphasis not being warranted on the side either of optimism or of pessimism . President Roosevelt at his press conference late in the day said there was no news on the Japanese situation so far as he was concerned but that he expected to see the Japanese officials again and relatively soon . The conversations in the meantime are being conducted by Mr. Hull . Earlier in the day the President had gone over the foreign policy situation with Congressional leaders who conferred with him on the strike situation . According to participants , he gave particular emphasis to the Japanese question . Late in the day Sir Ronald Campbell , the British chargO d'affaires , went to-the State Department , presumably to obtain information for his government concerning the progress of the conversations . Secretary Hull outlined the progress of the conversations at his press conference , after his meeting with the Japanese , After he had explained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he Said that he could not yet say whether there was agreement on any of the points . He would see the Japanese tomorrow , or later , as soon as they were ready to proceed , he added . Talks Are Exploratory They were talking only in an exploratory way , he explained , and had not yet reached a stage that would afford a basis for negotiations . The explorations , he emphasized , will cover all phases of questions and of utterances that may be deemed material and considered as calling for consideration and discussion . The fact that he included in this description not only questions but utterances presumably meant that fiery speeches being made in the Japanese Diet might be weighed in dealing with the relations of the two countriell . Secretary Hull was not prepared to say that satisfactory progress had been made , maintaining that he would not be in a position to estimate the prospects until a little later . Nor would he say whether any general formula had been laid down in the course of the conversations . Admiral Nomura and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in good spirits when they departed . " You were hopeful when you went in ; do 3ibu still feel that way ? " Admiral Nomura was asked . " Yes , I 'm still hopeful , " he replied . When the length of the conference was referred to , Admiral Nomura said with a laugh : " That 's because I ca n't understand English . " Joseph W. Ballantine , assistant chief of the Far Eastern Division of the State Department , acted as interpreter part of the time . Some of Mr. Hull 's observations were translated into Japanese for the benefit particularly of Admiral Nomura . Mr. Kurusu speaks English fluently . When the two diplomats arrived for the conference and were besieged by newspaper correspondents they showed some irritation over what they consider a warlike tone of the American press . Admiral Nomura asked correspondents : " Why are the newspapers so gloomy ? We are very hopeful . " Then he added , with a smile : " You Americans are always in a fighting mood . Why are you so war-minded ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colloquy but at one point interjected : " We have naval holidays . Why do n't we have a press holiday ? " There was a hint from correspondents that the Japanese press might act upon the suggestion .                     