@@710158

txt Topics of The Tithes There is one advantage that Pro we believe the newspaper is and fully entitled to claim over Con the radio . The newspaper , working in space instead of time , gives its audience the opportunity to ponder and to compare . A reader can put down his paper for a moment to weigh a statement of particular interest , but the radio announcer , commentator or debater can not pause in the swift completion of his appointed round . Comparison is an exercise that is no doubt more common among newspaper readers than pondering . A person will be impelled by something on page 21 to turn back to something he saw ten minutes ago on page 5 . A good many people have been known to read more than one newspaper , and they are free to compare one special dispatch with another , one editorial page with another , whereas it is obviously , out of the question to place a couple of broadcasting stations side by side . A person can recall , of course , what he heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the sarfie station . But he can not remember precisely . It is obviously not like the printed parallel , deadly or otherwise . In this way it hapChildren 's pens that the newspaBurnt per reader will see in Fingers one paper a United Press dispatch from Blackpool , England , where the school authorities have embarked on a program of sex education . For the youngest children the textbooks will be the Bible and fairy stories . Iii senior high school the instruction will be in straightforward biological terms . But in another morning paper it may well be that the same reader 's attention has been attracted by a lecture here in town on child guidance and training . The speaker protested against the " don't-do-that " type of education which is still too prevalent in our city schools . " Children should be allowed to make mistakes . That 's how we learn . " In that case , howOther ever , are the school People 's authorities in BlackBxperiences pool , England , well advised to be going in for sex education ? They are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , if there is one argument for sex instruction that one recalls above all others  --  if indeed there is any other argument for teaching youth the facts of life  --  it is the vast amount of unhappiness that conies I from ignorance on the subject . There are individual tragedies and social dislocations . Yet it would seem to be a clear case of the " don't-do-that " type of education when we safeguard young people against the perils of sex instead of allowing them to make mistakes , which apparently , in the modern psychology , is the only way " how we learn . " Or is it all right to let children of three or four make mistakes so they may learn , but we can not trust boys and girls of 15 to learn through mistakes ? Such are the not wholly useless reflections which come to mind from comparing two news items in the morning papers . It need not always be Sure two papers . Often it may About be two pages in the same China paper . Sometimes it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , in one column warm words of praise for an observer who has just come out of Russia and has written a book in which he is content to tell you what he saw and heard without telling you what to think about it . It is a sentiment about reports from foreign climes to which a person is moved to subscribe heartily . But he is given pause in the next column by an observer back from China who seems certain about so many things : what the Chinese people need , what the Chinese people think , what the Communists think , what Chiang Kai-shek should do , what the United States should do , what the American public should do . So there again , by the mere fact that the newspaper in two adjacent columns presents you with two sharply divergent views on the whole duty of a foreign correspondent , the reader is spurred on to do a little thinking for himself on an important question of the times . To b. sure , the radio is Their by no means remiss in Own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio discussions , debates , forums without number , and some of them are useful and interesting , too . Nevertheless , the best kind of forum in a democracy is just one man or one woman pondering and debating by one 's self ; thinking about subjects of one 's own choosing instead of those selected by the forum master ; comparing page 2 with page 22 . These millions of individual " internal forums " are the best reply to the absurdly exaggerated anti-democratic doctrine , of propaganda . It is a doctrine which makes men and women out to be the helpless victims of what they read or hear ; they are told and they believe . But . it is extraordinary  --  and immensely encouraging , too  --  how many people will refuse to believe what they read and hear if they do n't want to .                     