@@708441

txt War Mobilization Director Byrnes yesterday decreed midnight closing for all saloons , night clubs , road houses , theaters , dance halls , sports arenas , and other places of entertainment . effective next Monday The decree will affect 9.430 places in Chicago , including 8,212 establishments with regular liquor licenses ; 574 taverns which have special 4 a. m. closing licenses , 430 amusement places , principally theaters , and 214 restaurants with late closing hour privileges , according to figures in the city license bureau . The only night ' spots excluded from the curfew are restaurants serving food only'and places which sell liquor " only as an adjunct to the-serving of food , " and even these will i have to- cease liquor - sales : at midnight . The new curfew , which applies to every day of the week , is designed primarily to save coal used in heating and providing electricity , Byrnes said . He added that the curfew also would be useful in the fields of transportation , man power , " and in other ways . ' Saloons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily on Chicago 's saloons , particularly those which- hold 4 a. closing licenses . State Rep. Michael Hannigan. president of the Illinois Tavern Owners ' association , said at Springfield last night that the after-midnight business a many taverns represents the difference between , operating at a profit and at a loss . Ile expressed fear that midnight closing of saloons might lead to the mushrooming of hundreds of speak . easies . " Also , ' he said , " the tavern owners have paid license fees to the city in expectation of -- being able to operate their accustomed hours . Obviously , with midnight closing . the license should be reduced . " ' Reduction to Be Asked . He Indicated that a request to this effect would be presented to the city council . News of the curfew order caused momentary consternation yesterday at a meeting of the Chicago . Cafe Owners ' . association , which was session at Hotel Sherman . The association is made up of more than 50 night club and cafe owners , including the largest clubs in the city . By a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling , but they also voted to send a representative to Washington to consult with Byrnes ' office . Night club owners pointed out that their most profitable business is after midnight , and that most places with floor shows present the shows at 9 and 11 p. in. and 2 a. m . Earner My.fitor Tiour Tined . Art Goldie , manager of the Latin Quarter cafe at 23 W. Randolph st , said an effort would be made to have legitimate theaters advance their curtain time in order to permit theater goers to visit night spots before midnight . He said the Latin Quarter will present its first show at 8 , instead of 9 p .. m . This schedule was expected to be adopted by other clubs , but it will mean abandonment of the last show daily . Chuck Jacobson , co-owner of the Rio Cabana , 400 N. Wabash ay .. said his place would start the dinner show at 7 p. m . Instead of 9 p. m. , with the last show starting at 10:30 p. m . Ernest Byfield . executive manager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In hotels would not be seriously affected by the order . " Most of these orders appear to be more serious at first than they actually turn out to be later , " he said . " The convention ban , for instance . brought a much smaller drop in business than was anticipated . We will cooperate with this order as we have with the others . " ? Jack Belasco , manager . of ti ? Woods theater , which operates all night , said the curfew order , would be observed . A spokesman for the Clark theater , which runs on a similar basis , said a conference of executives would be held to determine upon future schedules , and the Balaban &; Katz organization , which controls the Garrick theater , ordinarily , closing at 3 a. in. , said an announcement of policy will be made later . Bowling alley proprietors said the curfew order would chiefly affect leagues which normally bowl in the early morning hours , such as those composed of war workers on swing shifts . Lyman Bolger , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the industrial leagues start bowling at 2 a. m . Jerry Peck , manager of the Arena bowling alleys , said he did not believe the order would seriously affect most alleys , since they have experienced difficulty in getting pin boys after midnight . Byrnes himself expressed the view that closing of entertainment places at midnight should " impose no real hardships and I am convinced our people at home will gladly comply with this request in view of the fact that in the period just ahead of us those in the armed services will be making greater sacrifices than ever before . " Violators Face Penalties . ? He said he felt sure that state and local officials would cooperate " wholeheartedly " with the federal government In carrying out the curfew conservation order , and report any violations to the " proper au. thorities . " Altho the curfew decree is worded as a " request , " violators face the following possible penalties : Revocation of man power ceilings by the war man power commission , which would deprive them of employes ; shutting off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board ; prohibition by the office of defense transportation of shipment of supplies to violators ; possible revocation of rationing privileges by the office of price administration , and such additional penalties as might be imposed by local or state authorities , both of which have been requested to aid in enforcement . Follows Many Other Curbs . The curfew decree comes as the latest of a list of steadily tightening home front controls ordered since the German breakthru M Belgium . Others include : Freezing of civilian production by " industry at current levels . Dec. 16 ; closing of race tracks , ordered Dec. 23 , effective Jan. 3 ; employment ? ceilings on firms rated as " less essential , " Dec. 23 ; draft deferment reviews for professional athletes , Dec. 23 ; return of virtually all meats and vegetables to the ration list over the Christmas week-end ; induction ordered for draft deferred job jumpers , Jan. 3 ; review of farm deferments for men from 18 to 25 , Jan. 3 ; the convention ban , Jan. 5 ; the brown-out , with outdoor advertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of most new civilian goods production authorizations , Jan. 12 . Penalty Procedure Bared . ? W. H. Spencer , regional director of the war man power commission , said last night he assumed that revocation of a man power ceiling for an offending establishment would mean that the owner would be notified by the WMC that his employment ceiling is zero ; in other words , that he is not entitled to hire any employes . This fact would be certified to the war production board , which , In the event the employes did not consult the United States employment service for other jobs , could revoke the owner 's MRO maintenance , repair , and operation order , without which he would find it difficult to operate . In the event that the owner or owners were the only employes , similar steps might be taken directly by the war production board . Congressman Opposes Act . In Wazhington , Rep. Baldwin K. , N. TA opposed the midnight curfew as unnecessary and said it probably would lead to the reopening of speakeasies . " Members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will get it some way or other , " he said . " No such curfew is in effect in London or Paris  --  and I do n't think it 's necessary here . " - Sen. McCarran D. , Nev. felt that the ban , if continued for any length of time , would " bring the speakeasy back . " 