@@706707

txt Attorney General Biddle told Congress in a report today that thirty-six Federal employes had been discharged during the last year and that thirteen others ' had been disciplined for activities associated with alleged subversive organizations , but he declared that " sweeping charges of disloyalty in the Federal service " had not been substantiated in the $100,000 F. B. I. investigation ordered by Congress . A large part of the complaints , 2,095 completed cases involving alleged connections with forty-seven organizations ruled to be subversive , were " clearly unfounded , " and " never should have been submitted for investigation in the first instance , " Mr. Biddle stated . This , the Attorney General reported , was " conspicuously true " of a list of 1,121 names submitted at F. B. I. request last October by the Special House ( Dies ) Committee on Un-American Activities . " Hundreds of employes , for example , have been alleged to be ' subversive ' for no better reason than the appearance of their names on the mailing lists of certain organizations , " Mr. Biddle said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not even heard of the organizations with which they were said to be affiliated . " Dies Accuses Attorney General Representative Dies , chairman of the House committee , in a statement issued later , called the Biddle report political and accused the Attorney General of favoring employment by %he government of persons admittedly members of organizations which he himself had branded as subversive . Of the 1,100 persons named by the Dies committee , Mr. Biddle reported , only two had been dismissed from Federal service . Thirty-four dismissals , he said , had resulted from investigations of complaints coming from other sources . In one other case on the Dies list , the Attorney General reported , administrative action other than dismissal , such as reprimand or transfer from national defense employment ? it was not stated which in this instance  --  was taken . Twelve cases of " other disciplinary action , " he said , had followed investigation of complaints from other quarters . With his communication to Congress the Attorney General also submitted detailed reports from the F. B. I. and from the Interdepartmental Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assist in the inquiry . Members of this committee are Edwin D. Dickinson , special assistant to the Attorney General ; Francis C. Broen , solicitor of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ; Herbert Gaston , assistant secretary of the Treasury , and Wayne C. Taylor , Under-Secretary of Commerce . Until he resigned as Under-Secretary of the Interior in June , John J. Dempsey , a former member of the Dies Committee , was chairman of the interdepartmental body . 3,479 Cases Weighed in Inquiry On complaints from all sources , these reports stated , the F. B. I. considered 3,479 cases up to last Aug. 22 , the date of last check-up . After eliminating- persons no longer employed by the Federal Government and others not coming within the scope of the Congressional order , 1,814 investigations were ordered and 1,494 completed , with reports transmitted to the heads of the employing departments and agencies , it was stated . In each case , the reports said , the decision as to the taking of disciplinary or other action , or no action at all , rested wholly with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the cases on the Dies list , it was stated that 767 investigations had been ordered after eliminations had been made from the list of // FBI EXONERATES FEDERAL WORKERS // 1,121 for duplications and persons not falling within the inquiry 's investigation ( persons no longer employed by the government , civilian employes of the War anti Navy Departments , etc . ) . By Aug. 22 , the reports stated , 601 investigations had been completed and reports forwarded to the employing units . 69 Still Under Investigation Of the rest of the cases , the reports stated , ninety-seven of those involved were found to be no I longer employed by the government . Sixty-nine cases still are under investigation . In 498 of the cases upon which F. B. I. reports were made to the employing agencies , it was decided , Mr. Biddle said , that there was no basis for further administrative ' action . In submitting the 1,121 names , Mr. Biddle told the Congress , Representative Dies had'asserted in an accompanying letter : " The evidence which I am submitting to you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influx of subversive elements into official Washington . " Stating that in 1,178 completed cases the employing department or agency heads had found no basis for action against the employes involved , Mr. Biddle reported : " In view of the manner in which all investigations have been conducted and having regard for the attention which the departments and agencies have given to investigative reports , these figures referring to all he had presented may fairly be said to demonstrate that the government is not ' infiltrated ' with Communists , Bundists or Fascists . " Dies Replies in Statement Mr. Dies , in a statement issued through the committee , said : " In plain English , Mr. Biddle 's report means that he favors the employment of people in the government who are admittedly members of organizations such as the American League for Peace and Democracy , the German-American Bund , the Kyffhauser Bund , American Youth Congress , International Labor Defense , National Federation for Constitutional Liberties and others which even Mr. Biddle has pronounced subversive . " I am sure that the great majority of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the November elections do ' not agree with Mr. Biddle . This is the only issue involved in the controversy . " Even more critical of the investigation which the Congress demanded than was the Attorney General , the Interdepartmental Committee on Investigations reported that the results achieved " have been utterly disproportionate to resources expended . " " The futility and harmful character of a broad personnel inquiry have been too amply demonstrated , " it continued . " We respectfully urge that the project be reorganized promptly to exclude all but matters clearly pertinent to the vital problem of internal security . " Says Many Are Harassed More than 2,000 government employes , the committee stated , had been and were being " needlessly " harassed by investigations which did not require disciplinary action , and a large staff of agents had been diverted from " more useful employment . " " It is now possible to report that the overwhelming majority of the investigated cases have been investigated because the subject 's name appeared on the ' active indices ' of one or more ' Communistfront organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be noted that there is no law forbidding membership or participation in a front organization . At most , such membership or participation is some evidence of affiliation with the subversive organizations for which the organization provides a front . " It was disclosed in most instances that the employe 's name had been used for solicitation for mailing-list purposes without his knowledge or consent or that employe 's name had been handed down by an earlier front organization to a later front organization without his knowledge or consent , or that employe 's name had been added to the lists because he had agreed to sponsor what appeared to him to be meritorious causes in no respect incompatible with his patriotic duties as a citizen , made nominal financial contributions or attended occasional meetings , or that employe had knowingly permitted his enthusiasm for what appeared to him to be worthy causes to override any concern he may have felt about being associated in such causes with known Communists , or , finally , that employe had been active in left-wing employe unions whose thinking had approximated closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sources Stressed Some of the disclosures noted , the interdepartmental committee reported , might be thought " indicative of irresponsibility ill becoming a government employe , " but , it added : " It is not often that such disclosures can be said to require dismissal from the Federal service . " The nature and scope of the project have been such as to require a method of reporting information gathered from anonymous sources which is satisfactory neither to the employing departments or agencies , the employes investigated , nor the Federal Bureau of Investigation . " These situations , the committee conceded , might not be subject to criticisms as they developed during a trial period . It urged , however , that steps be taken to reorient the whole investigative program . It made these recommendations : Investigations of Federal employes should be restricted hereafter to those instances in which there is substantial reasons for suspecting ' that there has been a violation of law requiring prosecution or dismissal from Federal service . The Justice Department should exercise " the greatest care " in determining prima facie cases for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the end that all unnecessary embarrassment to employes and waste of investigative resources may be avoided . Urges Comprehensive Inquiries The investigations ordered should be made " comprehensive and thorough , unhampered by artificial classification of organization as within or without the scope of the investigative project , " and that the identity and credibility of informants be sufficiently reported to enable employing departments or agencies to take such prompt and decisive action as internal security may require in each instance . The employing departments and agencies should be encouraged to provide adequate and fair procedures for the disposition of individdual cases , including opportunity to be heard in all cases in which disciplinary action may be recommended . A permanent interdepartmental board or committee should be established to provide advisory review for individual cases upon request of either the employing department or agency or the employes . Noting that the Congressional directive for the investigation neither defined " subversive organizations " nor indicated standards to be applied , Attorney General Biddle reported , the investigation turned to authority in judicial decisions , administrative rulings and the legislative history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German-American Bund as " subversive organizations within legislative intent . " " Subversive " Groups Put at 47 Much difficulty , Mr. Biddle stated , was encountered in determining procedure with respect to various " front " organizations . Finally , however , the reports brought out , the list of " subversive " organizations was increased to forty-seven as the investigation proceeded . The reports did not list these organizations , but designated twelve as Communist or Communist-front organizations , two as American Fascist organizations , eight as Nazi organizations , four as Italian Fascist organizations and twentyone as Japanese organizations . Of the 3,479 cases considered , the FBI report brought out 2,290 government employes were alleged to have been affiliated with Communist organizations or " fronts , " 968 with German organizations , eleven with Italian groups , thirteen with Japanese organizations , and 149 with unclassified unAmerican bodies . Upon completion of an investigator 's report in each case handled by the FBI , the summation to Congress stated , the employe involved was invited to appear for an interview at an office of the FBI . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the bureau agent in charge informed the employe of the purpose of the investigation , stated further that questions would be based upon information received by the investigator , and advised the employe that he might answer questions if he desired and further that he would be given an opportunity to make whatever statement he might like to have incorporated in the record . " It was made clear in each instance that the interview was primarily for the employe 's benefit and that it was not to be regarded as a hearing . After the conclusion of the interview he was given an opportunity to read , correct and sign the transcript . " All statements , it was emphasized , were made under oath .                     