@@704547

txt Editor The New York Times Book Review : In an age notorious for its lamentable " repeal of reticence " it is inevitable , I dare say , . that a sensationalist with an itching palm or at best a sentimentalist who has not risen above a merely subjective experimentation with the ' sublimity of religious faith should seek to exploit her deplorable and failing experience as ' a nun for sordid and gullible minds . I refer to Alyse Simpson 's " The Convent , " favorably reviewed in the columns of the Book Review of THE NEW YORK TIMES issue of Sunday , Feb. 4 , by Edith H. Walton . As a nun , and in the name of millions of Catholics and nonCatholics who hold opposite viewpoints from this ex-nun author , , and who hold the religious life in high esteem , being conversant with its sublime objective and practical service to humanity , I strive to bespeak a refutation of this review , else slander the book may become to the public  --  especially the uninformed portion of the public ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such experience as Miss Simpson says she had . In the first place I have never heard of a convent anywhere having been named The Mystic Rose , which the author says she entered . There may be such a one , and we shall assume that there is verity in this preliminary statement of the author ; assume , too , that it is a convent approved by the Catholic Church , for such approval is a necessary condition to a true religious-house foundation . Furthermore , such approval either directly from Rome itself or through an authorized prelate of the church is not given without inquiring into essential conditions conducive to developing the religious spirit as well as the bodily , welfare of its members and aspirants in accordance with the best traditions and knowledge of the sciences . of both the spiritual life and physical health . That Miss Simpson as an aspirant sadly lacked the rudiments of the former , that is , the religious spirit , at the outset is evident from her having suppressed at the time of her entrance into religion ( as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her motive primarily pique at the defection of a lover , and definitely charts her as an undesirable and one unfit for the sublime life into which she presumed to enter . St. Francis of Assisi , beloved of the whole world and a lover of humanity beyond the dreams of most philanthropists in the history of the world , whom we regard as the seraphic father and founder of our order , once said : " He who enters religion with a wrong motive lies to the Holy Ghost . " Usually such a lie is detected before a candidate ( called a postulant ) or a novice ( that is , a nun clothed in the habit of religion but still not essentially a religious in that she has not pronounced vows ) reaches the end of her novitiate training . I should say from the glaring evidence of Miss Walton 's revealing review that the chief fault , if any , on the part of the community that received this woman was one of too great charity , of naive faith in one who may even then have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which the reviewer says may have deceived her ( the reviewer ) into a conclusion that this ex-nun 's book is " a valuable document . " Documents presuppose documentary evidence . Setting aside for the moment the glaring falsehoods about religious and conventual life as it is lived by approximately 100,000 nuns in this country alone  --  and this is virtually a replica of conventual religious life all over the world ? Miss Walton herself acknowledges this serious disqualification for making a just review of the book . She says : " As a reviewer , I feel a certain extra-literary hesitancy in approaching such a book as this  --  partly because I lack background for judging the accuracy of its facts , partly because it treads , obviously , on so many toes . " The last is , to us nuns , too trivial for consideration , so absurd in the face of facts are the author 's biased and purely emotionally subjective reactions to the life she was privileged to experience for a time . It is the presenting of this distorted picture of our conventual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger , especially danger of breeding misunderstanding of an influence of tremendous spiritual and humanitarian value to the citizens of this country and many others . The first reason for the reviewer 's failure properly to evaluate this book , that of " lack of background for judging the accuracy of its facts , " is manifestly a serious admission . It needs no further comment . Two points I should like to make , however , in correction of fallacies which the author sets forth , as told by the reviewer , who apparently swallows them with the most gullible appetite for the sensational and sentimental . One is the idea presented of a nun who " escaped through the connivance of a forthright woman doctor " from her conventual home , having like the author , presumably , been " appalled by the lack of intellectual stimulus anywhere in the convent , by the lack of books , time for meditation ? ? ( where ) there was nothing to satisfy those who were restless , tortured , intelligent , nothing but wild superstitions and blind childlike faith : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her apparently brief stay  --  and one wonders whether she was not dismissed herself and if she ever was even clothed in a holy habit ? that the canon laws of the church , applicable to all conventual life , make emergence from religious life ridiculously easy for those who have the tragic experience of losing their relish for the higher gifts of God ? One is bewildered betimes by contradictory accusations . We poor nuns are at times told by the unfriendly modern mind that we escape into the convent , and now we are told that there is such a thing as escape from it . The simple fact of the matter is that a nun dissatisfied in her conventual life has only to make application to her superiors for a dispensation from her vows and in due course of time  --  a very brief period  --  she is authoritatively released from her obligations and permitted without the slightest restraint to take up her life again in the world . I think it necessary to state in passing that this procedure is the exception , not the rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the requisite period of six full years prescribed by canon law of the church before they are permitted to make their final vows ) the most cherished hour of their religious lives in the act of final profession and consecration of themselves to God 's service for life rarely seek such release from the obligations they deliberately assume . It might also enlighten both the apparently uninformed author and reviewer to know that there are no vows made at all if even in the most secret recesses of her heart a nun hypocritically pronounces vows ? be they ever so ceremoniously spoken  --  or if she bespeak such under coercion of any kind either from too urgent parents or ( if any such have ever existed ) of superiors in her community . The act of profession of vows  --  and that is when the aspirant literally becomes a nun ? must be a free and deliberate act . Such is the law of the church , and again I repeat that there is no vow unless these conditions are present . I can only conclude in Miss Simpson 's case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received her as an aspir ? ant kept her through kindness for even a brief period . Her unworthiness to be harbored in a religious house of our faith is so lamentably manifest that one can only hope  --  anti pray  --  that the Holy Spirit , to whom she made hypocritical obeisance , may flood her poor apparently " restless and tortured " soul with the light of grace and make her realize the fallacious reasoning of her unhappy approach to the most sublime life possible on earth . One wonders if there is not a grievance behind it all in that a woman descends to the lamentable " repeal of reticence " to such an extent as to reveal her poor troubled self in this fashion to a gaping world . To become a barterer in betrayals is not the happiest kind of substitute to make for a life of intimate union with Christ as a consecrate member of His Mystical Body on earth . One has a right to expect that even an ex-nun ( unless driven by grievance or abnormal point of view or deliberate malice ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being lived sincerely and beautifully within cloistral walls , even though she herself obviously failed to either apprehend or rise to its glorious possibilities , as to remain silent and reverent and prayerful instead of foisting a vicious travesty on a world that will , for the most part , fail to understand . The charge of lack of intellectual stimulus within cloistral life is too ridiculous to ponder . I know no more highly educated women than nuns , and I know of no more prodigal provision for higher learning and research in the fields of religion , the arts and the sciences than those afforded by convents and the superiors in conventual life . As for the author 's charge that no time is afforded for meditation , that , too , is too silly for argument . A life in the religious state is a lifelong . meditation , and there has never been a religious order founded that received the approval of the Holy See of Rome that did not make specific assignment of time for daily meditation . SISTER MARY CLAIRE , 0 . S. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Editor The New York Timers Book Review : It has been brought to our notice through letters addressed to our London house that rumor has it in New York that Maggs Bros. have closed down their Paris branch for the time being . Would you kindly allow us to deny this most emphatically ? Actually the very contrary is the case , and we are at present particularly active in developing even more than heretofore the export side of our business , in order to help the French State procure the foreign currency it will require in the successful prosecution of the war . Anything American customers , libraries and booksellers can do to help in this will be greatly appreciated by the whole French ( and , of course , British ) book trade , and they may , indirectly , be helping themselves and the United States as a whole at the same time . MAGGs BROS . Paris .                     