@@706934

txt A vigorous protest over Gov . Leverett Saltonstall 's nomination of Judge Davis B. Keniston as Chief Justice of the Boston Municipal Court was made immediately after the announcement today by Attorney General Robert T. Bushnell , who charged that the Governor failed to " appoint the one man who is capable of coping with the criminal situation in Boston . " Attorney General Bushnell , who is in the middle of a campaign to clean up Boston 's gambling racketeers , produced a letter written to Gov . Salstonstall on Jan. 16 recommending that Associate Justice Joseph T. Zottoli be appointed as the new Chief . Justice . " The operation of criminal syndicates have reached astounding proportion in this city , " the Attornew General wrote . " Judge Zottoli , as an Associate Justice , has been aware of the situation . He has stood like the rock of Gibraltar against them . The influence of these people is extensive . I have no doubt that htey will be greatly pleased if , once again , Judge Zottoll is passed over for apopintment as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's letter to Governor Saltonstall follows : " In view of recent developments I wish to renew and emphasize as strongly as I may the recommendation I made to you orally last week for the appointment of Associate Justice Joseph T. Zottoli as Chief Justice of the Municipal Court of Boston to fill the present vacancy . " As you know Judge Zottoli. after 18 years of faithful and capable service and as Associate Justice is , by virtue of senority , acting Chief Justice . Know cne has a greater familiarity with the administrative affairs of the Boston Municipal Court than he . His judicial qualities , integrity , and character are of the highest and his record is unblemished . " In addition to the above qualification Judge Zottoli possesses certain others which I do not believe are presented in the case of any other individual available for this appointment at the present time . The operation of criminal syndicates have reached astounding proportions in this city . Judge Zottoll , as an Associate Justice , has been keenly aware of the:situation . He has stood like the rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is extensive . I have no doubt that they will be greatly pleased if , once again . Judge Zottoli is passed over for appointment as Chief Justice , Seen as Handicap " The appointment of any individual to the position of Chief Justice of the Municipal Court at this time , not moving the understanding of the criminal situation in this city possessed by Judge ' Zottoli may handicap present attempts to remedy it , and it is for that reason that I am particularly concerned about the appointment . " I might add that the advance- ment of the qualified Senior Associate Justice of the Municipal Court of the City of Boston to the position of Chief Justice would be a refreshing indication  --  in this instance , at least  --  that the public is receiving the benefit of an appointment to a judicial position in which political considerations are disregarded . In a prepared statement released to the press this afternoon , Mr. Bushnell said : " I meant exactly and precisely what I said in the leter , both with regard to the disgraceful situation in Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Bench , particularly under present conditions in the appointment of the Chief Justice of the Municipal Court of Boston . Up to Council " I have done alll that I can when I called the situation to the attention of the Governor . Now it is up to the Governor 's Council . I have done what I considered to be my duty and assume that they will do theirs . " Asked for a comment on Mr. Bushnell 's criticism of his appointment of Judge Keniston , Governor Saltonstall said : " Mr. Bushnell came to my office last week and recommended Judge Zottoli . I received a great many recommendations . I had a list of 25 persons recommended for the job . " The responsibility of the appointment is mine and I assume the responsibility just as I suppose Mr. Bushnell assumes the rtsponsibility for his job . " As far as I know no disgraceful condition has existed in the Boston Municipal Court . The record of Judge Keniston in private and public life is above reproach . " I am very much surprised that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made public . I have always kept such recommendations in confidence . " Judge Keniston was named by Governor Saltonstall as Chief Justice of the Boston Municipal Court to fill the vacancy caused by the recent passing of Judge F. Delano Putnam . Judge Keniston has been serving as Associate Justice of the Municipal Court . At the same time , the Governor submitted the name of Joseph E. Donovan to serve as As'soclate Justice of the Boston Municipal Court . Judge Donovan has served as a Special Justice of the . Municipal Court since 1930 , when he was appointed by Gov . Frank G. Allen .                     