@@707689

txt President Roosevelt today made public without comment the texts of telegrams he has received from the governors of 42 stdtes in reply to his query on the acceptability of a federal ballot for American men and women in military service overseas . Mr. Roosevelt had received no replies up until 3 o'clock this afternoon from the governors of South Carolina , Tennessee , Mic hi gen , Texas , Wyoming , and Oregon . Results of Survey . The messages from the 42 governors renting to his query disclosed that : 1 . A federal ballot under Present law could be counted in only seven states . 2 . Soldier vote laws of 20 states made no provision for a federal ballot . 3 . The legislative bodies of 11 states are now in session or soon will be to take up ( ho soldier vote question . 4 . State control of the ballot is a sacred privilege granted by the Constitution and the attempts of the administration to force passage of a federal law usurping this right Is widely resented . Approval In Doubt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed by congress last week until lie could determine from the governors whether the new vote bill would provide any more soldiers the right to vote than does the present soldier vote law . The new bill provides a federal ballot that can be voted by persons overseas if they have made proper application and not received the ballot from their home state by Oct. 1 . They can use this ballot only if it Is acceptable and will be counted in their home states . The present soldier vote law waives state registra-1 tion and poll tax requirements . Tho Presidential electoral vote represented by the 20 states In which the federal ballot would not be counted totals 226 . The electoral vote of the states in which a federal ballot Is acceptable totals 73. 4 States Noncommittal . The 11 states whose legislators are expected to reach decisions on the soldier vote question have an electoral vote of 109 . The six states not reporting have 69 electoral votes . Four states  --  Rhode Island , Pennsylvania , Louisiana , and North Dakota ? sent the President noncommittal answers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt has been reported withholding decision on the bill until he received replies from New York , Pennsylvania , Michigan , Illinois , and California , the Ilve states with the largest number of voters . A telegram from Gov . Dewey of New York said a recently passed state law would " make feasible the use of any ballot which complies with the state constitution . " Green 's Reply . Illinois law already " gives those in the armed forces a far greater opportunity to vote than does the federal proposal and it would not be In the Interests of those in the armed services from our state Or Illinois to adopt the federal law , " Wired Gov . Green of Illinois . The federal ballot would be counted In California , hut no reply has las yet been received tram Miehlenn , Gov . Kelly , however , announced two clays ago his reply to the President would be that the Michigan law is ample to allow all Michigan soldiers to vote but that there is no bar in it to the use of a federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvania , replied : " It Is my desire hint Pennsylvania will talc ? whatever n1 ) 1 ) 1 ) 11000 action Is necessary before July if ; to afford all our men and women in the armed services the opportunity to vote . " The stiffest reply of all came from Gov . Neely who said he was convinced the West Virginia legislature would " refuse by an overwhelming majority to utilize anything the measure before you contains . I could not think of recommending to our lawmakers , that the many thousands of West Virginians in the armed services be insulted with an official expression of approval of the . deplorably Inadequate bill passed by congress , either as a substitute for West Virginia 's comprehensive law on the subject in question , or as a supplement to it . " Approved in California . The governors of the following states signified that a federal ballot would be counted in their states : California , Maryland , North Carolina , Florida , Alabama , South Da . kota , and Washington . In these states recently passed federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iowa , New Mexico , Idaho , New Jersey , Arkansas , Mississippi , Illinois , Georgia , Virginia , Kentucky , West Virginia , Nevada , Arizona , Connecticut , Wisconsin , Colorado , Minnesota , Montana , Kansas , and New York . The 11 states , whose legislative bodies are now in session or will soon convene are : Vermont , Missouri , Utah , Massachusetts , Delaware , Indiana , New Hampshire , Nebraska , Maine , Oklahoma , and Ohio . 