@@706896

txt Lower Greenwich Village lay under dense smoke from 4:30 P. M. through early evening yesterday as fire , following an explosion , raced through the three loft buildings from 188 to 196 West Houston Street between Sixth Avenue and Varick Street . Four alarms were sounded . When ' the fire was at its worst between 5 and 7 o'clock twenty engine companies , six truck companies , two rescue squads , a water tower , several fuel trucks , three searchlight companies and a number of auxiliary units were concentrated at the spot . First reports to Police Headquarters had men and women leap-. ing from the burning buildings . Actually all the employes in 188 West Houston Street , a five-story candy factory operated by the Rovegno Brothers , where the fire started , ran into the street . Eight persons were injured . Four of these are in St. Vincent 's Hospital suffering from painful burns All four worked in a candy-drying chamber on the factory 's top floor , where the explosion occurred . They got to the street by the front fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is Jose Maria Sanchez , 53 years old , of 98 James Street . The three others in hospital are Giuseppe Biosati , 60 , 61 Sullivan Street ; John Donardone , 60 , 7 Carmine Street ; Angelo Panezza , 55 , 114 Macdougal Street . The Rev. John Lennon of St. Joseph 's Church administered the last rites to Sanchez and Panezza . Less gravely injured were : Adelina Manti , 18 , of 72 Van Brunt Street , Brooklyn ; Ernestine Bonomi , 19 , 62 St. Nicholas Avenue ; Fireman George Schleier , Truck Company 3 , and Joseph P. Kaminsky , Truck Company 20 . The girls were hurt , as with some twenty others they rushed into the street from the plant of R. Gesell , Inc. , drug manufacturers , which adjoins the candy factory on the west . They thought it was their building that had exploded , they explained later . Fire Marshal Thomas Brophy , after questioning the men in St. Vincent 's Hospital , the girls who escaped from the candy factory . and Joseph Rovegno , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not obtained a satisfactory explanation of what started the fire and explosion . Deny There Were Open fires The meA , in the hospital , Mr. Brophy said , denied there were any open fires in the candy-drying room . They insisted that the heat for drying came from the plant 's steam heat unit and was forced downward from the roof to the drying vats by pressure from a motor on the roof . The men in the drying room said they noticed smoke just before the explosion , but before they could trace it a terrific blast shook the structure . They were burned in this blast , but staggered through quickly spreading flame to the fire escapes and started down with the fire hot on their backs . The third and fourth floors were vacant . Between fifteen and twenty girls were on the first and second floors . They fled to the street without their coats and without their weekly pay , as did the girls in the drug plant next door . Fire Marshal Brophy said that as nearly as he could make out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operates a laundry opposite the plant , ran to his window when the street shook . He saw the front red brick wall of the candy plant surge outward and bricks shower into the street . In the same instant flame gushed upward and within twenty minutes the roof collapsed . Rutkiewicz called the Fire Departmnt . Under Fire Commissioner Patrick J. Walsh a half-dozen lines of hose poured strong streams into the candy factory , the whole interior of which roared with flame . The fire leaped to the candy factory garage to the west and threatened the drug plant . Firemen shielded it with walls of water directed from rooftops in West Houston Street and in Bedford Street . The smoke , billowing upward , then eastward , was an ochre yel1 low . The hose sent down a steady rain . Firemen , the police , doctors and nurses of the Bellevue and St. Vincent 's Hospital disaster units sloshed through water ankle deep . Emergency hospitals were set up in a large furniture store opposite the factory . The blaze attracted thousands of persons but police lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might totter . After dark set in , three powerful searchlights brightened the scene . By 9 P. M. the five-story factory and the garage to the west were burned out , but still smoking heavily . The drug plant was scorched but undamaged . A row of old houses in Bedford Street were waterlogged . There was no official estimate on the damage . Fire Marshal Brophy 's men were to search the ruins for a final check on victims .                     