@@706640

txt The Congress of Industrial Organization Textile Workers Union I opened its plea for a 10-cent hourly wage increase in northern cotton textile mills before the War Labor I Board today with the assertion that earnings in the industry were so low that the vigor and health of the workers had been seriously impaired . Solomon Barkin , research director of the union , presented the union 's economic arguments at a hearing on tecommendations submitted to the 12-man board by a mediation panel . Opening arguments were confined to the demands affecting 28 New England mills whose workers are repre , ented by the C. I. O. union . Wage demands in behalf of American Federation of Labor workers in the New Bedford , Mass. , area and C. I. 0 . workers in a few southern mills will be argued separately later in the hearing . Four of the five panel members agreed that wages in the industry were substandard and all recommended an increase but did not agree on the amount . The employer member of the panel in each case , however , recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that amount in the northern mills . but recommended 10 cents for the southern mills . The public members did not recommend any specific amount . Mr. Barkin told the Board " it necessarily follows from the general conclusion concerning the Northern textile workers income that he is unable to sustain a maintenance budget and hardly able to cover a subsistence budget . " He said that the Work Projects Administration maintenance budget in March , 1942 , required weekly earnings of $31,21 in Boston , 530,92 in Manchester , N. H. , and $31.06 in Portland , Maine . " Actual weekly earnings . " he said , " for the average Northern textile worker were from Sfl to SA R week below these needed weekly comes . ' The effects of these low earning : upon the workers were abundantly illustrated by the unoin ' ! house and communities the Northern textile worker lives in . We also recounted the inadequacy of his food . We submitted photographs and statistics indicating the effects of these conditions on every phase of his life . Many physical defects remain unremedied because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conclusion shared by all member , of the panel that the income and level of living of the cotton te. - tile worker is certainly sustandard . " The same moral indignation which aroused the British in 1900 on learning of the ill effects of low wages on the physical status of its population should stir in the heart of every American who learns of the high rate of draft rejections among textile workers . This condition should not be permitted to exist . The textile worker , both North and South , despite his every willingness to fight the present battle for the four freedoms and for the liberation of the oppressed , is unable to do so in the same degree as other groups because his low earnings have impaired his vigor and left him physically defective . " Arguing for the full 10 cents demanded by the union , Mr. Bark . r. said , " Unfortunately , neither the employee nor the employer representatives indicate in any detailed manner how they arrived at the recommendation for a 7.5 cents wage increase for the Northern mills . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unorganized employers had voluntarily granted an increase of this amount in anticipation of the Board and to forestall unionization . " Mr. Barkin said that increase was granted by unorganized mills in the Greenville , S. C. , area where the union is conducting an organizing drive . He said two mills in Danville , Va. , announced the Increase the day before a meeting with the union to negotiate an agreement . " It is the function of the War Labor Board , " said Mr. Barkin , " to substitute rational consideration of wage issues for industrial strife . Voluntary concessions by unorganized employers in anticipation of a War Labor Board directive are not in keeping with this principle nor are they an index of full ability to pay or of the proper level of an increase . Rather , they suggest the appropriateness of a higher qwq the cotton textile industry if there were no immediate orospeets of a War Labor Board decision . " We have indicated two major criteria for determining the amount of the wage increase : The first is the substandard character of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be awarded to effect a real change in status . The second is the new of narrowing the disparity In wages between cotton textiles said otticrl branches of the industry and other ' New England industries . A 10-cent hourly increase is necessary to cccomplish this purpose , as other . visions of textiles have already granted a 7 to 7.5-cent increasel and wages in these other branches were from 10 to 15 cents per hour higher than in the cotton textile industry before this latest increase . " We are also prepared to prove the economic feasibility of this 10 cent proposal . It is our conviction that it can be absorbed without any real changes in the present price structure .                     