@@707682

txt In the heart of northern Burma , 150 miles behind the Japanese lines , a strong force of British-Indian airborne troops , supplied by American glider and air transport units , is exploiting g Surprise aerial " break-through " that menaces all Japanese north-south , supply lines in Burma . The site of their landing for the immediate establishment of an offensive pocket was officially described only as " southeast of Myitkyina . " That north Burma city is the hub of the whole Japanese operation in the area . Columns of Japanese had been reported advancing toward Manipur , in India . Allied forces are combating these drives in the Chin Hills and west of the Chindwin River . Additional details of the airborne invasion , which began March 5 , marked it as the largest aerial offensive operation undertaken by the Allies since the war started , it was reported at headquarters . Counter-Attack Fails The daring stroke , directed by Col. Philip G. Cochran ( the reallife model for Flip Corkin of the Comic strips ) , caught the Japanese by surprise . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was organized and expanding into a powerful threat to enemy rule m Burma that the Japanese mounted their first feeble counter-blow , an aerial softie that RAF Spitfires quickly broke up . The Allied forces had fanned out into a widening offensive east and west of their new stronghold before the Japanese discovered their supply lines were in danger of being cut . Jackie Coogan , one-time wonder boy of the movies , now a USAAF glider pilot , was the first ' to land his ship on the site of the advanced base when the big show started . Airborne engineers in the first wave of gliders , using mules also flown to the site , hacked an air strip out of the Burma jungles in twenty-four hours , and heavy transports were using it by the night of March 6 to reinforce the original garrison with additional troops and supplies . Some idea of the magnitude of the operation was given in a headquarters report which said that at one stage of the carefully planned operation a transport was leaving or arriving every forty-seven seconds . The jungle engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several miles away . With two airports functioning , fighters and fighterbombers are now able . to cover the ' ground operations and the aerial supply movements . The offensive was Interpreted in London as possibly the beginning of a bold maneuver by Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten , southeast Asia commander , to overcome the precipitous Burma terrain by wide use of threedimensional attack . The aerial leapfrog tactics , it was pointed out , might avoid much of the painfully slow ground moves that have characterized other Burma action . Some of the glider crews who missed the landing rendezvous or were forced down short of their objective went through hair-raising adventures in eluding Japanese patrols before joining the Allied forces . Some of them were picked up in jungle clearings by tiny " grasshopper " planes . Two groups have " checked in " not without casualties , after shooting their way through the jungle and swimming the Chindwin River . On " Invasion Day " Allied air and ground generals met in a series of conferences with Colonel Cochran to check last-minute details . The public address system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered to their places in the long rows of gliders . Air-borne engineers and technicians took places beside Indian troops with knives swinging on their hips . American and British colonels worked side by side with privates in hurrying the gliders into position . For a half-hour after the take-off the airtrains circled ar6iind the ' field to gain altitude before crossing the 7,000-foot mountain peaks of Burma . Several gliders were forced to cut their tow ropes over the mountains and radio instructions were sent out to tell them where to go to receive help . Some of the gliders , which had difficulty on the takeoff , landed within a mile of the airport , were brought back , and sent out again . Most of the troops were making their first air trip , and it was the first glider trip for all the fighting men . Some of the gliders crashed into the near-by jungle or collided with empty gliders ahead . Capt . Donald C. Tulloch of Ogdensburg , N. Y. , who was one of the first to land in a glider , set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the injured . Later Captain Tulloch organized night searching parties for men who landed short of the field . British assault troops stacked their guns when returning patrols reported the valley was free ' of Japanese , and helped the Americans drag crashed gliders off the runway . Often gliders passed within a few feet of men working on the field in the dark . Ammunition-carrying parachutes covered the valley floor for hundreds of yards around , and hung from trees . At dawn , the first funeral was held for four American and several British soldiers who had been killed in glider crashes . Tiny two-seater planes , flying at tree-top altitude , landed and picked up the injured . Hospital ? cases were flown back to an American commando base , where they were attended by Flight Surgeon Capt . Cortez F. Enloe Jr. , of 97 Aldershot Lane , Manhasset , L. I. , and Jefferson City , Mo . Colonel Cochran 's unit was composed of American airmen picked for their skill and daring . They were men who had already been decorated for outstanding achievements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training . Scores of the planes with the Commandos were tinder the command of 28-year-old Andrew P. ' Robert of Barrington , Ill . The gliders were under the command of William H. Taylor of Kilbourne Plaza , Washington , D. C.                     