@@707563

txt A decree signed by President Pedro Ramirez and countersigned by Foreign Minister Alberto Gilbert was issued this morning , declaring diplomatic relations between Argentina on the one hand and Germany and Japan on the other had been broken as of today . It added that passports would be delivered to the diplomatic representatives of these two countries and that arrangements would be made for the exchange of diplomatic and consular officials . The decree did not mention Italy . This was not surprising , since the Italian Government recognized by Argentina is the one headed by Marshal Pietro Badoglio , to which the Allies have granted the status of a co-belligerent . Relations between Argentina and Italy will , therefore , continue as heretofore . The decree was signed at S o'clock this morning and it was announced to the public at 10:10 by the famous sirens of the newspapers Nacion and Prensa , which are used only on the most exceptional occasions . In Washington Secretary of State Hull expressed gratification at the Buenos Aires action , which completed the line-up of twenty-one American republics to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentina would " proceed energetically " to take other measures consonant with its action for the security of the . hemisphere . Crowds Listen Calmly Large crowds gathered before bulletin boards of all newspapers , but on the whole the news was received calmly . The same calmness was noticeable later among the crowds that stood in historic Plaza de Mayo to listen to a broadcast speech by President Ramirez in which he explained the reasons for the rupture . Shortly after the break was announced an official of the Foreign Ministry called on Japanese Ambassador Baron Shu Tomii and the German charg ? d'affaires , Erich Otto Aleynen , and delivered their passports , together with notes informing them of his Government 's decision , The decree of rupture was brief . Its preamble , which was considerably longer , made the following points : First , that the Federal police had proved the existence of a vast network of espionage , to the detriment of friendly powers ; that such activities injured Argentina 's national sovereignty , compromised the Government 's foreign policy and endangered the security of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly responsible for these criminal activities . Third , that these illicit activities made the continued presence of the German and Japanese diplomatic representatives on Argentine territory incompatible with continental security . Fourth , that the obvious participation of foreign diplomatic representatives in espionage activitie ? obliged the Argentine Government to define its international policy in the light of new circumstances . Communiqu ? Wording Clearer The communique in which the rupture with the Axis was announced to the Argentine people was more explicit . It referred to the arrest by British authorities in Trinidad of an Argentine consul , Osman Alberto Hellmuth , and recalled that once before Germany had been found guilty of espionage in Argentina , since it was activities of this sort that obliged the German military attache , Capt . Dietrich Niebuhr , to leave Argentina last January . " Unfriendly acts " performed by secret Axis agents obliged Argentina to take elementary measures for her own defense , the commu- ' nique said . It ended by saying ' that the rupture with the Axis was also an expression of that continental solidarity that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In his radio broadcast Presidents Ramirez underlined the offense committed by Germany against Argentine sovereignty . The Government , he said , defends Argentine sovereignty and intends to do so in the future . The step taken today does not mean that Argentina renounces her right to act independently of foreign pressure , he went on . One Paper ' Withholds Applause The entire Buenos Aires press this afternoon , with the exception of the pro-Axis Pampero , applauded the Government 's decision . Razon said : " Today 's decision marks the beginning of an important phase in the fight against totalitarian tyranny . From today onward all America is one single bloc of a will and sentiment entirely dedicated to the cause of freedom in the world . Argentina , with her material and moral power , increased by the tonic of popular fervor , finds herself restored to the place of command that is her due . History continues its course . " Noticias Graficas said : " Rupture with the Axis opens a perspective of intense and direct ' cooperation with the sister peoples of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latitudes are today defending the ideals of freedom and the dignity ' of man . A new world is about to ' be born  --  a world of work and freedom , of peace and security , of cooperation and mutual help . The 1 decision to break with the Axis incorporates our country in the Iglorious column that is advancing toward this new world . It gives Argentina an honorable place in ' what is to come . " Colonels Opposed Move Pampero printed the text of the rupture decree and the other official statements on its front page Under small headlines and without comment . The newspaper Critica was suspended for three days and Wednesday 's final edition was confiscated because of a previous editorial entitled " Was Critica Wrong ? " The Under-Secretariat of Information and Press announced in Buenos Aires , according to The United Press . The editorial was published in connection with The Critica 's campaign for a break with the Axis . Up to 1 A. M. today there was still some doubt whether the Government had sufficient strength to fulfill its intention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least one section of Army officers in what is known as the GOU , a secret association of officers from colonels down who recognize the Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare , Col. Juan D. Peron as their leader . The GOU remained in conference from 6 o'clock last night to 1 A. M. , and at one time a possibility of a coup against President Ramirez and some of his ministers seemed so imminent that the Government was obliged to quarter troops and take extraordinary military precautions . Opposition also came from the nationalist movement . But President Ramirez and his advisers had laid their plans well . and both military and civilian 1 " neutrals " found themselves helpless because the Government controlled the rank and file of the army at El Palomar , the only important military base near Buenos Aires . Shortly after 1 A. M. the GOU acknowledged defeat . From everything that can be learned , the Argentine Government was sincerely indignant when investigations that followed Hellmuth 's arrest revealed the extent of German illicit activities . Foreign Minister Gilbert grew vehement when speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and the majority of the Cabinet felt Germany had grossly taken advantage of Argentina 's good faith                     