@@709089

txt While Zionist and Arab leaders were pondering with complete dissatisfaction Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin 's statement of policy in Palestine , terrorism broke out tonight in the all-Jewish city of Tel Aviv , where troops were called in to quell the rioting . It was reported necessary to open fire on the terrorists after four Government buildings had been attacked and three set afire . Early reports indicated that eight persons had been wounded by gunfire and scores injured by stones thrown by the rioters at police and other guardians of Government buildings . The Associated Press reported late Wednesday night in a dispatch from Jerusalem that , according to reports from Tel Aviv , two Jewish youths had been killed , seven persons seriously injured and fifty others slightly injured during the twelve-hour anti-British demonstration . From Tel Aviv ' tonight came the report of the first outbreak of violence since Mr. Bevin 's announcement . A group of youths armed with flaming torches swarmed into the street in front of the Government offiges and cast their torches through the windows . The building was set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was stoned . Reports by telephone indicated that a pitched battle had taken place between the two factions . Here in Jerusalem , there were scattered incidents of stone throwing by Zionists , but most of the targets were passing Arab-owned taxicabs , and there were no officially reported casualties . Rioters earlier in the day formed part of a demonstration by about 30,000 persons who protested the announcement of Mr. Bevin in various meetings held throughout Tel Aviv . After the meetings they refuse to budge from the stands they have taken since publication of the White Paper . Both say that they are going to resist to the last drop of energy  --  and , if need be , blood . Today 's reactions also included peaceful meetings to decide upon future action . The Zionists called a strike , which closed their shops from midnight to midnight , but , so that all could attend the meetings , they withdrew the earlier voluntary curfew order to stay at home Jewish personnel in Government departments and services , including railways , were permitted to go on working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off . Jewish newspapers will be down to two pages instead of four tomorrow because the printers obeyed the curfew . There were protest meetings all over Palestine and at Hebrew University 600 students condemned the " treacherous policy " of the Bevin statement . Arab Leaders Are Adamant . They announced their readiness to be called out by the Jewish national institution for whatever measures would be decided . Another feature of the day that helped to stir up tension was a clandestine broadcast in Hebrew , which characterized the Bevin statement as " a great betrayal " and , after urging the Jews to fight , stated that " what Hitler did in his murderous blitz against the Jewish people is now being repeated in the form of a slow-grinding political policy by the democracies " in Palestine . The Arab party called a meeting of all leaders and sent a statement to all heads of the Arab Government asking for their views in the current dispute . The party pointed out that under the terms of Mr. Bevin 's statement , the Drabs would be consulted on future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to any further immigration and asked the Arab Government leaders what their stand was on this subject . At the same time , the National Liberation League , an Arab LeftWing group , adopted a four-point RIOTS IN PALESTINE QUELLED BY TROOPS // formed into surging mobs and carried placards . First they attacked the district offices , which they set afire with flaming torches . When resistance developed from guards , they stoned the guards . A few minutes later , when the police arrived , they , too , were stoned . After a short pitched battle the police withdrew rather than cause wholesale bloodshed . After this success the Zionists went from one building to another until the military units that had been held in abeyance , were sent into action . Meanwhile , some of the rioters who were armed , fired at the railroad station , according to telephone reports from there . Another target was the income tax office , where members of the mob threw more torches , set it afire and then entered it . Huge piles of paper , believed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street and set afire . From there the mob , now completely out of control , moved to the light industrial building , which they also set afire . After the preliminary disturbthe next center of activity was at the postoffice , where windows were smashed . At about this time , troops stepped into the picture , and after having opened fire some semblance of order was restored . Meanwhile , other fires had been started and the rioters blocked the way of fire apparatus and otherwise interfered with operations . All the old enmities that have lain dormant for the past few weeks while Arabs and Jews awaited the announcement of Palestine policy , suddenly came to the surface again today . The cards are on the table now . Instead of placating one side or the other , it seems that Mr. Bevin 's announcement has brought out the fighting spirit of both sides . Both parties are adamant and program and called for the inclusion of the Soviet Union and the Balkan countries in the proposed Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry . This organization claims the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab Clergy Also Protests The Arab program calls for an independent democratic national Government , the spreading of democratic liberties , the stoppage of immigration and the distinguishing between Palestine and the Jewish problem . It holds that all current complications are the result of indifference by the British Government toward democratic liberties , and goes on to say that no AngloAmerican committee can solve the difficulties . The Arab clergy raised its voice also . It called upon American church leaders to realize that " Zionism , far from being a Jewish religious movement , is a political imperialistic movement with the sole aim of creating a political Zionist state'in Palestine with the support of British bayonets and American finance and pressure . " It also alleged that Palestine , with its million Arabs , had been forced to admit 500,000 Jews in twenty-five years and requested American clergymen to advise their Government and the United Nations to give refuge to the persecuted Jews in the same proportion . Early this morning four loud explosions were heard in the direction of the Holy City . Investigation showed that they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gate to mark the beginning of a four-day Arab feast . The gun was presented to the Supreme Arab Council by the British Army two months ago . The feast , known as Eid el Edha , has brought thousands of colorfully clothed Arabs here from all over the Arab world .                     