@@704475

txt Hulon Capshaw was removed yesterday as a city magistrate by the Appellate Division . Three members of the court found him guilty of yielding to outside influence in two policy cases in which James J. Hines , convicted Tammany district leader , was allegedly interested and with giving misleading testimony at the Hines trial . The two remaining jpembers of the court held he was guilty only on the last charge . All five voted for his removal . In the light of a Court of Appeals decision in an earlier case involving a magistrate , Capshaw is said by legal experts to have no right to appeal the order . In the earlier case the Court of Appeals said that the decision of the Appellate Division in such matters was final . On the Bench Since 1929 Mr. Capshaw , a native of Tennessee , had been a magistrate since 1929 , when he was appointed by James J. Walker , then Mayor , to fill an unexpired term upon the recommendation of a group of wellknown citizens including Bishop William T. Manning , the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martin W. Littleton Sr. and John W. Davis . He was reappointed in 1933 by Mayor John P. O'Brien for a full ten-year term which would have expired July 1 , 1943 . He has not sat as a magistrate since Aug. 2 , 1938 , when he was named by District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey in a bill of particulars as one of the officials allegedly under Hines 's domination . He could not be reached last // CAPSHAW OUSTED AS A MAGISTRATE // night for a statement on the decision . Mayor La Guardia , commenting on the outcome , said : " It is no surprise to me . I ordered charges filed against him on Feb. 26 , last . " Inquiry Made by Timelier 04 The proceedings looking to Capshaw 's removal were initiated by Jacob Gould Schurman Jr. , then chief city magistrate , immediately after the bill of particulars was filed . The specific charges on which he was removed were framed by Thomas D. Thacher , former Solicitor General of the United States and president of the Association of the . Bar of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a referee to investigate the magistrate 's conduct by the Appellate Division after it received Mr. Schurman 's request . Mr. Thacher 's report said Capshaw was actuated by considerations outside the evidence in discharging George Klein , alias George Weinberg , and others , on Dec. 9 , 1932 ; that he was similarly actuated in discharging the late Lulu Rosenkrantz , alias Silverstein , one-time bodyguard for Dutch Schultz , on May 6 , 1933 , and that he attempted to obstruct justice by giving deceitful and misleading testimony at Hines 's trial on lottery charges . Presiding Justice Francis Martin and Associate Justices Alfred H. Townley and Edward S. Dore found all three charges sustained *by the evidence . Justices Irwin Untermyer and James O'Malley found only the obstructing justice charge sufficiently substantiated . In the prevailing opinion , Justice Martin discussed exhaustively the testimony in the two policy cases and declared that the records " lead to but one conclusion , and that is that the magistrate had a preconceived determination to discharge the defendants . " The so-called Klein case resulted from a police raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy banks in Harlem . " The fact that there were fifteen persons employed in this place ; that there were seven adding machines , more than 200,000 policy slips , tabulating sheets , stamp pads , date stamps and other paraphernalia required to operate a large gambling establishment of this kind , and that the defendant Klein himself characterized the enterprise as ' one of the biggest banks in Harlem , ' appears to have made no impression on Magistrate Capshaw , " the prevailing opinion observed . " He said he was of the opinion that somebody was guilty but he did not know on whom to place the guilt . He then discharged all defendants . " There was positive proof that Klein had possession of the slips . One of the defendants stated to the officers that Klein was one of the bosses . Klein , as well as all the other defendants , had keys to the apartment . In addition , he handed the key to one of the pouches containing policy slips to- the police officer with the request that the pouch should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear and convincing testimony adduced against the defendants and particularly the defendant Klein , we are unable to perceive how the magistrate could have decided that the crime specified in the complaint had not been committed or if it had been committed that sufficient evidence had not been presented to cause him to believe that the defendants were guilty thereof and should be held to answer for the same . " Silverstein or Rosenkrantz had been arrested in an automobile following a chase during which police say they saw a package containing policy slips thrown from his car . Justice Martin observed that the record of his arraignment disclosed that the police had been asked a total of 304 questions , of which Capshaw put 197 . " The magistrate 's examination and discharge of the defendant , when considered in the light of the direct testimony of the people 's witnesses and the magistrate 's cross-examination of them , discloses an attitude toward the case before ' him indicative of bias , and unjudicial conduct which must have been influenced by considerations outside the record . His examination of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing was asked that might tend to establish his guilt . Turning to Capshaw 's testimony in the Hines case , Justice Martin 's opinion continued : " The record in the Hines case contains many pages of contradictory and misleading evidence given by Magistrate Capshaw in his attempt to establish his innocence and to bring about the acquittal of Hines . He undertook to show that not only the testimony of Weinberg and Davis J. Richard Davis , disbarred Schultz lawyer was false but also that the testimony of every witness in both the Klein and Silverstein cases was false . That effort ended in complete failure . " To accomplish his purpose he misquoted evidence . He even went to the extent of accusing of gross misconduct courageous police officers who had honestly performed their duty , which accusations were fully demonstrated to be false . " In his opinion Justice Martin reviewed in some detail questions and answers put to Capshaw as a Hines witness and asserted that many answers were evasive . Opinion of the Minority Justice Untermyer , writing for himself and Justice O'Malley , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Weinberg and Davis , the proceedings in the Klein and Silverstein cases required the conclusion that the magistrate was influenced by extraneous considerations . He said he thought the.testimony of Weinberg , who committed suicide before the second Hines trial , and Davis should be excluded because it was not given in the removal proceedings . The conclusion reached by the majority , he added , " Is a possible , but it is by no means a necessary inference , especially if due weight be given to his long record of public service and his excellent reputation . " " It is entirely reasonable to believe that the action of Magistrate Capshaw was the result of a misconception of the facts or the law , caused , it may be , by the summary manner in which such proceedings are conducted in the magistrates ' courts or by the confusion which seems then to have prevailed concerning the law relating to constructive possession of policy slips , " the opinion continued . " When , however , In undertaking to vindicate these decisions as a witness in People v. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the arresting officers in those cases as unworthy of belief on account of testimony which , without justification , he claimed to be inconsistent and incredible and when , likewise without justification , he suggested that the arresting officers in the Silverstein case had acted in collusion with the defendants in making the arrest , he far exceeded the limits which were permissible in attempting his own exoneration . I am constrained , therefore , to concur in the result on the ground that the third charge , in part at least , is sustained . "                     