@@705299

txt Democrats in both houses of the Missouri legislature used their superior number today to override Republican contentions of constitutional violations and score their second victory in a turbulent session . In Indiana the right of Democrat Henry F. Schricker to be governor was challenged on a charge of alien voting in Lake county . Details on page S. In Georgia Eugene Talmadge became governor for the third time and at once took steps to set up a one man regime . Story also on page 3 . I In an all night session last Friday , tightly knit Missouri Democratic majorities denied the governor 's chair to Republican Forrest C. Donnell and ordered a legislative investigation of his 3,613 plurality . Donnell has appealed to the state Supreme court . All of the court 's seven judges are Democrats . Pay Bill Rushed Thru . Today the Democrats disregarded Republican cries of " " void , ' and " unconstitutional " in rushing thru both houses a resolution providing per diem pay for legislators and clerks and contingent expenses for both houses . The measure Is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the stale constitution prohibits the legislature from transacting business until newly elected state officers have been seated . However , they were overridden by a vote of 85 to 61 In the house with four Republicans absent and a decisive voice vote in the senate composed of 29 Democrats and live Republicans . The Democratic controled legislature moved to prevent Donnell 's inauguration after C. M. Hulen , Democratic state chairman , told the body he had found evidence of vote frauds . The legislature appointed a committee , composed of six Democrats and four Republicans , to make an investigation . The official returns provided by the various county clerks and the Official count announced by the secretary of state showed Donnell the winner over Democrat Lawrence by 3,613 votes . The break In the normal procedure of seating the winner occurred when Morris Osborn , speaker of the house , refused to publish before a joint session of the legislature the election returns for governor . He based his omission on the contention that a doubt had been cast on the returns when the legislature approved a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term the situation one In which the law is on their side , but the Democrats hold the power since they are in office . The consti ? Itution is being violated , Republicans charge , by keeping . Donnell out of office  --  and at a disadvantage conceded by both sicbs  --  while an Investigation of the legality of his pro ? claimed election is being conducted .                     