@@711746

txt Shortly after 6 o'clock Monday evening Laurence Duggan , Director of the Institute of International Education and formerly a trusted adviser of the State Department on Latin-American affairs , fell , leaped or was pushed to his death from the window of his sixteenth-floor office in a building in West Forty-fifth Street . Five hours later , before there had been more than a brief police examination of the circumstances , and certainly before any calm conclusion could have been drawn , Representative Karl Mundt , acting head of the House Committee on Un-American Activities , issued in Washington the transcript of testimony given before ' that Committee in secret session twelve days previously which led to the appearance the next morning of a headline in this newspaper : " Fall Kills Dliggan , Named With Hiss in Spy Ring Inquiry . " The inference subsequently drawn from Mr. Mundt 's transcript was quite obviously what Mr. Mundt had in. - tended , which was to show a connection between the death , under circumstances that still , are not clear , of a former State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that Department and other departments of the Government . There was probably not a newspaper reader anywhere in whose mind that thought was not planted . What was this secret testimony which Mr. Mundt released to plant that idea ? It was testimony by one witness of his recollection of charges he had heard made nine years before by a selfconfessed former Communist spy to a State Department official , who did not take them seriously at that time , or since . The recollections of Isaac Don Levine of this nine-year-old conversation he had overheard between Whittaker Chambers and former Assistant Secretary of State Adolf A. Berle Jr. , . as made public by Mr. Mundt , was that Mr. Duggan was a member of a Communist " apparatus " in the State Department that was giving Mr. Chambers confidential papers for transmission to the ** Union . Mr. Mundt was giving circulation to hearsay evidence . If you count his version , it was hearsay twice removed . Mr. Chambers has now disavowed Mr. Levine 's recollection of the conversation . He never received any papers from Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He only believed Mr. Duggan to be proCommunist in 1939 . These charges released by Mr. Mundt against a man whose body was hardly cold are as serious as can be made . At the very least , they are charges of espionage against one 's own Government ; at their worst , they are charges of treason . Mr. Duggan was dead and therefore could have no opportunity to answer them . He had not even been called upon by Mr. Mundt and the House Committee to answer them during the twelve days . he was alive after they had been made . The Committee apparently had not even sought corroboration of them . Five hours after he is dead they are made public . And who was this man against whom these charges were made ? He was the son of a distinguished educator , respected by all who knew him . A law graduate of Harvard , he was the head of an organization concerned with exchange of students among countries in the hopes that a better understanding between peoples could thus be achieved . His associates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Under-Secretary Welles and another former Assistant Secretary , Francis B. Sayre , vouch for his honesty and his loyalty . Other close friends say he was a brilliant , sincere and sensitive man , loyal to his bones to those principles of democracy in which must lie the hope of our world  --  friendship for one 's fellow-men , respect for their opinions , compassion for their failures , hope that understanding can bring peace .                     