@@707078

txt Charging coercion of the Suffolk County Grand Jury by Attorney General Robert T. Bushnell , and strongly criticizing his conduct during their appearance before that body , counsel for Police Commissioner Joseph F. Timilty and five other Boston police officials filed motions yesterday afternoon to quash the indictments returned against them recently by a special session of the Grand Jury . The motions , filed with pleas in abatement with the Clerk of the Superior Criminal Court , were accompanied by affidavits which described events which were said to have taken place in the Grand Jury Room . The Attorney General not only was accused of being present during deliberations and introducing arguments on evidence which were irrelevant to the guilt or innocence of the officials , but it also was charged that Mr. Bushnell had " influenced or attempted to influence " the Grand Jury . In addition to Commissioner Timilty , the motions were filed in behalf of Police Superintendent Edward W. Fallon , Deputy Superintendents John M. Anderson and James R. Claflin , Capt . John A. Dorsey , add Sergeant Arthur Eunson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit the operation of gambling houses and the registering of bets in .. Boston . No motion was filed for Capt . Edward J. Keating , who also was indicted , but his affidavit describing events in the Grand Jury Room was submitted . Grounds Set Forth It was contended in the motions that the indictments were invalid on the ground that the defendants were summoned and compelled to testify without being informed of the nature of the investigation ; that the indictments were " vague , indefinite , and duplicitous " ; and that a " non-member " of the Grand Jury was present in the Jury Room , and " attempted to influence the jurors . . . and expressed his own opinion . " The police officials also declared that unwarranted publicity was given to the proceedings ; that these proceedings were not kept secret ; and that portions of the testimony were deleted at the direction of the Attorney General . In his affidavit , Commissioner Timilty said that Mr. Bushnell had asked many questions of a private nature and that private papers which he had brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered them returned . He said that photostatic copies had been made before the papers were returned to him . Contents of Other Affidavits Superintendent Fallon 's affidavit attributed to the Attorney General improper conduct and language " prejudicial to the defendant , " and asserted that he had " prevented the Jury from taking free , independent , and unprejudiced action . ' Deputy Superintendent Anderson alleged in his affidavit that the Attorney General had ridiculed him before the Jury for his inability to remember certain names and ages . Deputy Claflin 's affidavit alleged that Mr. Bushnell Jiad ordered the court stenographer to strike out one of his questions when the Deputy did not answer it . Captain Dorsey , in his plea of abatement , declared that the indictment against him was returned by the " direction , control , and coercion exercised on members of k the Grand Jury by the Attorney General . " Captain Keating 's affidavit asserted that he was not informed he was under investigation , nor that he was giving evidence against himself and that he " might he indicted . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to recollect several facts had subjected him to ridicule before the Grand Jury by the Attorney General . 