@@710317

txt A ban on the closed shop , jurisdictional strikes , and secondary boycotts Is contained DI the preliminary draft of a labor bill before the senate labor committee , legislators dis . closed tonight . The bill was prepared by the corn . mittee 's staff as a starting point for discussion by members . It contains no outright ban on industry-wide bargaining or the union shop . The draft , described by senators as likely to be changed in many details , now provides for : 1 . Outlawing of secondary boycotts and jurisdictional strikes , as well as strikes designed to force an employer to a bargain with a union which is. not certified under the Wagner labor relations act , lb correct practices for which an administrative remedy is provided under the Wagner act , or Ed violate any law . Mediation Agency Proposed An example of a secondary boycolt is where one union refuses to handle a merchant 's products made or handled by another union or by nonunion workers , The most common type of jurisdictional strike stems from a dispute between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Creation of a federal mediation agency independent of the labor department , with provision for a compulsory 30 day cooling-off period before serious strikes . Workers who violated this provision would Jose their employment and bargaining rights under the Wagner act . S. Making unions liable for tin . fair labor practices under the Wagner act , the same as employers are . 4 . Assuring employers the right of free speech In dealing with workers and unions . Would Outlaw Cheek-Off 6 . Freeing employers of any obligation to bargain collectively with foremen . The bill would permit fore . men to join unions . O. Outlawing of the check-off system of collecting union dues , unless approved in writing by individual workers . Under the check-off , the employer deducts a worker 's union dues from his pay and gives the money directly to the union . 7 . A ban  --  generally effective July 1 , 1948 ? on health and welfare funds controled solely by unions . The maximum penalty would be a $10 , - 000 fine and a six month jail sentence . 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breach of contract . 9 . Requiring unions to register with the labor department and file annual financial reports . Unions failing to do so would be ineligible for bargaining certification by the national labor relations board . Called " Highly Tentative " 10 . The ban on the . closed shop . Under a closed shop , no nonunion worker may be employed , II . Creation of a house.senate committee to conduct " a thoro study of the entire field of labor management relations . " The committee would report by Feb. 15 , 1948 . In describing the draft of the bill as " highly tentative and preliminary , " a committee member . said : " We have stuck nearly everything proposed Into it , and thus far there has been no vole on any single Issue . The job now is to try to separate the sheep from the goats  --  to decide what we want to keep and what to throw out . "                     