@@709047

txt ANGRY SENATORS DEBATE ON ' RECORDS ' OF PEARL HARBOR Republicans on Committee Say Inquiry Scope Is Limited by Strict Party Vote GEORGE DEFENDS ACTION He Asserts ' Confidential Files ' of Roosevelt Are Involved ? Hearings Start Nov. 15 By C. P. TRUSSELL Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASHINGTON , Nov. 2 ? Within three hours after the Congressional Pearl Harbor investigating committee announced today the starting of its hearings on Nov. 15 and released the judicial procedures for the inquiry , members engaged on the Senate floor in angry controversy , disclosing a fight along party lines , with the confidential records of President Roosevelt as a principal issue . The floor battle waged for nearly three and one-half hours . Shunting aside consideration of reorganization legislation , Senators Brewster of Maine and Ferguson of Michigan , Republicans , charged that Democrats , outvoting them 5 to 3 , had restricted the scope of the investigation by refusing to request President Truman to permit individual members to gather information anywhere within the Government , with or without specific committee authorization . They said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee and its counsel , they could not accept responsibility for the development of the whole truth as to the Japanese attack of Dec. 7 , 1941 . Senator Barkley , majority leader and committee chairman , countered that the Democrats were only preventing a general " cruising " within departments and agencies ' and asserted that Congress had given investigative authority to the committee to function as such , not to its individual members as " private detectives . " The Democrats had voted , Mr. Barkley explained , to ask the President to modify previous orders to departments and agencies so as to permit any individual in the Government to volunteer information and testimony to the committee without fear of prosecution or injury to his employment record . He expressed confidence that the committee 's counsel , former Attorney General William D. iitchell , would pursue the investigation to the limit of its possibilities . Barkley Opposes " Cruising " Senator George of Georgia , defending the position of the Democrats and declaring the wrangle " a tempest in a teapot , " said : " This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have information that John Doe or Bill Smith is able to testify before the committee , and wishes to testify . ' " This question involves the most confidential files of the man who was President of the United States when the attack on Pearl Harbor occurred , and who until a short while ago was President  --  the most important and highly confidential papers that any government can have . " I respectfully suggest that as long as the committee may determine who is to make examinations or who ft to have opportunity to scrutinize or to inquire the matter // should be left in that shape . My own feeling is that I would not want to make an investigation on my own , as a member of the committee ; I would certainly want to have the authority of the whole committee before I assumed the responsibility of taking out of the files documents of the character which may be involved in this case . " I regret there is the slightest feeling of fear on the part of any member in the honorable intentions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears are foundless and groundless . " Charges by Republicans The controversy on the Senate floor included charges by Senator Ferguson that in the midst of Congressional and public confusion over varying investigations into the state of preparedness at Pearl Harbor for the surprise Japanese assault , testimony of some witnesses had been changed by them , after an Army board inquiry had got under way . Senator Brewster insisted that some files pertaining to Pearl Harbor were missing , despite denials by Democratic members that they had received evidence to this effect . In debate Mr. Brewster insinuated that things had been " covered up " and that this tactic was continuing . Asked after the Senate session whether he thought " somebody , is trying to cover up something now , " he said : " There 's no doubt about that . " Immediately following today 's closed meeting of the investigating committee , at which the developing controversy was resumed after yesterday 's decision to postpone indefinitely a projected trip to Pearl Harbor , Senator Barkley stated that hearings would begin in Washington a week from Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time a 9-point set of procedures for guidance of the inquiry . There had been complete committee agreement on the procedures . In the midst of debate on the re organization bill this afternoon , Mr. Brewster arose " to report to the Senate " on what had been going on behind the closed doors at the Pearl Harbor Committee 's sessions . It had been found , Senator Brewster said , that authorizations given to individual members of the Mead War Program Investigations Committee , of which he and Senator Ferguson are members and of which President Truman was the former chairman , were being denied in the Pearl Harbor investigation . He emphasized that the , Mead ( Truman ) committee neveri had filed a report on which the membership was divided . Party Lines in Committee " We have finally reached a point , " he said of the Pearl Harbor Committee , " where the disagreement among members , unfortunately on majority and minority lines , indicates some concern as to whether we are going to accomplish the results which the majority leader ( Mr. Barkley was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to command the confidence of all elements of our citizenship in the good faith and the completeness with which the investigation had been carried on . We have come to a parting of the ways . " From the banning of giving of information on Pearl Harbor by departments and agencies , debate brought out , President Truman , on Oct. 23 , at committee suggestion , modified his order to those Gov- , ernmental units so as to make available to the committee any information material to the invest- , gation and authorize any employe or member of the armed forces whose testimony was desired to testify publicly . From this , it was brought out , there issued a move by the Republicans on the committee to ask the President to permit the gathering of information by individual members of the investigating body , This was defeated by the Democrats , and the . request sent to the President involved , instead , the right of anyone in the Government to volunteer information to the committee without prejudicial effect upon his personal record . All votes taken by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-three partisan line .                     