@@711025

txt An extension of rent control to June 30 , 1949 , - without further relaxation and providing for the restoration of controls over residential hotel accommodations was proposed today by Republican Senators Irving M. Ives of New York and Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut . The two legislators announced that they would introduce thier measure tomorrow . Their move , ' disclosed in connection with hearings by a Senate Banking and ' Currency subcommittee on the extension of rent control , represented the first proposal from the Congressional majority since bills to continue and strengthen rent control were proposed recently by several Democratic Senators . In proposing to extend the rent law for sixteen months the Senators said that " we hope and believe that there may be a real possibility of such an improvement in housing by that time that we may be able to decontrol rental properties " and that " the present February expiration date is too near the opening of the new Congress to allow for full and proper hearings and consideration . " Under the terms of the rent-control law enacted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 29 . The legislators indicated that in their view the modified rent law of 1947 nad proved defective in freeing hotel accommodations by reporting that , since its enactment , it had been " forcibly " brought to their attention that " extreme increases " in hotel rentals had been sought . " With these units decontrolled , and there being no other available housing facilities , such residents were in many instances forced to pay exorbitant rentals in order to // maintain a shelter over their heads , " the announcement said . " Because of the lack of adequate housing facilities , this type of unit , which would , under normal circumstances , be for transient occupancy , has fallen actually into the residential classification in the same sense as private dwellings . " Their proposal provided for a roll-back of residential hotel rents to June 30 , 1947 , except for instances-in which written leases of one year or more had been entered into since that date and more than sixty days before the effective date of their bill . The skyrocketing of residentialhotel rentals has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas in which there has been , simultaneously , the greatest scarcity of rental units . It was regarded by the Senators as " most difficult " to extend the present rent legislation with " complete fairness , " particularly in view of the " voluntary " 15 per cent increase allowed for extended leases upon agreement between landlords and tenants , a provision accepted by more ' than 1,500,000 tenants . Under the present law units placed under such leases are automatically decontrolled by at least the end of the year . Senators Ives and Baldwin proposed that the provision for the " voluntary " 15 per cent increase be continued for dwelling units and for residential-hotel accommodations , but that the rent ceiling on ' such properties be extended at the present level until June 30 , 1949 . Viewing the operations of the , local rent advisory boards established under the present law , the legislators suggested that requirements be changed to compel the boards to be " representative of the interests affected in the areas , " with both landlords and tenants represented . They also proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the request of either party " so that the rights of landlords as well as tenants would be protected , and that the Administrator of Rent Control be given a clear- definition of his authority in acting upon the recommendations of the boards for decontrol ' and general rent increases . The housing provisions of the present law , which consist mainly of priority for veterans in the sale or rental of new dwellings , would also be extended for sixteen months . The Senators emphasized that they " do n't like controls , " but in view of the fact that there had been " no substantial alleviation of the severe housing shortage , particularly in metropolitan areas , and in view of the increased danger of inflation , it is necessary to prevent unbridled bidding for needed and limited living quarters . "                     