@@712205

txt Ending of the work stoppage of 600 seafood workers was announced by John J. Del Monte , Commissioner of Labor and Industries . The union agreed to remove all economic restrictions , chiefly its recent banning of overtime , and the 32 fish companies agreed to take the men back to work starting today . to negotiate , and to make terms of agreement retroactive to May 2 . Left-wing union in Boston 's biggest and longest strike faces threat of being replaced by a rival union through failure of the CIO United Electrical Workers to sign the non-Communist affidavits and so losing its chance to get on the ballot in a labor board election . Page 5 . In Europe : Dutch Approve Atlantic Pact 65 to 7 The Atlantic Pact was overwhelmingly approved by the lower house of the Dutch Parliament after being assured that Netherlands ' interests in Indonesia would not be jeopardized . The vote was 65 to 7 , with only Communists opposed . Foreign Minister Vassil Kolarov has been elected Premier of Bulgaria , succeeding Georgi Dimitrov , who passed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgarian National Assembly was unanimous . Harry Bridges , head been the CIO Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Union , has been elected president of a new international Maritime Union at a meeting in Marseille of Communist-led World Federation of Trade Unions leaders . Five Romanians convicted of leading an underground terrorist movement near the Yugoslav border were executed in Bucharest . The five included a reserve air force colonel , a lawyer , a clerk , and two peasants , Washington : Baldwin Argues Against Isolation Senator Baldwin ( R ) of Connecticut argued against isolation and in favor of the North Atlantic Treaty as time approached for a Senate vote , expected late tomorrow . Supporters of the pact are confident the treaty will be passed free of qualifications , Page 1 I J A White House official said President Truman has told Secretary of Defense Johnson and Secretary of the Army Gray to " proceed with their investigation of so-called five per centers " regardless of whom it might embarrass . National : Both Sides Called in N.Y . Bus Strike Hopes for settlement of New York 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called by Mayor O'Dwyer for 3 o'clock ( e.s.t. ) this afternoon . William P. Kennedy , Canadian-born railroader and onetime brakeman , was named president of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen by the independent union 's directors in Cleveland to fill the vacancy left by the recent passing of A. F. Whitney . Australia : First Meeting Fails to Halt Coal Strike First of mass meetings of New South Wales coal miners have resulted in continuation of the 24-day-old strike , It was hoped meetings would open way for settlement . Meanwhile , Australian Workers Union officials charge Communists plan to disrupt the nation 's wool industry .                     