@@708828

txt ; ECONOMY MAPPED Drain on German State ' Called Relatively Mild ? War Curbs Severe SOVIET NEEDS FACED Big Powers to Supervise Small Nations ' Share in the Indemnity By JOHN H. CRIDER Special to THE Saw Yaps nun . WASHINGTON , Aug. 2 ? The Big Three agreement on reparations was believed by officials here to reflect the view of American experts that German reparations should be of a nature and amount to provide neither the ex cuse for rebuilding the German industrial war potential nor a need for Allied assistance in providing for the reindustrialization that would be necessary if she were to make high cash reparation payments . The principles laid down in the reparations section of the Potsdam agreement appeared to be mild in Comparison with the exactions made of Germany after the last war , but in terms of transfer from Germany of the industrial basis for her great war-making power and the stripping of her economy down to a level merely sufficient to sustain her " peaceful needs " it was regarded as much more severe . The reparations accord of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of Germany 's industrial potential across her borders but also employed language that approves such removals as Russia has already made and will make in the immediate future . General Principles Stated Except for exposition of the basic " deal " between Russia , on one hand , and the United States and Britain , on the other , the Big Three confined themselves to a statement of reparation principles that will be spelled out in detail by the Allied Commission on Reparations and the Allied Control Council . Regarded as of extreme importance was the inclusion of France as a party to the basic determination , deferred by the Big Three , which will be to decide the precise level of economic activity that should be permitted in post-war Germany and how much capital equipment she will need to sustain herself on that basis . The Potsdam agreement continued , however , the principle that reparations shall be handled in the first instance by the great powers , with the smaller Allied nations presumably applying through them for their share of reparations and indemnity . Specific provision is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Poland from its own share of reparations . Reference to the basic determination in relation to the whole // economic future of Germany and the related question of reparations was made by the Big Three in the following significant statement : " The determination of the amount and character of the industrial capital equipment unnecessary for the German peace economy and therefore available for reparations shall be made by the Control Council under policies fixed by the Allied Commission on Reparations , with the participation of France , subject to the final approval of the zone commander in the zone from which the equipment is to be removed . " The reference to the " control council " was apparently to the Allied Control Council in Berlin , consisting of the military officers of the great powers in charge of the administration of occupied Germany . The basic " deal " or agreement underlying the whole reparation scheme as worked out in Potsdam was disclosed as consisting of agreement on the part of Russia not to demand any German gold captured by the Allies and to confine herself to taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own eastern zone and from other specified countries , except for a specified quantity from the western zone ( administered by the other great powers ) . In return for this , the United States and Britain renounced their reparations claims in the eastern zone ( administered by Russia ) , of well as their claims on any German assets in Bulgaria , Finland Hungary , Rumania and eastern Austria . Industrial Equipment Defined The only industrial equipment that Russia can take from the western zone ( administered by United States , Great Britain anc France ) in satisfaction of her reparations claims will be 10 per cent of the part of such equipment as is determined to be unnecessary for sustaining the agreed level of German peacetime economic operation , plus another 15 per cent " of such usable and complete industrial capital equipment , in the first place from the metallurgical , chemical and machine manufacturing industries , as is unnecessary for the German peace economy . " But in return for this latter 15 per cent Russia agreed to make payment in kind ( barter ) with such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , timber , clay products , petroleum products and such other commodities Is may be agreed upon . " This is significant as reflecting the great desire of the Russians for the specified types of industrial units , which are more plentiful in western than in eastern Germany . It also offers some hope that western Europe 's dire need for fuel may be further relieved from an unexpected source . The agreement provides that the Russian payments in kind for the 15 per cent of excess equipment in the western zone shall be made " within five years . " Although details are not yet known , Russia 's declination of German gold may have considerable significance for the United Kingdom , which badly needs gold with which to obtain American dollars Certainly , the United States , holding most of the world 's monetary gold already , would not have need for German gold . Unofficial estimates have placed the amount of gold captured by the Allies in Germany at upward of $1,000,000,000 , but presumably a considerable part of this was looted from occupied countries and would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of Germany 's post-war economy as including " complete disarmament and demilitarization and the elimination or control of all German industry that could be used for military production . " More specifically , it provided that " production of metals , chemicals , machinery and other items that are directly necessary to a war economy shall be rigidly controlled and restricted to Germany 's approved post-war peacetime needs . " " Productive capacity not needed for permitted production shall be removed in accordance with the reparations plan recommended by the Allied Commission on Reparations and approved by the Governments concerned or , if not removed , shall be destroyed , " the document said . The agreement also provides specifically for : ( 1 ) Decentralization of the German economy " at the earliest practicable date " to eliminate " the present excessive concentration of economic power as exemplified in particular by cartels , syndicates , trusts and other monopolistic arrangements . " ( 2 ) Reorganization of economy . giving emphasis to " the develop . ment of agriculture and peaceful domestic industries . " ( 3 ) Strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making " external assistance " unnecessary . First consideration must be given to use of the rereceipts from exports for payment of imports essential to the German economy on the basis approved by the Allies . 