@@708444

txt South American dictatorships in Argentina and Brazil have chosen the stage . Chapultepec Castle , during the conference of American foreign ministers , to make dramatic gestures toward democracy for the purpose of cloaking and perpetuating their oppressive fascist regimes . Argentina , although officially absent , has been building toward a climax its campaign to convince the United Nations that the Farrell Regime at last has turned wholeheartedly against the Axis . The supreme gesture would be a declaration of war on Germany and Japan . Brazil . one of the most honored American countries and a fighting member of the United Nations . plans to emerge from the Chapultepee sessions clad in the bright garment of a long-deferred election schedule . A similar pattern of fascist propaganda underlies both of these moves despite their apparently wide divergence . In both cases . fascist regimes are trying to retain power while trimming their sails to the powerful winds of a reinvigorated world democracy . Valentim Boucas , principal economic delegate from Brazil . took evident satisfaction in telling about the coming elections . He said President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued during February . The Chapultepec sessions are scheduled to continue into March . Revealing Document Other Brazilian sources confirmed the imminence of an election program . The official Brazilian viewpoint is that the calling of elections would remove the last stigma of fascism from the Vargas regime . A revealing document has fallen into the hands of this correspond ent from inside Brazil that discloses how hollow the Vargas elections are to be . It is a copy of a letter written by one of the most powerful industrialists in Brazil to another even more powerful . From this letter it appears that the continuance of President Vargas in office is worth 100,000,000 cruzeiros or $16,000,000 to the industrial combines these men represent . This sum , it is declared , will be paid half by the Federation of Industries of S ? o Paulo and half by other contributors . The stated aim is to perpetuate privileges granted by the Vargas Regime , and to " make the public pay . " Part of these industrial funds is to be earmarked to buy the trols manipulated until " there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Qualifications to vote in the elections are so restricted that Senhor Boucas estimated 3,000,000 to 4.000,000 persons would be eligible in a population of 44,000 , - 000 . Voters have three types of cards . One resembles the traditional voter 's card of the pre-Vargas era . Another is the labor syndicate card . Last is the professional card . Commenting on methods adopted by the Vargas Regime to assure re-election of the dictator who has been in power since 1930. the industrialist 's letter said the electoral controls " already were in full execution " Corialano de Goes , Police Chief in Rio de Janeiro who held a similar position in Sao Paulo during the =hoofing of students on Nov. 9 , 1943 , was quoted as saying that the entrance of Oliveira Ribeiro in the Bureau of Social and Political Police , facilitates the electoral organization in factories . " Secret agents in as great num- bers as possible are being dispersed in factories having the greatest number of workers , " the letter continues . " Instructions always are the same  --  the agent mingles with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police role emphasizes that the very type of card entitling the holder to vote must have police approval . To make assurance doubly sure , this industrialist , speaking for his colleagues who favor President Vargas , says : " As for the labor vote . the Government can with impunity multiply the professional cards if labor proves troublesome . " Intimate detail is given of President Vargas ' reaction to the question whether he would afvor a military candidate to replace himself . Laughing , the dictator said the only candidate for Brazil will be one not needing an inauguration , He added , " Do you really take any possible military candidate seriously ? " The writer of the letter was not so sure the military can be discounted as a power in the coming elections . He recalls an unaccustomed coolness at the military luncheon tendered President Vargas according to ancient custom Dec. 31 . Always before President Vargas has been warmly applauded after his speech outlining his program for the coming year . This time the officers sat in stony silence . Even Gen. Goes Monteiro. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free democratic elections . The Brazilian Army is pictured as ingratiating itself with the people . It also is expected that some 20,000 troops now in Italy , when they return , will be imbued with a desire for more democracy at home after associating with Americans and British . Weighing all these factors , it appears that this group of industrialists have concluded that their main chance to retain their privileges lies in secret support for President Vargas but with care not to offend the growing opposition . A distinct possibility is seen that President Vargas ' days may be numbered . Such distant Brazilian and Argentine political developments are inseparable from the course of the Mexico City conference . Some form of showdown on the Argentite issue appears to be inescapable here . Brazilian maneuvers are likely to be publicly applauded since the official policy in Washington and other capitals of the Americas is disinclined to oppose internal fascism in a country actually aiding the war on the Axis . 