@@711111

txt The verdict of the New Hampshire primary-7-six delegates for Mr. Dewey , two for Mr. Stassen  --  affects the Republican presidential candidates in these terms : Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York is appreciably benefited . He is not decisively benefited . He demonstrated expected strength . His 6-to-2 victory does not add appreciably to his delegate-support ! It gives his candidacy a welcome psychological lift , and will enable him to enter the next primary test in Wisconsin April 6 with evidence . of voter backing in his neighboring state . The prospects of former Gov . Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota are appreciably impaired . He is not put out of the running . He challenged the New York Governor on what was manifestly Dewey territory , and the progress which he made among GOP rank and file who hardly knew him until a few-months ago is recognized as creditable by those who read beneath the political surface . The fact that he captured one delegate at large and one district delegate with a slate of delegates less well known and less well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these delegates all polled a significant total vote , will not be overlooked by Republican leaders in other parts of the country . Mr. Stassen has been edged in the first heat ; but he has not been run off the track . Indirectly , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan is being helped toward a presidential nomination he is not actively seeking . There are two developments in New Hampshire which encourage those who want to see Mr. Vandenberg the nominee , and this number seems to be increasing . His cause is helped by the fact that Mr. Dewey 's candidacy is not getting band-wagon momentum , without which many observers see a conven tion deadlock in the making . It also is helped by the known second-choice support for Mr. Vandenberg which exists here in both the Dewey and Stassen camps . A A A The New Hampshire results render the oncoming primaries in Wisconsin , Nebraska , Ohio , and Oregon the more meaningful . Nobody was eliminated here . Nobody was given an overpowering boost . In the judgment of those who recently have talked with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose to abandon his aloof and quiet tactics . He will give up the appearance of waiting for the nomination to come to him and will take to the road probably as far along the campaign trail as across the Continent itself . At this stage the Wisconsin and Oregon primaries both loom as particularly important . They could make or break Mr. Stassen . They could slow down Mr. Dewey to a walk . They can decide whether Mr. Dewey will enter the Philadelphia Convention with a sufficiently commanding lead to put the nomination within his reach or whether his delegate strength can do no more than help produce the much discussed deadlock . A A A Gen. Douglas 's open avowal of his own candidacy from Tokyo this week Associated Press Gov . Thomas E. Dewey adds a factor of unmeasured force to the Wisconsin contest . The immediate political reaction is that it will strengthen his running in his home state primary , the only primary in which his name is entered , and that an enlarged vote is more likely to draw from Governor Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly identified himself with the internationalist leadership of his party before , during , and since his 1944 presidential campaign , he also is remembered by Wisconsin Republicans for the extensive . firsthand drive he made in the State in a preconvention swing in 1,940 during which he strenuously cultivated the isolationist vote . Since General has not outlined and is not likely to outline his own foreign policy views within the next few weeks , his ' position will be interpreted by the record and views of his sponsors . His sponsors are overwhelmingly isolationist . His support will not be limited to the isolationist ranks , but his candidacy already is being made to appeal particularly to isolationists . New Hampshire is only the beginning of a preconvention campaign for the Republican nomination which is due to get hotter and probably closer within the next two months . Governor Dewey and Mr. Stassen will compete against each other three more times ? in Wisconsin , Nebraska , and Oregon  --  and in all three states Mr. Stassen will be in a more favorable situation than in New Hampshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division of the vote between Mr. Stassen and Mr. Dewey would not guarantee the nomination of either , but they would bring Senator Vanden-berg 's name still more forthrightly and formidably to the fore .                     