@@712444

txt The Czechoslovak Foreign Ministry has handed to the American Embassy a strongly worded note t Protesting against alleged espionage activity of United States Attach ? John G. Heyn and demanded that he leave Czechoslovakia within 24 hours . Czechoslovakia 's Roman Catholic bishops have backed down in the bitter church-state fight and told their priests to swear loyalty to the Communist-led government to stay out of iail . The Roman Catholic hierarchy told the priests they may accept their salaries from the state and swear loyalty to the government  --  a move they had fought so bitterly in recent weeks that some 300 priests have been reported arrested . 11 Bishops Sign The bishops ' new stand . declaring that they still " regretted " the recent enactment of the Church Control Law , was expressed in a statement to the nation 's 7,000 Roman Catholic priests and made available to western newspapermen . The bishops said they were allowing priests to comply with the law because they would be open to arrest and prosecution if they did not . Communist Minister of Justice Alexei Cepicka has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " broken as an enemy of the state . " The new law , which gives the government control of appointments , finances , and administration of all churches , was passed by Parliament Oct. 14 and becomes effective Nov. 1 . The hierarchical declaration was signed by 11 bishops , headed by Archbishop Josef Matocha of Olomouc . It was not signed by Archbishop Josef Beret ) . The bishops ' statement to the priests said : " If you accept , you do so only because of the pressure of external circumstances . It is necessary to defend you against possible consequences and save you for the spiritual care of the faithful . " Only last week the bishops had stated that it would be " unmanly " to accept the higher salaries proffered under the church law " while thousands of believers and other citizens suffer in prison and work camps . " It was , also reported without confirmation that church and state leaders might try , to get together for a resumption of negotiations for a new church-state agreement broken off last spring . In their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two new laws a violation of the Czech Constitution and " the freedom of the . church . " As a result . the bishops said , they themselves would not take any of the salary increases offered under the church law . Statement Shaped When accepting the salaries , the nation 's priests were told to make the following statement to their church superiors : " I declare that I accept the newly arranged salary because it is decreed under a measure which became law . By accepting this salary I do not assume any ; obligations which would violate my conscience as a priest nor the church laws . I proclaim again that I prefer tape spiritual interests of the . church and the unrestricted freedom of my priestly work to the material assurance of my existence . " The bishops told the priests to swear allegiance not only to the Czech Republic but to the Communist " peoples democratic regime " and to pledge to work for the betterment of the people , but to add this phrase to any oath : " ... unless it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the rights of man . " The Vatican previously ordered Czech priests to refuse to sign any loyalty oaths submitted to them by the Communist-led government .                     