@@704774

txt Under the pressure of the speed of events , the government 's plans for gradually gearing the nation 's economy to a three-year war are being transformed into a race against time . After the speed-up of industrial output , there now are plans for accelerating the production of home-grown food . The loss of food supplies from the Netherlands and Denmark , the menace of German invasion , the probable intensification of the U-boat campaign and the drastic restriction of shipping space for feeding stuffs has brought the threat of a food shortage nearer than at any time since the Spring of 1917 , when the country was within a few weeks of starvation . Pig and poultry farmers were warned today that they must reduce their live stock to one-third of the present total by Autumn . All farmers were told they will get much less feeding stuffs in the future , and for such supplies as are available priority must be given to milk and dairy herds , with beef cattle and sheep coming next to maintain the fertility of the soil . Drift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of live stock there will be compulsory measures to halt the drift from farm to factory to provide labor for the extra 2,000,000 acres of pasture plowed up last Winter . Minister of Agriculture Robert S. Hudson estimated that 70,000 farm workers have left agriculture since the beginning of tile war , doubtless attracted by the higher wages they can earn even as unskilled laborers in factories . As a first step against this drain the minimum farm wage will be increased next month to 48 shillings a week , representing an average increase of about 12 shillings over the present minimum . In addition employers in other industries are forbidden to take on any man now engaged in agriculture and those who have left for other industries must , if they become unemployed , return to the land . These and other measures , such as organizing conscientious objectors and the expansion of the Women 's Land Army , are expected to bring in between 30,000 and 40,000 additional workers . The increase in wages will be offset to some extent by a provision to permit a rise in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week instead of the present limit of 3 shillings . Farmers will pay the higher wages from bigger prices guaranteed for their produce , covering both wages and other higher costs . Some of the increase in prices will be passed on to the consumers . Finally , increased production is to be achieved through a survey of every one of the 300,000 farms in this country , so by August it may be known what each one of them needs , through increasing drainage grants , an offensive against rabbits and the taking over of large blocks of derelict land for cultivation in time for 1941 , largely by the use of labor gangs . Public Warned of " Shocks " LONDON , June 2 ( UP ) ? Minister of Agriculture Robert S. Hudson , in a radio broadcast to farmers today , told them " there will be many shocks " and that stringent measures must be taken if Britain is to feed her people and " overcome our difficulties and win the war . " He revealed in a forthright manner the fears of many British leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Isles by blockade and thereby weaken the morale of the people before attempting his threatened invasion by sea and air . " If we are to overcome our difficulties antt win this war we must face the facts , " he said . " There will be many shocks . " He explained that as a result of Germany 's invasion of Norway , the Netherlands and Denmark ships had to travel farther to supply the British Isles and that more and more ships were needed for munitions . " This must mean a drastic cut in imported feeding stuffs for animals , " he said . " It means that you will have to rely much more on what you can grow yourself . " Dairy herds and livestock must be maintained , he asserted , but feeding stuffs could not be exhausteed without crippling the nation . " You will need them badly this Winter , " he warned .                     