@@710781

txt just , back with three fellow congressmen from a food survey trip abroad , told reporters tonight that when European nations " want to make a touch , they feel an attack of communism coming on . " He said he saw no danger of western Europe " starving right away . " Clevenger and his colleagues , members of the house agriculture committee , were agreed that a special session of congress probably is not necessary to provide emergency foreign aid . Others in the group were Representatives Hill R. , Colo . , Gathings D. , Ark. , and Poage D. , Tex . . Washington , Oct. 4 ( /P ) ? President Truman 's food committee , hunting wheat to further President Truman 's program to provide food for Europe , got a partial promise today that 7,500,000 bushels will be siphoned out of the nation 's beer mugs . The committee , however , asIced the brewers to take on a bigger share of the job of finding 100 million extra bushels to balance ex ' port supplies with estimated minimum needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " larger program " which Chairman Charles Luckman of the White House citizens group said he believed " further consideration will enable the brewing industry to offer . " Will Disclose Program The conference with brewers ' representatives , , who said they could only commit their own companies and " recommend " to the rest df the industry , was held at the White House while President Truman woiked on a broadcast set for to . morrow night to drive home to the nation the urgency of the food conservation problem . The half hour program , starting at 9:30 p. m . Chicago time . will be directed to the nation 's housewives as well as industry , over all four major networks . It will be the first broadcast ever televised from the Wllite House . A spokesman for the food committee said Mr. Truman will disclose " the first phase of a specific program " but did not hint what he might recommend . White House officials indicated that Mr. Truman will offer something more concrete than the slogan of the food committee ? " Buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Release Stocks The conservation program recommended by the brewing industry spokesmen consists of these measures : 1 . An immediate end to the use of wheat or table grade rice in beer . 2 . Release for food use of all wheat owned by the brewers or under contract to them , estimated by the brewery representatives at 200,000 bushels 3 . Steps to eliminate losses and increase recovery of brewing byproducts used for dairy and poultry feed . The agreement came out of a six hour secret conference attene ed by Luckman , Agriculture Secretary Anderson , and representatives of the United States Brewers Foundation and the Small Brewers ' committee . Anderson estimated the industry uses more than 10 million bushels of wheat a year . Pledge Aid to Program The brewers ' representatives pros . ent " unanimously pledged their respective companies to the conservation program , " the White House announcement said . Brewers had little comment on the effect of the proposed program on the quality and flavor of beer . One told a reporter : " Some companies use wheat in their beer and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of individual preference and taste . " The whisky distillers ' organization , representing more than half the industry , agreed to halt the use of wheat entirely , but very little wheat is used by hard liquor producers .                     