@@711944

txt The North Atlantic treaty text received a generally friendly reception in the Senate today , but storm signals were flying for the parallel program for United States aid to rearm Western European nations . While Administration spokesmen predicted an overwhelming Senate vote to ratify the pact , one highlyplaced Republican , who requested anonymity , said that it might be difficult to obtain a two-thirds majority for the agreement unless the Administration leadership could demonstrate clearly that the pact and the arms program were separate issues , not only legislatively but in fact . Copies of the treaty text were distributed in the ? Senate when It convened today , but members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee had been kept informed as the negotiations progressed , and already had given informal and tentative approval . There " was no clear indication as to how soon the Senate would debate and vote on the agreement . It will not be placed before the Senate committee until it has been signed on April 4 . Senator Tom Connally , committie chairman , said that the public hearings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to know all about the treaty and to understand it . " Senator Scott Lucas , Democrat , of Illinois , the majority leader and traffic regulator on the Senate floor , said it was his view that several issues affecting the national economy would have priority before the treaty could be considered . He listed rent controls , the second-year authorization for the European Recovery Program , repeal of the Taft-Hartley labor law and extension of the reciprocal trade agreement authority as matters that the Senate would wish to take up first . The Taft-Hartley // debate alone will consume two or three weeks , and the discussion of the reciprocal trade bill is expected to be extensive . The initial reactions of Senators willing to be quoted were all favorable , but a large number declined comment and several others raised reservations relating to the size and scope of the arms program . Senator Harry F. Byrd , Virginia Democrat and economy advocate , said " I 'm for the pact providing it contains no commitment to arm participating nations , " and Senator Bourke Hickenlooper , Iowa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the agreement was sound but added : " Let 's find out what the plan is for contributions in money , equipment and other resources both by other nations and by ourselves . " Acheson Dist usses Arms Plan Addressing himself ? to this feeling in the Senate , Secretary of State Dean Acheson , in his radio address , tonight , declared that " the treaty does not bind the United , States to any arms program . " But he added that " we all know , that the United States is now the ' only democratic nation with the resources and the productive capacity to help the free nations of Europe to recover their military strength . " He said Congress would , be asked later to authorize this ' program . Senator Connally , as the Ad- , ministration 's spokesman on For- , eign affairs , took the leadership in the campaign for treaty ratification , and his strong statement in , behalf of the pact was echoed on the Senate floor by Senator Wayne Morse , Oregon Republican . Senator Connally said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and a " stern warning against aggression and armed attack " but that " it does not contain any agreement to automatically go to war , " leaving that question to the decision of each nation . He said the agreement " mobilizes the forces of peace against the forces of exploitation and war , " and declared his confidence that it would win " the overwhelming support of the Senate " since it rose above partisan conflict . Senator Morse said he wished to " disassociate myself here and now with any Republican point of view that if we enter into the North Atlantic pact we do not undertake what I think are very definite moral obligations to defend freedom when it is attacked or aggressed against by Russian communism . " " I think we will be deluding and deceiving the American people if we think in the first place we are even going to have time to declare the next war , " Senator Morse continued . " If it comes it will be on us with no warning whatsoever . " I wish to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves strong enough to defend ourselves against Russian aggression  --  and make it perfectly clear to the So . viet Union that we are going- to help other people defend them . selves against Soviet aggression , we have not a chance of stopping a third world war . " Senator Brien , Connecticut Democrat and chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomif Energy , said the treaty would have his " vigorous support " - be . cause he regarded it as " a states . man-like and judicious move to strengthen our defense against those who have refused for over three years to join with us in making a durable peace . " " We are doing now what we should have done in 1919 and in 1936 , " Senator added . " If we had realized then , as we do now , that war anywhere is war for us , and if we had notified the intended aggressor of that fact , the war would not have come * The third World War must be prevented , and I regard this alliance as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Senator Estes Kefauver , Tennessee Democrat , used publication of the pact as a springboard to give encouragement to the proposal of the Atlantic Union Committee for a Federal convention of democracies to explore the possibilities of federating the North Atlantic pact signatories as the first step toward world government . " Alliances may be satisfactory over short periods of time , but we know that in the long run a federation of democracies presents the best opportunity for halting the spread of communism and preventing war , " he declared . Senators Forrest Donnell , Missouri Republican , and A. V. Watkins , Utah Republican , who have been most critical of Administration secrecy in negotiation of the treaty , offered cautious noncommittal statements when the text was released .                     