@@704829

txt George L. Harrison , who has been with ' Federal Reserve System since its organization more than 25 years ago , has postponed for six months his resignation from the presidency of the New York Federal Reserve Bank so that he may continue to direct the affairs of that institution during the financial troubles stirred un by the European war . Mr. Harrison bad been scheduled to leave the Reserve Bank July 1 to assume the presidency of the New York Life Insurance Co . This has now been postponed until January 1 , at the request of the board of directors of the Reserve Bank . The - life insurance company 's directors have approved the delay . Mr Harrison 's plan to resign from the Reserve Bank and join New York Life Insurance Co. was first made known on April 11 , just two days after the Norwegian invasion . Events in Europe since that time have been of such sweeping importance to the financial world that the directors of the local bank felt it wise that Mr. Harrison stay on for a time . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local Reserve Bank head 's job is the helping to make policies for the Reserve System and the carrying out of those policies . Many questions have come up in recent weeks in connection with the Treasury Department orders freezing balances of invaded neutral countries . The Reserve Banks have been handling all the requests for ? permission to " unfreeze " those balances . The invasion by ' Germany of so many countries in Europe has also raised the question of proper handling of the accounts of those Government 's in this country . The New York Fed- eral Reserve Bank acts as banker for the central banks of the other countries . At a time such as the present , it is pointed out , the head of the Reserve Bank must spend much of his time in contact with Washington in connection with policy decisions . These decisions involve not only those of the Federal Reserve System but those of the Treasury ana of the State Department as well . Value of one with Mr. Harrison 's experience is particularly important in such times Moreover , there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank as a result of the war . This has meant more work for the bank 's executives Statement by Bank In announcing the postponement yesterday the Reserve Bank issued a statement which read in part : " It is now announced that , because of the extraordinary conditions which have since developed , the Board of Directors or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , with the concurrence of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , has requested , and the Board of Directors of the New York Life Insurance Co. has agreed , that Mr. Harrison 's resignation from his present office and the assumption of his new office be deferred until January 1 , 1941 , so that he may continue as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York until that time . " Mr. Harrison has been instrumental in organizing the large city banks for whatever pan they may have to play in the war , or in trin country 's preparations for war . Last fall the Reserve Bank bead organized two committee , of bankers . One was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all kinds this has not been active . The other was a for eign exchange committee , to handle problemb of that market ; this committee has had a number of meetings and has been active in other ways . Mr. Harrison joined the Reserve System or November 2 , 1914 , after graduation from Harvard Law School and serving one year as legs secretary to the ' late Justice Oliver Wendel Mimes of the Supreme Court . He was asiststsui general counsel at first . In 1919 he was ap pointed general counsel . In 1920 Mr. Harrisor became deputy governor of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and in 1928 he was elected head of the bank .                     