@@709492

txt Veterans and non-veterans at two rallies yesterday poured out complaints over the lack of housing .. Some Government figures , especially Representative Wright Patman , author of the emergency housing bill , were praised , while others , notably City Construction Coordinator Robert Moses , were denounced for their housing policies . But at the close of the day , which had been proclaimed " Housing Day , " one of the speakers wryly commented that no new homes had been opened . One program , however , held out encouragement . At City Hall in the morning , while 300 persons rallied outside , Mayor O'Dwyer listened for an hour and a half to a proposal by Nathan Straus , former United States Housing Admin-I istrator , that the city provide a $3,000,000 subsidy to permit the City Housing Authority to finance the construction of 50,000 permanent low-rent projects on vacant land . Says He Has Land , Backing Mr. Straus , who headed a delegation from Housing Action , composed of thirty civic , veterans and labor groups , told the Mayor that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sell at $1 a square foot and that he had received agreements from bankers willing to negotiate a $300,000,000 loan . Mr. Straus proposed the construction of two and three-story garden-type apartments to rent at $25 to $45 a month . After the meeting the Mayor announced he was " going to give it careful attention " and while posing for pictures told Mr. Straus ; " It looks that good to me . " Mr. Straus said he was optimistic over the Mayor 's reception and revealed that he was to return to discuss it once more with the Mayor within a week . The Mayor also told the delegation that he had not been responsible for the provision in the Sharkey bill that calls for a $16 room ceiling rental on apartments made available through rehabilitation of tenements . He said that when the plan had left his office he had understood the bill would ask for a $12 ceiling . The 300 persons in the rally in front of the Benjamin Franklin statue across from City Hall Park carried placards calling for homes . A broadcast was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president , describing the Housing Action plan and carrying pleas , from homeless veterans seeking action . Earlier , the New York County Committee of the American Legion , the Jewish War Veterans and the Catholic War Veterans sent telegrams to the Straus group denouncing it as a Communist front . 3,000 at Armory Rally Three thousand persons attended the " Operations Housing " rally at the Sixty-ninth Regiment Armory in the afternoon , sponsored by 350 posts of the American Legion . Representative Patman , the chief speaker , was hailed for his efforts to provide homes for veterans , and eleven Representatives from New York faced their constituents on the marked-out armory floor . Herman T. Stichman , State Commissioner of Housing , was heckled throughout his address as he described Governor Dewey 's policy of retaining private interests in the State 's housing program and seeking to limit public housing projects so that they would not establish belts of " lowclass areas . " His description of the State 's program for converting lbarracks into homes was booed as inadequate . Commissioner Moses , however , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including Representative Walter A. Lynch of the Bronx . Mr. Lynch said he was " thoroughly opposed " to plans for the construction of highways and other public improvements " until we get the housing necessary for veterans , " and added : " I do n't care what other people who are high commissioners in New York may think . " The audience , composed chiefly of persons who had been invited through the efforts of the DuncanParis Post , which last week had denounced Commissioner Moses for the same reasons , cheered . They also cheered when Mr. Lynch announced that Representative Vito Marcantonio , member of the American Labor party , was among the eleven Representatives from New York who were present . Others included James H. Torrens , Benjamin Rabin , Peter A. Quinn , James J. Delaney , Joseph L. Pfeifer , John J. Rooney , Emanuel Celler , Ellsworth Buck and Joseph Clark Baldwin . At the end of the meeting the Representatives sat in jeeps , which previously had been sold to veterans by the War Assets Administration , arid answered the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address , Mr. Patman de scribed the provisions of his bill and suggested that veterans be admitted to membership of the Mayor 's committee advising on nonhousing construction . This committee compares the need for , nonhousing projects with ' construction of dwellings for veterans . Other speakers included Hugo E. Rogers , Borough President of Manhattan , who denounced landowners for not making plots available for housing ; Vincent D. Cronin , vice commander of the New York State American Legion , who suggested " priorities to veterans before loans to foreign Governments " ; Judson Hannigan , special assistant to Wilson Wyatt , National Housing Expediter ; Frank M. Didisheim of the City Housing Authority ; Col. James Meader , Deputy Regional Administrator of the Office of Price Administration ; Marion Hargrove , commander of the DuncanH Paris Post ; Winston O'Keefe , executive secretary of " Operation Hosuing , " and Gene Kelly , the actor , who presided as chairman . Meanwhile Mr. Stichman an- , nounced that the State would open ' tomorrow converted barracks at Fort Tilden , Queens , as its third emergency housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will move in tomorrow and twenty-five on Tuesday , lie said . From the Woodbourne State Penikntiary , Attica . Prison and the 1Te. ? , 1York State Vocational Institution at Coxsackie came a corn : plaint signed by Daniel Allen , seeret:7.ry-t , i ' 08 . StriCT of the . : New York District , United Public Workers of America , CIO , that the State had failed to provide adequate housing for prison workers . " The prison officers in these institutions , " Mr. Allen declared , many of whom are returned veterans , are a good deal worse off than I the convicts they guard , and one is almost disposed to propose that in the absence of decent housing in the communities the prison officers be afforded housing in cells . " Commissioner Stichman and the Department of Correction , . he charged , " have , so far as we know , taken no steps to ? alleviate this situation . "                     