@@711249

txt Britain ended her mandate over the Holy Land last midnight . Lieut . Gen. Sir Alan Cunningham , the last British High I Commissioner , sailed from Haifa port , finishing British mandate guidance . Sir Alan 's departure from Palestine 's richest port caused little I excitement among the Jews , who control most of the city . The British fired a few rockets ' and searchlights spotlighted the I cruiser as it steamed from the harbor . Wearing the uniform of a British Army general , Sir Alan walked down a few steps of dock into a I launch that took him to the cruiser I Euryalus . Upon getting into the launch , he : turned and looked soberly up across the docks . There stood an honor guard of the King 's Company of Grenadier Guards and Royal Marine commandos . The launch pulled away amid the slap of hands on rifle butts . Puffs of smoke and the small , hollow explosions of a 17-gun salute drifted in to shore from the cruiser outside ' a breakwater . Preceding Sir Alan into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British commander . As tie arrived earlier at Haifa airport , Sir Alan took the salute of a picked fifty-man company of the Palestine police . Then he walked over toward his car , stopping to chat quietly and shake hands with Jewish Mayor Shabatai Levi and Arab Vice-Mayor Haj Ta Er Haraman of Haifa . His route to the dock was guarded carefully . No crowds were along the way . It lay mainly through Arab quarters , most of whose population had fled a few weeks ago after the Jews had seized control of the majority of Hc. , fa . The dock area was lined by Comet tanks . Near the dock gates , 200 or 300 curious watched Sir Alan pass . Work stopped inside the harbor and in near-by offices and warehouses so that employes might witness the brief ceremony of his embarkation . About 100 yards away dockers loaded and unloaded ships . Britain has ruled Palestine since she took it from the Turks in 1917 . She has held the mandate , granted by the League of Nations , since 1923 . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children refugees  --  arrived in Haifa from the Lebanese border about the time the mandate ended. , They huddled on the dark side Iwalk outside the dock waiting for Jewish Welfare Committee buses to take them to shelter . They , , came from Chaneta , Mazuoa and rHilom . They were brought overland from those frontier settlements to Nahariya , a GermanJewish settlement on the coast , and then by tug and lighter into Haifa . port . They said the border was quiet , now , but they had been under attack previously . The end of the mandate also halted the British sea patrol against ships carrying unauthorized Jewish immigrants to Palestine . Jewish sources said it was expected immigration ships would begin to arrive soon . The Jewish Agency also is negotiating for the transfer of about 30,000 Jews , held in Cyprus detention camps ' since they were captured while trying to enter the Holy Land witnut visas .                     