@@710932

txt to Tas8 NEW Yra : TuaesE.N I Special PARIS , Dec. ** weeks ' experience of a strangely fluctuating strike movement in France has proved two things : ( 1 ) that the Communist party does not have complete control of - the French laboring classes ; ( 2 ) that it does have strength enough to cause a crippling disturbance in production . What remains m doubt is how far the Communists would get if they decide , on orders from . the Cominform , to go underground and to fight with sabotage and armed violence upon an insurrectionary level . Latest strike developments have indicated that a project of that kind is well within the realm of possibilities . But the Communists ' strategy is not as yet defined . Some think . the present strike movement is not their main offensive but forms a rehearsal to give experience to their troops for the time when they might have to meet a firmer hand  --  like that of General de Gaulle . with a smile . But as the strikes grew more numerous and their repercussions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burst forth and it has become more and more evident that the public now has had enough . The general talk upon the streets blames the Communists and no one else for keeping on with the turmoil . Finally , the actual progress of the strikes themselves shows that the hold of the Communists over labor is not so great as party leaders have consistently claimed . At no time has there been a general strike . Orders have frequently been issued by the national strike committee for cessation of work and only a small percentage of workers have walked out . Workers who have been out several days have in some trades returned to work , dropping the strike despite the excited incitations of Communist comrades . There is also a considerable number of workers ready to return to jobs whenever the Government can give them full protection , as strikes in many places have been increased by intensive methods of intimidation . Nevertheless , no one can yet declare that the strike is a failure or be certain even that it is waning . The test will come with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers to deal with sabotage and strike intimidations and allowing the Government to place about 200,000 soldiers at the disposal of the Ministry of the Interior . If there were a strong Government in the saddle with a solid majority behind it , these measures would be sufficient to break the strike . A Clemenceau or a Tardieu would have acted long ago . Government Divided But the days when a Clemenceau or a Tardieu could take things in hand in France are long since gone . The present Government , though backed by a large majority , is singularly divided . It can not for an instant think of drastic measures which , would alienate the Socialists , who have been opposing Communist agitation for a general strike . The strength of the Communists , therefore , resides as much in the weakness of the ruling authority as in their ability to marshal their own numbers . They can count on hesitancy in Government action just as long as The workers ' - , , v demands have n4 heemSatlined. : -. i% Strike events have shown a drop in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 per cent of the key posts in- the largest labor organization  --  the CGTwhich has a membership of nearly five million . Communist party members number not more than one million , so that deducting the one million and a half supporters of Jouhaux , the Communists must still keep a guiding hand over some two and a half million who are not actual members of the party . These will dwindle somewhat if the strike begins to peter out . But the Communists have not played their final cards . Their real strength is revolutionary . They will not hesitate to pass to arms when other methods fail . For this purpose they are probably better prepared than any other political group . They possess trained crews of wreckers with experience in the wartime resistance against the Germans . They have training schools which have been busily engaged for a couple of years rearing young leaders in both political and revolutionary action . These leaders are eager to go . No Outside Aid In such a contingency French Communists could count only upon their own . They would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have practiced penetration of all types of organizations . No one knows the extent to which they are represented in police and in army ranks . There exists among Paris police a union organization which is distinctly Communist in sympathy , and in the Army there are naturally many Communists serving on a national compulsory military basis . However , since last May , when the Communists were in the Government , there has been a very considerable reduction of the number of Communists in directing positions within the Government . The Army has not been idle , and its secret services are probably well posted upon units which are not dependable . The police services of Paris have recently been considerably reorganized and thus far there have been no instances of failure to obey orders . If the Communists take to the underground they would Tight the same kind of battle that they fought against ' We Nazis and with just about the same chance of winning as if there . had been no Allied landings on the coast . Communist armed warfare in France could not be conducted successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unless it could be a prelude to an armed demon stration from the outside . It is evident from the foregoing that observers agree France can not be won for the Soviet Union on the basis of conversion . The Communists have recognized that themselves by a change in tactics , and they seem resigned , to having to rely on only their long-standing converts who will remain ever faithful to the cause of Moscow . Alien to French Mind Communism as an ideology is far removed from the French mentality , which is individualistic in the extreme  --  almost to the point of being anarchic . Those classes who have been drawn to the Communist doctrine believe that communism is the struggle of the working class , but on a French humanistic basis linked with all the ideals of the first French revolution . There are few in France with any broad knowledge of Leninist or Stalinist conceptions . French Communist leaders have been trained in Moscow schools . In France they are now training1 thousands of youths in all parts of the country in Soviet methods1 and ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the pure Soviet doctrine with a view to adaptation to the French mentality . The doctrines have received a heavy drenching the tricolor , and members have , been taught that they belong to , the " , French " Communist party . Threat Not Minimized Even thus adjusted to the relatively bourgeois ideas of the workers in France , the pure Communist doctrine has made little progress with the people . The French follow the Communists more because they think of them as farthest to the Left and therefore the fiercest enemies of the powers that be and the most ' likely to obtain some benefits for the common man . They grasp at Communist shouts for soaking the rich and neglect the rest of the propaganda . In this way the Communists have built a following among those persona who are badly paid and feel that the Communists can improve their lot . Even though France is not in danger of a sudden shift to communism or a swift conversion to Stalinistic views , leading politicians do not underestimate the dangers of the situation . They know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may seize power in the midst of a social confusion and may keep it . ut Strike Developments Indicate They Have Suffered Setbacks Party Weakened Communist action in precipitat-e ing and prolonging the series of ' strikes has undoubtedly weakened the party both politically and in I labor circles . In an unprecedented 1 five-day filibuster over the Government 's bill for exceptional powers to combat all acts of sabotage and to protect the freedom of labor , Communists were isolated as 1 they have never been by all the other parties represented . The behavior of Communist Deputies resulted in continuous expressions of disgust even from Socialist colI leagues on their immediate right and in indignant altercations with the Deputies in the rest of the House . Upon a national level this demonstration has lost the Communists many sympathizers . In labor circles the strike methods used have alienated Socialists and many workers who would otherwise be eager to support the fight for higher wages and for better conditions of treatment for the laboring class . Under Leon Jouhaux , a considerable minority of the General Confederation of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike and seeking to get an accord with the Government . Public Blames Communists In addition , increasing signs of impatience and fatigue with the constant disorders have been expressed in the attitude of the general public . When the strike began crowds were especially goodhumored . ? They took the stoppage of railway traffic with exceptional philosophy and seemed to put up with many other inconveniences " FRENCH EQUILIBRIUM " : A DUTCH VIEW Die Nieuwe Rotterdamsehe Courant ( Rotterdam )                     