@@706207

txt New England industry , already throbbing under impact of $2,500 , - 000,000 in war orders placed in the 19 months since the fall of France , today is faced with the prospect of absorbing no less than S4,500,000 , - 000 in additional orders within the coming 11 months . This means that in 1942 New England industry will receive orders for war goods that will equal the gross value of an entire normal year 's production . In other words , if you lumped together all the woolens , cottons , shoes , machinery , furniture , paper products and 1,001 other items of a normal year 's manufacture in New England they would equal in dollar value the amount of war goods that local manufacturers expect to make in 1942 as part of the nation 's Victory Plan . These figures are based on estimates compiled by the New England Council and from compilations of the Bureau of Research and Statistics of the Office of Production Management . The bare mathematics may not seem impressive until the human and mechanical factors involved in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated that New England now is devoting about 30 per cent of its productive capacity to war work . This already has brought jobs to some 300,000 persons . Since the most dramatic expansion was in the new industry of airplane and parts building , and in the revival of the nearly dormant shipbnilding industry , a large portion of these workers had to be trained in new lines of work . As this 30 per cent of capacity is inched up to 60 , 70 , and , finally 80 per cent of possible capacity , it will mean the constant changeover of workers . Men who have been fabricating automobile accessories in Worcester may be needed to chip castings in Quincy . They will have not only the dislocation of moving , but will require some schooling in the new work . The impact of war orders has been softened thus far partially by the fact that 80 per cent of the orders already granted have been focused in the Connecticut airplane factories and in the shipbuilding plants along the coast . At this writing , it is doubtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been awarded in New England . But this situation is now believed by such economists as Roger Johnson of the New England Council as certain to change . And New England is better prepared for the change . For at least $250,000,000 of the war money so far allocated to New England has gone into expansion of industrial facilities . These augmented facilities are daily coming into use to boost the total war production of the region .                     