@@711209

txt Leaders of eight national inter-church councils revealed here today a plan for the merger of the eight agencies into a single one , to be known as the National Council of the Churches of Christ in America . The church leaders , composing an administrative committee with representation from each of the eight agencies and headed by Dr. Luther A. Weigle , dean of the /ale Divinity School , formulated their plan here on April 3 . This was done on the basis of progress which had been made toward the proposed merger since it was first considered in 1941 , but announcement of the project was withheld until today . The unification movement " simply represents unity of action on common ground , " and " does not contemplate interference with forms of worship or doctrinal belief , " according to the announcement . The source of the announcement was the Owen L. Coon Foundation of this city , a two-year-old philanthropic organization which has been providing funds to meet organizational expenses of the merger work . Inter-church agencies considering the merger are the Federal Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Religious Education , Home Missions Council of North America , Foreign Missions Conference of North America , Missionary Education Movement of the United States and Canada , United Council of Church Women , National Protestant Council of Higher Education and United Stewardship Council . " The plan for such a merger was drafted several years ago and has since been before the ? eight existing councils and their member denominations for approval , " the announcement said . " Sufficient progress has now been made that a special committee for more definite planning for the new council has been appointed . " This committee , the eleven-person administrative committee , was the one which met here early this month , and its recommendations are to be submitted to the Committee on Further Procedure for Ratification , a group numbering some sixty persons . " Final approval will mean that Protestant denominations will ? be able to unite their efforts on many phases of their service programs in fields of evangelism , religious education , missions and social relations ; in the study of public attitude toward the Christian religion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the adequate financing of an . expanded program , " according to the announcement . " The sole purpose of the merger is to avoid duplication of effort and to increase efficiency of operation in all lines in which the churches have a mutual interest , " it was added . Present plans call for another meeting of representatives of the eight prospective merging groups , probably in New York in early May , to constitute themselves as a planning committee , from which will be named a smaller executive committee . A full-time executive secretary is to be appointed , legal counsel is to be employed to bring together the properties and other assets of the inter-church agencies , and a national group of laymen is to be enlisted to cooperate with agency leaders in plans for research , public relations and financing . Dean Weigle was quoted in the announcement as follows ; " This movement takes account of the fact that the Christian churches are already united in spirit . This is evidenced by many activities in the local community , such as union services , community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " At the same time , the agencies of many denominations sharing the basic essentials of a common Christian faith have been working in unity for years in such matters as religious education , missionary work and other causes . " The purpose now is to further consolidate these efforts so that the Christian faith may be advanced and the work of all the churches made more effective . " We are acting in the conviction that , without destroying denominational identities or limiting freedom of conscience , the ends desired may be achieved . " Many people outside the church wonder why the denominations , with so many purposes in common , take so many paths in order to accomplish these purposes . We may have the answer to that in the merger of our national interchurch agencies . " " Greater Returns " in View Members of the committee planning the merger , according to Dean Weigle , are of the opinion that the merger will " yield greater returns " ; will make more productive the work of national , state and local church councils , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw into the churches many who have not yet taken seriously the need for the Christian gospel . " The members of the administrative committee include Dean Weigle , Dr. Samuel M ! Cavert , general secretary , Federal Council ; Dr. Roy G. Ross , general secretary , International Council of Religious Education ; Dr. Mark A. Dawber , executive secretary , Home Missions Council ; Dr. Wynn C. Fairfield , secretary , Foreign Missions Conference ; Mrs. Ruth Mougey Worrell , executive secretary , United Council of Church Women ; Dr. Gilbert Q ; Le Sourd , Missionary Education Movement in the United States ; Herman N. Morse , secretary , Committee on Further Procedure ; the Rev. Earl F. Adams , Federal Council : Harry S. Myers , secretary-treasurer , United Stewardship Council ; Dr. E. Fay Campbell , acting executive secretary , National Protestant Council of Higher Education . The Foundation was established by Owen L. Coon , who is board chairman of the General Finance Corporation , president of the Chicago Terminal National Bank and a trustee of Northwestern University . Its activities have been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     