@@705502

txt AGREEMENT SIGNED Danish Minister Here Accedes After German Planes Scout Island STILL DANISH COLONY Vast Icy Land Is Placed in Hemisphere Defense Zone to Bar Seizure The test of the agreement with I Denmark is printed On Page 4 . By FJEC.A.IVA FISAUCTMOJET/V soecla.1 co Tan Nsvir 40118 WASHINGTON , April 10 ? The United States has taken Greenland under its protection and will insure its remaining a Danish colony , Presi ident Roosevelt announced today . An agreement signed here with the Danish Minister , Henrik de Kauffmann , gives the United States the right to establish American air bases and other naval and military facilities on Denmark 's strategic is-. land possession , which extends into the Arctic Circle between North America and Europe . The pact was signed by the Minister " on behalf of the King of Denmark . " German-occupied Denmark 's government , " of course , " did not participate . The agreement was precipitated , the White House and State Department said , by recent reconnaissance flights of German war planes over Greenland . The island is a possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important observation point for weather conditions over the British Isles , which Hitler ' may attack . The plane flights and other Nazi activities made it appear necessary to bring Greenland " within the system of hemispheric defense envisaged by the Act of Havana , " the State Department said . Provides for Fortifications Specifically , the agreement provides that in order to protect Greenland , the United States shall have the right to construct , maintain and operate any " landing fields , seaplane facilities and radio and meteorological installations " it deems necessary . The United States also obtains the right to " improve and deepen harbors and anchorages and the approaches thereto , " to install aids to navigation by air and sea and to " construct roads , communication services , fortifications ? ? ? and housing for personnel . " Although some diplomats in Washington thought that the gigantic island , almost as large as the United States east of the Mississippi , might be used as a base for American airplane escort of British naval convoys , officials insisted that no thought had been given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was stated on good authority that a party of American Army , Navy and diplomatic agents went to Greenland on Coast Guard cutters recently to investigate establishment of bases . It was ascertained , however , that no American forces have yet been dispatched there and officials insisted that no plans for sending them had been drafted . The State Department told of the flight of a big Nazi bomber over Greenland March 27 and of another of Hitler 's war planes the following day . This , other officials said , aroused apprehension in some quarters that Canada , which has feared Nazi occupation of Greenland since Denmark was overrun by German troops , would itself send forces to occupy the island . Bases for American Nations The wording of the agreement indicated that airplanes and vessels of all American nations , including Canada , a belligerent , will be able to use all bases and facilities es ' tablished " for purposes connected with the common defense of the western hemisphere . " President Roosevelt , in his statement , noted that the agreement was signed yesterday " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invaded Denmark , " and he expressed the hope for " quick Iliberation " of Denmark . The agreement , which , the Danish Minister emphasized , was made " after an open and friendly exchange of views , " stated that it " shall remain in force until it is agreed that the present dangers to // GREENLAND IS PUT IN OUR PROTECTION // the peace and security of the American continent has passed . " The agreement actually would remain operative until a year thereafter to allow return home of any forces sent , and it could be renewed on agreement of both governments . The accord puts Greenland , with its cold climate and long Winters , in exactly the same category as any of the islands off our coasts , including those like French Martinique , where this country has no basis , Stephen Early , White House secretary , said in issuing the President 's statement . " It will he defended if attacked , " he declared . Greenland . Mr. Early said , lies almost entirely in the Western Hemisphere . so that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical purposes . The eastern tip of Greenland lies east of near-by Iceland , which is guarded by British troops . The State Department in noting that the Danish Minister signed behalf of his King , said that " so long as Denmark remains under German occupation the Government ' , in Denmark can not exercise the Danish sovereign powers over Greenland and the agreement , therefore , was signed in Washing- I ton . " The Copenhagen government was not informed of the signing by the Danish Minister until noon today , when the White House announce-1 was made . it was learned , but the official statements issued here noted the acquiescence of the two I Danish Governors of Greenland in I the step . Free Entry of Supplies Allowed The agreement provides for free entry of American supplies , assures sympathetic United States consideration for the physical needs of the Eskimos and provides for the settlement of jurisdictional disputes . Explaining reasons for the agreement , the State Department said : " The agreement recognizes that as a result of the present European war there is danger that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations of the American continent , and accepts the responsibility on behalf of the United States of assisting Greenland in tile maintenance of its present status . " The State Department stated that , besides the recent incidents involving German planes , during the Summer . of 1940 three ships from German-occupied Norway arrived off the coast of Greenland ostensibly for commercial or scientific purposes . One of these ships , the State Department related , landed parties " nominally for scientific purposes but actually for meteorological assistance to German belligerent operations in the North Atlantic . " These parties were eventually " cleared out , " but , late in the Fall of 1940 , air reconnaissance was made over East Greenland " under circumstances making it plain that there had been continued activity in the region . " When German planes , one of them so large it could have carried a landing party or supplies , appeared again over Greenland late last month , the State Department continued , further steps for the defense of Greenland appeared necessary . Word of the activities of these planes was flashed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West , American consul and vice consul , respectively , who were sent to Greenland soon after the Nazis took Denmark . The State Department recalled that , under the Monroe Doctrine , this government declared ( with Congressional sanction ) that it would countenance no transfer of Western Hemisphere possessions from one non-American power to another . The department also recalled the Havana Conference of 194n , when the American republics made a declaration that " any attempt on the part of a non-American State against the integrity of an American State should be consid- I ered an act of aggression , " and further that the status of European colonies and possessions in this hemisphere was " a subject of deep concern to all the governments of the American republics . " Under U. S. Jurisdiction In its more technical parts . the agreement provides that , in order to assure speed , if this becomes necessary . in the establishment of American bases , the United States shall utilize any areas deemed essential without reference to formal lease . Denmark will retain sovereignty over these areas but . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States will have jurisdiction over all except Danes and Eskimos who may he turned over to Danish authorities for trial and punishment if they commit an offense . The United States may establish commissary stores and postal service for its own citizens and soldiers on duty and , on the requestof local Danish authorities , will make commissary supplies available to natives .                     