@@708321

txt The Army began displacing key personnel in Montgomery Ward &; Co. properties today in its sixth day of nominal operation of the plants , which also was marked by the opening of a Federal grand jury investigation into alleged interference with Army management of the company 's facilities here . Coincident with these developments , two more warehouses in Detroit were seized , bringing to sixteen the number of Ward properties in seven cities now in charge of the Army . In another step to compel compliance with Army directives , Maj. Gen. Joseph W. Byron , military manager of the seized stores , said officials or other employes dismissed for non-cooperation faced possible Selective Service reclassification . Most of the top officials so dismissed , however , were understood to be well past draft age . Army officers also took over records in the Chicago store pertinent to the Army 's operation of the sixteen seized properties . The officers , at the same time , took charge of the money in the safe at the Chicago retail store and had the safe combination changed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office made public a preliminary report to Secretary Stimson , in which he stated that Sewell Avery , board chairman , and other officials of the mail-order house had refused to operate the properties in seven cities under Army direction . ' General Byron said that arrangements have been made with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to make available funds necessary for operation of the ' properties . His report to Secretary Stimson stated that opportunity had been given to Ward representatives to conduct the company business and added : " Sewell Avery , chairman , and other company officials refused . I , accordingly , issued orders to them to do certain acts which were necessary for me to carry cut my mission . Again they refused . This will make it necessary for me to place operating personnel at each of the properties . This personnel will include officers of long experience in the merchandising field . " Seizure in Detroit Seizure of the two , Detroit ware ? houses was announced early today by General Byron , who said they were " necessary for effective governmental operation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also stated that Army men put at the head of company units in various cities had been instructed to take these steps : Displace all company personnel who do not carry out his instructions . Make arrangements for handling receipts and expenditures . Examine current payrolls and other records to determine the amount of wages to be paid retroactively under War Labor Board orders . Meet with representatives of all labor unions representing employes to make preliminary arrangements for putting into effect WLB directives . Mr. Avery appeared at his ? office this morning and remained throughout the day . He had no comment on the Army 's action on displacing key company personnel in the seized plants . Posters Warn Employes Employes reporting for work ' found posters signed by General Byron advising them that " you are now working for the United States and you have no other employer . " It added : " Cases of obstruction of our work will be reported promptly to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice for action . " Mentioning the possibility of Selective Service reclassification for employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped it would not be necessary to invoke these penalties against any one . In a statement later in the day General Byron expressed gratification at " increasing indications that the War Department will have the cooperation of a great majority of the employes of Montgomery Ward &; Co. stores under Government ' operation . " Stuart S. Bell , the company 's chief counsel , has explained that it will make no physical interference with the Army but , on the hand , will not assist the Army nor accept any " mandatory commands " from the Army . It was said that Army personnel seeking to move typewriters and other office equipment into the main office building found some doors locked , and admittance refused by guards at others . Three company officials were summoned before the grand jury , Harold L. Pearson , vice president and treasurer ; M. S. Shinnick , protection superintendent , and Stanley Houda , chief of guards , in charge of plant protection at night . The jury 's investigation , it was reported , was based on possible violation of - the Smith-Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jail and a $5,000 fine for interfering with Government operation of a war plant , and the general conspiracy statute involving interference with Government functions , which carries a penalty of two years and $10,000 . Attorneys pointed out that in order to find any violation under the Smith-Connally law the jury would have to decide that Ward 's is a war plant , which Ward 's has consistently denied . Government Affidavits Filed Government attorneys filed eighteen additional affidavits in connection with the Government 's suit seeking a ? declaratory judgment upholding the legality of the seizure , together with notice that oral argument would be made Monday on its motion for a temporary injunction . The affidavits included statements by Army officers , including General Byron , of the passive resistance encountered on the part of company officials , in conformity to the company 's previously enunciated policy ; statements from Detroit policemen that Ward 's stores in the Detroit area had been picketed , and- from Detroit CIO labor leaders that CIO unions in the area had discussed a labor holiday in support of the Ward employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Under-Secretary of the ' Navy , stating that the breakdown of orderly settlement of labor disturbances by the War Labor Board would , in his opinion , be detrimental to the war effort . New Manager at . Queens Store Lieut . Col. Edwin Hess has been appointed War Department manager of the Montgomery Ward &; Co. store at 150-18 Jamaica Avenue , Jamaica , Queens , effective yesterday . A spokesman for Capt . P. A. Carson , head of the six-man Army " team " which took over the store last week , made the announcement . G. G. Priestley has been civilian manager of the store .                     