@@704489

txt " Crime and politics ! " This was the caption Slate 's Attorney Thomas Courtney last night tacked on a gigantic canvas on which for weeks he has been sketching a sordid picture of vote frauds , juryl fixing , political sponsorship of exconvicts , and gangland intimidation of public officials . The state 's attorney last night said the picture still is unfinished . New figures are s " taige ? 37 " coming into the light . Strange and hitherto mysterious relationships are being exposed . " What it will show when the pielure is finished , I do not know , " he said . " But of this I 'm sure : The caption will be ' crime and politics . ' Acquittal First Step . " The picture began to take form , " Courtney explained , " when a jury freed Sam Orlando and Joe Vinci of vote fraud . They had been accused by numerous persons , of stealing more than 100 votes for Democratic candidates in the judicial election last June , We thought the evidence was overwhelming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come revelations that : 1 . A state policeman was given his pistol and star despite the authorities ' knowledge that he had escaped trial as a robber by being fowl *insane. 2 . Another state policeman had served a term in Pontiac. 3 . A man who dropped bombs front an airplane on a coal mine had been put in a state office thru the sponsorship of Ray Edmundson , head of the United Mine Workers ' union in Illinois and state leader of the C. I. 0 . 4 . An ex-convict who worked for the city served on the September grand jury which investigated syndicate gambling and which indicted Judge Eugene L. for conspiracy in accepting bail for criminals . d . The brother of Joe Vinci the defendant freed in the vote fraud case which Courtney now charges was tried by a fixed jury ' is Sam Vinci , who in 1926 was convicted et murder and freed last July on a conditional pardon by Gov . Henry Hon ner . Police now are hunting Sam for violating the conditions of the pardon . Jurors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of the current series of revelations and some of the difficulties end strange aspects of the investigation ! Courtney ' cut short a vacation in Florida when Vinci and Orlando were acquitted Dec. 20 . Tie ordered his staff to dig into every circumstance , get the background of every juror , and look into the record of the defendants . Courtney said his investigation immediately ran into a snag when he sought the criminal record of a suspect and found Police Commissioner Allman had given permission to Some one to take the picture and fingerprints of the suspects from the bu. reau of Identification on April 17 , 1939 , 11 years after his arrest . For two days efforts by the press to reach Allman for an explanation have been unavailing . Attorney Questioned in Florida . Attorney Ilarold Levy was associated with Attorney George Crane in the defense of Orlando and Vinci . Levy , as an assistant state 's attorney in 1928 , prosecuted several persons for a bank robbery . The case against one defendant was nolle pressed . The jury fixing investigation focused attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the detective bureau files , Courtney said . Last night Attorney Levy was reached In Florida . He said he had ao recollection of the defendant and : ouid not supply the missing link Courtney sought . Levy said he knew nothing about the removal of the recird . The first break in the investigation if the vote fraud acquittal was the admission by two women jurors that money had been given to them . A gobetween , Marvin Olson , said he was tohl " the syndicate Is interested in the defense of Orlando and Vinci . " Policeman 's Record Revealed . Then the name of State Policeman John Howe came into the investigation . One woman juror said Howe had told her she would be rewarded if she voted to free Orlando and Vinci . Courtney learned that Howe had a criminal record . Howe was indieted on four robbery charges in 1930 . , Courtney found that Howe did not go to prison . - He was found insane and sent to the Kankakee state hospital , irons which he was permitted to escape a few weeks later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been reinstated , and Howe also has been indicted for complicity in the jury bribery plot . The prosecutor In the 1930 case was A. L. Marovitz , who since has been elected state senator . Marovitz served as attorney for Sam Vinci in obtaining the conditional pardon from Gov . Horner . Smith Assumes Blame . . In an investigation ordered by Gov . Horner to find out who put Howe on the state police force , armed him wills a star and a gun altho he still was legally insane , State Director of Public Works Lynden Smith assumed the blame . Yesterday Courtney was considering the pardon granted to Sam Vinci . He was trying to learn what arguments were advanced by Senator Marovitz for turning the convicted killer loose . This is the second time in a few weeks that the prosecutor has been in contact with the state senator . The first instance came when Courtney began investigating the murder of Marinus Hvid , a north side garage owner who was beaten fatally by goons . A garage owners ' organization had expelled livid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recalled , and Courtney still is seeking evidence of a financial arrangement between the union and the garage owners ' association , but . Senator Marovitz , attorney forghe association , denies such a relationship exists . On City Pay Roll . Courtney next discussed the revelation that an ex-convict served on the grand jury that heard the gambling cases and Indicted Judge . Courtney believed this Incident Is significant but not of importance In the present Inquiry . Like Sam Orlando , this grand juror was a precinct captain , Courtney said , and was on a city pay roll until a few weeks ago . " We learned of the ex-juror 's past criminal record he served in Pontiac for robbery and was paroled in 1924 within a day after his selection for service on the grand jury . " Courtney said . " We watched him thruout the Month . We let him know he was being watched . " After the jury was discharged we questioned him and he admitted his record . lie did not withhold evidence of his past , because he was n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . As he had violated no law there was no prosecution . " Courtney said the grand jury that month had devoted much of its time Inquiries being made concerning rep-I resentations made to him In behalf of Sam Vinci . The fact that he was to be freed was not announced by the parole hoard In its monthly news releases . Later it was explained that Vinci was freed so he could go to a hospital in Wisconsin for treatment for epilepsy . Sans Vinci is the third of the Vinci brothers to figure in violent deaths In Chicago . Ins brother James was accused with Mike Carozzo and " Big Tim " Murphy , labor leaders , of the murder of Maurice Mossy Enright in 1920 . Tried separately , he was convicted , they were acquitted . On a new trial Vinci was freed . Then , on July 18 , 1925 , Jimmy Vinci and Machine Gun Joe Granata fought a pistol duel in the street at Wells and 29tH streets . Both were killed . On Nov. 19 of the same year Mike Vinci was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets . Before he died he blamed Joseph " Peppy " Geuero .. Genero was arrested and an inquest wits called on Nov. 21 in an undertaker 's shop at 2418 Lowe ayejNIJOhn Minatti , a friend of Mike Vinci , was called to the witness stand . lIe said he did not know Mike Vinci . Slain In Inquest Room . This statement enraged Sam Vinci . He screamed at the witness and called him a liar . Ile - was restrained and disappeared from the undertaker 's shop for a few moments . Then he returned with a pistol and fired several times al . Mudd , killing him . Sinn Vinci pleaded not guilty and offered a defense of temporary insanity . Ills family said he was epileptic . The jury found him guilty of murder and fixed Isis punishment at 26 years . He started serving his sentence early in 1926 , and with the usual time off for good behavior would have been eligible for release in 1941 . Late in October of 1939 Sam Vinci was seen on the streets of Chicago . He frequently was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a report to the police , and he is said to have bragged that his release cost $10,000 . He did not say to whom it was paid . Ile Is said to have added that the " sanitarium gag " was a lot of Music . Police Captain F.dward K. Kelly , then of the Deering station , made into investigating syndicate gambling in the city . As a result of that act 's , - ity , it was recalled , Courtney sought and obtained the cooperation of the Illinois Bell Telephone company In denying telephone service to handbooks , Indictment Is Quashed . The indictment voted by that . grand jury against Judge subsequently was quashed by Judge Joseph Graber of the Criminal court on the grounds that a judge 's actions are only subject to review by the legislature during Impeachment proceedings . Inasmuch as this ex-juror is considered by some authorities as having rehabilitated himself , his name is being withheld , as well as the man whose C. 0 . sponsorship put him on the pay roll of S. L. Nudelman , state finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-convict " was not part of Courtney 's investigation . Nudelman said he was considering what should be done , and meanwhile was standing back of his assistant . The man 's record included an 18 month term in the federal penitentiary in Atlanta , Ga. , for violation of the air commerce act . He admitted dropping nine bombs from an airplane over ' the Providence , Ky. , coal fields in 1930 . A strike was in progress and efforts were being made to unionize the workers . " A further evidence , of the power of the men my office is fighting is in the fact that another one of Vinel 's brothers is a deputy sheriff , " Courtney added , In summing up what has trans ! fired , Gov . Horne ? ' s Illness prevented any quirks at the home of Charles Vinci , the deputy sheriff , at 718 West 25th place . The Vinci family said Sam had been sent to a farm in Michigan . At that time the state authorities made their first announcement regarding the release of Sam Vinci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes , tuberculosis , and epilepsy . The condition of his pardon was that he be kept in a santtarium at Oconomowoc , Wis. , for at least a year . 1Iis return to Illinois was said to have been a violation of the condition of the pardon . Parole authorities obtained a warden 's warrant for his recapture . Chief of Detectives John L. Sullivan was asked to aid In finding Sam and putting him back in prison . Recently Courtney made public the record of a second state highway policeman to have a criminal past . This man was said to have lived down hat past , according to his superiors and his political sponsors . " And that , " said Slate 's Attorney Courtney , " is a glimpse of what we are up against when we start to break the alliance of crime and polities ? " 