@@710204

txt Begged Byrnes , but Mr. Bevin paused and then said slowly : " I think the country and the world ought to know this : I went next morning to the Secretary of State , Mr. Byrnes , and told him how far I had got the day before , and that I believed we were on the road , if only they would leave us alone . " I begged that the statement should not be issued , but I was told that if it was not issued by Mr. Truman , a competitive statement would be issued by Mr. Thomas E. Dewey . " Mr. Truman early in October cabled Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee his belief that " substantial immigration into Palestine can not await a solution to the Palestine problem and that it should begin at once . " He promised United States assistance to an immigration movement and pledged American support for any future " workable solution " for the Jews and Arabs of Palestine . Speaking strongly in favor of a partition plan put forward by the Jewish Agency , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state " in an adequate area of Palestine . " and that Britain agree to issue immediately certificates for 100,000 Jewish immigrants , The request obviously angered the British at that time . Still Holds Out Hope Amid cries of " Hear , Hear ! " from other members of Parliament , Mr. Bevin declared : " I really must point out that in international affairs I can not settle things if my problem is to be made the subject of local elections . " When the cheering died down , he added : " I hope I am not saying anything to cause bad feeling in the United States , but I feel so intense about this . When you have got a vexed problem with a thousand years of different religions , it has got to be handled with the greatest detail and the greatest care .... " Such problems , he said , " can lead to civil war before you know where you are . " Despite his protests , Mr. Bevin said , Mr. Truman 's statement was issued , " and the whole thing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance of a settlement yet , if people will come off their arbitrary position , without going to the United Nations . " British : Responsibility ' " I am still open to try , " he declared . But he added : " If it , was only a question of alleviating Europe of 100,000 Jews , I believe a settlement could be found . . . . Unfortunately , that is not the position . From the Zionist point of view , 100,000 is only , a beginning . The Jewish agency talks in terms of millions . " Earlier , after saying he had Force Shunned . Thus apparently ruling out the much-discussed possibility of dividing Palestine into separate Arab and Jewish states. , Mr. Sevin said : " We as the mandatory power can not solve the problem until the United Nations has recommended which of these three alternatives is to form the basis of the future organization of Palestine . " After studying maps , Mr. Bevin said , he concluded " you can not make two viable states of Palestine  --  you can make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab state . " A viable state means on capable of surviving as a nation . The Foreign Secretary gave no indication during his 75-minutes speech when Britain would surrender its League-of Nations mandate , although he declared that " the mandatory power can not go on forever " and that Palestine must become independent . He explained at the outset why Britain refuSed to impose a settlement by force of arms . Force applied to this problem would not produce a final solution and might produce wide difficulties in the Middle East and start us on the road which may well lead , in another quarter of a century , to another war , " he said .                     