@@709618

txt In a move of significance for the whole American labor movement , Joseph Curran has declared open war on the Communist political machine in the National Maritime Union . Mr. Curran thereby is risking his own position as union President in order to drive from power certain union leaders whom he is convinced will otherwise wreck democratic control of the organization . Huge Spendim- charged The situation within the N. M. U. has been drawing to a climax for more than a year . The present crisis was precipitated by the recent union election , which Mr. Curran called " one of the worst machine jobs I have ever seen ? and which appears to have resulted in major gains for the Communist clique . According to Mr. Curran , the Communist Party spent $800 a week to keep full-time representatives active in various ports to push the Communist Party slate . " I 'll never quit , " Mr. Curran told me . " If the union wants Communist control , they 'll have to vote for it . I 'll report to the membership , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competence , economic action , union policies , and so forth . I 'll deal with facts and then let the rank and file decide . Of course , I may be out in six months . " Although he spoke rather quietly ' , as we talked in his walnut-paneled office on West 17th Street , the N. M. U. President is a big man with a booming voice . When Joe Curran delivers a verbal broadside , the reverberations generally are heard far and wide . The action is important , not only for the 90,000 members of the National Maritime Union , but for the labor movement as a whole , and particularly for the C. I. 0 . Only a few days ago , Morris Muster resigned as International President of the United Furniture Workers of America ( C. I. 0. ) rather than work with what he described as a " completely Communist-dominated " Executive Board . Similar struggles are going on in other , unions . Vexing Problem The C. I. 0 . probably faces no more vexing question today than what to do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose aggressive and ruthless politics many non-Communist leaders have come to regret . The first move in Mr. Curran 's campaign will be to publish , in the current issue of the Pilot ( N. M. U. newspaper ) , the text of his remarks before a closed membership meeting of the Union on June 24 . Previously published parts of the proceedings at that highly charged meeting were described by Mr. Curran as inaccurate . Hereafter , Mr. Curran intends to carry battle reports to the membership through his column in the Pilot . He told me that in times past , Communists have prevented certain of his reports from reaching the rank and file and also have kept them out of the Pilot . This is regarded as a rather startling illustration of the power that can be wielded by secondary officers in a union organization . Names Antagonists Mr. Curran confirmed that the principal Communist N. M. U. leaders against whom he is fighting are Frederick " Blackie " Myers , Vice-President ; Howard , Vice-President , end Joseph Stack , N. M. U. Port Agent for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last February , Mr. Curran tried , without success , to force the resignations of Messrs . Myers , Stack , and from office . Asked whether he believed that Philip Murray , President of the C. I. 0. , should take a stronger stand against the kind of Communist infiltration to which the furniture workers and the N. M. U. have been subjected , Mr. Curran declared : " Murray said all he needed to say at Atlantic City . " In May , Mr Murray told an Atlantic City steel workers ' convention that ' ' . e union leadership would not tolerate efforts by any group to infiltrate , dictate , or meddle in union affairs . " He ca n't take positions over the heads of the unions themselves . In the C. I. 0. , the unions have autonomy and they also have all the nower necessary to deal with the situation . We 're not throwing this in Murray 's lap . "                     