@@706377

txt To provide effective distribution not only of the manpower but also of the woman power of the United States for the war on both the battle and home fronts , President Roosevelt established a War Manpower Commission of nine members today , with Paul V. , Federal Security Administrator , as its chairman . The President gave the commission , and particularly its chairman , broad powers and authority to decide upon the human needs of industry , agriculture and even , within prescribed limitations , of the military forces . That a " draft " on the home front was contemplated was indicated by the fact that authority was granted to formulate " legislative programs designed to ' facilitate the most effective mobilization and utilization of the manpower of the country . " Although organized labor , which has sought to have the commission placed under the Labor Department , could have not more than one member upon the commission by the terms of the Executive Order , the President appointed Sidney Willman as Special Assistant to the President on labor matters . Hinman-Hopkins Parallel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be similar to the position held by Mr. Harry Hopkins on Lease-Lend and Munitions Allocations . " Some observers thought the White House statement indicated that the official War Labor expert and C. L 0 . official might generally supervise the commission 's activities , as does Mr. Hopkins in his field . In addition to Mr. and Donald Nelson , chairman of the War Production Board , the commission will be composed of " representatives " of the Departments of War , Navy , Agriculture and Labor , of a newly created Labor Production Division of the WPB , and , as well , of the Selective Service System and the Civil Service Commission . The old Labor Division of OEM , headed by Mr. Hillman , is abolished . After consultation with board members , Mr. will exercise the powers outlined by the President " to bring about the most effective mobilization and the maximum use of the nation 's manpower in the prosecution of the war . " He would do this , it was specifically stated , " after consultation with the other members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Draft While it was stated that the new board would not interfere with the Army and Navy and that the Selective Service would continue to function as heretofore , other provisions of the Executive order and the White House statement , issued simultaneously , made clear that Mr. , after consultation , would have some powers even in this regard . He received the power " to issue directions and make regulations and standards " to the Selective Service system " with respect to the use and classification of the manpower needed for critical industrial , agricultural and governmental requirements . " " In other words , the chairman of the War Man Power Commission will have the power to see to it that adequate supplies of workers in industry and agriculture are provided from Selective Service registration records , " the White House statement said . The Labor Division of the War Production Board , which Mr. Hillman has headed , was abolished under the order and a new Labor Production Division was established to bring " to Chairman Donald Nelson ( WPB ) information and recommendations relating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Either Walter Reuther of the C. I 0 . Automobile Workers Union or Joseph D. Keenan , a mediator in the OEM labor division , was expected in some quarters to head the new WPB division and represent it on the Man Power Commission . It was stipulated that Mr. would continue as Federal Security Administrator . This has been regarded as a full-time job , but the White House explained that " he has been performing many of the functions which he will continue to perform as chairman of the Man Power Commission . " The White House statement emphasized that while the word man power was used throughout the Executive order , this definitely included woman power . It was stated that " a special announcement soon will be made with respect to the voluntary registration of women throughout the United States for their mobilization in the war effort . " Mr. and his commission received specific authority in the Executive order over other governmental agencies dealing with the training and supplying of man power . ? Instructions to the Board Besides formulating plans and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mobilization of the American population for total war , the commission was instructed to do the following things : 1 . To estimate man power requirements for the military , agricultural and civilian fronts and direct government agencies as to proper allocation of available man power . 2 . To coordinate information collected by various official agencies on the " labor market . " 3 . To establish policies and set regulations governing " all " Federal programs dealing with recruiting , vocational training ( NYA ) and placement of workers , in industry and agriculture . 4 . To send directives to execute these policies , " excluding those of the military and naval forces . " In addition the commission members were instructed to " formulate legislative " programs designed to facilitate effective mobilization and use of national manpower and , " with the approval of the President , " to recommend this legislation to Congress . Varied Agencies Involved Organizations specifically instructed to follow Mr. 's orders in matters effecting this defined program were the . Selective Service System , the Federal Security Agency , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board , the Bureau of Labor Statistics , the WPB Labor Production Division , the CCC , some branches of the Department of Agriculture , and the Office of Defense Transportation . Transferred directly to the Manpower Commission were labor supply functions of the War Production Board , the Civil Service Commission 's National Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel , and the Office of Procurement and Assignment in the Office of Defense Health and Welfare Services in the OEM . To the Federal Security Agency were transferred the Apprenticeship Section of the bivision of Labor Standards , Labor Department , and the training functions of the WPB Labor Division . It was impossible today to tell how great a voice organized labor would have in the new undertaking , although this was the chief subject of discussion .                     