@@706255

txt Importance of defense training schools in the Greater Boston area , which have already turned out more than 6,000 young men and women , most of them now engaged in vital war production , was emphasized today when Army officers from the War Department came here to inspect the schools I and to talk to trainees . Purpose of the trip , according to Lieut . Col. Nathaniel A. Burnell , Director of Defense Training for the War Production Board and the Federal Security Agency , was to observe how defense training is progressing and to impress trainees with the importance of the work they are doing as members of the vital " army of production . " Heading the inspecting patty was Col. Basil D. Edwards , Executive Assistant to Undersecretary cf War Robert Patterson . Also included were : Capt . William H. Spinrad , Office of Chief of Ordnance ; Capt . Joseph S. G. Genovese , Office of Undersecretary of War ; Lieut . Robert F. Wagner , Jr. , son of the Senator , also representing the Office of the Undersecretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office of Chief of Ordnance ; Lieut . Glade Bilby and Lieut . Denis Dowling , Office of Chief of Air Corps , and several non-commissioned officers . Accompanying the official group were representatives of the State Department of Education , the Boston School Committee , the National Youth Administration , and Defense Training officials . First stop in the itinerary was at Massachusetts Institute of Technology where Prof , Raymond D. Douglass , in charge of the Defense Training Program , told the Army men that 50-odd Government projects were under way . Here the official party was taken into several laboratories where experiments of the most secret nature are being conducted . Newsmen and others on the tour were excluded . From M. I. T. the party pro- ceeded to the National Youth Administration shops on Spice Street , Charlestown , and thence to the NYA Center for Women on Columbus Avenue . Other training centers included on the inspection schedule which continued through the afternoon and evening were the East Boston High School , Mechanic Arts High School , Brookline High School , training centers in Waltham , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itinerary were visits to the State House and City Hall for meetings with Gov . Leverett Saltonstall and Mayor Maurice J. Tobin . The official party will entrain for Washington at 11 p. m.                     