@@709095

txt A crowd estimated at almost 150 , - 000 , representing war veterans ' groups , surged into Constitution Square today to protest against the major Allies ' qualified offer of recognition of the Albanian regime . The demonstration had the wider purpose of reminding the powers of the part played in the war by Albania and of showing popular dissatisfaction , even bitterness , against what is generally considered here to be neglect of Greece . The demonstrators threatened to fight to regain northern Epirus from Albania , The Associated Press reported . Britain seems to be the chief target of Greek criticism , not because Britain is held solely to blame , but because the highest hopes were centered on that nation as the " protecting power . " These hopes seemed to have been dashed last week when Hector , visiting British Foreign Under-Secretary , told of Britain 's own difficulties and limited the promise of aid to Greece to friendship and technical advice . The Greeks obviously expected more and believed that Mr. would have a wide mandate from his Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slough of despondency caused largely by economic chaos . Clearer Policy Asked Except for the Communist party , whose adherents were conspicuously not represented at today 's gathering , there is anything but criticism of British interference in this country as manifested by the presence of British troops . There is , however , bitter criticism of Britain because she does not clarify her policy , even though political parties may not agree on what that policy should be . The mood of the crowd today seemed to reflect the bitter press criticism that appeared last week . Rancor was stirred some time ago when Greece was not invited to the London Conference of Foreign Minsters . Greece was then still theoretically at war with Albania and not consulted in the recognition of Premier Enver Hoxha 's regime , whose head had repeatedly made known his feelings toward Greece and whose Foreign Minister , Omer Nisani , allegedly welcomed in 1940 Albania 's subjugation to Fascist Italy . Last summer the Greek Government requested the Allies to investigate charges that Albania was attempting to liquidate the Greek population of northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Greek claims for reparations from Italy and Germany to compensate her for the loss of per cent of her national wealth , has apparently received no attention . Countries to the north under the Russian wing seem to Greeks to be getting more vigorous support : Similar support is being clamored for by the well-organized and relatively prosperous Communist party , which is demanding the withdrawal of British troops and British influence generally . By far the largest section of opinion here looks to the western powers for help and the restoration of prestige plus financial support , which , it is believed , alone can save the country from physical ruin , but it feels that it looks in vain . This means , according to many Greeks , an increased temptation to seek satisfaction from other quarters , especially when a long train of miseries following an indecisive financial program is spelling inflation and the cold winds of terror of another winter of destitution . On top of this comes the assertion that British forces , who were brought in to put down the civil war , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ATHENS , Nov. 18 LP ) ? Greek Orthdox Bishop Panteleimon of Argyrokastron , Albania , told a multitude of Greeks today that recognition of Albania would be " ridiculous " and " if the Allies do not give it Northern Epirus to us through justice we shall take it by strength . " The crowd took up his words and chanted " ridiculous . " Northern Epirus is the border area , now a part of Albania , that Greeks claim is historically , culturally and ethically theirs . It has been a part of Albania since 1914 , was taken by the Greeks in their fight with the Italians in the war just closed and reoccupied by the Axis when the Germans overran Greece . Seven streets leading to Constitution Square were packed with cheering , shouting Greeks in what observers described as the biggest mass demonstration in modern Greek history . Premier Panayoti Canellopoulos , watching the demonstration from his hotel balcony , commented , " You see the population of Athens in mass meeting expressing with dignity and modesty the national pain for sufferings of their brethren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               