@@704621

txt British Exchange Regulated Action to Preserve Our Export Markets Regarded as Essential Your editorial " The Fall in Sterling " states that the British Government " requires all British ? exporters and importers to deal for their exchange with the Bank of England , at the official price . " While literally correct , this statement is quite misleading in its implications . With the exception of the order . issued March 8 , - which is the subject of your editorial , and one or two other very minor restrictions , there are in fact no requirements under which British exporters are prevented , from exporting against free sterling , or British importers from paying sterling to foreign exporters , which the latter can sell in the free market . The order of March 8 requires five products to be exported against dollars , guilders , Swiss francs , beiges and official sterling only . These products are tin , rubber , jute and jute manufactures , whisky and furs . All other exporters are allowed to invoice their goods in sterling , which can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diamonds . Australian and New Zealand wool , in which the British Government has established a selling monopoly for the duration of the war , may be considered another exception . Procedure With Non-Essentials British importers of non-essentials , on the other hand , can obtain import licenses and may at the same time be refused official exchange , in which case they have to pay the foreign exporter in sterling , which the latter then sells in the free market . With one exception , the products now payable in the official market are products in which the British Empire either holds a monopoly or is a member of a monopolistic international cartel . The price elasticity of demand for these products is low . Therefore foreign importers can be forced to pay a higher rate of exchange . In fact , the dollar proceeds of these exports can be still further increased by restricting production . The tin quota has already been reduced from 120 per cent of standard production to 80 per cent , presumably with this object in view . Furthermore , by shifting sterling exchange demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British authorities not only secure foreign exchange which previously was not available to them , but also cause a depreciation in the free market . The effects of this depreciation are , first , to make the price of imported non-essentials higher to the British consumer , who thus presumably will be tempted to import less , and , secondly , to lower the price of all British exports other than the monopoly products in a proportion corresponding to the depreciation of the currency in the export markets of the world . Our Exports Affected If successful this move will result in an expansion - of British exports  --  other than the reserved products  --  to neutral markets and the reduction of British imports of non-war goods . Its effects should become apparent on both the total and the composition of our exports to neutrals as well as to belligerents within the next six months . Since England still has a million and a half unemployed and the necessary capital equipment is available , shipping difficulties are the only visible obstacle to a vigorous British export drive . The move was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be obviously against our best interests to lower the value of the dollar in retaliation , but at the same time the chief beneficiaries of any such retaliation would be the British themselves , because a lowering of the value of the dollar would correspondingly enhance the purchasing power of the newly mined and other gold we are importing yearly from the British Empire . About the only practicable way of preserving our export markets would be to insist that all British exports should be made payable at the official rate . This would seem the fairest way to avoid disruption of our normal trade relations and future friction with Great Britain . Unless we want to lose our peacetime exports for the sake of exports of war materials , it would seem the most desirable course to follow . I. nh VsoH . New York , April 3 , 1940 . Trade Treaties Opposed Reciprocal Agreements Viewed as Placing Us at a Disadvantage To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial " The Trade Treaties " you state that the trade treaty program is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made'a mistake in your adjective . The word should have been " destructive . " Looking back over the various Administrations of the last forty years , I think there have been more high-sounding impractical theories enacted into laws in the last seven years than in all the rest of the forty years put together . The Hull theory is one of them . There is nothing in the records to prove that they have benefited this country at all , and there is much to prove that they have caused harm . When we realize that nearly all noncompetitive imports come in free of duty , it is obvious that the concessions granted in treaties already negotiated have lowered the protection safeguarding our living standards on products grown and manufactured here . Wendell L. Willkie expressed the proper thought very plainly when he said : " We are for foreign trade ; and we recognize that our own standards of living can be improved only by raising the standard of other countries of the world "  --  and may I add , not by cutting our standards down to theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . pervent of our total national income . The Hull policy sacrifices the 94 per . cent of domestic income and endeavors to base our future prosperity on an increase of the 4 per cent . If we think this through we find there can be little hope for our future prosperity , and the program takes its place alongsidE of the many destructive policies of the . New Deal . . We must first take care of our own . Our domestic conditions must be im proved before we can absorb more for . eign products , both competitive and non . competitive . Foreign trade can be irn proved in no other way . The tail can-1 ' not wag the dog , but it can cause it a lot of trouble . certaini ) i MILLARD D. BROWN . Philadelphia , April 2 , 1940 . Motorist Makes Complaints Fault Is Found With Roads , Policemen , Taxes and Other Things To THE EDITOR OF-THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am an average motorist . I work ' during the day and drive my car eve- : pings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possess a little common sense  - -  -  ' ' am a careful driver . I am taxed for. - each gallon of gasoline I buy . I do n't ; grumble . If I multiply this tax by mil-1 lions of gallons bought by motorists ! the grand total is fantastic . In return I certainly should expect additional , better and more modern roads . Instead , a bill is passed by the Staf- ' ? Legislature to permit toll roads in West- , chester County . What , then , becomes of all the money paid in taxes by motor-4 ists ? I own a moderate-priced car capable of speeds , over 100 miles an hour , yet can not exceed fifty miles and usuallyi average between twenty-five and thirty ! 1 miles on a continuous trip . To protect others and myself I pay ' over $100 yearly for liability and accident insurance on my car . This could ! be more than halved if all cars were insured . If I am run over by an unin- sured car the chances of my family or I myself collecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion for compulsory liability insurance in the State Legislature is shelved . Every now and then some far-seeing individual proposes a much-needed sixlane express highway to cross and crisscross the populated sections of the nation . Some one calls attention to the need of a through highway to link Washington and Boston and skirt the large cities . A few days later all is forgotten . Tthiough necessity I must drive over crowded New York streets . I ca n't get out of the city but what a hard-boiled cop bawls out an order or warning ' which turns out to be for something of which I am wholly innocent , or hands me a ticket for an infraction which nobody could have avoided . Were I alone in this criticism , I would prefer to remain silent . But no less than two noted authors have called attention to the belligerency of New York policemen . I am forced therefore to look upon cops not as friends , servants and guides but as foes and potential inquisitors . The automobile is nearly forty years old . It has passed adolescence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and behavior in governing it remain in their infancy . Is n't it about time that our roads , our laws and our thoughts kept abreast of our mechanical progress ? S. New York , April 2 , 1940 . English Pacifism Analyzed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Though one can not quarrel with the general conclusion of your editorial " Pacifism in England , " may I take issue with you on the validity of your assumptions . The most fallacious is the implied characterization of the Fascist and Communist votes as indices of British pacifism . It is an unjust indictment of the considerable pacifist sentiment in Britain to couple it with movements which , though " anti-war , " have been repudiated by genuine pacifism . Your second assumption that these political votes have been an entirely fair test of peace sentiment is therefore equally unfair . The issue has not been presented to the British electorate with the clarity such an issue demands . I am not suggesting that the issue thus presented would elicit a tremendous peace vote , but I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would seem to imply . I should like the following figures to be considered : There have been 14,000 conscientious objectors among the 670,000 so far conscripted , against 16,000 among the entire 9,000,000 conscripted during the four years of the World War . At Clackmannan in October a pacifist received over 6 per cent of the vote . At Stratford in December two anti-war candidates , one a Communist , received 20 per cent . At Central Southwark in February the anti-war candidate received 19 per cent . At Kettering during the first week of March the anti-war candidate received 27 per cent . While these figures do not point to anything like an overwhelming anti-war sentiment , they do seem to belie the estimated 1 per cent advanced by Herbert Morrison . IRWIN STARK . New York , April 1 , 1940 . Books for China To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You published on March 29 my letter requesting that books be sent by parcel post to the Chinese-American Institute of Cultural Relations at Chungking , China , for the benefit of the needy American-trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any sort of book will be welcomed if it is mailed directly to China . However , if any are marked " books for China " and sent for forwarding before Oct. 1 to the Associated Boards for China Colleges , 150 Fifth Avenue , or to the New York Public Lirary at Forty-second Street and Fifth Avenue , we would request that scientific books and journals be contributed , particularly those on medicine , chemistry , biology , engineering , amounting and kindred subjects and standard college texts . Some books may be received which will not be worth the cost of transportation to China ; in such event , these will be disposed of and the proceeds used to acquire and ship books which are most in demand . ALBERT E. ' CAM . New . York . April 2 , 1940.                     