@@708093

txt Manila is more than a city and a capital . It is a symbol . Declared an open city by General in the early days of the Pacific war , it was ruthlessly attacked by Japanese bombers in contravention of international slaw . For over two years Japanese soldiers have swaggered through its streets , pillaged its treasures and cuffed its . inhabitants , bragging that the Americans never would come back . Now they have returned . With fire , if not a sword . It has been a long time since Corregidor surrendered , May 6 , 1942 . It must have been a great day for the Filipinos  --  and the imprisoned Americans at Santo Tomas , if they are still there  --  when the white-starred planes of Admiral Halsey 's Third Fleet carriers snarled in on the Manila docks , on Cavite naval base , on Clark and Nichols Field , on Subic Bay and Mariveles , on Bataan  --  names made famous by the valor of Americans and Filipinos who fought and died there , and no less made infamous by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the explosions of the bombs were a booming promise that some day , perhaps soon , the American and Filipino flags again will fly over Manila , that again the Philippines will be free . And there is some good even in evil ; for now when the Filipinos achieve that nationhood which the United States was freely tendering them they will take their place in the family of states freed from the menace of a predatory neighbor , a menace that clouded and had retarded their long , peaceful struggle for independence . The Japanese have made a great show of recognizing the Philippines as an independent nation . They set up a puppet Government headed by the former Interior Secretary , Jose P. Laurel . The Tokyo radio said one of the buildings hit by the American fliers was the Japanese " Embassy . " All information from inside the country , however , indicates that the great majority of the Filipinos have remained loyal to their exile Government and to the United States . That was the information brought out by the Army and Navy men who escaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way safely to Australia . They were aided on every hand by the Filipinos . They could not have escaped otherwise . When American troops land again in the Philippines they will find many willing allies . That the attack by the American fliers was a full-scale neutralization of enemy defenses and not just a hit-andrun raid is indicated by the announcement from Tokyo that the American fliers were back over Manila again yesterday morning , destroying what had been missed in the first day 's attack . There were the usual extravagant claims by the Japanese of American planes shot down . The Tokyo announcer also said that Japanese fliers had located , attacked and set on fire two carriers of the American task force . The first announcement from Pearl Harbor said fifteen American planes had been lost , from several of which the personnel were rescued , and that no damage had been suffered by the ships participating ' in the action . The attacks do not necessarily , or even probably , indicate a landing attempt in Luzon at this time . But they are a portent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this time a4 greater nation than it was before . The Filipinos have fought as free men , valiantly and willingly , for their country . They have earned their independence .                     