@@704452

txt For the second time in two weeks a Chicago union has defied the federal grand jury which is investigating alleged combinations in restraint of trade by the building industry here . Officials of the union , the district council of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America , refused yesterday to testify or to produce their records before the jurors . Government prosecutors on Monday are expected to ask Federal Judge Charles E. Woodward to hold the union officials in contempt of court if they continue to refuse to comply with the subpena , which was issued in secrecy several days ago . The prosecutors disclosed yesterday that officials of the carpenters ' union are reported to have divided their union records so that each official has a batch of them under his control . It was explained that this apparently was done to take advantage of certain sections of the Sherman antitrust act under which the inquiry is being conducted . Maneuver to Be Argued . These sections , enacted by congress to aid antitrust inquiries , automatically grant immunity from prosecutiob to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about an organization . Thus , according to the government attorneys , the union otlIcials who are called upon to testify concerning records in their possession hope to place themselves beyond the reach of prosecution for any violations found by the jury . The legality of this maneuver will be argued Monday . The carpenters ' district council is composed of 50 locals in the Chicago metropolitan area and has a membership of approximately 20,000 . It Is one of the largest unions among the building crafts . The union officials were summoned by the grand jury in connection with an inquiry Into the plywood phase of the building industry . This includes the various types of wallboards that have been put on the market in recent years to reduce construction costs . Less labor is required to fasten sheet materials than to nail lumber or plaster walls . Refuses to Produce Records . It is reported that when the jurors attempted to question George H. Sand , secretary of the council , he read a prepared statement and refused to produce his records . The union which first balked at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the building industry was the Ceramic , Mosaic , and Encoustic Tile Layers ' union , local G7 , of the American Federation pf Labor . This the group refused to surrender its records , but gave in when prosecutors took steps similar to those which will be taken Monday against the carpenters . The building inquiry is being con:hided by Leo F. Tierney , special assistant to the attorney general . Yesterday the grand jury began hearing testimony In nine more phases of the industry . This will permit it to complete its work after being continued beyond the present term , eliding Feb . B. The law requires that a grand jury whose term has been extended consider only such matters as it began during its first term .                     