@@712434

txt The Communist party is carrying on " business as usual " at its old stand near Union Square . Eleven members of the party 's national board have been sentenced to Federal prison on charges of conspiracy to advocate forcible overthrow of the Government , but the leaders left in command say the party is going to keep right on doing all the things it has been doing in exactly the same way as before . The Communists are counting on the Supreme Court to throw out the Smith Act as unconstitutional . It may prove a costly gamble . If the high court rules against the eleven convicted leaders , Federal Bureau of Investigation agents " planted " inside the party will almost certainly be duplicating the evidence they gave in Foley Square at future trials of the same sort against other Communist party officials . The party and Attorney General J. Howard are in agreement on at least one thing : The decision in Judge Harold R. Medina 's court does not outlaw the Communist party . Mr. , newly installed as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become " hysterical " over the verdict . He expresses doubt that the eleven Communists could destroy the Government and indicates that the Justice.Department does not have any immediate plans for further prosecutions . Cautious Communists Developments in the " cold war " will probably determine the extent to which the forebearing tone of Mr. 's comments are translated into ' administrative policy . Few Communists seem prepared to accept the Attorney General 's offthe-cuff remarks as an insurance policy on which they can bank to stay out of jail . A good many lawyers without any love for the party are inclined to agree that the logic of the Foley Square verdict requires additional action against the party unless it abandons the conspiratorial role depicted in the testimony of Government witnesses during the trial . In challenging Mr. 's view , these attorneys note that Judge Medina 's monumental charge to the jury specified that the eleven men could not be found guilty if the jury decided that the defendants organized the Communist party as a legitimate political party designed to elect candidates to public office through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the laws . In the light of this specific statement of the court , the jury 's verdict must be construed as a finding that the party itself was not a long-fide political organization in a legal sense , according to this view of the decision . The Communists make no effort to interpret the decision . They cast it into outer darkness as a " Pearl Harbor " for the Bill of Rights and pin all their hopes on a higher court reversal . The directing head of the party at the moment is Elizabeth Gurley Flynn , a gray-haired , motherly-looking woman of 61 , who is the only member of the national board now in circulation . The only other member out of jail is the party 's national chairman , William Z. Foster , who was indicted with his eleven associates but escaped trial because of a heart ailment that has confined him to his home in the Bronx for nearly a year . She Feels Slighted Miss Flynn is somewhat miffed that she was not included in the indictment . She has been a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years than she can remember . The indictment was returned during a brief period in which Miss Flynn was off the board and she . feels it was downright unfair of the Government not to put her name on the trial list along with the others .. She maintains that everything the party has been doing has , been thoroughly legal . She says it  --  will continue to keep its headquarters open , its telephone numbers listed in the phone book . It will operate schools , distribute literature and hold meetings in just the same manner as it did before the trial , Miss Flynn says . The only change in the national offices of the party on the ninth floor at 35 East Twelfth Street is a new coat of green paint . Pictures of Josef Stalin , Karl Marx , Abraham Lincoln and Franklin D. Roosevelt still adorn the walls . The desks that used to be occupied by Eugene Dennis and his ten jailed co-defendants are now manned by their assistants . Miss Flynn has taken over Mr. Foster 's office during his illness and she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from party members and sympathizers who want to help the defense fund . Contributions to Fund A twenty-minute Interview was twice interrupted  --  once by the arrival of earold R. Christoffel , former head of the Allis-Chalmers local of the United Automobile Workers , CIO , whose own conviction for perjury in connection with a denial of Communist party membership was dismissed in a 5-to-4 Supreme Court decision last June . Mr. Christoffel , now active in the Communist defense fund , brought in a $3,490 check from the International Workers Order . A few minutes later , a crippled seaman hobbled in and dumped $94.83 in bills and silver in front of Miss Flynn . He said the money had been raised outside the hall of the National Maritime Union . All told , Miss Flynn said , the party has received $15,000 in cash and another $25,000 in pledges since the convictions nine days ago . A veteran of more than forty years of radical causes , Miss Flynn expressed certainty that the court ruling would cause no falling away in Communist strength . Far from being ? intimidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its defense and were being joined by hundreds of others who opposed the verdict as a general threat to civil liberties , Miss Flynn asserted . " We are not going underground , " she declared . " Our headquarters are still on the top floor and they are not going to be moved into the basement . " The Government 's problem , as some others view it , is not how to keep the party from going underground but how to get it above ground . a Morris L. Ernst , whose dislike for Communists and concern for civil liberties are equally strong , is one of those who feel that the important task ahead is not to put the Communist party out of business but to insure that it carries on all its activities openly . Lawyers who hold this view , stress that the whole basis of the ' Government 's case against the eleven Communists was that they had wilfully used the party as a , secret organization , operating through a morass of false names and false slogans , to prepare the way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Soviet Union or a major depression provided a suitable opening for revolution . Arthur Garfield Hays , long a crusader for the American Civil Liberties Union , takes a dim view of both the Smith Act and the decision against the eleven Communists . He said the result of the convictions would be to create such fear that " only fanatics and martyrs " would dare to stay in the party . Employers would be encouraged to discharge workers on suspicion of Communist sympathies or affiliations and people would generally become afraid to voice any unpopular ideas , in Mr. Hays ' opinion . Communist Inconsistency He recalled caustically that he and the Civil Liberties Union had fought use of the Smith Act when it was applied against the Trotskyists in Minneapolis and against the Silver Shirts and other " nationalist " groups in Washington . The Communists had applauded the act 's application in both of those cases , Mr. Hays noted , but their inconsistency made him no less opposed to its use against them . " The only kind of curb on free speech that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hays asserted . In his charge to the jury , Judge Medina was at some pains to stress that there was no element of " thought control " or book-burning involved in the trial . He drew a distinction ' for the jury between the advocacy of ideas and the hatching of a secret plan intended to produce revolutionary action under certain definitely specified circumstances . Whether his view of the law will prevail or whether the Supreme Court will decide that the Smith Act is invalid will have a vital bearing both on the future of the Communist party and on the kind of measures our Government can take against those who wrap themselves in a mantle of Constitutional safeguards to undermine the Constitution .                     