@@705546

txt Lest Britain fall and America be left to face alone , " against desperate odds , " the spreading fire of Nazi tyranny , this country must " close its ranks " and " fight to win , " Dr. James B. Conant , Harvard University President , declared yesterday . " I believe we should fight now , " Dr. Conant said in a Nation-wide radio address . " Terrible and de vastating as war is , slavery and national degradation are worse evils .. . . " Unless we are willing to yield the control of this hemisphere to the Axis powers , this country must sooner or later fight .... From now on , each month we delay means at least four months added to the war . " Drawing on his recent experience as head of a governmental mission to England , Dr. Conant praised the " magnificent " British morale , in ; the light of which , he said , the thought of a peace with Adolf ; Hitler is " utterly fantastic . " Advantage with RAF His investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced him that " the advantage in speed , gunfire , pilots , and control " which enabled the Royal Air Force to win the air battles last fall " still lies with the British fliers . " U-boat warfare , however , he added , has been " all too effective " ? " more damaging , perhaps , than we have yet been told . " A successful invasion of England today , Dr. Conant said he regarded as an " extremely remote possibility . " But a progressive weakening of the British military effectiveness by another six months of blockade , after which time invasion would be possible , he said was " not a remote " contingency . " Would the United States then take the view that the subsequent history of the war was no affair of ours " the Harvard president asked . " Would we sit idly by and see Hitler in command of the Atlantic Ocean ? Would we accept the threat to our independence in this hemisphere without a struggle ? . . " Must Enter War " " To ask these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or later we must enter this war . " Peace for any free country can not be maintained in this world , Dr. Conant emphasized , without a struggle . " Already we can feel the withering heat from the furnace of the Nazi tyranny across the seas . " Until the source of this evil fire is quenched , no free people can prosper or endure . Shall we take up arms and defend our independence in this hemisphere , the basis of our free institutions , of our way of life ? Or shall we bow timidly before the onrush of a foreign power which spiirns and ridicules every moral principle we hold dear ? " I have no question as to the final answer : ' 