@@709692

txt Letters to The Times HYMAN H. BOOKBINDER.ALBERT ULMANN.RITA D. BRAND.PRESTON SLOSSON.LIEUT . CURTIS ... pg . 12 Letters to The Times Stakes in Enterprise The Effect of Corporate Well-Being on Labor and Investors Is Discussed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Workers and Investors " would have us believe that America today has practically achieved social ownership because of widespread ownership of corporate stocks . You cite the recent survey of the National City Bank which showed that seventytwo large industrial companies employed approximately three million worlers , but had four million stockholders . Here are some of the questions these statistics do not answer : How much overlapping is there between the three million and the four million ? How many workers own three or four shares just for the psychological satisfaction of " owning " part of the company for which they work ? How many separate individuals ? or , better still , families  --  are included in the four million stockholders ? Ca n't we assume that a great many stockholders own stocks in dozens of corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ownership of the $27 billions of total assets ? There is a great deal of evidence to substantiate the charge that widespread ownership of stocks is only nominal . The American Telephone and Telegraph Company Is proud of its 683,897 stockholders . But a breakdown of this figure shows that over 75 per cent of these own less than one-fourth of all shares . Only 5.6 per cent hold over 47 per cent of all the shares . In other words , some 38,300 large owners receive as much dividends as the remaining 645,600 . This same company , in 1938 , reported that 5 per cent of its stockholders held 51 per cent of its shares . Not very much progress has been made in over ten years . It has frequently been stated that some twenty million stockholders own American enterprises . But less publicity is given to the study made by the Securities and Exchange Commission which showed that in 1937 some 75,000 persons , about one-twentieth of 1 per cent of our total population , held onehalf of all corporate stock owned by individuals in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " workers and shareholders have a common interest in the success of their joint undertaking . " It goes without saying that both groups have much to gain from a successful ' business and much to lose from a bankrupt one . But I do quarrel with the implication that there is an equation between the two . Who is more directly involved in a corporation 's financial condition  --  the worker , whose economic existence is tied to the ability of the company to employ him and pay him decent wages , or the stockholder , almost always an absentee owner , whose participation in any given company is only a small part of his economic participation in society ? HYMAN H. BOOKBINDER , New York , July 30 , 1946 . Historic Events as Street Names TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; Topics of THE TIMES in a recent reference to street nomenclature , pointed out that foreign cities frequently bestowed upon their thoroughfares historic designations such as the Paris " Street of the Fourth of September " commemorating the proclamation of ' the Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of the " Avenue of the Americas , " had adopted only single historic names such as Washington , Madison , Monroe , Jefferson and Clinton . This is true in respect to the older section of the city . But the newer , uptown development has recognized the importance of historic events . For instance , residents in the neighborhood of 240th Street are kept aware of Henry Hudson 's arrival in these waters in 1609 by living in Half Moon Place . The proximity of Independence Avenue is a daily reminder of the Fourth of July . Some day , perhaps , we shall have a Fourth of July Plaza and a Sixteenth of November Square or Circle . In the meantime , the latter date commemorating the brave but futile defense of Fort Washington is given greater significance and is of definite educational value because of the streets designated Fort Washington Avenue , Fort Tryon Street , and Laurel Hill Terrace . ALBERT ULNIANN ? New York , July 28 , 1946 . Bus Transportation To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City because of the disgraceful condition of bus transportation in general . But of all the horrors , the Second Avenue bus gets dishonorable mention . Over antiquated cobblestones the poorly designed Second Avenue bus rattles , to the misery and distress of the poorest and most hard-working citizens . Psychiatric wards are overflowing . A contributing factor is the Second Avenue bus . How long will the goodnatured public tolerate such daily abuse ? RITA D. BRAND . New York , July 26 , 1946 . Presidents Without Plurality TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Topics of the Times is usually as accurate as he is witty . But he fell into error in his defense of the Georgia unit system and the Electoral College in your issue of July 25 . Lincoln and Wilson , though minority Presidents , had a plurality and would have been elected by straight popular vote . Cleveland had a plurality each of the three times he ran , though only . twice a majority in the Electoral Cr% lege . So it is scarcely true to say that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College here at home , may give us Presidents of the type of Lincoln , Cleveland and Wilson . " As a matter of fact , the Presidents elected by majorities in the Electoral College but without having a plurality of the popular vote were John Quincy Adams , Rutherford Hayes and Benjamin Harrison , all men of ability and of the highest character but not outstanding successes in practical politics dur-. ing their Presidential terms . PRESTON SLOSSON . Ann Arbor , Mich , July 26 , 1946 . Journalism in Japan A Former Press Analyst Offers Ilia Version of the Yomiuri Dispute TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Lieut . Pines asserts in a letter to THE TIMES that in the recent Yomiuri strike in Tokyo American support of the owner , Tsuneo Baba , as against his workers , is in the interests of a free press . This statement strikes me as a twisting of the facts . Lieut . Pines ' accusation that all who oppose this position are barefaced liars is a good example of the democratic climate in Tokyo . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent events in regard to Yomiuri only through THE NEW YORIC . TIMES . I do not know Mr. Cohen , Col , onel Nugent or Major Imboden . As the analyst of the Japanese press for G2 GHQ for six months , however , I do know something about Yomiuri as well as the other Japanese-language newspapers in Tokyo . Yomiuri is not Communist-dominated . It is strongly leftist in its political and economic thinking , but in instances too numerous to mention it has taken exception not only with policies and attitudes of the Communists but with those of the Socialist party . It is an independent leftist newspaper , supporting , unfortunately , a labor policy opposed by GHQ , and an outspoken critic of the ultra-conservative Yoshida Government . The taking over of Yomiuri by its editorialists from its owner last fall was understood by Japanese liberals as a natural sequence to freeing the press . Baba is a die-hard reactionary , who was anti-democratic , pro-militarist and pro-imperialist . If what he supported as a responsible owner of a newspaper before he was ejected should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were supporting in Japan . Baba and his like were discredited last fall . With the conservatives strengthened by the recent elections and the American denunciation of leftwingers as " totalitarians , " they have felt strong enough to bring up issues like that of the Yomiuri Shimbun , knowing that the Americans would not support the illegal disposition of a newspaper owner . It is not surprising that Baba fired his editorialists ; he should have a right to , Nor is it surprising that the police , feeling the good old days were back , should have thrown the leading strikers into prison for a ten-day interrogation . Technically our hands are clean . But to me , at least , and to some of my Japanese friends , none of them Communists , to suppress one of the major Tokyo left-wing papers in order to reinstate an anti-democratic owner can not he construed as the support of a free press or a step in the democratization of Japan . LIEUT . CURTIS BENNETT . Troy , N. Y. , July 25 , 1946 . Extra-Fare Subway Trains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible to maintain the fivecent subway fare in New York City , and yet increase the subway revenue . The express platforms in the major subway terminals in Manhattan are individual islands , or else are adaptable to this plan . The proposal is to install special turnstiles to make these platforms extra-fare zones . All trains would he five cents except the express trains , for which an additional five cents would be required in order to pass through the extra turnstile . Express train ' traffic would be Unproved . More short-haul traffic would be diverted to locals , which can absorb the extra traffic . More local train passengers should he expected , resulting in improved loading and unloading time for express trains . Expeditious movement of passengers out of the crowded mid-town area would result . The increased income would prove to be a good compromise between the present five-cent and the proposed ten-cent fare . Very little equipment would put this plan into effect . It would involve only , a few iron bars and several turnstiles . This plan would solve many subway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income of our subway system . H. JOHN HEFFERNAN . Flushing , N. Y. , July 29 , 1946.                     