@@711456

txt Self-government came to twothirds of Korea 's 29,000,000 people today . The regime of Tai Han Min Koo  --  the Republic of Korea  --  was proclaimed as the nation 's sovereign government by its first President , Dr. Syngman Rhee . Among the distinguished foreign guests at the ceremonies before the National Capitol was Gen. Douglas , Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in the Far East , who voiced a stern warning of dangers facing this and all democracies of the world today . Underscoring President Rhee 's dedication of Korea and of himself to the cause of freedom and democracy , General declared : " In this hour , as the forces of righteousness advance , the triumph is dulled by one of the greatest tragedies of contemporary history ? an artificial barrier has divided your land . " This barrier must and will be torn down . Nothing shall prevent the ultimate unity of your people as free men of a free nation . " In an only indirect reference to communism , General asserted that Koreans came " from too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any alien philosophies of disruption . " The Republic of which Dr. Rhee is President is not now effective in northern , Soviet-occupied Korea . There the Soviet Union refused to permit the conduct of the May 10 I election , watched over in the south by the United Nations Temporary Commission for Korea , which was represented at today 's ceremonies by its chairman , Dr. Rufino Luna of the Philippines Republic . Lieut . Gen. John R. Hodge , the United States commander here , who was also a speaker , announced during his address : " Effective at midnight tonight , 1 the United States Military Government in Korea ceases to exist and the Civil Affairs Section of headquarters of the United States Armed ' Forces in Korea is established . " General Hodge said the Civil Affairs ' Section would carry through , beginning tomorrow , the transfer of authority to the government of President Rhee and Prime Minister Lee Chung Chun . The newly named representative of the United States with the personal rank of Ambassador , John J. Muccio , said General Hodge is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coordination of negotiations for the United States . " Dr. Luna , speaking both for the Philippines and for the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea , reviewed Allied promises of Korean freedom in the war years . He traced the course of the Korean question through the General Assembly of the United Nations , which in a vote last November established the commission and brought about the present Government here . Another speaker was Msgr . Patrick J. Byrne , apostolic representative to Korea , who conveyed the congratulations of the Holy See to the new government . Presiding at the ceremonies was Oh Sei Chang , one of the signers of Korea 's 1919 declaration of independence from the Japanese . Declaring that he spoke " with great humbleness as the servant of the Korean people , " President Rhee set out the course his Government intends to follow . In addition to oGeneral and the other speakers , ranking representatives of the United States Department of the Army and the State Department , OUR ENVOY a ? c , John J. Muccio of Rhode Island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first Chinese Ambassador to Korea , Dr. Y. W. Liu ; the members and staff of the United Nations commission and a great throng of Koreans heard the President outline the policies of the new Republic . " We must have firm faith in democracy , " Dr. Rhee declared , and he laid down five major principles to which his Government was dedicated . A government founded on demo-1 cratic principles , he said , could ' alone safeguard the freedom of the people . Secondly , the safeguarding of individual freedom , as the essence of democracy , was the responsibility of the people as well as of the Government . In the third place , the Government must avoid branding its critics as " dangerous elements or destructionists solely because they were impatient with cautious progress " Suppressions , he warned , " involve violation of the principle of tolerance , without which democracy is impossible . " Fourth , since this Government was legally constituted , every citizen must abide by the legal decisions of the Government . Civil liberties were guaranteed , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recognition that class distinctions would not be permitted , no more than inequality among peoples . General 's address gave emphasis to the whole meaning of the ceremonies . " For three years my country 's guns have been silent as we sought in concert with all other peoples to fashion from the moral resources of the modern world a form of human relationship which effectively would preserve the peace , " said General . " Our efforts have been retarded by an evil spirit of . greed and avarice and lust for power , but your national rebirth today is living proof that the concept of human freedom is far too deeply rooted in human society ever to perish . " Security measures were taken in General 's behalf from the time of his arrival by plane from Tokyo at 10 A.M. He was to fly back to Japan later today . A high point of the celebration was the ringing of Chong No , the Korean liberty bell cast in the year of the first ringing of the American Liberty Bell . Throughout the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark the achievement of Korean independence .                     