@@705244

txt Lions that the hogging down of the national d e Tense program is f a r more appalling than the public has been led to suspect came from official sources today as the Roosevelt administration proceeded with t h e expedition of British w a r or- senate , Byrd. ders aggregating 3 billion . dollars , to be financed by the United States . Meanwhile President Roosevelt , at a cabinet meeting this afternoon , approved the creation of a new threeman supercouncil of national defense , headed by William S. Knudsen . Industrial production cotirdlnator on the present seven member national defense advisory council . Other members will be Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson and Secretary of tile Navy Frank Knox . The old commission will continue to function in an advisory capacity . More Authority Indicated . The c-eation of still another commission , which apparently will have considerably more authority and responsibility than Mr. Roosevelt ever vested in the hydra-headed advisory commission , was interpreted in congroge as a move to offset increasing demands for a congressional Investigation and ventilation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ID. , Va. , foremost defense production prodder In congress , announced that he will demat.d immediate action on his resolution for a special senate investigation of the entire armament program when the new congress convenes on Jan. 3 . After confidential talks with responsible government officials , Senator Byrd indicated that the public does not even suspect the extent to which armament production is lagging . He asserted the people are en . titled to know the true state of affairs , Quotes Kennedy Letter . In the house , Representative Louis Ludlow ID. , Ind. ) quoted a letter he received from Joseph P. Kennedy , former ambassador to Great Britain , which contained the same direful tm. plications . " As it stands today our production for defense is nowhere near adequate for the protection of our Jwn situation , let alone aid to Britain , " Ken . nedy wrote to , Ludlow . " While our own defenses are weak , we are limited as to what we can do for Britain , even the we want to . Therefore , our first obligation is co @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ' A:icicle : for our country to get into war in our present stale of unpreparedLudlow , who refused to make public the remainder of the letter , comment . ed : " I think I icho the sentiment that is universal at this time thruout America when I say , ' Thank God for Joseph P. Kennedy . ' I hope the ambassador 's words will sink deeply into the consciousness of America Hint Given by Knudsen . The Byrd and Kennedy statements indicated that the full extent to which the arms production program has bogged down was not revealed even by Commissioner Knudsen when , in a speech at New York on Dec. 13 , he said the defense effort was " not satisfactory enough to warrant hopes that everything is all well . " Among other things , Knudsen said that aircraft production had lagged 30 per cent behind schedule , that guns and machine guns were still in the tooling stage , that light tanks were being produced at the rate of four a day , and that deliveries of medium tanks would not begin until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ h o White House Secretary Stephen Early said the new threeman commission plat , still , was in the study stage , Secretary Stimson confirmed its adoption by implication . Other officials confirmed it privately without qualification . Officials explained that a three-man supercouncil rather than a single de . tense administrator was decided upon because , under existing law , all army and navy contracts must be awarded by the war and navy department procurement agencies respectively . Stimson and Knox were designated , therefore , to exercise nominal authority under Knudsen 's direction . Knudsen , it was understood , will retain his position of industrial production coordinator on the 7 member advisory commission , but will be the sole representative of that commission in reporting to the supercouncil . Congressional leaders who have demanded the appointment of a defense production chairman with adequate authority and responsibility said the efficacy of the new establishment would depend upon the extent to which Knudsen is given a free hand by President Roosevelt . They said the creation of still another commission would simply mean " confusion worse confounded " if Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confirms Roosevelt Step . Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr . confirmed reports , published in THE TRIBUNE this morning , that President Roosevelt has authorized the British government to go ahead with new war orders aggregating 3 billion dollars on the assurance that credit of some kind will be forthcoming . Morgenthau explained that the British will not have to wait for congressional approval of Mr. Roosevelt 's armament lending proposal . Under this scheme , the United States will purchase all future war materials desired from this country by the British and lend them to Britain under a gentlemen 's agreement for repayment in kind after the war . Morgenthau said the 3 billion dollar British list of new orders , submitted this morning , already had been " cleared " by the army , the navy , and the defense advisory commission ; that is , it has been certified that the stupendous arms program will not inter . fere with this country 's national defense production . The British list , which Is to be superimposed upon war orders of some 21/2 billion dollars already placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mostly bombers , at a cost of approximately $1,200,000 , - 100 , and ordnance , including guns of all kinds , tanks , and ammunition , at a cost of $1,700,000,000 