@@706833

txt Your local butcher and baker . even your barber , are constitutionally engaged in interstate commerce  --  if Congress should so declare . That was the import of a Supreme Ciourt pronouncement yesterday sustaining the validity of wheat marketing quotas : The opinion tucked a final leaf of constitutional authority into the sheaf which the court has compiled since " conservatism " on the bench was overthrown in 1937 . It held that the purest form of local activity ? where the path from production to consumption is confined to one man 's 23 acres ? has such a substantial effect on interstate commerce that it is within the realm of federal regulation . How It All Started Roscoe C. Filhurn , a Montgomery County ( Ohio farmer , who was the subject of the decision , ordinarily did n't raise much wheat . He planted about 11 acres , as a rule , fed some to his livestock and chickens , sold a little , and kept some for seed . But in the fall of 1940 he sowed 23 acres of winter wheat . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 cents a bushel . In May , 1941 . Congress raised the penalty to 49 cents , and , when threshing was over , Mr. Filburn had a 9117.11 penalty to pay . In the main , he challenged the retroactive effect of the higher penalty , but he also questioned the constitutionality of Congress regulating local production . Mr. Justice Jackson wrote the court 's answer . First he recognized that , despite numerous rulings on the latitude of the Congressional power over interstate commerce , there never has been a decision on a proposition where " no part of the product is intended for interstate commerce or intermingled with the subjects thereof . " Then he cast back to the Seat Chief Justice . John Marshall , and the famous decision in the case of Gibbons versus Ogden . That case ; Justice Jackson said , warned that " effective restraints on its exercise ( exercise of the mterstate commerce power ) must proceed from political rather than from judicial processes . " In other words , from the people rather than the courts . Succeeding decisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a negative way by saying what states could not do . rather than what the Federal Government could . During that period , said the Justice , there grew up the impression that certain activities such as production , manufacturing and mining were state matters and outside the realm of federal regulation . The Court mistakenly followed that line of reasoning in deciding the early child labor cases , the N.R.A . cases and the first Guffey Coal Act cases , he noted . " Whether the subject of the regulation in question was ' production ' , ' consumption ' , or ' marketing ' is , therefore . not material for purposes of deciding the question of federal power before us , " Justice Jackson said . " That an activity is of local character may help in a doubtful case to determine whether Congress intended to reach it . The same consideration might help in determining whether in the absence of Congressional action it would be permissible for the state to exert its power on the subject matter . even though in so doing it to some degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity be local and though it may not be regarded as commerce . it may still , whatever its nature , be reached by Congress if it exerts a substantial economic effect on interstate commerce and this irrespective of whether such effect is what might at some earlier time have been defined as ' direct ' or ' indirect ' " . ? Thus , going back to the butcher , baker and barber , what if Congress should decide , for example , that their prices had a lot to do with inflation or other economic conditions ? Or if it should conclude that the operation of their institutions might affect the general health ? The commerce power , under yesterday 's opinion , would seem to permit federal legislation . On the question of the retroactive applies " Lion of the penalty to Mr. Filburn. the Cqurt ruled against the farmer . It pointed out that the penalty became due on threshing  --  an act committed after the statute was enacted . Further , the Court said . the penalty could have been avoided by storing the excess wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Profits Tax Cases The Treasury Department won three Supreme Court cases involving the application of the 1936 undistributed profits tax to sinking funds and to profits set aside for the payment of debt . Three companies  --  the Ohio Leather Co .. Warren Tool Corp. , and the Strong Manufacturing Co. ? had written agreements specifying that they would apply a percentage of each year 's net earnings to their indebtedness . Each agreement expressly provided that the payment of the percentage was to be made on or before a certain date in the year following the one during which the net earnings were realized . The three companies contended that these agreements entitled them to deductions under the old undistributed profits tax of 1936 . The cowl. , in an unanimous opinion by Justice Murphy , held that the agreements failed to meet the standards for deductions under the tax . In order . to entrle eorepany to erreindletributed profits tax deduction its contract must contain a requirement that a part of earnings " be paid within the taxable year in discharge Of debt " or that the earnings " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discharge of a debt . " The contracts in these three cases do not meet these requirements , the committee said . " The only requirement is that taxpayers pay on or before a date after the close of the taxable year , " the Court declared . " This is not enough . Until that date taxpayers were free to use the specified percentages ( of earnings ) as they pleased , so far as the agreements were concerned . That prudent business judgment or the possibility of fiduciary liability . . . might have constrained taxpayers from using these percentages and actually to set them aside is immaterial ; such setting aside was not required by the terms of the written contracts , and therefore did not satisfy section 26(C) ( 2 ) . Likewise the fact that taxpayers actually irrevocably set the funds aside by anticipatory payments within the taxable year is of no moment , because these ipayments were voluntary and not pursuant to the command of the agreements . " Justice Murphy noted that the tax law so construed may appear to taxpayers " a most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a tax deduction statute beyond its plain meaning to avoid harsh results are more properly addressed to Congress than to the courts , " he concluded . Two contractors holding construction contracts with the U. S. Government yesterday lost Supreme Court cases in which they sought additional compensation . One contractor sought additional money to cover overhead expenses for a period during which the Government itself delayed his work on a Federal hospital . The Supreme Court reversed a lower court opinion which had upheld the contractor 's claim . Another ' company lost its claim for additional compensation for added work on a , Fed- eral project because the company , instead of using the contract procedure for seeking an equitable adjustment , had gone directly to the U S. Court of Claims . Wage-Hour Act Application The Federal wage hour act applies to an independent driller of oil wells , the Supreme Court held . Justice Murphy in an opinion for the majority of the Court held that since oil from the wells drilled by the independent contractor eventually moves in interstate commerce , the wage hour act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the independent driller was aware that the oil from the wells would enter interstate commerce Justice Roberts dissented . Estate Tax Ruling The New York decedent , estate law permit Ling prorating of New York estate faxes against all beneficiaries of an estate was upheld by the high court . Josephine Del Drago , who died in 1937 , made no provision for payment of taxes on the estate and the beneficiaries con ? tended that , instead of being prorated under the decedent state law , the tax should be assessed entirely against the residuary trust . The Supreme Court overruled this contention Bankruptcy Law Interpretation Marine Harbor Properties , Inc .. New York apartment owner . was denied permii.sion to file ' bankruptcy proceedings under Federal law , The Supreme Court ' upheld the contention of the Manufacturers Trust Co. , trustee , that , since state court proceedings had been started , the filing under the Federal law was not in good faith .                     