@@709626

txt The renewed OPA fight on Capitol Hill makes it useful to review briefly the wartime evolution of price control as a background for future policy . Soon after the defense program was inaugurated in 1940 , pressures for price rises developed as the result of the tremendous civilian demand , the large diversion to war needs , speculation , hoarding , uncoordinated Government buying , loss of foreign sources of supply , etc . Initially , attempts were made to hold prices down by conferences , voluntary agreements and threats . This period of " jawbone " price control was followed early in 1941 by the issuance of formal control orders . In January , 1942 , price control was given legislative sanction . Several months later this period of selective price control was replaced by the general freeze of all prices except those for certain foods . In October , 1942 , the enactment of the Stabilization Act provided for wage control and permitted the freezing of food prices previously uncontrolled . Finally , in April , 1913 , the Hold-the-Line Order was issued , virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went from " jawbone " price control to selective control to general control . Moreover , the pressures for price increases were attacked simultaneously by other controls . Rationing , priorities , allocations , coordinated purchasing activities , wage controls , production controls , export and import control , saving drives , higher taxes , appeals for patriotic cooperation , etc. , supplemented price control . The importance of these supplementary controls was well demonstrated by the difficulties met in price control when they were not effective . Meats , poultry , used cars , fresh fruits and vegetables , and nylons , may be cited as illustrations of this point . At the same time the pressures for higher costs were diverted from retail prices by an ever-expanding volume of subsidies . From an annual rate of $150,000,000 early in 1943 , the total increased to $1,000,000,000 by the end of 1943 and to $2,500,000,000 early this year . Congress has made it abundantly clear that it will not favor any further increases in subsidy payments . Soon after V-J Day many of the supplementary controls were eliminated , thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the volume of new fiscal inflation resulting from the budgetary deficit has been reduced substantially , and is at a slower rate than during hostilities , a new inflationary factor has taken its place . As a result of a misguided judgment that we were faced with deflation , the Administration undertook to sponsor large wage increases . These wage increases were so substantial that they expanded the pressure on costs and made it impossible to avoid price increases in such key sectors of the economy as steel , freight rates and coal . Prior to the termination of OPA these developments were reflected in a creeping advance in wholesale prices , which had risen about 5 per cent and in retail prices , which had risen about 2 per cent in the early part of this year . And these rises did not reflect the full impact of the wage ' increases previously granted . Although OPA released controls from some prices in the ten months following V-J Day , the progress of decontrol was distressingly slow and inadequate . At the same time , the agency insisted upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of complaints and distortion to production . It was in response to the foregoing situation that the Congress disregarded the Administration 's insistence upon an unchanged OPA . In fact it was not until the President 's veto message that any indication was given that any of the amendments Congress had been considering were acceptable . The foregoing survey makes it clear that the prerequisites for a system of general price control are no longer present . Selective rather than general price control should be the objective of any new legislation Congress may adopt . The bill proposed by the Senate Banking Committee does not meet this test , since it provides for a resumption of the general system of price control previously in effect . The longer Congress delays in approving any new controls the more difficult it will be to re-establish any system of price control that will be workable .                     