@@706386

txt Slowly but surely , like an icebound river in the Spring , Europe is beginning to crack . This is not just wishful thinking , like the mirages of German collapse that have dissolved in the cold light of reality . The occupied countries are not on the verge of revolt ; Nazi power either to rule by terror or to launch a mighty military drive is by mo means spent ; and it is folly to imagine that anything less than assault in superior force , backed by enormous reserves of weapons and of will , can smash the great fighting machine that is now being geared for its supreme test . With these reservations against false hopes of near or easy victory , the signs that Hitler 's house is crumbling from within are far too many to ignore . France is seething , shaken by a crisis deeper and more violent than the world was aware of . A the days pass , each marked by the shooting of more hostages in unending reprisal for unending attacks on German soldiers , it becomes clearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesperation on Hitler 's part . The best evidence that the country had become ungovernable , either by the Vichy regime or by the occupying authorities in Paris , is contained in the text of the decree issued yesterday by General von Schaumburg , German commander of the Paris area . A new phrase runs like the beat of . the firing squad through the steely words of this death sentence . The hostages to be executed are " persons responsible through sympathy , " and this can only mean that all of France stands united behind the alleged assassins . This is a bad omen for Laval , and a grim accompaniment to the inauguration of his mission of " reconciliation . " Actually , it is war , and Hitler knows it is war . Laval is the admission that the Nazis have given up the hope of ruling France by any means but naked force . In the light of the French turmoil , PeIsin 's final collapse appears to be less a surrender to Hitler than to France itself , a confession that the situation had gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It looks , indeed , as if the logic of despair were driving the French to open that second front the United Nations are only preparing to storm . Unquestionably Russia 's demand for help gives impetus to a campaign of terrorism that holds the German Army in France and makes its position there not only nerve-racking but dangerous . The French Communists elected seventy Deputies to the last Parliament . They are numerous and well organized , but the underground warfare they wage is a rallying point for patriots joined for the first time to the forces of the ' extreme Left by the strong bond of a common hate . Portentous things are happening in France  --  portentous because in this soil , so hard to break and so hot with volcanic fire when it is broken , the seeds of European revolution have always been sown . The French influence on the Continent is like a wind that dies down , overpowered for a time by breezes from elsewhere  --  Germany , England , Russia , the United States  --  but always rises again . This is because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with shifts of power , but springs from the intellectual and cultural attraction of French civilization . We may be sure that when France stirs , Europe stirs . If Hitler goads the French to revolt after he has failed to win them , the effect of French rejection of the New Order will be as powerful on the other nations as was the awful precedent of French defeat .                     