@@710659

txt Secretary Marshall said , in part , according to the Associated Press : " The immediate task we face at this conference is to draft the treaty contemplated in the Act of Chapultepec . In that act we jointly declared that every attack by a state against an American state shall be considered as an act of aggression against all , and we provided for collective sanction against the aggressor . This principle of collective responsibility for our common defense is a natural development of inter-American collaboration " The results of our labors will demonstrate to all the world that peoples and nations who really want peace can have peace by living in an atmosphere of increasing co-operative action and good will . We all recognize , I am sure , that we are living in a sick and suffering world . By the grace of God , through the development of the strong bonds of Pan Americanism we have been spared the horrors and devastation of the war in our countryside . " Perhaps distance from the scenes of the great tragedy makes us slow to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently aware of how vastly important to the future of the Old World is the unity of the New .... U. S. Determined " The Government of the United States of America has assumed unusually heavy burdens in a determined effort to meet the minimum economic requirements of the areas devastated by war and now threatened with starvation and economic chaos . In assuming this burden , we have not lost sight of the economic problems of the Western Hemisphere . As a matter of fact , the economic rehabilitation of Europe is vital to the economy of this Hemisphere . " My Government will continue to take up economic questions , with its sister republics , and seek a sound basis for practical cooperation . Each of our countries must do its part in the achievement of this goal . " The results of the MarshallBramuglia talks , however had led delegates to anticipate that Secretary Marshall in his address to the plenary session would announce formally that the United States believes economic problems should be discussed at the Bogota , Colombia ? conference , next January , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ die in and humbleness , Secretary Marshall rapped at the door of room 400 to confer with Sefior Bramuglia in his effort to reach a harmonious understanding with the Latin-American country with which the United States has had such great differences . Bystanders pictured Secretary Marshall as ... malting a former United States Secretary of State in courtesy to the Latins . They recalled the 1933 Montevideo conference when , after a knocked . door opened , a voice would simply say , " I 'm Cordell Hull . " Today the man to whom the conference pays unusual homage for his war and peace record took this same humble approach to gain the approbation of a country long associated with the totalitarian powers . Chile-LT . S. Accord After Secretary Marshall later visited the Foreign Minister of Chile , Vergara Donso , it was understood that the Secretary was emphasizing the huge ? economic commitments of the United States in Europe and Asia , and he indicated that Latin America should help . The Chilean Minister pronounced his country and the United States in complete accord on this approach In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a statement following the MarshallBramuglia meeting . Diplomatic observers stress that present differences between the United States and Argentina are by no measure as great as was the case in the conference of 1942 when Argentina kept the hemisphere as a bloc from breaking relations with the Axis . Dona Maria Eva Duarte d* PerOn , wife of the Argentine President , who has been some 50 miles away from the conference for several days , in Rio proper , was expected to arrive just about the time Secretary Marshall was to speak . Whether Senora Perrin will speak in plenary session or before a committee remains a question of diplomacy and protocal . Her calculated or sincere interest in Argentina 's affairs has made her one of the most active of Argentina 's politicians , and under her country 's present make-up she is a leading figure , fully entitled to participate . Observers believe no other woman in the Americas in similar high position would attempt to distract the serious work of such a conference . Secretary Marshall last night declined an invitation to attend a grand ball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     