@@706253

txt Emphatic opposition to the closed shop either in direct form or under any subterfuge was expressed yesterday in statements issued by the Bethlehem Steel Company , the Republic Steel Corporation and the Inland Steel Company . Together with Youngstown Sheet and Tube , they constitute so-called " Little Steel , " employing nearly 175,000 workers . The statements were issued in connection with the dispute between " Little Steel " and the Steel Workers Organizing Committee now pending before the National War Labor Board in Washington . The main points in controversy are the union 's demand for a closed shop , the check-off and a flat increase of a day . Leiserson Speech Critical William X Leiserson , member of the National Labor Relations Board , declared in a speech in New York last night that governmental policy on fundamental labor issues should not be left to an arbitration board but should be formulated by Congress or the President under the authority delegated to him as leader of the war program . Forecasting a " stormy career " for the National War Labor Board , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposes of the closed shop issue and requests for wage increases . He said it was preferable that labor relations policies in war industries be worked out " by mutual agreement and consent so far as possible , " but added that , if voluntary partnership failed , the only alternative would be for Congress to determine the policies by legislation . Referring to press reports that William H. Davis , chairman of the War Labor Board , intended to sponsor the so-called Marshall Field maintenance - of -union-membership clause as a compromise of the closed shop issue in the " Little Steel " case , Bethlehem Steel characterized the clause " as just one more confusing name for the same old idea . " " It is a cleverly camouflaged closed shop , and the public should not be and , as we believe , will not be fooled by it , " the company declared . " President Roosevelt stated on Nov. 14 , 1941 , that ' the Government of the United States will not order nor will Congress pass legislation ordering the so-called closed shop . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not union security . Every man should have the right to work without being under pressure to participate in any particular scheme for any kind of membership security . " We have made wide inquiry , but we have not found that any steel company regards the supposed compromise as anything other than the closed shop partially concealed by a new smoke screen , and on that account entirely unacceptable . " Opposes ' Union Pressure Equally outspoken was the statement of Republic Steel , which termed the clause in the Marshall Field case as " the closed shop under a different form . " " This company is opposed to it or any other form of closed shop , no matter what it is called nor how it is camouflaged , " the Republic Steel statement asserted . " The plan is all the more vicious because its real purpose is to force men to become and remain members of unions under a false cloak of supposed ' voluntary ' action on their part . " The big job today is to keep plants running at capacity . Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being under pressure to join in any particular scheme of compulsory union membership . " Wilfred Sykes , president of the Inland Steel Company , was quoted by The Associated Press from Chicago as saying the Marshall Field formula was " subject to the important objection that it is sim- ply a device for bringing about a closed shop . " " This is so because it furnishes no means of protecting employes from being coerced into signing up , and once they have signed up they can not withdraw , " he continued . " In addition , it compels the company to collect dues for the union , which is entirely contrary to the basic principle of all modern labor legislation that unions shall be free from interference or assistance by employers . * r * " We can only hope that , when our evidence is presented , it will receive impartial consideration . " Bethlehem Steel employs some 90,000 men . Republic Steel 's employes total 50,000 . Negotiations between both companies and the Steel Workers Organizing Committee conducted in this city broke down recently , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perkins to the War Labor Board . Pending action by the board , the negotiations with Youngstown Sheet and Tube are being held in abeyance . In both labor and employer circles the War Labor Board 's action in the " Little Steel " controversy is looked forward to as perhaps its biggest test , because of its effects on relations in the larger steel companies , headed by the United States Steel Corporation , all of which have agreements with the Steel Workers Organizing Committee . " Little Steel " has never entered into collective agreements with the union .                     