@@706903

txt A 10 per cent cut in the value of fueloil rationing coupons in seventeen Eastern States and the District of Columbia , effective at 12:01 o'clock Monday morning , was ordered tonight by Leon Henderson , Price Administrator . Declaring that the fuel-oil situation was becoming " increasingly serious , " Mr. Henderson also gave notice to operators of all oil-burning commercial buildings which can convert to coal in the thirty States where fuel oil is rationed to convert immediately or lose their oil allowance by the end of this month . The cut applies to the value of Period 3 coupons . The action was taken on the advice of Secretary Ickes. the Petroleum Administrator , who noted " the increasing gravity of the petroleum situation because of transportation problems and military requirements , " Mr. Henderson said . No Penalty for Pre-Use Class 1 coupons , used principally by home owners , will be reduced in value from ten to nine gallons , Class 2 coupons , which cover apartment houses , hotels and institutions , will be good for ninety instead of 100 gallons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both classes which- already have been honored ; on the pre-cut basis should be I turned in by dealers to local rationing boards within seventy-two hours after 12:01 A. M. Jan. 4 . Consumers who already have used some of their Period 3 coupons will not be penalized , the OPA said . Officials estimated that the new cut would save 30,000 to 40,000 barrels of petroleum daily . In serving notice on commercial building operators to switch from oil , Mr. Henderson declared that conversions so far had been " disappointingly small . " " We have given commercial property owners months to do their wartime duty in this matter , " he said . " But there can be no further delays . The policy now is definitely : ' No conversion  --  no oil . ' " Warns on Heatless Buildings Mr. Henderson notified every local rationing board to stop all oil rations for apartment houses , hotels , theatres , office buildings and any other structures , except private dwellings , unless these provisions were met : " 1 . Written proof is presented that arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current heating season . " 2 . The applicant has proved conclusively that conversion is impossible . " " Too many owners of commercial buildings have been gambling on the leniency of their government in the matter of conversion , " Mr. Henderson said . " They are going to lose . There will be heatless buildings as a result , but fuel oil is too precious to permit its waste by property owners who shrug off their government 's requirements and think the whole thing is a joke . " I am instructing the local boards to turn down flatly any request for oil from commercial property owners whose efforts at conversion have been anything short of the maximum demanded by the oil situation . And this goes for the small consumer as well as the large . " Mr. Henderson said that boards had " complete authority " to reject any conversion dates " set too far ahead , " which means that conversions set for Spring would not be acceptable . The whole purpose is to save oil in the next two months while the crisis is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordingly , he declared . Boards will begin to apply his instructions " immediately , " the Price Administrator said . They have been instructed to review applications of commercial buildings which have received coupons for the entire year and to suspend the ration " if conclusive proof of nonconvertibility is lacking . " A government survey has shown that there are " ample supplies of grates and other necessary conversion equipment available , " he said . It was suggested that those who have difficulty obtaining conversion parts should ask the OPA regional office for help . The regional fuel oil rationing officer for New York is H. 0 . Doyle , with offices in the Empire State Building , New York City . , Mr. Henderson made known that more gasoline could not be allowed to salesmen in the seventeen Eastern States and the District of Columbia . Some salesmen dealing with distribution of essential commodities in the rest of the country , where rubber conservation , rather than gasoline saving , is the reason for mileage rationing , are to be allowed extra mileage , in accordance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OPA war price and rationing boards will be ready to issue ration books for this mileage on Jan. 8 . The increase will allow qualified salesmen outside the critical area to travel up to 65 per cent of their last year 's mileage , or 8,600 miles a year , whichever is less . Eastern seaboard salesmen must continue to get by on their " A " and " B " coupon books .                     