@@710558

txt An influential bipartisan movement in Congress , embracing at this stage 24 senators and representatives , is taking the lead to press for a much stronger United Nations . Following a conference with Secretary of State George C. Marshall , leading Republicans and Democrats now have put before the Senate and House three resolutions all ultimately designed to transform the UN into a limited world government . The purpose of the resolutions is to urge President Truman to call a general conference of the United Nations to carry through strengthening amendments to the Charter . Target : Veto Power The effect of the amendments which the sponsors of these resolutions have in view , is to curtail or abolish the big-power veto and to invest the UN with some legislative , judicial , and law-enforcing powers . The sponsorship of the resolutions takes in a widely representative cross-section of congressmen from both parties and from divergent sections of the country . Ten senators , led by Senator Homer Ferguson ( R ) of Michigan , joined in introducing one concur-relit resolution which called for strengthening amendments " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read : " Be is resolved by the Senate of the United States , the House of Representatives concurring , that it is the sense of the Congress of the United States that permanent world peace . can and will be achieved through the United Nations and that we believe that action should be taken under the United Nations Charter to propose and adopt amendments and revisions that will strengthen the United Nations into an instrument to preserve world peace . " House More Explicit Supporting Senator Ferguson v.-ere Senators Charles W. Tobey ( R ) of New Hampshire , Raymond E. Baldwin ( R ) of Connecticut , Ralph E. Flanders ( R ) of Vermont , Harry P. Cain ( R ) of Washington , Harry-P . Byrd ( D ) of Virginia , Joseph C. O'Mahoney ( D ) of Wyoming , . Brien ( D ) of Connecticut , John J. Sparkman ( D ) of Alabama , and Glen H. Taylor ( D ) of Idaho . The House resolution is much more outspoken and explicit than Senator Ferguson 's Senate resolution . He declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its present structure is not fully adequate for this task " of preserving world peace , and concludes with this appeal to the President : " Resolved by the United States Senate , the House of Representatives concurring , that it is the sense of the Congress that the President of the United States should immediately take the initiative in calling a general conference of the United Nations pursuant to Article 109 for the purpose of making the United Nations capable of enacting , interpreting , and enforcing world law to prevent war . " Supporters Listed The supporters of this more vigorous proposal are Representatives Walter H. Judd ( R ) of Minnesota , Brooks Hays ( D ) of Arkansas , Karl E. Mundt ( R ) of South Dakota , Robert Hale ( R ) of Maine , Richard M. Nixon ( R ) of California , Frederick A. Muhlenberg ( R ) of Pennsylvania , James P. Richards ( D ) of South Carolina , Estes Kefauver ( D ) of Tennessee . William T. Byrne ( D ) of ! dew York and Mike Mansfield ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in support of Senator Ferguson 's . esolution , immediately led a nove in the Senate to back the , tronger proposal which had been ntroduced in the House . Senators Dennis Chavez ( D ) of Jew Mexico , Olin D. Johnston D ) of South Carolina , James E. vlurray ( D ) of Montana , and : laude Pepper ( D ) of Florida put heir names on the , Taylor resoluinn , which read the same as Mr. ' udd 's and Mr. Hays ' . It is the Judd-Hays and Taylor roposals which explicitly look Drward to transforming the UN bto a limited world government , rid the initiative which they have aken is particularly welcomed y world federation groups as                     