@@707258

txt Induction of fathers into the armed forces will begin about Oct. 1 and continue to whatever extent the war makes it necessary in the meeting of quota demands of local draft boards , Paul V. , chairman of the War Manpower Commission said today . Affected are those fathers in the 3-A group , 18 through 37 years of age , with children born before Sept. 15 , 1942 . They will be called , as needed , strictly according to their Selective Service order numbers without distinction regarding the number or age of their dependent children . It was estimated unofficially that some 300,000 fathers possibly will be in active service by the end of this year . The total in the 3-A classification , as of July 1 , was about 6,559,000 . Reclassification of 3-A men to make them available for induction after Oct. 1 was ordered to start immediately . Others Will Be Called First Under a directive which is sent to local draft boards by Maj. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , Director of Selective Service , -. fathers will be drafted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet a monthly call from the armed forces1 that can not be met with men other than fathers who are not eligible for occupational deferment . Those who are " key " men in agriculture or essential industry will be deferred . Deferments also will be made in cases where extreme hardship and privation to their families would result from induction . Local boards already have been instructed to " comb " the ranks of men who have been examined and deferred under the 4-F classification as being ' unfit for military service , and to " sift " out regisr trants who now may be qualified for duty . The boards likewise have been told , Mr. pointed out , to give careful scrutiny to other deferred classifications , obtaining all other available manpower before ordering fathers for induction . However , the War Manpower Commissioner emphasized that the necessity for widespread breaking I into the 3-A group was real , as the Selective Service was " approaching exhaustion of other pools of registrants . " " Despite recent miltary successes , the efforts of the armed forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy I must not be relaxed , " he said . " They must be given the increases in manpower that are necessary to meet their requirements . We have reached the point at which we can not supply the men needed I by the Army , Navy , Marine Corps and Coast Guard and keep war production adequately manned except by removing the bars to the induction of fathers . " We have delayed calling fathers for miltary service as long as has been possible . We have worked with the armed forces to lower physical standards and permit larger recruitment from other classes of registrants . We have urged women and men not qualified for military service to substitute for single men in every possible place in essential industry . " We continue that plea , for on the response will depend , in large measure , how many fathers must be called to military service . " It has become evident , Mr. said , that the supply of qualified red restrants in classifications other than 3-A who are not eligible for occupational deferments , together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from registrants becoming 18 years of age each month , will not be enough to meet the monthly requirements of the forces after Oct. 1 . Youths will be attaining the age of 18 at the rate of about 90,000 a month , but , according to unofficial estimates , only about 50,000 a month will be available and qualified for induction . September Army Quota 175,000 The July draft quota for the Army was about 225,000 , the August quota is about 175,000 and the September quota will be the same , with the Navy call to be at a rate of about 100,000 for each of the three months . Whether the quotas for the months from October on will be larger was not disclosed officially . The October quota is expected to be set late this month . Before today 's directive was issued , fathers with children born before Sept. 15 , 1942 , were deferred and not available for military service except for those who had transferred from essential agriculture to another activity without the permission of their local draft boards , or , were engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will reconsider the classification of fathers as the manpower needs are ascertained . Class 3-A will not be abolished , it was emphasized , and men will be reclassified out of it only as needed to meet the demands upon a local board . Class 3-D will not be affected , the Selective Service System brought out . Into this classification go those men who are not otherwise deferred but whose induction into the forces would result in extreme hardship and privation to a wife , child or parent with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes . To Weigh Service Allowances In making the decision as to extreme hardship and privation , the local boards , under General Hershey 's directive , will take into consideration the Service Men 's Deprovided such status was acquired before Dec. 8 , 1941 . A registrant placed in Class 1-A of Class 1-A-0 because he left an agricultural occupation or because he was engaged in a nondeferrable activity , will be inducted before those men who are reclassified from Class 3-A. into Class 1-A or Class 1-A-0. pendents Allowance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrant could contribute to his family 's support in the event of induction . Allowances and allotments under the dependents law total $50 a month for the wife , $62 a month for a wife and one child and an ' Ndditional $10 a month for each additional child . The service man makes a monthly allotment of $22 and the Government pays the rest . Legislation designed to increase the Government allowances is pending in Congress . The decision as to the reclassification of each individual father will rest with the local board and will be subject to appeal . The record of these registrants will be reviewed in the order of their order numbers to determine their availability for military service . While the 3-A classification will be invaded under the new directive , the Selective Service System emphasized , there will be no change in policy as to the order in which registrants shall be called for induction . As usual , the local draft board will first select and order to report for induction those who volunteer for immediate service . Then , to fill the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in this order : 1 . Men with no dependents . 2 . Men with collateral dependents , provided such status was acquired prior to Dec. 8 , 1941. 3 . Men who have wives with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes , provided such status was acquired prior to Dec. 8 , 1941. 4 . Men who have children with whom they maintain a bona fide family relationship in their homes .                     