@@708358

txt The Lingayen landing has done much better than merely " proceeding according to plan . " It went with such ease and precision that for the first few days we all wondered what the Japanese had up their sleeves . One general I spoke to was nonplussed . He could not reconcile himself to the idea he was fighting a war and not firing a shot . But while this was the case at the beachheads it was far from being so at sea . The Navy had already fought and taken casualties . It is the Fleet 's business to watch catlike all the holes out of which the Japanese mouse might spring . It has been an exciting game so far and will remain so until we reach Manila , for the supply lines to Lingayen are long and over them we exercise only local and temporary control . Communication Lines Vital The essence of amphibious warfare is that one must completely dominate one 's lines of communication ? not temporarily but indefinitely . A couple of years ago the Japanese lines of communication were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on similar lines regarding the American lines . It is this that makes the naval position in this western Pacific vital . But the Pacific has seen many important departures and intensifications of naval warfare . The Academy conception of a navy is that its greatest value lies in its threat to lines of communication . An excellent example of what a weak naval power can achieve by observing this principle is the manner in which Germany with one battleship , the Tirpitz , tibd up three British battleships . We are witnessing a return to that position in the Pacific today . Allied Fleets Split Another important feature affecting the positions has been the departure from the orthodox strategy of the last war , by both Japan and Germany , by the breaking up of a fleet into task forces , geographically separated but maintained on interior lines . This required the opposing Allied forces to maintain a divided fleet at strategic points to meet these threats against their supply lines from widely separated areas . The Japanese must be carefully watching the movements of Admiral William F. Halsey 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His swift stab along the coast of Indo-China last week undoubtedly shook them , but it could not have surprised them . There is little likelihood that they will regard it merely as a foray against the lines of communication and a convoy raid . However , if the enemy has more strength in the South China Sea 1 than was found in this attack , and possibly he has , he has done an excellent job of hiding it . No American naval commander overlooks the fact that the Japanese , while orthodox seamen , are highly imaginative in the daring use they make of their ships . It may be taken for granted that the enemy is closely watching Vice-Admiral Jesse Oldendorf 's battleships and their accompanying cruisers and destroyers .                     