@@705963

txt Mayor La Guardia and Paul J. Kern , president of the Municipal Civil Service Commission , were Condemned in a report adopted by a City Council committee yesterday for having fostered favoritism and discrimination in civil service . The 120-page report prepared by Emil K. Ellis , counsel to the Council committee that oegan investigating civil service in May , 1940 , constitutes the first of three , sections . When the final section is adopted it is expected that the entire report will form the basis of a. demand by Council Democrats upon Mayor La Guardia for Mr. Kern 's dismissal from city service . The section approved by the committee yesterday was received by the Council and ordered printed in the City Record , the official city paper . Mr. Ellis devoted the bulk of his first report to reviewing testimony on individual civil service cases and the repeated efforts by CornMiksioner Kern to block the investigation . He recalled numerous court citations of Mr. Kern for contempt , and the recurrent threats to jail him for obstructionist tactics when he was a witness before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service head with laxness in enforcing the Devaney Act barring Communists from public employ , accused him of trying to start a Gestapo of informers in city departments ' and condemned him for allowing the rules of his commission to continue in a chaotic condition . On this point the report says : " Mr. Kern freely admitted at both private and public hearings that the rules were in ' chaotic state , ' and still are in a ' hopeless morass . ' He testified that the rules had been revised and had been submitted to the Mayor more than two years ago , but the the Mayor had been unable - to approve them for the reason that he had been ' very busy . ' " Mr Kern conceded at a public hearing on Nov. 27 , 1940 : " There is no - way of telling whether that rule is actually in 11 effect because we adopted a complete set of new rules last Summer about August . These rules are in horrible shape as you undoubtedly know from working with them . ' Kern Quoted on Rules " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kern and is worth while noting since he characterizes the condition of these rules in no uncertain way and describes the effect of that condition as follows ( private hearing , June 11 , 1941 , P. 296 ) : " ' The effect is that it hampers in many respects the efficient administration of the office both from the uncertainty that sometimes ' exists and from obsolescence too and in some ways it is wasteful too . Because of the uncertainty of what the rules mean or what they are , ? frequently leads to litigation and sometimes leads to excessive delay while we consider them and try to figure out just what they mean . All in all , the old set . of rules , the obsolete set of rules , is a very great hindrance to the efficient operation of the office . ' " Despite the fact that these rules were published by the Corporation Counsel 's office under the provisions of the Charter and are a public record relied upon by the public and the courts , Mr. Kern said : " ' 1 would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is actually a rule or that any specific item there is not a rule . ' Mayor Also Blamed " Although Mr. Kern attempted to blame prior regimes for the chaotic condition - of the rules , A ample opportunity existed since August , 1936 , when he was appointed , not only to procure this vital work to be completed , but as well to procure the Mayor 's reasonably prompt approval Or rejection . The Mayor 's delay of more than two years in acting on these rules is unreasonable , and in the ' light of Mr. Kern 's testimony , both the Mayor and he must accept responsibility for this intolerably loose and chaotic condition , which in the words of gr . Kern , hampers efficiency , is wasteful , leads to litigation , causes unnecessary delays and other hindrances in the administration of civil service in the city . " This is pathetic self-indictment . Certainly , since Mr. Kern 's appointment in August , 1936 , up to the present time , the establishment of order out of chaos and the adoption of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration in this city , should have been completed long ago . " Turning to the allegation that Mr. Kern tried to set up-an organization of informers within the city departments , the report says : " He attempted to establish a spying system within city departments , which action was universally condemned . The effect of that ill-advised plan upon the morale of department heads and city employees could not be more clearly demonstrated than by the trenchant remarks of Commissioner Robert Moses , in a letter to the Municipal Civil Service Commission , which letter was widely publicized . ' Said Commissioner Moses : " ' I am returning a crackpot letter which I received from you this morning , ? * ? It will not be used in the Park Department while I have my health and strength . This applies also to the New York City Parkway Authority and Triborough Bridge Authority . ? " ' The policy referred to in your letter can have no other object than to induce some employees in each department to act as spies , informers and stool pigeons for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either efficiency or loyalty . " ' Send this communication to the Ogpu in Russia , whose American representative you seem - to be. ? Ballplayer Incident Reported The report provides an exhaustive review of individual civil service cases in which the committee found favoritism for certain candidates . Commenting on the method used by Sanitation Commissioner William F. Carey to get-a number of crack ballplayers into his department under the guise of scowmen , the report taxes the Civil Service Commission with numerous violations of its own rules in the matter . Mr. Ellis 's report said : " An examination of the candidates would have revealed that none of them had any experience as scowmen or had any knowledge of signals , lights , tides , winds , currents , etc . Approval of the candidates under these conditions was a serious dereliction which might conceivably have resulted in grave accidents . " The commission completely ignored the qualifications necessary for the position described to the commission by the chief engineer of the Department of Sanitation . " The commission aided and abetted the Commission of Sanitation in procuring for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of the applicants were qualified or had experience for the position for which they applied , and with the knowledge that the accomplishment of that aim would necessitate violations of law and policy . " The entire transaction was a waste of city funds and a bad precedent for other city departments . " The /easing ' of the ball players into permanent competitive status as scowmen , makes a mockery of the merit system , for it demonstrates how the system can be molded and twisted to meet the exigency of personal whims or desires of a department head . It is an ugly , example which can not fail to have its hurtful effect on morale - of civil service employes . " The pre-arrangement to ' fix ' the ball players with positions as scowmen was a cruel victimization of men seeking employment who were deceived into applying for the position in the mistaken belief that the examination would , be honestly conducted and appointments made only on the basis of merit and fitness . " Favoritism Is Alleged The report found favoritism used in the cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary to the Mayor ; Seymour Siegel , son of Isaac Siegel , " a friend and political associate of the Mayor " ; several employes of the City Information ' Center recommended by the Mayor and Alexander Somach , brother-in-law of Mitzi Somach , who was paid $114 , - 328 in six years for doing photography for the Law Department . The report also hit WNYC , the city broadcasting station , for a number of appointments that the committee found were made on a basis other than merit and fitness . Councilman Robert K. Straus , Manhattan Fusionist , criticized the issuance of the report in three sections and contended that it was timed to hit the newspapers just before election . The second section of the committee report is expected at the II Council meeting of Oct. 22.                     