@@709214

txt CHICAGO , Jan. ** mediators worked without success today to avert a meat strike and , with the deadline little more than twenty-four hours away , the prospects of peace seemed dimmer than ever . But the Government 's representlatives refused to concede that the situation was hopeless . Late tonight Edgar L. Warren , director of Conciliation , said that conferences had ended for the day but would be resumed in the morning . Officials of Swift &; Co. and of the United Packinghouse Workers Union-CIO left the conciliation offices after hours of conferences . The only bright spot in the pie Lure up to that time was the announcement that eleven indepen // dent packers had agreed to increases of 15 cents an hour . The CIO union said that an agreement to this effect , covering 7,000 employes of Hygrade Products Corporation , had been put into effect . The Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen-AFL said that Hygrade had telephoned the same offer and it was accepted and that ten small packing companies , nearly all of which are members of the Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Amalgamated 's agreements cover about 4,000 employes . The CIO union said that its Hygrade agreement was left open to the extent that it could be modified later to conform with any wage adjustment made generally in the meat packing industry . This was taken to mean that the unions would scale down their demands on the big packers to that figure . Some of the Government 's representatives had hoped that the Hygrade and other agreements might have a salutary effect on the main negotiations , but there was no noticeable impact . Patrick E. Gorman , secretary treasurer of the Amalgamated , said it was possible that most of the independent packers would sign and that a strike would be concentrated against the four or five largest concerns , Swift , Armour , Cudahy , Wilson and Morrell . An effective strike against these companies would tie up 65 to 70 per cent of normal meat production , the Amalgamated estimated . The CIO union demanded a 25-cent hourly increase , 171 : , cents of it now and the balance to be negotiated later when the wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum of $36 for a forty-hour week . The wage dispute is tied directly to the price discussions between the Government representatives and the packing companies . The Government 's offer of last week to pay a half-cent a pound more on Government set-aside orders has not been raised by any definite amount , informed sources said . Attempts to persuade the companies by economic argument that it would be to their advantage to make a more liberal offer to the unions and avoid a strike failed yesterday and through several hours of discussions today . The Government recognizes 33 per cent as the increase in living costs since January , 1941 , Employers who grant wage rises up to that amount are eligible for price relief . Whether the relief is granted depends in part on the applicants ' profit position .                     