@@712552

txt Secretary of State Dean Acheson has asked George F. Kennan , Coun- , selor of the State Department , to spend most of the next six months reviewing United States foreign policy in Latin America and Africa , it was learned tonight . It is understood that Mr. Kerman will leave for Latin America early in February . After reporting to Mr. Acheson on Ws findings and recommendations in that area , he will then go to South Africa , Libya , the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan and various other parts of the African continent sometime in April . His observations on United States policy in these areas will be the subject of review by the policy planning staff in the State 1Department early in the summer . After that Mr. Kerman will re'tire from the department for two years to study and lecture , probGeorge F. Heiman The New York Times ( WashinZteu Bureau ) ably at Harvard or Princeton , or at both . The Kennan reports are expected to help shape the Administration 's Point Four program for the underdeveloped areas of the world . Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may succeed the European Recovery Program as a major part of United States economic foreign policy after 1952 . Faces Intricate Problems In both Latin America and Africa the United States faces . a number of intricate political and economic problems . The . Latin American nations have felt in the last two years that the United States was concentrating on European policy , to the neglect of its , relations with this hemisphere . Various suggestions have been made by Latin American officials , that there should be some kind of a long-range economic assistance program for Latin America . These suggestions have been rejected here in the past , and there is no reason to believe that Mr. Kennan is going to Latin America now on any mission that will change United States policy in the hemisphere . Nevertheless , his views on the economic , political and military relationships within the inter - American system will undoubtedly influence United States policy in that part of the world . Mr : Kennan is known to have felt for some time that this country 's responsibilities for the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs there . For this reason , he suggested that a survey of developments in various parts of the African continent ' might be useful at this tithe . Mr. Acheson agreed . In recent months the State Department has become aware of an , increasing series of differences between the United States on the one hand , and Britain and France on the other , in the formation of policies affecting Africa . Differences at U. N. Session These differences reached a high ' point in the fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly ; which recently adjourned in New York , The United States not only differed with Britain on the future of the Italian colonies but found itself at odds with the British on eight of ten votes concerning the relationship of the ' United Nations to colonial ? and trusteeship questions . As a result , it is now agreed in official quarters here that the United States and Britain must review their relationships in the underdeveloped areas of the world.I Mr. Kennan 's two missions will undoubtedly contribute material for such a review some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new assignment is expected to contribute considerably to his own plans for the next two years . While he will not be active at the - State Department for two years , he will be studying , lecturing and writing on the past and future of United States foreign policy while on leave from the department . His reflections during this period , he feels , will be aided by on-the-spot surveys of conditions in Latin America and Africa . Mr. Kennan is expected to do a good deal of his work next autumn on his farm near Gettysburg , Pa. , and then continue his studies at Harvard or Princeton , or at both . Mr. Kennan attended Princeton before he became a foreign service officer almost twenty-five years ago . He is now recognized as onet of the State Department 's most brilliant career officers . ' Since 1947 he has headed the " policy planning activities of the department . He was selected for that job by Gen. George C. Marshall when the latter became Secretary of State and read a file of Mr. Kennan 's reports from Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was with the two new missions to Latin America and Africa in mind that Secretary of State Acheson decided to relieve Mr. Kerman of his responsibility for running the policy-planning staff , starting on Jan. 1 . It will be headed in the new year by Paul H. Nitze , Mr. Kennan 's deputy , who is an expert on economic affairs .                     