@@707701

txt The new system of governmental guidance for Chinese students abroad , indicative of the general trend in China 's educational policies will include " students ' superintendents " of the Chinese Ministry of Education , who will be stationed in the United States and Britain . Under the new plan students desiring ' study . abroad must obtain permission to do so . That permission will be dependent on the following conditions : Students must have three years experience in practical work in the government or some other institution . Oral examination must satisfy educational authorities that thestudent 's poise , behaviour and political thought are satisfactory . Further , a special examination in Dr. Sun Yat-sen 's " Three Peoples Principles " must prove that the official Kuomintang doctrine is the unalterable basis of their political convictions . They must undergo a special ideological and physical training course in the Kuomintang Party 's " Central Institute of Party and Political Training . " During two.years abroad which will be the normal limit , students must unconditionally submit to control and guidance of the super- intendent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political thought . Those failing to submit regular reports to the superintendent will first receive warning , then be sent home if failure recurs for three terms . If the superintendent can substantiate reports that the student 's speech or writings are contrary to the teachings of the " Three Peoples Principles , " or otherwise , their conduct will be considered irregular , credentials for study will be withdrawn and an order issued for return home . These rules apply to private students who pay own fares and maintenance . Their total number at present is not to exceed 600 . Of these , 60 per cent shall study physics , chemistry , engineering , agriculture and other technical subjects , the remainder commerce , law , education and arts . At present a considerable number is undergoing training prior to departure for America . Editor 's Note : This dispatch was passed by Chinese censorship . It contains no evaluation of the political aspects of this apparently tar-reaching step to control the impact of western ideas upon China . This phase of the development appears in strong contrast to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     