@@704653

txt NEW CURBS IN U. S. President ' Freezes ' All Financial Deals of the Danes , Norwegians WAR ZONE ENLARGED Cash and Carry ' Ban on Two Countries Awaits Reports on Status Neutrality Proclamation , Page 12 . Order on Exchanges Page 13 By FELIX BELAIR Jr . Special to THE NSW Yozix  --  Tines . WASHINGTON , April 10 ? The United States followed France and Great Britain today in " freezing " by executive action all balances and foreign exchange transactions in , which the Danish and Norwegian Governments or their nationals have an interest . President Roosevelt acted by executive order after issuing a proclamation barri9g all American shipping from the theatre of the latest German military operations . After a conference earlier in the day with Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles and Jesse H. Jones , Federal Loan Administrator , the President ordered that all credit allocations to Norway and Denmark by the Export-Import Bank be rescinded pending the receipt of official information on the exact state of affairs there . Pending the arrival of such diplomatic reports , President Roosevelt deferred issuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cash-andcarry provisions of the Neutrality Act . The executive order governing financial transactions was in anticipation of such information . First Use of Strict Control The President 's Executive Order , issued under provision of the Emergency Banking Act of 1933 , marked . the first occasion since passage of the measure that such rigid control over exchange and related transactions had been invoked . Not even in the instance of Germany 's invasion of Poland or Czecho-Slovakia did the Administration go to such lengths . Treasury officials said it was probably the first time that controls of such a nature had ever been applied in the case of two countries . Treasury regulations accompanying the Executive Order directed all banks , through the Federal Reserve system , to report the status of Danish or Norwegian accounts on a designated form . Treasury officials said they understood that New York banks on their own initiative had been withholding transfers to nationals of Denmark and Norway and their corporations that were dated prior to April 9 . Under the terms of the President 's ' order the following transactions are prohibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury : " A. All transfers of credit between any banking institutions within the United States ; and all transfers of credit between any banking institution within the United States and any banking institution outside the United States ( including any principal , agent , home office , branch or correspondent outside of the United States , of a banking institution within the United States ) ; " b . All payment by any banking institution within the United States ; " c . All transactions in foreign exchange by any person within the United States ; " d . The export or withdrawal from the United States , or the earmarking of gold or silver coin or bullion or currency by any person within the United States ; and , " e . Apy transaction for the purpose or which has the effect of evading or avoiding the foregoing prohibitions . " Issuance of the Executive Order followed a White House conference attended by Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr. , Adolf A. Berle Jr. , Assistant Secretary of State , and Edward H. Foley Jr. , general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave no official confirmation of the suggestion , it was believed the order was intended to prevent Germany from claiming control of Norwegian and Danish commercial balances in this country by virtue of its occupation of the two nations . It was explained that the order was intended " to amend Executive Order 6560 dated Jan. 15 , 1934 , regulating transactions in foreign exchange and transactions in credit and the export of coin and currency . " That this government has no intention of recognizing any but the de jure governments of Norway and Denmark even pending the outcome of the European war was indicated , meanwhile , after a call on President Roosevelt by Henrik de Kauffmann , Danish Minister , who predicted on leaving the executive offices that the President would continue to recognize him as the legal representative of his country despite its occupation by Germany . " I gathered from the President 's words that he will continue to recognize me as the representative of my country , " said the diplomat . Norwegian Denounces Nazis From the Norwegian Legation came a statement by Wilhelm Munthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that while his country would welcome any voluntary aid from outside nations in its hour of need , it would not ask that it be given . Although the President issued no formal decision regarding the policy on Export-Import Bank credits already granted to Norway and Denmark , Administrator Jones said after the White House meeting that the President 's decision had been to " stop , look and listen " wherever the status of Federal credits to the Scandinavian countries were involved . That meant , according to Mr. Jones , that we will be " holding up everything " pending word from the President and the State Department . Mr. Jones said the $30,000 , - 000 credit to Finland also had been discussed with the President , but it was considered doubtful that the allocation would be affected . Mr. Jones gave the following summary of Export-Import Bank credits already allocated to the various Scandinavian countries , explained that such credits could be used only for purchases of American goods , and the Scandinavian countries in any event could not now get ships to transport their purchases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no funds expended or obligated for purchases . Norway ? $10,000,000 authorized , of which $226,000 has been expended for merchandise that has been exported and $180,000 additional committed but not shipped . Mr. Jones said that if Norway should ship goods represented in the $180,000 additional commitments the Export-Import Bank would advance the money . Sweden ? $15,000,000 authorized , but no purchases or commitments made . Iceland ? $1,000,000 authorized , but no purchases or commitments made . Mr. Jones added that if Iceland requests the authorized funds to finance purchases here , they will be advanced . Finland ? $30,000,000 authorized , about $7,000,000 spent for goods already exported and $3,000,000 additional committed . Whether the existence of a state of war with Germany had been officially recognized by the Norwegian and Danish Governments appeared to be the only consideration standing in the way of a proclamation of American neutrality that would invoke the cash-and-carry provisions of the Neutrality Act requiring none but current cash payment for supplies bought in the United States as well as transportation in foreign ships . Although Mrs. ' J. Borden Harriman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister , in her report to the State Department Monday night , as informing her that his country was then at war with Germany , the State Department considers that this may have been only a personal expression and one not necessarily supported by the Cabinet and Parliament . It is understood that efforts to reach Mrs. Harriman , who has attached herself to the migratory Norwegian Government , have been unavailing , communications to Oslo as well as to the temporary capital at Hamar having been shut off since yesterday afternoon . With the Presidential proclamation limiting European trade routes of American shipping to Spain , Portugal and neutral Mediterranean nations came supplementary regutions by Secretary of State Cordell Hull even more stringent than those issued at the time the combat zone was first established by proclamation in November . As in the case of the original proclamation , American ships now within the extended combat zone will be permitted to leave it but , unlike the original action , American vessels that may be en route to the area will not be permitted to enter the zone . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , the State Department professed to know of no American ships en route to the area added to the war zone today . Three American vessels are reported to be in Norwegian ports and these may leave for home without violatine the regulations promulgated- today . They are the Flying Fish , Mormacsea and the Charles R. McCormack . Under the terms of the new proclamation the original combat area is extended to cover the waters of Scandinavia on the west and north of that peninsula and running along the top of the peninsula eastward to take in the White Sea . The area includes the Kola peninsula of Russia and the ports of Murmansk and Archangel . The original zone extended only to a point just south of Bergen . The enlarged zone is bounded by a line running from the northwest corner of the original area at Lat. 45 degrees N. , Long . 20 degrees W. in the Atlantic Ocean west of the British Isles , diagonally to the northeast , and passing to the east of Iceland and extending to the southern tip of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From that point the zone is bounded by a line running southeast to a point in the ocean just above the western shore of the White Sea , from which the boundary line drops directly south to the Russian shore . The waters north of the Kola Peninsula and the Soviet territory were covered by the zone , it was explained , because of the possibility of naval actions in any part of - that area . Ray Atherton , United States Minister to Denmark , reported today from Copenhagen by way of Berlin that the city was normal and that he and his staff were well . Mr. Atherton said he had assumed charge of British and French interests in Denmark . Diplomatic experts here said this entailed no responsibility with regard to British and French nationals . It meant merely , they explained , that Mr. Atherton would look after their affairs as best he could , but no obligation was imposed upon him , in the absence of treaty arrangements , to do more than he could or than he should deem advisable . The question has arisen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy in Vienna was requested to represent other governments . It assented , but when the foreign diplomats suggested that this involved protection of their nationals , the embassy pointed out that no such responsibility was involved nor would it be considered . When Secretary Hull was asked today about the status of the Ministers here of Denmark and Norway , he said he knew of nothing new about their status . This was accepted as meaning that they would continue to be recognized as the Ministers of their countries . Because of the difficulty of obtaining information of the state of affairs in Norway because of interrupted communications , Secretary Hull said no decision had been reached concerning the evacuation of Americans .                     