@@707196

txt Expecting a new crisis in the coal industry as a result of the War Labor Board 's rejection of the miners ' principal demands , leaders within the Administration today were urging that President Roosevelt sign without further delay the War Labor Disputes Bill as passed by Congress a week ago . The prevailing opinion was that the President would sign the measure or ask for a new and better one , especially if the coal dispute began boiling up again . Supporters of the measure asserted that it would give the Government a potent weapon in dealing with the miners ' case , or any other labor dispute affecting the war effort . Among other things , it would subject to a jail sentence of not more than one year or a fine of not more than $5,000 , or both , any person who willfully sought to foment or encourage a strike , lockout or slowdown in any plant , mine or facility taken over by the Government for operation in behalf of the war effort . The belief that the President would enact the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombardment lagainst it . Texts of the bill have been referred by the White House to numerous departments and bureaus for study and recommendation , and while some of these thought it was carelessly drawn and in many respects faulty , most of them were reported to hold that , with all of its flaws , the till was better than nothing in the present situation . The WLB 's decision in the coal case removed a formidable obstacle to the President 's favorable ac- tion on the measure . Under the peculiar wording of two sections , as written in the final SenateHouse conference , the coal case would have been removed automatically from the jurisdiction of the , WLB had the President signed the bill before today . These sections provided that a labor dispute could not be certified by the Conciliation Service to the WLB for adjudication if the dispute arose in a plant , mine or facility which already had been taken over by the Government . It so happened that the coal dispute had been certified and the mines had been taken over by the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers held that the wording of the bill could be construed to nullify the WLB 's control over the case . When the attention of the Senate and House conferees were called to those provisions , they denied any intention of divesting the WLB of authority over the miners ' dispute , but conceded that the wording they had adopted might have that result . The conferees insisted that the particular provisions were inadvertently inserted in the bill . Labor Chiefs in Radio Appeal Organized labor 's drive against the Anti-Strike Bill continued tonight , with William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor ; Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , and David B. Robertson , president of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen , joining in a radio broadcast over the Mutual Broadcasting System . Mr. ' Green maintained that 99 per cent of America 's workers had kept the no-slirilie pledge which the labor organizations volunteered immediately after the attack on Pearl Harbor . He charged that sponsors of the Anti-Strike Bill had tried repeatedly , but thus far unsuccessfully , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedoms of American workers . " They managed to get the present bill through , he said , by taking advantage of public resentment against a lapse from that pledge by a single group of workers . " Unquestionably Congress acted in anger and out of a desire to punish those responsible for this incident , " Mr. Green said . " It ( seems to me , however , that ConI congress failed to take into account the fact that this bill will punish at the same time the great majority of American workers who have kept the faith . " Mr. Murray declared that the American public had been " grossly deceived " about the true character " Of the anti-strike bill , and that many members of Congress did not fully realize what they were voting for . " The bill has been promoted as an ' anti-strike ' measure , " Mr. Murray said . " It is nothing of the sort . On the contrary , it would actually provoke strikes , not stop them . " Taking the floor in the Senate this afternoon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authors of the original SmithConnally anti-strike bill , condemned the labor drive against the bill . " I hope , " he said , " that the President of the United States will not be beguiled by this insistence , this arrogance , this impudent pressure upon him . " He said that the American people " are expecting and hoping that the President will approve the bill . " 