@@709378

txt The second series of postwar elections , beginning with Argentina and Greece , has reduced the enthusiasm of the western world for the electoral process as being the sure road to what democracy means in western eyes . Argentina went pram ' ems ; ray way of the ballot box . Greece went royalist by the same device , although the honesty of the poll is open to much greater question . Elections are due this spring in Japan , Germank , and France . Up to now , western diplomacy has focused energetic effort on " early elections . " That was based on the results in the first postwar series . Those earlier elections , in Great Britain , Hungary , Austria , France , Denmark , Belgium , and Italy , all moved more or less to the satisfaction of western minds . Stabilizing Results The results of these early elections were stabilizing , and anticommunist . The voting center of gravity was toward the Center  --  not toward extreme Left or extreme Right . It looked good in western eyes , but very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held which break from the earlier trend . Argentina has gone fascist and Greece to an older version of extreme Right . The Argentine result was a blow to American diplomacy . The Greek result magnified Britain 's already uncomfortable predicament in Greece . These two results are , of course , no more welcome in Russia than they are in Washington and London . Neither went communist . If anything , they went anticommunist . But it is little comfort to the western capitals that Greece and Argentina , in going anticommunist , also swung so far off to the Right that Washington must recast its whole approach to Pan- American solidarity and London must face a continuation of its military supervision in Greece or cause civil war to break out again by withdrawal . So , what is the answer ? One suggestion is fairly clear . There is no consistent merit per se in the earliness of an election . Results can be affected by the timing . The Greek election went extreme Right because it followed by a short interval a period of excesses in- a civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been delayed , at least the Center and perhaps the extreme Left would probably have come out better for the simple reason that the memory of excesses committed by the Left would have grown dim and the Right probably would have committed excesses in its turn . It has begun doing so . There is no telling what delay would have done in Argentina . In any consideration of a general formula about the time of elections , though , one comes to a central problem . America , Britain , and Russia control the timing of elections in all occupied countries . They can influence the outcome by changing the time . But any suggestion of a change , from either Russia or the West . is immediately open to challenge as being self-interested  --  which it probably is . The Russians would like to postpone the election in Japan which Gen. Douglas has scheduled for April 10 . They appear to believe that a postponement would be an advantage to the Left whereas an April 10 election is likely to be more in favor of the Right or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to the old difference between Russia and the West over the meaning of democracy . As one I wise observer has put it , Britain and America consider democracy i to mean " vacillating around Ceni ter . " Russia , on the other hand , considers democracy to mean control of power by the extreme Left , whether it represents a majority or not . Western capitals are pleased with election results whenever they produce a government more or less of the Center . Russia is pleased only when a government of the Left emerges . And both try to whittle away the implications of the returns when they go contrary to their fixed desires . Up to now , Russia has done most of that whittling , since the earlier results were toward the Center . When the Hungarians gave 5 per cent of their vote to the Communists and the balance to a Center-Right coalition , the Russians still managed to force Communists into key ' cabinet posts . In Germany , Russians are trying to offset an apparent anti-Communist trend by forcing the Socialists into combination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no sooner won its plurality in Greece than London applied every brake it possibly could on the ' winning Greek party 's immediate effort to bring King George back to his throne at once . It had to do this for the very simple reason that such an immediate return of the King probably would have precipitated civil war even in spite of the presence of British troops . So " early elections " can cut either way . Whose interest should be considered in delaying or hurrying them ? Obviously , Moscow will consider its interest and the western capitals will consult the interest of the West . But in view of the outcome in Greece and Argentina , the West has lost some of its previous confidence that the earlier the better in all elections .                     