@@705358

txt The Senate voted today , on motion of Senator George , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , to make the Administration lease-lend bill its pending business , just before it recessed until Monday . This insures that no other legislation can come formally before the Senate until a vote has been taken on the leaselend bill , except by unanimous consent or by the adoption of a motion to displace it . Meanwhile seventeen Senators opposed to the measure met in the office of Hiram W. Johnson of California and agreed to push amendments to prohibit the transfer of any part of the American Navy to Britain and bar the use of American warships to convoy shipments abroad . However , Administration leaders , including Senator Barkley of Kentucky , the majority leader , believed tonight that the debate would proceed expeditiously and relatively smoothly next week , and predicted final passage of the bill within ten days by a vote in which the opponents can muster twenty-five votes at a maximum . The opponents , for their part , claim they have an irreducible minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Held Unlikely The Administration forces were reported wavering over whether to permit the adoption of an amendment , as a compromise version of the change suggested by Wendell L. Winkle on Tuesday to limit the extension of aid to nations actually invaded or under imminent threat of invasion by the totalitarian governments . In general , it was considered unlikely that this proposal or the amendments advocated by the bill 's opponents would carry . The prospects , according to Democratic leaders , are that the measure will pass the Senate with relatively minor changes which the House will accept without great debate , avoiding the necessity of a long-drawn-out consultation by a conference committee . From the outset of today 's session . hours before the Senate had formally decided to make the lease-lend bill its pending business , the debate was under way . Interested Senators could not wait for the formal opening of the lists to break a trial lance or two . Also , the debate on the raising of the national debt limit from $49 , - 000,000,000 , or $53,000,000,000 , as variously interpreted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment on the leaselend bill . Critics of the national fiscal policy , in discussing the debt limit , demanded to know what the lease-lend bill would cost . Opponents of Bill Confer Just before the Senate session began , the outright opponents of the bill held their strategy meeting at the call of Senator Johnson . The seventeen who responded assembled in Mr. Johnson 's office , which is a remote corner of the ground floor of the Capitol , . where were held most of the opponents ' strategy meetings during the fight over the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and 1920 . The walls of the office are decorated with photographs of some of these gatherings . Those who attended the meeting , in addition to Senator Johnson , were Senators Tobey of New Hampshire , Taft of Ohio , Thomas of Idaho , Capper of Kansas , Shipstead of Minnesota , Willis of Indiana , Nye of North Dakota and Brooks of Illinois . all Republicans ; Senators Wheeler of Montana , Clark of Missouri , Clark of Idaho , Gillette of Iowa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walsh of Massachusetts , chairman of the Naval Affairs Committee , all Democrats , and Senator La Follette of Wisconsin , Progressive . They selected Senator Clark of Missouri to start debate against the measure . Mr. Walsh said after the meeting that he was opposed to further weakening of the United States Fleet by the transfer of naval units to Great Britain . " Secretary Knox ought to know what the needs of the Navy are , " Sir . Walsh declared , " and he is the 3est man in the country to judge of iur ability to dispose of further warships . If he does n't know , who does ? " On the floor of the Senate the bitterest attack on the lease-lend bill came from Senator Wheeler . " Here , " he said , " we find ourselves in the position first of seeing Canada , which is a colony of Great Britain , having a law providing for the drafting of men for three months ' time and in that law expressly providing that no draftee may be sent abroad without his consent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing a bill which will permit the Adminstration or the President if he sees fit not only to lease and to lend , but to give Great Britain any part of our Army or anything else that he may see fit to give so long as it is necessary for defense ; yet the Canadian Government , the Australian Givernment and the Indian Government and the Government of New Zealand and no other colony of Great Britain has gone as far as the United States proposes to go in this legislation . " Yet we contend we are not a colony of Great Britain . " Here are the colonies that are directly affected and directly involved in the war which are not giving up their assets ; they are not even loaning , to say nothing of giving ; they are not even loaning on credit to England but are insisting that the cash be put upon the barrel top ; and we claim that we got our independence in 1776 . " Destroyer Information Asked Senator Tobey made public , as his contribution to the preliminary debate , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the apparent difference of opinion between Secretary of the Navy Knox and Mr. Willkie on the possibility of releasing additional destroyers for Great Britain . The New Hampshire Senator said the President 's apparent endorsement of the positions of both these men has created considerable confusion in the public mind . " Because this matter is of vital importance to the people of America and your intentions regarding release or retention of our naval vessels should be considered by the Senate in its consideration of the lease-lend bill , " the telegram said , " and because I know that you and the Navy Department have been studying this problem for months I feel that the Congress and the people are entitled at this time to a candid statement from you as to your intentions regarding the naval vessels of the United States . " The people of the country are becoming divided by these conflicting statements of Mr. Willkie and Mr. Knox and in the interest of national unity as well as the interest of our national security , I urge you to make clear to the people and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A statement supporting the bill was issued tonight by William D. Mitchell , Attorney General in President Hoover 's Cabinet , although he added that " for the sake of national unity the Administration should yield some other amendments to expressly restrain action under it , which the President probably does not contemplate in any event . "                     