@@712347

txt COAL STRIKE BEGINS OVER PENSION HALT ; COERCION CHARGED First Miners Fail to Report in What Lewis Union Calls Anger on Fund Depletion PLANNED , SAY OPERATORS They Allege That Locals Were Ordered to Stay Out or Face Headquarters Reprisal By A. H. RASKIN Special to Tam Przw Yoax Tags . PITTSBURGH , Monday , Sept. 19 ? A mantle of idleness settled over the country 's coal fields today as operators received word from local officials of John L. Lewis ' United Mine Workers that most of their 480,000 members would stay away from work to protest the halting of pensions and medical payments by the industry 's Welfare Fund . In the face of continued official silence from Mr. Lewis , leaders of the mine union in widely scattered areas forecast that 85 per cent or more of the miners would boycott the pits today . The walkout would cut off virtually all the country 's production of soft and hard coal . An unidentified United Mine Workers official in Scranton , Pa. , t was quoted by The Associated Press as saying that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that orders had been received from UMW headquarters ordering all hard coal miners to join bituminous coal miners in a walkout . Johnstown Idleness Begins The actual extent of the ' immediate walkout was difficult to gauge because few large mines maintain midnight shifts . Three mines in the Johnstown , Pa. , district reported that 1,000 men due there had failed to report . Scattered reports of similar failures to show up were received from other mines in western Pennsylvania . The walkouts came after thousands of miners had voted at meetings yesterday to remain away from work until welfare payments were resumed . Revising the union 's traditional " no contract , no work " slogan , they rallied around a new motto of " no welfare , no work . " Union spokesmen said the men were " rip-roaring mad " at the mine owners , whom they held responsible for the lack of money in the Welfare Fund . Mr. Lewis declared last week that the failure of some Southern operators to continue their royalty payments was " bleeding the fund white . " Coal operators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walkout was being organized by the union and that reluctant locals were being " whipped into line " by threats of disciplinary action if they failed to strike . One large employer in central Pennsylvania said two locals that wanted to keep working were warned by Lewis aides that pickets would be put outside their mines by the ' parent union . The locals decided to strike , rather than cross picket lines established by their own organization , the operator said . The work stoppage over the cutting off of pension and welfare payments was expected to bring a renewed demand by Mr. Lewis that the mine owners increase their present royalty payments of 20 cents a ton to the welfare fund . It was indicated that the operators would counter this with a demand that miners begin making contributions td the fund , instead of relying on the owners to pay the whole bill . Related to Steel Dispute This would extend to coal the fight that is now going on in steel over whether employers should be expected to bear the full cost of industrial social security systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Steel Corporation and other major steel producers have extensive holdings in coal . The operators blame Mr. Lewis for the depletion of the welfare fund . They hold that the three-day week he ordered when the old contract expired June 30 aggravated the financial difficulties the fund was having as a result of its attempt to pay more generous pensions and welfare benefits than the 20-cent royalty would support . Among the miners there was no evidence that anyone considered Mr. Lewis at fault . All the criti // COAL STRIKE BEGINS OTTER PENSION HALT // eism was directed at the operators  --  and especially the Southern group which halted loyalty payments to the welfare fund last 5onth . Mr. Lewis warned the holdouts last week that their withholding of payments would provoke " reactions deterrent- to the constructive progress of the industry . " When the United Mine Workers president announced Friday that the trustees of the Welfare Fund had voted to stop further allowances to pensioners , widows , orphans and other beneficiaries , he attributed the action solely to " diminishing revenues , " But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James D. Francis , president of the Island Creek Coal Company , in Huntington , W. Va. , and the Cleveland Trust Company , in Cleveland , Mr. Lewis charged that the failure of some Southern operators to keep up their payments to the fund threatened it with bankruptcy . Spokesmen for the coal owners asserted that the funds not paid by the Southern group were an " insignificant " factor in the present situation . They said the fund had been paying out $4,000,000 a month more than it would have taken in if all royalty checks were sent in on time . They noted that the Welfare Fund in anthracite had also cut off benefits , effective Sept. 30 , despite the absence of any complaint that operators were not sending in their royalties . Remittance Due Tomorrow Northern operators are scheduled to send their monthly remittance of about $3,000,000 to the welfare fund on Tuesday . It was predicted that this payment would be made , even if a full-fledged strike developed . There was no hint from the union that receipt of the money would permit immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have anything official to say about the welfare stoppage until Wednesday , when he is to resume contract negotiations with the northern operators at White Sulphur Springs , W. Va . Negotiations with the Southern operators will be reopened Tuesday at Bluefield , W. Va. , but Mr. Lewis has been leaving these talks to a second team of union officials . The contract talks have been going on for three months , but Mr. Lewis has not spelled out his demands . The announcement that the Welfare Fund would have to confine itself to emergency medical and hospital services until further notice brought " great indignation " in all mining states , union officials reported . They said all the indignation was aimed at the owners and would take the form of a virtually complete stoppage of mine operations this week . Women Reported in Outcry John P. Busarello , district president of the union for western Pennsylvania , said he had received dozens of " hysterical " calls from women who feared that their homes would be broken up by the suspension of welfare payments . " Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing , and they are burnt up , " Mr. Busarello said . " They say they are not going to work until they get the Welfare Fund back again . " An official of the Southern Coal Producers Association said he expected " almost nobody " to be at work in mines that normally employ 125,000 in southern West Virginia , eastern Kentucky , Tennessee and Virginia . The same prediction came from operators in the western coal fields . The " captive " mines of the large steel companies were among those in which locals voted not to work . The steel cofspanies are more worried , however , about the prospect of a strike of their own production workers at midnight next Saturday . If the steel workers stay on the job , most mills will have enough fuel to withstand a coal strike for forty-five days . Utilities and other industries are in equally good shape for coal , despite Mr. Lewis ' attempt to reduce reserve stocks through his imposition of the three-day week . Most of the initial pinch will be felt by household users @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this fuel was reported available . Railroads in the coal area were preparing to furlough thousands of workers if a new shutdown began . The workers to be laid off are employed in the hauling of coal . General adoption of the " no welfare , no work " policy would bring the third work stoppage this year to most mines . In March Mr. Lewis ordered a two-weeks ' shutdown as a " memorial " to men killed and injured in the mines . This was linked with his unsuccessful effort to block confirmation of Dr. James H. Boyd as director of the Federal Bureau of Mines . In June Mr. Lewis closed the mines for a week in what he called " a stabilizing period of inaction . " This was designed to reduce coal stockpiles and help stabilize the industry . Fund Was Set Up in .1946 The UMW Welfare Fund came into being through an agreement signed by Mr. Lewis and J. A. Krug , Secretary of the Interior , in May , 1946 . The operators had refused to go along with the union on establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Truman under the provisions of the wartime Smith-Connally Act . In June of the next year , Benjamin F. Fairless , president of the United States Steel Corporation , and George M. Humphrey , chairman of the board of the Pittsburgh Consolidation Coal Company , signed a contract with Mr. Lewis , embodying the Welfare Fund . Other operators accepted the fund reluctantly , and the mines were restored to private operation . The original fund called for a royalty of 5 cents a ton . This has now risen to 20 cents , and Mr. Lewis is expected to seek to increase this figure to at least 30 cents this year . The present royalty amounts to about 15 cents an hour when computed on the basis of average production per man . This is 5 cents more than the 10-cent " package " recommended for steel workers by President Truman 's fact-finding board .                     