@@709193

txt Telephone operators who are members of the Boston Telephone Operators ' ' Union will not participate in any way in the current Western Electric Company strike and will go through picket lines to report for duty , Miss Grace Barry , President of the Boston union ; said today . Miss Barry reported that her organization represented a big percentage of the 5,700 girls employed by the . New England Telephone and Telegraph Company in Metropolitan Boston . It is an A. F. of L. uniqp , she added , and has no connection with the independent unions in the telephone system . " There are no Western Electric people installing apparatus in the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company as they do in other parts of the country , " Miss Barry said . " Hence if any strike occurs in Boston . it will be nothing but ' a sympathetic strike . We see no re ? on why we should join in a tic strike which is so reAtta " *e ciould n't go out on a sympathetic strike without the sanction of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sanction International officials of the I. B. E : W. said today they would not sanction such a strike . " Our girls will report for dut the same as always , ' Miss Barr continued . " We plan to discuss this question at our regular monthly meeting tonight and may decide what to do , but I am sure it will be along the lines I have indicated , because they are obpious . " Local calls in Boston are in large measure taken care of by the members of Miss Barry 's organization . Therefore , if any strike is called ' or picket lines set up in the Boston area , and the Boston girls go through them to report for duty ? there should be no interruption of local telephone service , so far as her union is concerned , she declared . No effect on the service of the New England Telephony and Telegraph Company , which covers all the New England states except Connecticut , was reported today by its offices . The only strikers in its five States number 20 or less . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at Norwood , Mass . As they were equipment workers installing apparatus for future use , their stoppage did not affect present operations . At Providence If . pickets are put out at strike points , the single place in the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company territory will be the long lines building at Providence . There pickets may be stationed tomorrow or Saturday , not today , it was said in union circles . The strikers are members of the American Communications Equipment Workers , an independent union whose members install apparatus made for the telephone companies by their manufacturing branch , the Western Electric Corn : Pay . demands coincide with their own , and that loss of the Kearny strike will be loss of their own wage case . If these 500 workers who do installation , maintenance and operating work on long-distance lines quit in sympathy , they will picket the exchanges employing long= distance operators . There are five in Boston . Their Boston union has notified the telephone company it has instructed its members not to work with places where picket lines are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berkshire Railway ' Company serving the 60-mile stretch between Williamstown and Great Barrington , Mass. , has been voted for tomorrow morning . A strike at the Vanta knitting mills in Newton completed its first week today . The International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union reported 100 out in demands for increased wages and union recognition . A strike of 700 is reported at the Klevin Shoe Company of Spencer , Mass. , by the State Board of Conciliation and ? Arbitration .                     