@@706006

txt The sitting judges ' ticket in the Democratic column made a clean sweep yesterday In the election of 21 judges of the Superior court of Cook county and a chief justice and an associate judge of the Municipal court of Chicago . The outcome was shown clearly early in the evening by an almost complete total of the straight votes which the law provides shall be counted before the long process of tallying individuals favored on split ballots is undertaken . The support of the Democratic nominees , who included 13 Democrats and seven Republicans now on the Superior bench . mustered in Chicago alone nearly 420,000 straights in contrast to approximately 205.000 straights cast for the Republican ticket . The Chicago splits amounted to about 125,000 . Therefore , with the Republican lead in the suburbs so small as to be negligible , the straights alone determined the result . Only 40 Per Cent Go to Polls . The total vote again illustrated the lack of general public interest in judicial elections . Because there was more of a fight than there was in the comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls and possibly the Republican increase was greater than the Democratic . But the indications were that the total did not go much beyond the 40 per cent expected . The suburban vote fell off . On the basis of incomplete returns the Democratic ticket as a whole won by between 180,000 and 200,000 votes , the lower figure probably represent ? ing the difference between the high man on the Republican and the low man In the Democratic column . The task of compiling the scores 01 the 42 individual candidates for the Superior court bench was a long one . When 1,975 precincts had come In1,500 in Chicago and 475 in the suburbs  --  the race was so close among the winners it was Impossible to say who would wind up at the top . Leaders Close Together . At that point the leaders were Judge Peter H. Schwabe , Judge M. L. , and John J. Lupe , the first two Democrats , and the other a Republican . On the Republican side Dreiman J. Slater , Harold J. Clark . and Harry Hershenson were running almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ticket , one et whom , Edgar A. Jonas , recently was appointed to a Superior court vacancy by Gov . Green . It also was obvious that six sitting Judges were hurt by the Chicago Bar association finding that they should not be reelected and that six candid times on the Republican ticket indorsed by the association benefited materially by that recommendation . Official statements were Issued by Democratic Chairnum P. A. Nash and Republican Chairman John T. Dempsey , but none came from Gov . Dwight II . Green . who had directed that a complete ticket be nominated by the Republicans even after the seven Republican judges whose terms expire had signified their intention to run with their Democratic associates as what they hoped would be an unopposed coalition slate . Nominated " by Request " This Is what Chairman Nash said : " Gov . Green , In a speech at Riverview park on Labor day , ordered a raid upon the judiciary of Cook county . Thereupon , at the request of the Republican and Democratic judges whose terms expire this year , the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It Is gratifying to know that the voters have again ovenvhelmingly approved the Democratic party 's long established policy of renominating experienced , able , and proven sitting judges . " " The vote shows that the Republican party Is strong In Cook county and getting stronger , " said Dempsey. " and that the Democratic party is going downhill . It Is a clear indication of a Republican victory in the 1942 election when a much laiger turnout of Independent voters can be expected . " 