@@704554

txt Evidence In accumulating that American In ? industry generally will earn considerably higher profits in the current quarter of this year than it did In the corresponding period of 1939 . A survey of the trend In key industries , based on results of the first two months of the quarter , indicates that virtually all maintained fair profit levels Some  --  notably the aircraft , automobile , copper and machine tools  --  are likely to report first period results comparing favorably with the excellent final quarter of last year . Standard business indices , while revealing the abrupt drop in industrial activity from the war boomlet peak of 1940 , at the same time serve to emphasize the extent of improvement over the first three months of 1939 . In the first quarter last year , the Federal Reserve Board 's adjusted index of industrial production averaged 99 . While the February figure for this year has not yet been made public it is generally placed in the neighborhood of 110 , compared with 120 for January . Allowing for a further modest decline in Margin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first quarter this year is likely to be somewhere around 110 . A summary of first quarter prospects for leading industries follows . COPPER : Improved foreign and domestic demand in recent weeks is expected to enable companies in this industry to show earnings well above the first quarter of 1939 . In fact , prospects are that income for most companies will make a favorable comparison with the excellent December period . AUTOMOBILES : Output for period ended March 31 , estimated at 1,300,000 units , will be largest for period since 1929 , and earnings will be substantially above a year ago . UTILITIES : With net for first two months about 8% higher than last year , income for the quarter will exceed 1939 , but the extent of the Allan will depend on business , fusing tt2 current month . AIRCRAFT : Increasing deliveries and backlogs mean higher profits for companies in this industry and the comparison with 1939 will be extremely favorable With shipments running ahead of those for the December quarter , earnings of some major units promise to top those of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of gasoline , earnings of oil companies for the quarter are expected to show marked improvement over a year ago . Crude prices are firm , while refined quotations show a somewhat mLxed picture . RUBBER : Sales of the industry have been holding to last year 's high level , reflecting a better than anticipated replacements tire bum ? ness and improved foreign demand . MACHINE TOOLS : Under the impetus of war influences . operations of machine tool makers are expected to be at virtual capacity for at least the first nine months this year . Earnings , as a result , are likely to reach a new record during current year Backings of most companies are at or near record proportions . RAILROADS : Nation 's carriers . as a group . are expected to experience one of the bent quarters in some time in the period ending March 31 . In January . they made best showing for that month in ten years , and while some slackening occurred last month , results for the period still were well above February of last year . Indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than in 1939 . CHEMICALS : Business in this industry is holding around the levels of late 1939 and earnings for the current quarter , while expected to be soinevi hat under those for the final quarter last year , will be maintained at about the level of 1939 's excellent third quarter . BUILDING : Material manufacturers , in spite of Jemmy slackening , ate likely to show quarter earnings above those of last year . Many companies will experience material gains . Incoming orders have been on the upturn since early February and inquiries for future deliveries are gaining sharply . STEEL : Operations currently , although don n sharply from start of 1940 , are well above year ago , with result earnings will show quite a bit of improvement over last year . In first three months of 1939 , steel operations ranged from 50 7. , to 56 1% of capacity . This year operation. ; declined from 86.1% to 64.6% In current week . Rate may get somewhat lower in next three weeks , but steel circles are looking for it to level out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the past few days there have been large orders and inquiries for heavy steels . ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT : General Electric and Westinghouse are both enjoying better earnings during the current quarter than in the corresponding period a year ago . Reflecting Improvement in General Electric current prospects was recent increase in dividend to 35 cents from 25 . Business of Westinghouse during first two months was up sharply , especially in New England , where a gain of 70% was registered over 1939 TEXTILES : Production is running far ahead of consumption and mill profit margins are around 20% below those prevailing in September . Cotton cloth quotations ale at lowest levels since last mummer RETAIL SALES : Department store sales are running slightly ahead of a year ago , while business of leading mail order firms shows marked improvement .                     