@@711140

txt An investigation of conditions in the southern section of the Free Territory of Trieste occupied by Yugoslav troops showed today that Belgrade was vigorously pursuing a policy of bolshevization in that area with the ultimate aim of permanent annexation . This conclusion has been reached by Anglo-American authorities here , including British Maj. Gen. Terence S. Airey , commander of Allied forces in Zone A , and was based on information painstakingly gathered over a period of many months . Proofs supporting this conclusion were seen by this correspondent . They consisted of city ordinances and decrees issued by Yugoslav authorities , sworn affidavits and carefully checked reports from trusted sources inside the Yugoslav zone . Marshal Tito was quoted by the YUgoslay news agency Tanjug as having told a group of Italians that the Yugoslav people " will always be prepared to solve all questions * * * in an amicable way . " From this wealth of evidence it has been possible to establish that Yugoslavia has enacted Communist reforms in the administrative , social , financial and political fields , abolished freedom of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subservient to her aims , undertaken religious persecution and prevented free elections . In short . she has followed a crude and violent policy designed to stamp out all civil liberties . In most cases , Belgrade , to whom the southern area known as Zone B has been entrusted pending appointment of a governor for the entire free state by the United Nations Security Council , was said to have violated the terms of the Italian peace treaty . It was on the strength of information gathered here that officials stressed that the United States , Britain and France , in their joint communique of March 20 , spoke of " many proofs of the complete transformation of the character of I the Yugoslav zone and of its virtual incorporation into Yugoslavia . " In the administrative field , evidence showed that in violation of the peace treaty , communal and provincial governments that existed under Italian rule and that had been maintained in Zone A , occupied by Anglo-American troops , have been replaced by " people 's committees " that act as district bosses . These groups have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal courts have been disbanded and replaced by politically appointed " people 's tribunals " that carry out the policies of the people 's committees . Similarly , the Yugoslav police system , called the " defense of the people , " is controlled by district committees and has been turned into a most effective means for application of the program of bolshevization through intimidation and oppression . Sworn affidavits seen by this correspondent give conclusive evidence that the task of the police is not that of protecting life and property of citizens but to enforce dictatorial rule and to remove persons whom the people 's committees consider undesirable or whose wealth and property they desire to confiscate . Only Communist Papers Circulate The only newspapers allowed to circulate freely in the Yugoslav zone are the Trieste City Communist dailies , Lavoratore , published in Italian , and Primorski Dnevnik , published in Slovene , in addition , of course , to the Yugoslav newspapers . Non-Communist organs such as the Giornale di Trieste and the Voce Libera are banned . The Corriere di Trieste , a pseudo-independent newspaper that presents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banning nonCommunist publications were put forth by Alfonz Grmek , head of the press office in : the Yugoslav zone , who said on Dec. 10 last that the Voce Libera contained " articles offensive to Yugoslavia , the Yugoslav Army and its head , Marshal Tito . " M. Grmek promised that he would allow the sale of the Voce Libera in Zone B " If a complete retraction of the insulting articles " were published . Communist newspapers in the Anglo-American zone print almost daily slanderous statements against the United States and the other Western powers . They indulge also in personal attacks . AMG Head Is Accused Last week Gen. Ridgley Gaither , head of the Allied Military Government , was accused of having refused to allow free elections and of ruling Trieste City as a dictator . This charge was repeated virtually verbatim in the Yugoslav note of protest March 22 . No American or British correspondents have been able to obtain permission to enter Zone B since Sept. 15 , when the peace treaty came into effect . The view of Yugoslav authorities , as seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist or such pro-Yugoslav parties as the Istrian branch of the Socialist party and the " Independent Front " party , which has been organized by the Yugoslays themselves to give the impression that there exists political freedom , are " Fascist and reactionary . " As a result , the authorities have disbanded all associations  --  both political and nonpolitical  --  found in Zone B. On Dec. 1 , 1947 , " elections " were held in Zone B. The voters were told they must choose between two candidates , both of them Communists . No other party was allowed to submit an electoral list . There were no voting booths . Two boxes were placed on a table where members of voting committees were sitting . The voters received a wooden ball and were told to drop it in either of the two boxes . Union Leaders Are Appointed Union leaders are not elected by the members but are appointed by the Communist party . Union membership is compulsory , and work , era must pay dues that range from 15 to 36 per cent of their wage earnings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they perform . They have no right to strike . In October , 1945 , a strike was held in Capodistria to protest against ' the introduction of " Yugolira . " This currency is not accepted by the Italians in the Anglo-American zone because it has no legal backing . This means that Zone B residents can not make purchases in Zone A unless they have Italian lire . Since such basic commodities as bread , flour , oil , etc. , are strictly rationed , Zone B'residents have no means to avail themselves of surplus foodstuffs that can be purchased in Zone A. Another violation of the peace treaty on the part of a " caretaker government " ? as the Yugoslav administration is supposed to be  --  is said in Allied circles to exist in the manner in which agrarian reform is being applied . The peasants must turn over to the local Communist cooperative 60 per cent of their crops . With the renaming 40 per cent they must feed themselves and their families and set aside the amount needed for sowing . If they want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sell it at official prices , which are considerably lower than those existing in the open market of the Anglo-American zone . Similar regulations apply to fishermen , who must sell their catch at the equivalent of seven American cents a pound to the Communist cooperative , which in turn sells it for thirty cents a pound on the Trieste market .                     