@@705136

txt Once more Mr. Roosevelt has achieved a political victory of impressive dimensions . Not only has he secured his own election for the third successive time but he has even increased , by the prestige of his leadership , the size of the Democratic majority in Congress . Merely to cite the electoral vote of 468 to 63 , however , would he to give a much exaggerated impression of the actual extent of Mr. Roosevelt 's endorsement by popular vote . In 1936 he received a plurality over his Republican opponent , Governor Landon , of nearly 11,000,000 . He has received this time a plurality over Mr. Winkle of only 4,000,000 . In 1936 Mr. Roosevelt received 62 per cent of the popular vote for the two major parties . He has received this time only 55 per cent . This means that the verdict . ould have been reversed if one voter in twenty had changed his decision . It is the strength and glory of democracy that under it the rights of minorities are respected , and that the views of a minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration in the formulation of national policies . A far-sighted statesmanship would now lead Mr. Roosevelt to do this both in the interests of fairness and for the sake of national solidarity . There is certain to be a great deal of discussion in coming weeks regarding the nature and extent of the President 's new " mandate . " We have no way of knowing precisely what considerations weighed most heavily with each of millions of voters in recording his or her choice . But it is fair to interpret the result of the election as an endorsement of the major , foreign policies of the Roosevelt Administration . It was on the basis of foreign policy that the most important appeals were made in the President 's favor . It was foreign policy above all that was emphasized by Mr. Roosevelt in his speech accepting the Democratic nomination in July . Fortunately for the country , and for the cause of democracy everywhere , the great question of continuing aid for Britain was taken out of the campaign through the courage and foresight of Mr. Willkie . If Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chief foreign policies of his Administration , what " mandate " has he received from a majority of the electorate in the field of domestic policy ? It is a question less easily answered because of the greater number and variety of domestic issues ; but on the record it may be said that Mr. Roosevelt emphasized two major points when he asked the American public to support h 'm at the polls . The first , of course , was his desire to safeguard and to expand the social reforms which his Administration has Introduced . The second was his statement of faith in the fundamental soundness of the present economic structure of American democracy . In this connection we may recall some of the assurances given by Mr. Roosevelt during the closing days of this campaign . There was the declara:ion in his Brooklyn speech that he is ' a firm believer in private enterprise and private property . " There was tip statement in his Cleveland speech tha ' he favors a system in which " the legiti mate profits of legitimate business ate the fair reward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . " Thera was the tribute in his Boston speech to the contribution which an efficient pri ? vate industry is making to the cause ol national defense . And there was the frequent affirmation , in various of hi : campaign speeches , of his close anc successful cooperation in defense work with the conservative business men who have come to Washington  --  business men about whose politics he said he " did not care " : " All I know is that they are cooperating 100 per cent with this Administration in our efforts for national defense . And this Government is cooperating with them 100 per cent . " In such statements as these Mr. Roosevelt sought to reassure those who were disturbed by the fear of sudden innovations in the event of his re-election . In giving this reassurance he proposed no revolutionary changes in the American system . He asked for no new emergency powers to be centralized in the Chief Executive . He did not seek support for any radical proposal of the kind which followed so swiftly and so unexpectedly on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Supreme Court reorganization plan to Congress . Instead of sudden change or startling innovation , the domestic policy which Mr. Roosevelt submitted to the electorate in 1940 is a policy of continuing socialreform , but of social reform within the familiar pattern of the American system . It is to carry out such a policy that he has received a " mandate " from the people .                     