@@708019

txt Soviet Russia has proposed to the United States and Great Britain the creation of a world security organization backed by an " international military air corps " which would warn and punish future aggressors , it was learned today . Secretary of State Cordell Hull , who returned to his office today after a short rest , confirmed that the Soviet plan for the organization of world peace had been received and would be considered at the Dumbarton Oaks conference starting next week , but he did not discuss its contents or express any opinion about it . It is understood that the Soviet plan rejects the idea of an international police force as impractical , but suggests that the major Dowers not only take the leadership in directing and controlling the new security league but establish an international air corps , made up of volunteers from all nations , who would be available to carry out the instructions of the Executive Council of the new world security league . Details of the Soviet plan are not known at present , but the Soviet Union has apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective in deterring aggression without jeopardizing the security or the sovereignty of any of the great powers . Secretary Hull announced that the United States and Russia had agreed on a post-war civilian aviation program calling for an international authority . Outline of Soviet Plan A responsible official explained the broad outlines of the Soviet security plan as follows : 1 . The executive authority in the new security league ( which the Russians are calling the International Organization of Safety ) would be vested in the signatories . of the Moscow Declaration , the United States , Britain , Russia and China . As in the American plan , each of the four great powers would have the right to veto any proposal to declare economic or military sanctions against any potential aggressor , thus protecting all four against the possibility that the International Air Corps might be used against them and also protecting the sovereignty of the United States and the other great powers . 2 . The Soviet plan , like the British and American plans , would also create an assembly of all the peace-loving powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Air Corps , but while the small powers would be given several seats on the executive council or " directive organ " of the new league , they would not be given the right to veto any proposed actions in the assembly . 3 . An " International Military Air Corps " would be established to carry out the will of the " Directive Organ , " but the four big powers should , if necessary , be prepared to counter any aggression with their own forces separate from the forces of the other members of the international organization . 4 . The Soviet plan emphasizes that the responsibility for keeping the peace should not be divided among all the nations but vested in those nations that have the will and power to enforce peace if necessary . 5 . Finally , the plan is said to suggest that the " International Organization of Safety " avoid concerning itself with a great many other problems , even if they are related , but concentrate on the business of keeping and , if necessary , enforcing the peace . An article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Star , recently contained special information about the Soviet plan . Indeed , the document sent by the Soviet Union to the United States and Great Britain is said to carry out the ideas expressed in this official Soviet publication . On the question of an international police force and an international air corps Mr. Malinin wrote in The Star as follows : " Plans for an international police force are utopian . To counter an aggressor today , it is necessary to have hundreds of all kinds of weapons and technical equipment . It is quite clear that such an army can not be built up in some single neutral country where the IOS ( International Organ of Safety ) is established . In a neutral country , this army would be isolated from , its supplies * " While objecting against the projects for the establishment of a large independent polic force for the future IOS , we are suggesting an international military air corps for warning and for - punitive aims . Several hundreds of aircraft over an aggressive country will produce its impression . If it wo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite military objects of that country . " Mr. Malinin not only stressed the need for an international air corps and the creation of an international peace organization whose executive power would be controlled by the great powers but he seemed to propose that the great powers reach agreements with each other to support the decisions of the league organization . " The responsibility for the peace , " he said , " must not be divided among sixty or more Governments . It must not be put upon some impersonal organization . It must be put upon large Governments , which possess real strength for it . Taking this into consideration , we would suggest that the great powers should sign agreements among themselves to prevent counter-aggression . " This was interpreted in some quarters here as a suggestion that the United States should join the Anglo-Soviet twenty-year mutual assistance agreement . The international air corps idea is not , of course , new . It has been discussed by diet large group of experts who have been working hard for many long months at the State Department on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed it in a new book , but it was not included in the American plan , though- there is considerable support for it in some quarters here . The American plan , as it now stands , calls for United States ' participation in a new league council along with the Soviet Union , Britain , China and several other rotating members , including France , whose special claims to a permanent place on the council are recognized . Like the Russian plan , the United States scheme demands a unanimous vote by all the great powers on the council before military sanctions can be imposed on any aggressor , but the essential difference between the two plans lies in the method of applying sanctions . Under the Russian scheme , as soon as the council votes to take action against an aggressor , the international air force could be directed against the aggressor at once . Under the American peace organization plan , it would be necessary to seek the approval of Congress before American forces could be employed . The general impression here is that the Americans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their citizenship if they took part in any punitive expedition against another country before a declaration of war by Congrez. , , but under the Russian plan , provided the United States was prepared to help finance the new league and its international air force , the first reaction of those who have seen the plan here is that the constitutional difficulties might be minimized . Hull Receives British Delegates The Russian delegation to the Dumbarton Oaks security conference has not yet arrived in Washington , but Secretary Hull received ' the British delegation today and expressed confidence in the continned collaboration of the United Nations in the post-war era . " There is sound reason for believing , " he said , " that the present effective collaboration of the United Nations , which began in the midst of a terrible war for survival , will be continued and strengthened in the future for the maintenance of peace and security . "                     