@@711551

txt Belief of leaders and the national candidates of both major political parties that control of the next United States Senate was in doubt was confirmed yesterday by correspondents of THE NEW YORK Tams in fourteen states where the Senatorial contests are regarded in some degree doubtful . In each of the states surveyed except Kentucky , a TIMES correspondent expressed the opinion that the Democratic candidate for Senator would run ahead of President Harry S. Truman and that the Republican Senatorial candidate probably would not do as well as Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , Republican Presidential candidate . The conclusion to be drawn from the reports of these correspondents is that the election of Governor Dewey as President by a considerable margin will be required to insure the retention of Republican control of the Senate . That both President Truman and Governor Dewey realize the importance of the Senate contests has been shown on their present campaign trips . Before his return to Washington , President Truman will have visited five states in which Senate contests are regarded as doubtful , Colorado , Iowa , Oklahoma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return , will have visited six such states , Colorado , Illinois , Iowa , Montana , New Mexico and Wyoming , Mrs. Smith 's Vote Stressed The present Senate is composed of fifty-one Republicans and forty-five Democrats . Thirty-two Senators  --  thirty-one who will complete their terms this year and one to serve the unexpired part of the term of Senator John H. Overton , of Louisiana , who died last May ? will be elected on November 2 , Representative Margaret Chase Smith , Republican , was elected to the Senate in the September Maine electicni . The Democrats need to gain only four seats to control the next Senate . Were the political situation normal , election of a Democratic Senate majority would be virtually certain . Ten . of the Senators to be elected come from the Southern1 states of Alabama , Arkansas , Georgia , Louisiana ( two ) , Mississippi , North Carolina , South Carolina , Texas and Virginia . None of the Democratic Sena-1 torial candidates in these states , except possibly in Texas where the Democratic Senatorial nomination for Senator is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolt of the States ' Rights Democrats , who have nominated Gov . J. Strom Thurmond , of South Carolina , for President . Election of all Senators there seems certain . Because of Mrs. Smith 's record vote in the Maine state election , the re-electiton of Senator H. Styles Bridges , Republican , of New Hampshire , and of Senator Leverett Saltonstall , Republican ? of Massachusetts , is believed to be rea-1 sonably certain . Re-election of Senator Theodore P. Green , Democrat , of Rhode Island , though probable , may be slightly doubtful . Other states expected to return , Republican Senators are Delaware , Kansas , Nebraska , New Jersey , Oregon and South Dakota . The remaining thirteen states which will elect Senator. ; are Colorado , Idaho , Illinois , Iowa , Kentucky , Michigan , Minnesota , Montana , New Mexico , Oklahoma , Tennessee , West Virginia and Wyoming . Three of these states are represented in the present Senate by Democrats and ten by Republicans . Dewey 's Race May Sway Result TIMES correspondents give the Democratic candidates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican candidates the edge in five , but warn that an unexpectedly large vote for Governor Dewey may upset some of these predictions . In explaining why Democratic Senatorial candidates seem much stronger , than President Truman , tho correspondents reported that , in - addition to the-lack of opposition by States ' Rights Democrats , // the Progressive party which nominated Henry A. Wallace for President was not nearly the threat to the Senatorial candidates that it was to the President . They also reported that leaders of both the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations were making a special drive to defeat Republicans who voted for the TaftHartley Act and that this increased the chance of the election of Democratic Senators in many of the doubtful states . William Green , president of the AFL , has predicted that the Democrats will gain six Senate seats , and control that body . He has asserted that the members of the AFL will defeat Senator-Chapman Revercomb , Republican , in West Virginia , and help to elect Mayor Hubert H. Humphrey , of Minneapolis , over Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States The situation in twelve of the states with " doubtful " Senate contests , as reported by correspondents of THE TIMES , follows : COLORADO Senator Edwin C. Johnson , Democrat incumbent , appears headed for his third consecutive term in the Senate . Senator Johnson easily won iehomination over Gene Cervi. former Democratic State Chairman , at the primary election on September 18 . He is expected to run far ahead of President Truman . Senator Johnson 's major opponent is Will F. Nicholson , of Denver , who is making his first try for elective office . Craig Vincent , Progressive party nominee , is not expected to poll a large vote . Republican party leaders are counting on a Dewey-Warren plurality of more than 60,000 which , they hope , will sweep Mr. Nicholson and other Republican State candidates into office . This seems to be the only Republican hope of defeating Senator Johnson who , in past campaigns , has demonstrated his ability as a vote getter . ILLINOIS Senator C. Wayland Brooks , Republican , is expected to run well up with Governor Dewey and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is making a vigorous fight . Republican opponents of Senator Brooks ' isolationist views are expected to aid Mr. Douglas , a supporter of the Truman administration 's foreign policy , and cut down the Brooks vote . Political observers , some of whom report an apathetic attitude among Democratic voters , see scant hope of ' a Douglas victory . While Curtis , Northwestern University journalism professor , who is the Progressive party candidate for Senator , has been campaigning throughout the state , his vote is expected to be negligible unless he gains a place on the ballot for which the Progressive party is making a fight in the courts . The Progressives succeeded in placing candidates for local offices on the Cook County ballot and plan a campaign for " write in " votes for their national and state candidates if other efforts fail . Any such effort will hurt Mr. Douglas and help Senator Brooks . IOWA Every indication points to the re-election of Senator George A. Wilson , Republican , who is expected to run only slightly behind Governor Dewey along with the Republican candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and farm magazines indicate that Iowa will go Republican by a large majority . Former Senator Guy M. Gillette is popular in the state and has strong labor support but lacks a majority of the farm support , which seems to be for Senator Wilson . The Progressive party candidate for Senator , Dr. Seymour M. Pitcher , an associate professor at . the Iowa State University at Iowa City , is not widely known and is not expected to get more than 2 per cent of the vote . KE'NTUCIii For the first time since 1920 , Kentucky may give its eleven electoral votes to the Presidential candidate of one party and elect a United States Senator from another . President Truman is considered pretty sure of carrying Kentucky , while Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican , seems to have an excellent chance of retaining his seat . Representative Virgil Chapman , Democratic candidate , counts on the popularity of Senator Alben Barkley , Democratic nominee for Vice President , and the strength of the Truman-Barkley ticket to pull him through . Many Democratic voters , however , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stanfield , Progressive party candidate , is not expected to poll enough votes to have any material bearing on this contest . MICHIGAN Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican , seems likely to be re- , elected by a smaller plurality than originally expected . Organized labor , both AFL and CIO , is opposing him and supporting Frank Hook , his Democratic opponent . Some rank and file unionists feel more bitter against Senator Ferguson than they do against Governor Dewey . August Scholle ; president of the Michigan State CIO , is optimistic about the Democrats carrying Michigan . MINNESOTA The Democratic party has a good chance of gaining a Senate seat in Minnesota , where Mayor Humphrey of Minneapolis is op , posing Senator Ball . Public opinion polls so far give Mayor Humphrey a 10 per cent margin , but the result should be .. very close . ? Organized labor is against Senator Ball because he voted for the Taft-Hartley Act , and his support of the late President Roosevelt in the 1944 campaign has hurt him among Republicans . There is no Progressive party candidate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeating Janes M. Shields , a Wallace supporter , by 200,850 to 26,295 . MONTANA Governor Dewey and Tom Davis , the Republican nominee for Senator , have a slight edge at present in Montana but the campaign has hardly got under way . Senator James E. Murray is the Democratic candidate for re-election . OKLAHOMA The Democrats are almost certain to gain a Senate seat in Oklahoma , where Robert S. Kerr , former Democratic Governor , is running against Representative Ross Rizley , Republican . The seat is now held by E. H. Moore , Republican , who was not a candidate for renomination . Mr. Kerr is expected to run ahead of President Truman as their names will appear on separate ballots . He is popular in southern Oklahoma , where there is intense bitterness toward the President because of his civil-rights program . Mr. Kerr has announced his opposition to the President 's program . Southern Oklahomans will not vote Republican but Democratic leaders fear that many will not go to the polls . Nevertheless , President Truman is favored to carry the state in a close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NEW MEXICO Clinton P. Anderson , Democratic candidate for Senator , is favored to defeat Maj. Gen. Patrick J. Hurley in a very close race , with Governor Dewey likely to win the three electoral votes of the state . Mr. Anderson , former Secretary of Agriculture , is expected to run ahead of President Truman . Governor Dewey 's recent visit to the state was designed to help General Hurley , who also received the benefit of two court decisions , one giving Indians , largely Republican , the right to vote , and the other disfranchising more than 3,000 voters at the atomic project at Los Alamos , mostly Democratic , on the ground that they are not residents of the state . Brigido Garcia , Progressive candidate for Senator , is not expected to draw more than 3,000 votes . TENNESSEE For the first time since United States Senators have been elected by popular vote a Republican candidate is making a determined fight for election in Tennessee This candidate is B. Caroll Reece , former Republican National Chairman , who is now stumping the state with Roy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican nominee for Governor . Mr. ' Reece is running against Representative Estes Kefauver of Chattanooga . The Memphis correspondent of THE TIMES reports that Il personal opinion is that Mr. Kefauver will be elected by " a thumping majority , " and adds : " Kefauver will run far ahead of Truman , who may lose the state . Dewey , who may carry the state , will outdistance Reece by miles . The Progressive party has not entered a candidate for Senator . The States ' Rights party , will exert some influence . If this party fails to get its national candidates on the ballot , many of its adherents will vote Republican . " WEST VIRGINIA Matthew M. Neely , former Governor and Senator , who is the Democratic nominee for Senator , is expected to make a political comeback and defeat Senator Revercomb , Republican incumbent . Mr. Neely , assured of strong labor support , is expected to run ahead of President Truman . Many labor leaders in this state , where labor is considered to hold the balance of power , plan to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of Democratic Senatorial , Congressional and gubernational candidates . The Progressive party has no candidate for Senator . WYOMING Until the Wyoming Supreme Court decides next Tuesday on whether under the State Constitution the name of Gov . Lester C. Hunt may appear on the ballot as the Democratic candidate for Senator , the outcome of the Senatorial contest can not be forecast . Removal of Governor Hunt as a Senatorial candidate is sought on the ground that the Constitution forbids a Governor to run for another office during the terra for which he was elected . Governor Hunt 's term will not expire until 1950 . If Mr. Hunt is removed as a Senatorial candidate , the re-election of Senator E. V. Robertson , Republican , would seem to be assured . Should the court decide that Governor Hunt may run for Senator , his election is probable . 