@@706423

txt The planes that carried the war to the heart of Japan for the first time on . Saturday , April 18 , and dropped demolition and incendiary bombs , on objectives in Tokyo , Yokohama , Nagoya and other localities were United States Army bombers , the War Department revealed today . Thus the Army confirmed previous repot is that a widely extended and apparently highly successful air said had been made against Japanese home territory . Until issuance M. today 's War Department communiqu ? virtually all of the information about the raid had come from Japanese broadcasts . Although emphasizing that the raid had been carried out under what appear to have been optimum flying conditions , enabling our bombers accurately to aim at their chosen targets , the Army , for obvious reasons , made no attempt to explain whence the bombers came or whither they went after their mission had been completed . The Japanese had reported that the raid began several minutes past noon on April 18 . Today the Army said merely that the raid had been made " recently " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our raiders flew at low altitudes ? so low , the communiqu ? said , " that it was necessary to avoid barrage balloons . " With such excellent visibility and with our planes flying at such low altitudes , the previously selected targets were " unmistakable " and they were " accurately " attacked with demolition and incendiary bombs , the Army announced . The objectives of the raiding force were military , naval and industrial plants in the vicinity of Tokyo , Yokohama , Nagoya and other localities , the War Department reported . It did not mention Kobe , where fires were started by incendiary bombs , according to the enemy . The War Department was cautious in making specific claims relative to the effects of the attack . The communiqu ? said only that " large fires were started which continued to burn , in some instances , for at least two days . " The fact that the fires burned so long would indicate that in some sectors at least the damage caused was considerable . The Army reported " an interesting sidelight " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes approached Japan the Japanese were sending out a propaganda broadcast in English from the Tokyo radio station . The announcer was detailing the pleasures of life in wartime Japan and the freedom felt there from fear of bombing . Suddenly this propaganda broadcast was cut off and a warning was broadcast in Japanese to the effect that Tokyo then was being bombed by a great number of lowflying airplanes flying at terrific speed . The Japanese announcer said that the attacking planes were moving too fast to be overtaken . Later he reported that three Japanese interceptor planes had been lost . An enemy broadcast in the afternoon announced that casualties caused by the raid had numbered between three and four thousand , the War Department said . The Japanese people were asked pray for rain to extinguish the fires and decrease the chance for further air raids . ' Later , when the enemy apparently had had an opportunity to recover his composure , the tone of the Japanese broadcasts became less feverish . It was announced that only hospitals and schools and similar points of non-military importance had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it was not until forty-eight hours had passed that the Tokyo radio reported that the fires started during the raid were under control . No Losses Are Mentioned The War Department made no mention of any losses by our force . The enemy had reported that nine United States planes had been shot down , but Japanese reports on the entire raid have been so contradictory that they buttress the official Navy Department warning last night about " the unreliable nature of any claims emanating from an enemy source . " There was no indication in the communiqu ? as to the size of the attacking air force , which had been variously estimated by the enemy at ten planes to sixty or more . Reports from Chungking have denied that Free China was the base for the raid on Japan . Any other available bases are more than 2,000 miles distant from the Japanese islands . The Japanese reported that shortly before the raid three aircraft carriers had been sighted at a considerable distance from Japan . But the raid was made by Army bombers , which means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know where the raiders started , and the War Department shows no inclination to enlighten them . One of the planes that participated in the attack was officially reported by the Russians to have landed on Soviet territory . The crew , under international law , was interned . This plane made a forced landing near Khabarovsk , in the Siberian Maritime Provinces .                     