@@705403

txt More than 500 persons were arrested for " breaking the Sabbath " in Delaware today as police enforced the State 's ancient blue laws in an attempt to force repeal or amendment . Included in the police haul , and handed summonses for a hearing tomorrow , were bus drivers , street car motormen , newsboys , restaurant owners , milkmen , drug store clerks , candy shop proprietors and even a picket who was marching in front of a Wilmington hotel . All were told to report to the nearest police station within the day and appear for a magistrate 's hearing tomorrow , when they may be fined up to $8 . ' Strict enforcement of the laws , many of them ignored for years past , was ordered by State Attorney General James R. Morford after the State House of Representatives had voted down an amendment which would have permitted each community to decide the extent of its Sunday observance . Mr. Morford , who spent the day touring the State to watch the results , said his order was given " to prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the Sunday measures were enforced to the letter , about the only thing a person could do in Delaware on Sunday would be to walk to church and back and sit in his home reading for the rest of the day , unless he wanted to do some more walking . Even listening to a radio broadcast , unless he tuned to a station outside the State , would not be possible . He could not have milk with his breakfast unless he bought it the night before , and he could not read a newspaper unless he had obtained it in advance . Mr. Morford saw a number of violations and attempted violations of the laws during his tour . In Newark he noticed that a drug store operated by George W. Rhoades , Speaker of the Delaware House , was open and serving soft drinks . In Richardson Park , in a district whose representative voted against amending the blue laws , a store was open and sold toothpaste , candy and tobacco . In Wilmington Mr. Morford bought gasoline at a service station and then notified the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Albert H. Kleffman , pastor of the West Presbyterian Church , Wilmington , and president of the Lord 's Day Alliance of MarylandDelaware , who had opposed changing the laws , was an " accomplice " in violating them by broadcasting his sermon this morning over Station WDEL . " The station was forced to violate the law by using control men and announcers for Dr. Klef fman 's broadcast , " Mr. Morford said . An effort was made to make what were called " representative " arrests during the day , so that , despite the enforcement drive , normal public services ' ontinued to function . Sign Register , Then Dine Milkmen , for instance , took their summonses to police stations , signed their own bail bonds and returned to their routes . The same applied to bus drivers , motormen , taxi men and other service workers . The first arrest was made at 12:38 A. M. when Fred tinnier , a taxi driver , was found taking a passenger to a Wilmington address . Wilmington hotels did business as usual , but persons entering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registers as guests . Mr. Morford said that he had interpreted the House 's refusal to permit local option as a mandate for strict enforcement of the Sunday laws . This meant , he added , that any one playing cards or dancing on Sunday was subject to fine or twenty-four hours in jail . It meant , too , that a citizen could not clean his own sidewalk on Sunday , although there were no arrests for this action today . Blue law cases in Wilmington will be prosecuted tomorrow by William Poole , who is both assistant City Solicitor and deputy State Attorney General . " All cases will be handled without partisanship and no charges will be nolle prossed , " Mr. Morford said .                     