@@708582

txt The pattern of V-E Day adjustments in war production will be so irregular that kinks and quirks in the reconversion program probably will prove unavoidable . Total military requirements will , as official figures show , drop as the war in Europe moves on to its end . But Government demand for a long list of items will remain relatively stable for months and , in many cases , actually will increase substantially . As a result , the civilian side of the economy will fill unevenly when the fighting shifts from a two-front to a one-front war . Some shortages will begin to disappear before others ease . For example , new stoves and many household gadgets will become available before civilians can replenish their wardrobes : new automobiles are likely to appear on the streets before commercial trucks become easier to buy ; and housewives probably will be able to buy new washing machines before soap gets more plentiful . This prospect grows out of the- different sets of conditions which prevail in Europe , where war has been fought on full-scale , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front in the near fubture . In the Pacific , distances are greater , the climates are different and , to a large extent , utilities , cor .. munications and transport are undeveloped . British Base Had Basic Needs When U. S. troops moved to their forward base  --  the British Isles  --  for the European invasion , many of their requirements were already at hand . There were water . power/ transport , communications and housing . It was necessary to expand many of these facilities , but much of the material and construction equipment for this job could , . be had locally . It will be entirely different in the Pacific . Big bases there will , in many instances , have to be built from scratch . Highways will have to be constructed , water purification systems installed and other utilities , such as power and telephones , provided . Housing for troops in the Pacific-Asia area offers a good illustration of how an increase in military demand for the one-front war will adversely influence reconversion at home . To a substantial degree , housing will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , produced by the already hard-pressed textile industry . Different clothing needed for the Pacific war also will increase demands on textile producers . Troops in Europe wear woolen clothes largely . When they are dispatched to the Pacific , whether directly from European ports or via the United States , they will have to be issued cotton outfits . Two-Season Wardrobes But all fighting in the Pacific zone will not be in climates which offer year-arotind warmth . In some sections , troops will need both woolen and cotton garments . Because of military demands for tenting and cotton clothing , it appears that civilians will get hard goods . such as stoves and other household equipment , before they can step into a store and rebuild their wardrobes . The military 's textile demands also will hit industrial users of fabrics and may well force them to seek substitutes as they reconvert . The automobile industry , for example , is a big customer of the textile manufacturers . The Army 's demand for trucks will remain high after V-E Day and cutbacks arc expected to be slight and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow in recovering from the bombing it has taken . This means that as troops are withdrawn , trucks will be called on to do a substantial part of the job . The same holds true for equipment destined for the Pacific . A U. S. landing on the coast of China would find troops dependent largely on motor vehicles for transport . Cars in Six Months The expectation here is that for six months after V-E Day the military demand for trucks will be only slightly reduced . During this period , the automobile industry will reconvert and may even begin to move its new passenger car assembly lines . In the Pacific operation , the Army will be called on to do more mad building than in Europe . In France and Germany , the engineers had to patch roadways and repair bridges . In China , they will start closer from scratch In many regions . The fact that the Army is going to buy more hand carts , on which soldiers will haul their equipment and supplies , tends to emphasize the transport problem of the Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little reduced when the fighting in Europe is over . Demands of the military for X-ray film will rise with-V-E Day , for troops being redeployed will be gieri physical examinations . Health considerations in the Pacific will bring increased demands for a number of items . More water purification and filter units will he needed . Portable refrigeration equipment , too , will be in demand . Requirements for insecticides and soap will rise . The Army 's pots and pans department will place more reliance on U. S. producers than in the European campaign where the British supplied large amounts of cooking equipment .                     