@@704434

txt Although serious view is taken here of the situation In the Low Countries as shown by cancellation of leaves of British Expeditionary Forces in France , simultaneously with new precautionary defense nieasulCs taken by Belgium and the Netherlands  --  responsible quarters are . Inclined to consider a German invasion at the present moment unlikely . The ptfrpose of the litest precautionary action taken over the week end by the Belgian , 1s:011cl -- hinds , and British goveinment ? 4 , it is underlined , is primarily to make clear to the Reich that all a ? ? thoroughly on the ( dell and leady and determined to repel any attack on or through the neutral Lowlands . It is estimated that approximately 1,000,000 troops ale under arms In the Low Coun ( ! les Sign of Desperation Consensus of expert thinkers here is that a decision to invade the Netherlands iind Belgium now would be significant indication of military desperation in the Reich For weather conditions sic most unfavorable for an offensive . A thaw just beginning in the Netherlands has weakened the ice which would aid defenders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack is now lost to the Germans since the Netherlands-Belgian forces are now more than ever on guard . In Belgium , particularly extensive action has been taken . Phase I ) of Belgian mobilization has been put into effect  --  the next to the last before general mobilization Additional troops were rushed to frontiers , and reliable reports state certain frontier districts are being evacuated by the civilian populahon . Some 500 evacuees already were reported to have reached Brussels in keeping with a standing Government promise to move them if the situation became tense . Phases A , B , and C were taken last September . Only Phase E remained to be carried out to make Belgium completely mobilized . Phase D is primarily concerned with technicians , while Phase E would call up men to fill gaps in units already prepared in skeleton form . Under Phase D the country is. considered on a war footing and ready to face active fighting . Netherlands Calm The Belgian mobilization brings the Nation 's armed strength up to about 600,000 men . The Netherlands ' cancellation of leaves added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed to total 400,000 . The calm tone that has accom- : panted the mobilization is apparent from both the Belgian and The Netherlands ' official statements . The communiqu ? in which The Netherlands Government announced the decision of Premier Dirk Jan de Geer 's Cabinet said : " In view of certain less favorable symptoms in the international situation the Government has , in order to be fully prepared for all happenings , decided not to give periodic leaves until further notice . " In Belgium the semi-official Belga News Agency , however , issued , s note in Brussels denying what it called " alarmist stories " being " spread in Belgium and abroad " and said additional mobilization was proof only of the vigilance of the Government . " No threat has been hidden from the Belgian public , " the note said , " and the independence of sources of information and the liberty of the press should inspire calm . . . Belgium remains calm , but the Army is on its toos . " Sharpening of Situation In the Netherlands , soldiers ' leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the official statement explained measures were taken " as a result of the sharpening of the international situation . " Direct causes of these nese tense measures are reported to be fresh German troop concentrations , said to amount to nearly a million men , close to the Belgian-Netherlands frontiers . Furthermore , Belgian authorities have been disquieted by unusually frequent flights of German planes over Belgian , territory . Papers , , photographs , and documents , found in one of these German planes forced down on Belgian territory , are said to have contained information which is partly responsible for the present anxiety . This apprehension has also been increased by German protests that a Netherlands plane recently flew I over Germany , The Hague denies this as completely untrue . Berlin Ridicules Reports The Lowlands ' defense measures wore characterized In Berlin as " another fear epidemic based on false reportp . " Informed German quarters there said reports of German military moves along the Lowland border were " so much nonsense that it is doubtful if an official denial will be issued . " Informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associated Press as saying Bel , gian secret service reports had inspired tie hurried defense measures . A reliable informant said German aerial operations a week ago included the photographing of important Belgian industrial and defense areas . A German airman who landed in Belgium with motor trouble was said to have carried such photographs . The present position is likened here to the scare which occurred last Nov. 10 , 11 , and 12 , when German forces , after being on the verge of invading the Low Countries , abandoned the plan . Believe It a Bluff The prevalent impression In London is that this time too Germany is taking military prepare-Mils for possible attack , but remains ready as before to abandon them temporarily it the Low Countries are seen to be united and ready to resist , Since this is more than ever the case , hope is voiced here that the present scare , like the previous one , will blow over . The British War Office did not amplify its two-line midnight communique saying , " The leave from service of the British Expeditionary Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , troops already on furlough would not be recalled immediately . Nevertheless , it Is authoritatively understood the British Government has reason to believe Germany has recently been making defensive military and diplomatic soundings with a view to action against the Low Countries , or alternatively the Balkans or Scandinavia , and it is therefore felt that an early move in one or more of these directions would by no means be surprising .                     