@@707020

txt To what extent is the present British GoVernment prepared to accept international control as basis of postwar world reconstruction ? Quickened interest is aroused in this question as the result of official acceptance by the British Government of the United States proposal for United Nations talks at an early . date on international postwar economic problems . Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden in the House of Commons today and Lord Cranborne , Lord Privy Seal , in the House of Lords yesterday formally welcomed the United States initiative in promoting the first concrete step toward a world quest to abolish want through international collaboration . Mr. Eden denied that there had been any official request from the United States Government to discuss postwar economic policy . Exploratory Talks Begun 1 When he was asked whether the Russians would participate , Mr. Eden replied that he could n't answer for other Governments . But he stressed that the British Government had already held informal exploratory talks with the Dominions , India , and European Governments now in Britan . Mr. Eden furthermore pointed to work being done by British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations . But what about the . week-end statement of the Colonial Minister , Col. Oliver Stanley , to . the . effect that Britain must continue to be solely responsible for the administration of its colonies after the war ? This statement has been variously and provocatively interpreted by British newspapers . The Conservative and Empire-conscious Daily Mail headlines a leading editorial , " Still our colonies . " The Colonial Question A sharp comeback followed from the Socialist Daily Herald charging Col. Stanley and the Daily Mail with voicing just the sort of old imperialistic views which provide an unhelpful background for the forthcoming international discussions . It may be asked whether it will be a good sendoff for international talks starting in Washington if the delegates know in advance that Britain sees no prospect of collabo- rating with other nations in so far as the political administration of its colonies is concerned ? Will it encourage the hope that other nations will be prepared to make sovereignty and other sacri fices in the interests of world well-being ? Was Col. Stanley making a contribution to the new era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confess that I am more interested in what Britain thinks of the British Empire than in what the United States thinks of it . " Some quarters here welcome this as an example of the sort of straight speaking which is going to help rather than hinder a closer Anglo - American understanding . Undoubtedly Col. Stanley had the many and vociferous American critics of the British Empire in mind when he made his Oxford statement . Other commentators deplore Col. Stanley 's " arrogant self-righteousness " and advise that as British Colonial Secretary he should take a lively interest in what not only the United States but also Russia and China think of the British Empire . For , it is pointed out , these nations are going to sit down together before long to plan in partnership the economic future of the world . Maybe it is a pity and at the same time it is n't a pity that Col. Stanle:r said what he did about United States ' opinion of the British Empire . It is rather like the statement of Admiral Standley , the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical talk about straight speaking between nations leading to closer unity . But most persons shout " ouch " very loudly when nations speak straight . On the other hand it does seem a pity to start wrangling and please Dr. Goebbels . Round the world goes the story that Britain will ' never let go its colonies . But in actual fact if you read a fuller account of Colonel Stanley 's speech it is clear that he was far from closing the door against international collaboration . After saying that he could give no support to the idea that it would be for the good of any particular colony or of the world generally to have colonies hand over to some international body which might break down in practice or retard development of territory concerned , Colonel Stanley said : " But because I believe and believe strongly that administration must remain British it does n't mean that I exclude the possibility of close international co-operation . Indeed I regard such co-operation not only as desirable but essential . " The problems of transport , economics , and health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I therefore should welcome the establishment of machinery which enabled such problems to be discussed and to be solved by common efforts . " British colonies , Colonel Stanley pointed out , were primary producers and such territories could never hope to reach maximum prosperity except in an expansionist world where products moved freely across the seas , where demand was increased rather than the supply restricted , and where the use of a product depended more upon its essential utility than upon the particular country of its origin . " It must be the hope of anyone responsible for the British Colonial Empire , " Colonel Stanley added , " that that was the sort of economic world setup that the United Nations were going to be able to provide after the war . " Surely objective reporting of Colonel Stanley 's speech suggests that the Colonial Minister proposes a policy which would form a good basis for far-reaching discussions on world economic reconstruction . Meanwhile , some voices of the Empire are raised in support of Colonel Stanley . The former Canadian Prime Minister , Lord Bennett , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English are too modest at times . I do n't know when I have been so pleased as when I read Colonel Stanley 's speech in which he said that England was still going to continue to administer her colonial possessions . " Similarly , from South Africa comes support for Colonel Stanley ' from newspapers and private individuals . Colonel Stanley made it plain that the British government is fully aware that the present progressive mood of the British people was the best assurance of future development . In fact , it may be that British Government spokesmen are being obliged to take a cautious line because of the present tendency of British people to be overgenerous in parting with the colonial heritage which , though their own to give away , may also be needed in the future as a bulwark in the defense of world civilization just as it has been in this war .                     