@@711102

txt A Year 's Dental Work in One Session . Suppose you live in the suburbs , that you are in town on your way to some South Sea island or some backward country where medical and dental care are unheard of , and suppose that you have exactly twenty-four hours in which to have ten teeth filled and one porcelain inlay and four jacket crowns prepared . Most dentists would throw up their hands and say , " It ca n't be done in that short time . " But those who have followed the work of Dr. Paluel J. Flagg of New York City know otherwise . Dr. Flagg is no dentist , but an authority on anesthesia who has demonstrated many times over that it is possible to do in one morning dental work that would ordinarily be stretched over three or four weeks  --  provided the patient is willing to go under a general anesthetic and spend a night in a hospital . Dr. Flagg describes his technique in the Annals of Dentistry . To perform what seems to be dentally impossible , anesthesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the patient after the dentist has done his work . There is little illness as a rule , no shock , none of the aftereffects of a surgical operation performed under ether . Possibility of Illness Reduced After some sedative like nembutal or luminal has been administered to quiet the patient , Dr. Flagg anesthetizes the patient , then runs a tube down the trachea ( windpipe ) , which is easy and not unpleasant when it is done by an anesthetist who knows his business . In fact , the same technique is followed in anesthetizing children for eye operations and for the resuscitation of newborn babies . The tube is necessary for safety 's sake , for it obviates the obstruction to breathing that usually attends operations about the mouth , insures a proper supply of air ( oxygen ) to the blood and thus reduces the chance of illness after the dentist has finished . The tube is connected with the supply.of anesthetic vapor . The dentist proceeds in the usual way . Saliva is absorbed by a gauze pack . X-ray pictures are made if neces- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if the dentist were in his own office . There is no coughing , no swallowing , no vomiting , no groaning with pain . When all debris has been carefully cleared from the mouth , and with it the gauze pack , the tube is withdrawn . Returned to bed , the patient may retch and vomit a little when he recovers consciousness . Some Typical ? Cases A 16-year-old girl had seven cavities filled in two and a half hours in accordance with Dr. Flagg 's principles . A high school boy whose teeth were worn and pitted by the rubbing of wire appliances had one tooth extracted and twenty-eight cavities filled : he left the next morning . A 20-year-old woman , a psychopathic case for whom hormones had been prescribed , had six teeth extracted and eight teeth filled in two and a half hours . One excitable mid , die-aged man , also a psychopathic , halt been anesthetized once a year for eleven years for dental work , with the probability that he never realized what had been done inside of his mouth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the usual dental procedure . It is intended primarily to help normal persons who are pressed ror time and mental patients who usually create difficulties for dentists . Dentists will say that there is nothing new in principle in what Dr. Flagg does. - But there is . For years patients have been put to sleep in dental chairs . a tube has been run down one of the - nostrils and connected with the souree of anesthetic , the back of the mouth has been blocked with a sponge to.prevent choking , and cavities have then been filled . But there were limitations to the process , and it was not nearly . ' so safe as Dr. Flagg 's . There wan no hospitalization and nothing like-. - the wholesale extractions and restoration of teeth made possible by Dr. Flages method K.                     