@@706848

txt The Allies in Libya are concentrating their bombing raids on El Agheila where Marshal Rommel , apparently having slipped out of Bengasi , is preparing a defense in the bottle . neck between the coast and the salt marshes . This is 850 miles from Tunisia , where political difficulties with the French still hold back General Eisenhower 's advance . Indeed , the ' advance at Bizerte at the moment is being attempted , not b. , the Allies but by the Germans , who appeared to have received considerable reinforcements not only of infantry but also of airmen . The German attacks , how . ever , may be desperate moves . The Allies are some : 30 mils from both Bizerte and Tuns and the German advance has cost the Nazis a third of an armored column . The attacks , which were thrust out both to the west and the south , tipper. ently were intended to keep the American-British forces engaged while the Axis dug in . In this event , Allied tactics would be to push ahead before the Germans can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is with the French has not been divulged , One report said that General Barre , commanding French troops in Tunisia , had joined the Allies and , receiving an ultimatum from the Germans , had attacked . But the situation remains in many respects obscure , A little obscure , too , is an announcement by General Alex . ander , with the British Eighth Army in Libya . that 28 tanks had been captured cast of Bengasi . The General had announced only two days ago that Marshal Rommel had lost all but 15 of his tanks , There is the possibility , however , that the Nazi leader has received armored reinforcements . fresh news of the great Solo . mons naval battle , issued by the Navy , credits Admiral Halsey  --  now a full Admiral  --  with the sinking of 1 battle . ship or heavy cruiser , 3 large cruisers and one destroyer , together with the damaging of 1 battleship , 1 cruiser , and 1 destroyer , by a task force that included United States battleships . The possibility , suggested by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those previously announced in the battle of November 13 , 14 , and 15 leaves something still to be cleared up . It is clear , however , the naval victory  --  to which must he added the sinking of a light cruiser and a destroyer by General Mac-Arthur 's bombers off New Guinea  --  was a setback for the Japanese that will delay their program by several weeks . Meanwhile , General continues to close in around the Japanese at their base at Buna , New Guinea , where the invader is hemmed in on a narrow coastal strip around Gona and Buna , with the American-Australian forces only some 10 miles from the former . Solomons Batt17 : Japanese Losses Now Put at 28 Ships The United States Navy dealt the Japanese Fleet the most dim . trous defeat in modern naval war . fare , it became apparent today , with disclosure that enemy losses in last week 's three-day sea battle probably reached the staggering proportions of 28 ships destroyed and 10 more damaged . This setback , believed to have cost the Japanese two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , six detsroyers , and 12 transports and cargo ships , became even more crushing with news that Allied bombers sank another cruiser and a destroyer off New Guinea . The American sea victory in the Solomons grew in magnitjtde when the Navy 's delayed report on Saturday night 's battle off Guadalcanal Island told of the sinking of a Japanese battleship or heavy cruiser , three large cruisers and a destroyer . United States battleships , mentioned for the first time in a Navy commuunique on the Southwestern Pacific war , entered the fight , exchanging long-range blows that forced the foe to turn stern and flee northward . While citing the sinking of the five warships and the damaging of another battleship , cruiser , and a destroyer , the Navy cautioned that " this report of damage may include some of the damage already reported . " A naval spokesman expressed belief , however , that if there was any duplication , it probably was not extensive . The first report of the encounter with the Japanese Fleet from Nov. 13 to 15 told Nov. 16 of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three heavy cruisers . Seven others , including a battleship . were declared damaged . The communique also explained that details of the Nov. 14 battle " have not yet been received . " Tunisia Battle : Allied Combat Force Destroys Nazi Column American and British combat teams have destroyed about one third of a German armored column in the first heavy fighting in Tunisia , forcing it and two other Nazi columns to retreat , it was disclosed today . The action occurred between 30 and 40 miles from Bizerte as the Allied combat forces drove on the naval base and also on Tunis , Capital of Tunisia , from several directions . The Germans were said to have used their best medium tanks and dive bombers . Allied losses , however , were described as " minor " in the opening battle for control of Tunisia . " It appears that the Germans are digging in about 30 miles southwest of Bizerte and in the Tunis area and are preparing to make their stand there , " a headquarters spokesman said . " Although the French situation is extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunisia either is controlled by pro-Allied French garrisons or occupied by the Allies themselves . " German losses in Thursday 's clashes were quite heavy , but they are pouring in reserves , and it looks as though we are in for considerable fighting . " American Artillery Shatters Nazi Force He said crack new American mobile artillery units had combined with the British and French to shatter an advance German motorized column about 20 miles south from the area near the coast where the main tank clash took place . Small German units trying to push south atones the Gulf of Gab ? s. in Eastern Tunisia . near the border of Libya , were said to have been captured by pro-Allied French units which also had frustrated German attempts to land troops by air transport in that areas . " The French are doing exceedingly well despite great confusion as a result of local commanders issuing contradictory orders to surrender to the Germans in one case and to fight in the next , " the spokesman said . " It 's a mess but most of the French appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Axis . " In every clash , he said , the Germans have been driven back in attempts to push their columns out from newly formed lines around Tunis and Bizerte . Flying Fortresses Attacking Germans United States Flying Fortresses , striking without loss in daylight , were said to have pounded Nazi air strength and the shorefront of Bizerte with good results . Allied forces now are converging from all around the German bridgeheads in the two ports , the spokesman said . Trying to halt this advance , he said , the German Air Force has been making continuous attacks on the eastbound columns from Allied-held Bone , Algeria , with the all-important control of the North African skies . American antiaircraft units have been playing a large part in beating off these attacks while American artillery , which has helped mangle the Nazi tanks , is supporting the British motorized advance . Meanwhile the German Commander in Tunisia has presented an ultimatum to General Barre , commanding French forces there . ordering him to evacuade Tunisian territory or join the Axis , the Morocco Radio reported . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies , stating that the French leader had tried to " trap " Admiral Rene Platon , the Vichy Secretary of State for the Navy . The Moroccan Radio said that General Barre had told the Germans that he would defend himself In his present position in accordance with order from Admiral Darien and General Giraud , French leaders who are co-operating with British and American forces . The German ultimatum was said to have provided that if the French failed to retire they would be attacked . General Barre , however , attacked the Germans first with the support of the Allies , the Mbroccan Radio said . Bengasi : Axis Evacuates Key Libyan Pori The German High Command announced that Axis forces had given up the Libyan port of Bengasi and said that " in the Algerian-Tunisian frontier area close-range German fighters attacked enemy advanced units and de Gaulle units which attempted to stop our advance . " All.military installations and key roads at Bengasi were reported dynamited before the Axis forces withdraw . Meanwhile a Cairo communiqu ? stated that the British Eighth Army continued to advance both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24 guns , and 250 motor vehicles have been captured or destroyed by our troops between Martuba and Slonta , " it was announced . This is a 70-mile stretch at the top of the Libyan hump , around which along the coast one British force is moving upon Bengasi , 95 miles southwest of Slonta , while others close cross-country upon the heels of General Field Marshal Rommel 's fleeing forces in a race toward El Agheila . The Axis-occupied Tunis airdrome was raided again during the night of Nov. 18-19 and hits were scored on hangars and fires were caused , the communiqu ? said . New Guinea : Allied Planes Sink 2 Japanese Warships Heavy bombers of Gen. Douglas 's Command sank a Japanese light cruiser and blew to pieces a destroyer which were caught Thursday night trying to aid enemy ground troops now trapped by United States and Australian soldiers in the Buna-Gona area of New Guinea . The enemy sea relief effort was smashed completely . Another destroyer was damaged in fleeing and Allied planes also strafed landing barges which were carrying out a rendezvous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light their targets , Allied airmen then dropped 500-pound bombs on the Japanese ships , whose captains apparently thought they were safe from detection because of rain , squalls and low clouds . One half-ton bomb scored a direct hit amidships on the enemy light cruiser . That was followed by a direct smash on the destroyer , which split in two after a second explosion . Three Japanese planes also were shot down over the area , a communique said in detailing the operation . The main Australian ground force which has carried the brunt of the push over the Owen Stanley Mountains from Port Moresby was reported within 10 miles of Buna , but fighting on the outskirts of both that point and Gona to the northwest were announced officially . United States troops who had swept up from the south after a difficult overland flanking move on the Japanese had joined advance Australian patrols to pin the Japanese against the coast where they had landed originally last July 22 . Caucasus Front : Germans Defeated At Ordzhonikidze A counterattacking Red Army defeated the Germans in a battle lasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military highway leading through the Caucasian Mountains , the Soviets announced in a'special communiqu ? . German losses were put at 5,000 . Another war bulletin also told of stalwart Russian fighting at all other key sectors of the long front , particularly Stalingrad , where six German attacks were repulsed . In one sector of the Volga River city , the Germans " succeeded in occupying a few demolished houses at a cost of great losses , " but this was the only slight Nazi gain . The Russians said they inflicted " a severe defeat " on the Germans on the approaches to Ordzhonikidze . This was the first indication that the Caucasian fighting had reached the vicinity of Ordzhonikidze , which lies 60 miles southeast of Nalchik and about the same distance south of Mozdok  --  previously known centers of action . The Russians said they had inflicted a severe defeat on the Germans . They routed the Thirteenth Ger- sembled by the Japanese in Timor , it was reported . Dili , Capitol of Portuguese Timor , was occupied by the Japanese early in their operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Wand . U-Boat Sinkings : 8 Freighters Sunk , Germans Report A German official dispatch said that German submarines sank eight merchantmen laden with war materials and fired a large tanker in an attack on a Britain-bound convoy in the North Atlantic Thursday . The vessels were declared to have totaled 55,000 tons . There was no confirmation of this claim from Allied quarters . RAF Bombs Burma Japanese Airdrome At Pakokku Blasted Royal Air Force Blenheims bombed runways and dispersal points of the Japanese airdrome at Pakokku , Burma , Thursday without fighter interference and all returned to their bases , a British communique said . Photographic reconnaissance of the Burmese docks at Akyab was said to have confirmed that one of two merchant vessels reported Nov. 10 was sunk north of the main jetty .                     