@@709606

txt Letters to The Times BENJAMIN H. NAMM.OTTO A. PIPER.NELSON ROSENBAUM , MASTER SERGEANT.NELSON CASE.A ... pg . 11 Letters to The Times Defense Recreation Group Work of City Committee Commended as Headquarters Close TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The closing on Monday , July 8 , of the 99 Park Avenue headquarters of the New York City Defense Recreation Committee , Inc. , should serve to recall for the people of New York City an unparalleled example of wartime community cooperation . Although the purpose and activities of the committee are probably understood by the public in a general way , the story of the full scope of the committee 's work should be more widely known . Established in 1941 by Mayor La Guardia and Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg , the committee assumed the responsibility for developing a full program of recreation and entertainment for service men and women  --  our own and those of our allies  --  while in New York City . The committee 's headquarters were opened just five years ago , on July 7 , 1941 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed at the disposal of millions of service men an amazing variety of recreation and entertainment which fully proved its slogan : " New York Is a Friendly Town . " To this program were added services of a more serious nature , touching on various problems of service people , personal , legal and financial . At the height of its operations the committee had as affiliates fifty-three social agencies , whose activities for service men it integrated and financed . An outstanding aspect of the committee 's activities is that , for the most part , the work has been performed by thousands of volunteers . Many of these gave full-time service . Others served before and after their working hours , on week-ends and on holidays . One of the most indefatigable of these workers . I should like to add , has been Mrs. Julius Ochs Adler , who , first as co-chairman and since January , 1944 , as chairman of the New York City Defense Recreation Committee , has superbly directed its activities with inexhaustible vitality , patience and warm-heartedness . Although the committee 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for service men which it supported will be continued by permanent agencies which were affiliated with it , the closing of its 99 Park Avenue headquarters provides an appropriate time for this city to commend it for one of the greatest war jobs accomplished here . As one whose interest in New York City 's welfare and growth is intense and permanent , I have derived tremendous pleasure , while traveling over the country , from meeting veterans who used the facilities of 99 Park Avenue , and through it learned not only of our city 's greatness , but its generosity and gratitude as well . BENJAMIN H. NAMM . Brooklyn , July 1 , 1946 . French Prison Camps Veteran Designation Protested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Much time and space has been used in an effort to unemphasize labels of race , creed or color in describing newsmakers . Yet it seems that a new and unnecessary label is being exploited now more than ever , that of " Vet . " I noticed this trend especially in the case of the arrest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must they be labeled " Vets , " thus linking them with the millions of veterans who are leading ordinary , unsensational lives ' . Unbiased news-reporting might well eliminate this playing up of the term veteran to exploit news . NELSON CASE . New York , June 29 , 1946 . Overseas Airmail Rates To THE EDITOR . OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I noted with interest the offer reported in THE TIMES of a number of independent airlines to carry mail at a 3-cent rate . While I offer no opinion on the merits of this proposal , I would suggest that it is time that public attention were drawn to certain overseas rates which may have been justified in the early days of air travel , hut are quite unwarranted today . I think in particular of such charges as 70 cents a half ounce for airmail to Palestine and 60 cents to the Union of South Africa . Surely it is time that these and similar rates were subjected to revision . ARTHUR LOURIE . New York , June 26 , 1946 . Not All German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was more surprised to read in THE NEW YORK TIMES of June 26 that a Fr ! nch magazine should criticize our War Department for the fact that German prisoners of war shipped to France were in good health after living in model camps . For many months ecclesiastical and humanitarian circles in this country and abroad have been disturbed about the appalling conditions prevailing in not a few of the French prisoners of war camps . Last year complaints on the part of the International Red Cross resulted in an investigation of conditions in those camps which harbored German prisoners turned over temporarily by the American Army to French custody . Almost 100,000 were found in such pitiful condition that they had to be removed to American field hospitals . Recent reports indicate that sanitary and food conditions have been somewhat improved in the larger French depots of war prisoners . Reliable sources point out that in the smaller camps and among the work details hired out to private contractors starvation is rampant , health conditions are alarming and the Mortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should make light of the Geneva Convention , to which France is a party . Those of us who have not yet given up the hope that one day the U. N. will become a workable organization realize that respect for international commitments is the sure basis of world peace and order . Regard for the rights of the smaller nations on the part of the big powers is important . The fact that our War Department is anxious to treat the German prisoners in accordance with the Geneva Convention though there is no German Government that might retaliate is one of the few hopeful signs on the international scene . One can understand the bitterness the French people feel toward the Germans . But we should be commended when we uphold the rule of law in international life . OTTO A. PIPER . Princeton , N. J. , June 27 , 1946 . Mr. Kluekhohn Replies TO THE EDITOR OF ' THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? With regard to statements in my dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES of June 27 that ex-President Arturo Alessandri of Chile has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on record in Alessandri 's own writings and public speeches . FRANK L. Keucx11OHY . Buenos Aires , July 2. 1946 ( By Wire- , less . ) City Technicians Praised TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . Your recent editorial praising " Andy " Johnson , the retiring engineer of highways in Queens , was a deserving tribute to a faithful veteran of our city 's engineering service . A great truth was expressed when you stated , " Luckily , the city is blessed with many like him . " So few New Yorkers realize that their normal safe existence is dependent upon the labor , devotion , skill and courage of men like Mr. Johnson  --  our subways , our bridges , our daily water , the health of our families , the safety of our roadways and all the vast municipal services that we just take for granted . As one who has worked closely for many years with our city engineers , may I say that the theme of your editorial should be repeated again and again to make the citizenry of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is given to their welfare , happiness and safety by the technicians in our city service . NELSON ROSENBAUM . Assistant Corporation Counsel . New York , June 27 , 1946 . Regular Army Defended Veteran Upholds Pride , Discipline and the Leadership of Officers TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is not my duty to protest in public any statement by a. statesman or politician , being a member of our armed forces , but when legislators stand on the floor of Congress and make unjustified statements which reflect on the honor and character of the men and officers of the United States Army I feel morally responsible to object . I am referring to the utterances attributed to Representative Dewey Short of Missouri in THE TIMES of June 26 . Since I joined the Army three months after Pearl Harbor , I believe I have had considerably more experience wit ; Army personnel than has had Mr. Short , so I feel qualified in defending myself against such irresponsible outbursts . First , in ten months service with a regiment of the Second Infantry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a line company officer , I never heard of a case of rape . Our regimental commander , Col. Jay B. Lovless , a strict disciplinarian , collected the only loot we were not forbidden to take , captured enemy equipment , and later distributed the same , consisting of pistols and cameras , to the members of his command . Also , in line with the non-fraternization policy , we were forbidden to talk with German civilians , except in line of duty . That policy was maintained voluntarily almost 100 per cent . We knew the German somewhat better than the rear echelons or Mr. Short , did . This record I believe to be the result of the leadership of the " Brass Hats , " or regular Army officers who commanded us . Let it be remembered also that those officers served their country for years with low rank and low pay before reaching their general officer status . One more point . You will find on investigation that the morale , discipline , patriotism , pride of service and uniform in the regular Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their training a respect of people for what they are worth . MASTER SERGEANT . Arlington , N. J. , June 29 , 1946.                     