@@711704

txt . Ignoring American and British rec=ommendations that it continue work tmtil its immediate program is completed , the General Assembly of the United Nations has voted to adjourn its ? first European session next Saturday ' night and to reconvene in a special ' Session in New York on April 1 . This - action was taken primarily to enable the delegates to reach home for the Christmas holidays , but it will come as a disappointment to many supporters of the United Nations . For it means , as ; Secretary General Lie points out , that the work will not be finished , and it  - -  remains to be seen how many even of  - -  the major items on the agenda can still be dealt with in the five remaining slays . What is more , the Assembly overrode its own Steering Committee =by setting the date for the special session two months later than the . Committee recommended , though the state of the world is scarcely such as to permit any agency dealing with its -. problems to sit idly by . If this action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . certain cynicism and a growing sense of frustration among the delegates , Such feelings do not seem warranted - , by the accomplishments of the United - Nations . For with all its shortcomings , this remains the one international forum before which the nations of the world can bring their problems and - their disagreements . If the United Nations can not as yet take direct action to nettle such disagreements , it can at least help to sift them and to mobilize those moral forces which in the end must stand behind any enforcement action . It may also be , as the dispatches like. , - wise suggest , that the attractions of , the Paris playgrounds have proved , at least to some delegates , superior to ? those of the Assembly hall , in which case the businesslike atmosphere of - New York should prove more conducive to their work But even though the final record of the present session in Paris is still to be written , the United Nations can claim , between the Assembly and the Security Council , to have done much to clarify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the West . It has done so especially in the matter of Berlin and Greece . If it has failed to resolve either issue , it has at least laid a foundation for further action . At the same time , the present status of the essential questions laid before the Assembly by Secretary Marshall at the beginning of the session indicates how long and how difficult the road to a peaceful world still is , and how urgent it is for the United Nations to help the world along that road . These questions involve the maintenance of international peace and security , now threatened by Russo-Communist aggression in Europe and in Asia . They involve early and just peace settlements with Germany , Japan and Austria , which , though technically outside United Nations jurisdiction , are nevertheless beginning to involve the United Nations , which must give final approval to them . They include the problems of Palestine , Korea , Indonesia , India and Pakistan , the Italian colonies , control of atomic energy and disarmament , all of which are still unresolved and regarding some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its own committees . Moreover , on the horizon looms another issue equally important  --  namely , the open violation of the Balkan peace treaties by Russia 's satellites , not only in respect to human rights and freedoms , but even in respect to disarma-inent-Some of these problems are now besore the Security Council , which , fortunately , expects to continue meeting in Paris . But most of them are , or are likely to be brought , before the General Assembly . It can only be hoped that if the Assembly delegates , must get out of the debating trenches for Christmas , they can at least be induced not to prolong their vacation unduly , and that the Assembly will still reconsider its decision and follow its Steering Committee 's advice by reconvening on Feb. 1 . -                     