@@706644

txt Growing shortages of oil and rubber  --  fuel oil and gasoline for the East Coast and rubber nationally  --  will force President Roosevelt and his War Production Board to make some major decisions soon . First , they must decide by September 1 whether and now to ration fuel oil in the Atlantic Coast states and whether the East Coast gasoline ration must be cut again . Second . they must decide whether to extend gasoline rationing . because of the recent diversion of 5,000 tank cars , to the area between the rationed states in the east and the Mississippi River . Third . they must accept by October 1 at the very latest , nation-wide rationing of gasoline or some alternative plan to conserve rubber tires now on the nation 's 27 million motor vehicles . The last of these three points was before the W.P.B. at its regular weekly meeting yesterday . The Board discussed both nation- , wide gasoline rationing and some undisclosed alternative plan for curtailing use of tires . This second plan was presented jointly by O.P.A. and O.D.T. The W.P.B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt delayed until later this week his expected statement on the rubber situation . Three Basle Factors . Basic factors which now call for an early decision on each of the issues are : 1 . Eastern oil supplies on hand plus all prospective deliveries fall substantially short of estimated normal requirements for next winter , and a sharp curtailment in use will he needed either through coupon rationing or other restrictive measures . 2 . The current use of rubber on tires owned by the nation 's motorists is so great that a large proportion of the tires will be worn beyond the recapping point by March 1 , 1943. too soon to expect that supplies of synthetic rubber will be large enough to keep them in operation without embarrassing the military program by using rubber already allocated to it . 3 The diversion of 5.000 tank cars from the midwest , ordered Monday to add to transport facilities for eastern-bound oil . probably will not solve the fuel oil shortage in the east but will cause an oil shortage in the area between the rationed states and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the board is considering a plan for conserving rubber tires that does not involve nation-wide gasoline rationing . The plan has been suggested by the Office of Defense Transportation and the Office of Price Administration . These agencies have been forced to seek an alternative to gas rationing  --  easiest and most thorough method of curtailing rubber rise . officials here unanimously say  --  because of President Roosevelt 's reluctance to approve the rationing plan . When naked about the Status of the synthetic rubber pi ogi am after the W.P.B meeting yesterday . Chairman Nelson said the program is coming along fine . Board members at the meeting received from Defense Plant Corp copies of a confidential report on the synthetic program as of August 1 Officials were reluctant to discuss an alternative to gasoline rationing . They indicated , however , that the following ideas are tinder discussion : 1 . A guarantee to every motorist who agrees to curtail his driving that he will be rationed a recap or synthetic tate when he needs them The motorist who can not claim special occupational driving might have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official in O.P.A. said he thought that recaps could be promised if the conservation were this complete . 2 The check on whether a motorist actually does curtail his driving to the extent agreed upon probably has to be made through gasoline sales . The 0 . D T has rejected the idea of checking on speedometer readings and sealing the speedometers to prevent chiseling Officials say they doubt that any measurement of rubber on the tires would be an accurate gauge of mileage . Some voluntary coupon check on gas purchases , possibly with stickers for identification of cooperating motorists , may be arranged . The deadline on the rubber conservation plan is October 1 Officials here estimate that the average tire on January 1 had 10.000 miles left in it . By October 1 the mileage left will be 6,500 . If driving is not curtailed further than it has been , the average tire will have only 4.000 miles left in it by March 1 A tire ought to be recapped when it is worn this far . To let it go much farther means ruining it entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Need Recapping Thus , the country may be faced with a need to recap " many , many millions of tires " next Please turn to page 5 , column 3 Oil , Rubber Shortages Soon to Force Major Rationing Decisions // spring in order to keep civilian autos going . one official said . To do the job would require many tons of reclaimed rubber or synthetic . and there is no likelihood that these supplies will be available by that time , even if the plans recently proposed to increase the production of synthetic rubber are successful . Not to Rep a majority of the cars in operation ? at least 20 million , according to some estimates ? at a minimum rate , would overload and endanger public transportation facilities . What IS needed , therefore . is at least a atop-gap arrangement that will prolong the life of the tires until there is a reasonable chance that recaps or synthetic tires can be provided , it is said . The diversion of 5.000 tank cars from the WeSt to augment East Coast oil transport facilities is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rationing , according to O.P.A officials . They had proposed that this be done anyhow as a prelude to rationing in order to narrow the deficit in supply . To reduce the fuel oil deficit to as little as 30,000 barrels per day it would be necessary , in addition to diverting these 5,000 tank cars , to cut the eastern gasoline ration by 25 ' , , according to their estimates . These officials say they do not believe it v. ill be possible to reduce the eastern ration because resentment against the rationing program already is running strong in some areas , particularly in the South Atlantic States . Without a cut in the gasoline ration , the fuel cel deficit will be at least 130.000 barrels per day . Even this pessimistic forecast assumes that tank cars will bring in 850.000 barrels of oil daily throughout the winter ; that river and lake barges will met ease then movement of oil substantially ; that the five pipelines that are being relayed and the new 24-inch Texas-Illinois pipeline w ill be completed on schedule and be fully effective , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winter will be mild . It is unlikely , according to O P A otheials. that all these favorable condition. * will be real ? Med and . therefore , the fuel oil shortage likely will be much larger than 130 000 barrels per day , if they are tight . At any rate , it would be rislti for the W.P B not to act anon and take the chance that a spell of bad weather would force it to institute rationing at the peak of the fuel oil season in January , one official pointed out The deficit is too great to be handled by the simple device of reducing all deliveries to consumers by a flat percentage , the 0 I ' A believes This agency and the W F B. Division of Civilian Supply believe that plans for coupon rationing should be worked Out immediately and be put Into effect early in the fall unless an unexpected improvement takes place . The only thing that could make such a program unnecessary . the ) believe , would he an unexpected increase in shipments to the East @ @ @ @ @ @ 