@@711447

txt The city 's milk inquiry branched out yesterday in still another direction . The new phase involved possible collusion among milk companies supplying city institutions . " An analysis of bid sheets suggests strongly that at least as far back as 1940 there has been collusion in bidding on city contracts , " John M. Murtagh , Commissioner of Investigation , told reporters he had summoned to his office at 50 Pine Street . Officials of two of the three companies that he mentioned would not comment on the matter , but Francis R. Elliott , president of the Borden 's Farm Products Division of the Borden Company , called Mr. Murtagh 's allegation " utterly preposterous . " The Commissioner , who had said on Monday that he planned to concentrate on the question of discounts to retail stores , introduced the new subject with a description of city purchasing procedure . The Department of Purchase has divided thirty-seven city institutions into seven groups on the basis of their locations , he said . Consequently , he explained , there are Seven sets of bids for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although preliminary scrutiny has failed , to show any evidence of collusion on other purchases , Commissioner Murtagh went on , the opposite was true in the case of milk . Virtually without exception since 1940 , either Borden 's or the Sheffield Farms Company or the Dairymen 's League Cooperative Association repeatedly has received monthly contracts to supply the same group or groups , the Commissioner asserted . There has not only been no " normal " rotation among the three companies , Mr. Murtagh said , but there also have been indications that only " complimentary bids " were offered in competition to a company that usually supplied a specific group of institutions . The companies ' . alleged practice , if proved , would violate Federal and state anti-trust laws , Mr. Murtagh said . He added that , when further information is available , it would be referred to the Federal and State Attorneys General . Previous charges by the city offitial already have been forwarded , but no action has been announced by either law enforcement agent . Hints at Overpayment The Commissioner said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably would mean the city was overpaying for milk . The city government 's annual milk bill runs to about $2,000,000 , he said . Commissioner Murtagh said that George Basso , the Department of Purchase official in charge of milk , had directed his attention to this new phase of his continuing milk-price inquiry . Mr. Basso was reported during the afternoon to be " out in the field " and could not be reached . Executives of Sheffield Farms Company , when asked for comment on the Commissioner 's newest allegations of collusion  --  he previously had charged conspiracy on list prices and possibly also on discounts  --  indicated first that a statement was being prepared . However , they later said there would be none for the present . Officials at the New York ' office of the Dairymen 's League also said no statement would be made " at this time . " Francis R. Elliott , president of the division of the Gordon Company that serves this area , made ' public the following statement early in the evening : " I am informed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply milk to city institutions . Says Bidding Is Sealed ? " Any reference to collusion is utterly preposterous . City contracts are submitted each month to sealed , public bid by any milk company. , Such bids are opened to public spection - and the lowest bidder gets the business . " There are several hundred milk , companies in the city and dozens ' of them are in a position to serve ) city institutions . Records will establish that this business has been awarded to numerous milk dealers . " The city 's method of competitive bidding for city institutions can not but insure the most vigorous competition . I categorically deny any suggestion of collusion on this or any other matter . " Commissioner Murtagh announced , that new subpoenas had been issued to an additional dairy and six additional retail chains , re'quiring thei- to produce data on discounts . The books of several other companies and chains have been presented already . Further information on prices also is expected to come from the police survey of retail stores , about which a ' report is @ @ @ @ @ @ 