@@708689

txt Chicago voters having removed an important obstacle to unification under public ownership of the surface and elevated lines in the referendum yesterday , attention was directed last night to remaining hurclles that must be overcome . So far only the voters and the city of Chicago have approved the taking over of the traction properties by the newly created Chicago metropolitan transit authority at a price of 87 million dollars ; 75 millions for the surface lines and 12 millions plus for the " L. " Court Statement Needed To complete the transaction it is necessary : 1 . That the federal District court transmit the offer , with a statement it is fair , to the present creditors and owners of the two lines , 2 . That owners of two-thirds of the outstanding securities accept the bid . 3 . That the Illinois Supreme court , in a test case , shall declare the legislation and the city 's franchise ordinance secure against legal attack . 4 . That the investment bankers who have expressed interest in the authority 's revenue bonds actually put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may cause delay , Judge Michael L. Igoe , who is in charge of the two companies in bankruptcy , has asked the Illinois commerce commission and the securities and exchange commission to advise him on this point . Such a request is mandatory under bank . ruptcy law , but the court is not bound to accept the advice given . It is expected that the commerce . commission will report today and give a qualified approval to the scheme . It is regarded as probable the commissioners will recommend safeguards for the suburban areas now served by the " L " and that they will sidestep the valuation Problem with a suggestion that the present ; , timer 's themselves decide on what they consider an adequate price . Tax Laws to Be Cited Further , it is expected the commission will express a general approval of private utility operation , but will hold that with present tax laws effective , public ownership offers the best prospect for raising money to be spent in a rehabilita. tion of traction service . The SEC does not have to report in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can only be guessed at . Judge Igoe has indicated that he might need lengthy testimony on valuation before he rules on fairness ; much depending on the SEC advice . Such testimony so far has been meager and based only on earnings of the lines under unfavorable eir. cumstances . A complicating factor is a recent Illinois Supreme court decision holding the " L " entitled to a 12 cent fare if a lower amount fails to produce operating expense . 30 Days for Decision Submission of the offer to the thousands of bondholders of both companies may require weeks and they will have at least 30 days to decide to take or reject the sum named . The travels of the authority act and the ordinance thru the Supreme court would normally take consider . able time . At a guess the authority might buy and start operating In six , to 18 months , if all moves well .                     