@@710526

txt President Truman appealed today to labor and management " to exercise patience and moderation in accommodating themselves to the changes made necessary by the ( Labor Relations ) Act , " which was passed over his veto on Monday . The President 's appeal was is ? sued in the form of a written statement as mounting strikes engulfed the coal fields , and threatened to tie up shipbuilding in many areas , while organized labor moved rapidly to fight the new law on every front . Mr. Truman 's statement came a few hours after the American Federation of Labor announced that it would hold a special session of chiefs of its 105 national and international unions in Washington on July 9 to plan for meeting the problems raised by the new act . Meanwhile the AFL leadership turned thumbs down on suggestions of a general protest str ) 15. : 04 Tomorrow the executive-'bard of the Congress of Industrial Organizations will go over a comprehensive report prepared today by CIO lawyers . Some seventy-five or more AFL lawyers from every section of the country will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting in this city Saturday and Sunday in an effort to inform 7,000,000 AFL members as soon as possible about their rights and duties under the Taft-Hartley Law . Questioned About New Members Appearing calm , confident and . self-assured , the President smiled at members of the press conference today when they sought to question him on the new labor law and his plans for appointment of two additional members of the National Labor Relations Board and its general counsel . He denied that he was considering " anybody " as yet . Then , in a vibrant voice he slowly read his statement as follows : " The Taft-Hartley labor bill has been passed by Congress over the President 's veto . " I have expressed my objections to this legislation and my concern as to its effects . Nevertheless , it is now the law of the land . It has become law in accordance with the constitutional processes of our Government . We must all respect its provisions . " For my part , I want to make it unmistakably clear that , insofar as it lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this law is well and faithfully administered . " I have already received the assurances of the present members of the National Labor Relations Board that they will seek to give the new act the fairest and most efficient administration within their power . Need for Confidence Stressed " The persons who are to be ap- , pointed to the new offices created under the act will be selected with the same objective . I regard its of the utmost importance that persons be selected for these offices who have the confidence of management and labor , and who can be depended upon to deal fairly with ; both . Above all , they should understand the paramount interest of the nation as a whole . " Insofar as management and la ? , bor are concerned , there is a vital responsibility upon them to comply with the law in a spirit of tolerance and fair play . " Neither management nor labor will achieve any long-range benefit by seeking to use the provisions of this act to gain unfair advantage or to sustain arbitrary attitudes . It is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages while the effect of the new act is being tested by experience . At this time , as at all others , they will serve their mutual welfare best by working together with full recognition by each of the legitimate rights of the other . " I call upon labor and management , therefore , to exercise patience and moderation in accommodating themselves to the changes made necessary by the act . " Industrial strife at this critical time can result only in economic dislocation injurious to all of us . If it should reach serious proportions it would threaten the stability of our economy and endanger the peace of the world . " We can not afford such a result . It is our solemn duty to make every effort to maintain industrial peace under the provisions of the new law . " We must all do our part . " Meetings Held by AFL and CIO At AFL and CIO headquarters two meetings today advanced the plans of these organizations to meet what they considered the crisis thrust upon organized labor by the Taft-Hartley Act . The AFL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the following resident memrbers of the fifteen-member execu1 tive council ; John L. Lewis , United Mine Workers of America ; G. M. IBugniazet , International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ; Harry Bates , Bricklayers and Plasterers International Union , and W. C. Doherty , National Association of Letter Carriers . Joseph A. Padway , general counsel of the American Federation of Labor , and his associate , Henry Kaiser , went over the new labor law with the union chiefs . After the meeting Mr. Green told reporters that it had been decided to convene an emergency session of all the chiefs of the national and international unions in this city on July 9 . " The purpose of the meeting is not only informative but also ' policy making , " he declared . " The meeting will deal with the legislation just enacted and ways to combat it . " We will ' carry on the fight just as vigorously as we did when the Taft-Hartley bill was before Congress . " We will make a three-fold fight against this legislation . We will fight it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their contract negotiations and we will fight politically to defeat every member of Congress who voted for the bill . " Mr. Green predicted that the new act would bring both AFL and CIO closer together . Questioned on the political program of the AFL , the federation chief said that his organization would not form anything like the CIO 's Political Action Committee but that it would carry on its political work parallel with that of the CIO . He said that in the last few days his office had been flooded with letters from union officers and members . Some of these letters suggested that there should be a general strike of all organized labor for twenty-four hours in protest against the new law . " I have told them that such action is inadvisable , " he continued , " Such action would mean thousands of court actions for damages and would influence the public against labor . "                     