@@705117

txt The Securities and Ex.change Commission last night called on the New York Stock Exchange to rescind its socalled multiple trading rule on the ground that its enforcement would endanger the future of regional stock exchanges and would impinge upon the welfare of the investing public . SEC objection to the multiple trading rule which restricts N. Y. S. E. member dealings on other exchanges , was made known in a letter from Commissioner Sumner T. Pike to N. Y. S. E. President William McC . Martin , Jr . Mr. Pike said the SEC had reached its conclusion after a full investigation of the matter . His letter was accompanied by a summary of findings and conclusions to be contained in a formal report on the subject which will be ready for publication in the near future . Response Asked by November 1 President Martin was asked to advise the SEC of the Exchange 's decision on the request for rescinding of the rule prior to November 1 . If full consideration can not be given to the matter before October 31. however . Mr. suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exchange will extenu existing exemptions from the rule until some time later . Referring to the Exchange 's position that the multiple trading rules was an attempt by the Exchange to solve a purely internal problem of unfair competition among its own members , Mr. Pike wrote Mr. Martin : " The commission as at present advised is of the opinion that your solution of this problem has results which in practical effect will endanger the future of the affected regional exchanges and , as a. consequence , will impinge upon the welfare of the investing public within the regions served by these exchanges . " You have assured us that you have no desilre to do any injury to the national system of regional securities markets . Because the findings of its staff investigation show that enforcement of your ruling will , in fact , have this result with consequent injury to the investing public in the regions affected , the commission requests that your board of governors rescind Its resolution pursuant to which the committee on member firms Issued its ruling of July 12 , 1940 . " ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SEC had reached its conclusion after considering both the views of the Exchange and a study prepared by the commission 's trading and exchange division . In the division 's summary , the conclusion is reached that the NYSE rule , " even though ostensibly directed solely to its own members , materially affects inter-exchange competition in a manner harmful to the general public interest and to individual investors . " To date , according to the findings , the " proper functioning " of the New York Stock Exchange does not seem to have been impaired by multiple trading as it now exists . Regarding inter-exchange competition , the trading and exchange division said : " Over three quarters of the nation 's total stock trading on securities exchanges takes place on the New York Stock Exchange . Of even greater importance is the fact that member firms of this Exchange account for over onehalf of the total stock trading on the regional exchanges as well as a substantial portion of the over-the-counter transactions in listed stocks . Thus , brokers subject to the jurisdiction of the New York Stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of these members , who handle such a substantial portion of the nation 's total trading in listed stocks , are under the effective control of the New York Stock Exchange since loss of membership would mean the loss of substantially all of the revenue derived from business in stocks listed on that Exchange . In this setting , it is apparent that the New York Stock Exchange , in controlling what business its members may or may not do off that Exchange , clearly impinges upon the interest of the individual and of the public at large . " Held Advantageous to Investor Analyzing multiple trading with respect to the individual investor , the division said the , development of facilities for multiple trading ton local exchanges represents " a definite advantage " . In all applications for unlisted trading privileges by exchanges which proposed to engage in multiple trading in the issues for which they applied , the division said SEC was given assurances that such systems would insure to customers executions at least equivalent to those which would have obtained in similar transactions on the NYSE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally - reaffirm. , the original conclusion " that this is true . it was stated . There is no feature inherent in the local exchange system which would tend to give the customer a poorer purchase or sale price than he would ? obtain on the NYSE , and , for the most part , the customer buying or selling a round lot in a stock traded on a multiple basis is likely to get an execution on a local exchange on terms " as good as , and sometimes better than , those obtainable in New York . " the division asserted . ' Other advantages accruing to individual investors from multiple trading , according to the summary , include savings of various kinds by trading on the local exchanges , the principal element of such savings being the avoidance of the New York State stock transfer tax . Avoidance of this higher tax is particularly important to out-ofstate customers buying odd lots because , if the odd-lot transactions were executed on the NYSE , the purchaSing customer would be required to pay the amount of this higher New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated .                     