@@711646

txt Increasing steel supplies , assembly line speed-ups. and crowded used car markets are seen here as first real indications that time is starting to run out on the greatest . sellers ' market in automobile history . Automotive plants from Buffalo , N. Y. , to South Bend , Ind. , are preparing for a record production to meet the continuing demand for new cars , notwithstanding further increases in prices . At this moment , it appears doubtful that anything short of another war can break the Bath ; ering momentum of virtually every automobile assembly line . Built up in the face of postwar labor unrest and material shortages , the tide of production today beats heavily against steel shortages , the last major bottleneck . Yet , wherever this reporter talked with motor executives , designers , and engineers , the fact was indicated that " we are gradually getting more steel . " Car Production Up In some places the steel gains were barely noticeable . In other places they were enough to announce increases in car production from 50 to 75 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases is in direct relationship to increased production . Over the desks of men likt Henry Ford , II , Edgar Kaiser , in direct charge of Kaiser-Frazer 's Willow Run plant , George T. Christopher , Packard president , and A. E. Barit , president of the godson Motor Car Company , this reporter obtained reasonable assurances that a " new-car day " is not far distant . ' It may be two years , 18 months , or even less than that when motorists can step into a dealer 's showroom with the assurance that the cars they order can be driven away in a matter of days , or a few weeks at the most , rather than waiting for months and years . Undisguised Optimism The executive branch of the automobile industry is naturally uncertain about what a Democratic New Deal revival might do to discourage further capital investment in automobile research , and curb production efforts through higher taxes on industry ; or of what effect the Marshall Plan and the national defense program may have in diverting automotive materials . But behind the front offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who design and engineer the cars are limited only by their vision of things to come , and not by material shortages . In these inner sanctums , the cars of 5 to 10 years-hence are standing in clay or plastic models , from tiny midgets to the in-between cars . designed with all the comforts and stylings of standard big cars . Automatic transmissions , they say , will deluge the motor markets in the next two years . Packard will introduce its new transmission early next spring , described as an improvement over dynaflow and other fluid-drive systems . Mr. Christopher described it as a transmission " that will not handcuff the driver to the engine . " In other words . he said , the driver will " control the transmission instead of the transmission controlling him . " He alluded to the limitations of other fluid drives in which the transmission shifts gears automatically , whether the driver wants to shift or not . In other fluid systems , he said , the engine travels too fast for wheel speeds , decreasing fuel economy . Behind-the-scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short time , the 1949 Buicks will be ready for public announcement . All that can be said at this time is that they will look something like the Cadillac . Hard-Top Convertibles Hard-top convertibles are coming in 1949 in several lines of cars . These are generally steel tops painted to simulate the smartness of the convertible , with extensive window space and safety features the ordinary convertible does not possess . In the matter of engineering , some companies have committed themselves to smaller wheel bases and reduced over-all lengths . At least , the trend toward longer cars is , definitely . ended . The styling trend of the next few years will be to make the cars look longer and lower without actually lowering or lengthening the bodies . Engineers say that the barest requirements for headroom , knee room , jounce room and ground clearance have been reached . in the 1949 automobiles . From then on it 's up to the designer to build into the engineered , low car a greater ease in access and ' egress , of seating comfort , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leg room by recessing the floor half way underneath the front seats , which ordinarily is wasted space . The motorist , clamoring for a new car , is. told that his long wait will be rewarded in the not too distant future . ' Some cars , in some parts of the country , can be bought right off the dealer showroom floors today . It is getting more and more difficult to sell the higher : - priced models . Steel Brakes Output In the battle of postwar production , nearly 13,000,000 new cars , trucks , and busses have been built by the industry . The great task of conversion from war to peace , including vast expansion and modernization programs , is nearly completed . Strikes are only a minor irritation today . Some companies report the best production in 10 years . Even at that , they are running far behind the production capacity of the remodeled plants . Steel has been , and still is , the major delaying factor , Yet , assembly lines no longer shut down or drag , as in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , door handles , glass , or seat springs . All this points to a gradual ironing out of problems that have kept new cars away from millions of prospective buyers . The next few months to a year of present production acceleration should smash through the crust of urgent car needs .                     