@@706297

txt Exactly three months have passed since the tragic day when Japanese treachery struck simultaneouly at Pearl Harbor , Guam and the Philippines , Northern Malaya and Singapore . In these three months we have witnessed a series of Japanese successes , and of corresponding defeats for the United Nations , that previously would have been thought incredible . The Japanese have captured Guam and Wake and Hong Kong . They have forced the American forces in the Philippines into a defensive last-ditch stand . They have taken over Indo-China and Thailand ; swept down the " impenetrable " forests of Malaya ; seized with amazing ease the " impregnable " British naval base at Singapore ; captured and held nearly every strategic point in the far-flung Dutch East Indies ; cut off the Burma Road to China . They have used each new conquest as a stepping-stone to the next . They still show no signs of being brought to a halt . They are pressing to the east and west , and even India and Australia now seem threatened . The United Nations meanwhile have excused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immense distances involved . The distances over which our own help must go are indeed immense , but the Japanese have made astonishing conquests over great distances against defenders already on the spot . From Yokohama to Singapore the distance is approximately 3,000 miles ; it is still farther from Yokohama to Batavia ; and it is 2,000 miles from Singapore to Darwin . Yet spreading themselves over these immense distances , the Japanese have been able to force landings , overcome opposition , and seize positions . Among the secrets of Japanese success have been unified action of their naval , land and air forces ; recognition of the enormous role of air forces in present-day warfare ; willingness to take great risks and great losses , and the maintenance of the offensive , which can concentrate its forces at a given point . Among the causes of the defeats of the United Nations have been failure to recognize from the beginning the effect of air power in revolutionizing strategy in the Pacific ; a defensive attitude which waits for the enemy to strike at a given point and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finally , as a corollary of this , a " bits and pieces " policy of defense . We have been scattering our aid over scores of points , sending in each case too little to make any particular point secure . We have yet to convert ourselves mentally and strategically from a lease-lend nation into a fighting nation . Had we recognized at the beginning the enormous role of air power , we should have had far more planes in the first place in the Philippines . They would have been dispersed on many more air fields , better protected against bombing attacks . After the outbreak of hostilities , the United Nations , instead of leaving their air power scattered all over the Pacific , would have concentrated it at a few protected points . Of all points originally in the hands of the United Nations , the Philippines were best suited both for defense and offense by air power . Some three hundred miles from the nearest real Japanese base , they were not vulnerable to land attack like Singapore . Maintaining control of the air over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for enemy fleets or transports to approach the islands . General gave a minute demonstration of this possibility this week with the few planes he managed to get into the air . Having made the Philippines secure from sea-borne attack , we could have used the islands as a base from which to bomb Japanese warships and transports going through the 400-mile bottleneck of the South China Sea , while conducting bombing raids on Formosa and Japan itself . In this way the Philippines could not merely have protected themselves against invasion but given enormous protection to China and to all the points south of them . Having failed to provide sufficient initial air strength in the Philippines or to centralize defensive and offensive air power there , we must turn to the courses left open to us . If Java is doomed , we must concentrate on Australia . But we can no longer afford the policy of scattering our aid over so many points that no single point gets enough . We must concentrate on a few points ; and these must be made secure only in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 