@@709392

txt ATLANTIC CITY , N. J. , April 10 ? Glimpses of a new promised land of chemistry , in which atomic energy will be used to transform the world we live in by creating new elements at will , were provided here today to a large gathering of chemists attcading the national meeting of the American Chemical Society . Four leading participants in the atomic bomb project , including Professor Glenn T. Seaborg of the University of California , co-discoverer of plutonium and of elements 95 and 96 , lifted the curtain of secrecy somewhat and outlined some of the potentialities in the application of atomic energy for industrial , medicinal and other peacetime purposes . The reports were presented at a symposium on nuclear chemistry , a 1 new science that promises to play a major role in the chemistry of tomorrow and to affect vitally the life of man . Atomic Exports Heard Professor Seaborg presided at the symposium . The other participants were Dr. Milton Burton and Dr. Charles D. Coryell , both of the Clinton Laboratories , Oak Ridge , Tenn. , operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Dr. W. F. Libby of the University of Chicago . Drs . Burton and Coryell are on leave from the University of Notre Dame and the Massachu // setts Institute of Technology , respectively . By means of the radiations released through atomic fission , Dr. Burton reported , chemists may be able to change the properties of ' , familiar solids at will . The most ' interesting new development , he said , was the discovery of the " discomposition " of solids by fast neutrons . " Atoms , particularly of the lighter elements . and their compounds , " Dr. Burton said , " are ejected from their lattice positions and come to rest much like foreign bodies at interstitial points . New properties are thus conferred on the solid . " In graphite , for example , changes in electrical resistance , elasticity and thermal conductivity have been produced . " Professor Coryell revealed that more than 150 radioactive ? substances not previously known in nature had been isolated and identified as the fission fragments of uranium 235 . Many of these promise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced by the fission of uranium 235 are isotopes ( twins ) of two of the missing elements , elements 43 and 61 . For the first time , Dr. Coryell reported , these two missing links in the periodic table of the elements have been obtained in weighable amounts . Element 43 , now known as masurium , named after the Masurian Lakes in former East Prussia , and elements 61 , now known as illinium after Illinois , will be renamed , it was revealed by Professor Seaborg . Similarly , the two other missing elements , 85 and 87 , now known as virginium and alabamine , after the States of Virginia and Alabama , will also get new names . It is now universally agreed among chemists , it was pointed out , that earlier claims to the discovery of these four missing elements , which led to their present nomenclature , were based taken identifications . Elements 95 and 96 , the two newest trans-uranium elements to be created ' , have been named , respectively , Americium , after the Americas , and curium , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was announced by Professor Seaborg , the chemical symbols for these new elements are A M and C M. Americium is pronounced Amerisium . " Hot " atoms , resulting from the transformation of the atomic nucleus , have energies 10,000 times greater than the energies involved in ordinary chemical combinations , and follow new rules of combinations , it was reported at the symposium by Dr. Libby . Dr. Seaborg said that while " denaturing " atomic energy materials can slow down their conversion for use into atomic bombs for one to three years , it is only one of several control measures proposed by the Board of Scientific Consultants to the Secretary of State 's committee on atomic energy . " It will be necessary to solve the atomic energy problem politically on the international front , " he said . " The solution probably lies in the development of an international control system based upon inspection to prevent the diversion of the material to illegal purposes . " As to the ways in which atomic energy can be used industrially , large-scale prbduction of heat and power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific and engineering point of view , and eventually the new form of energy will be produced cheaply enough to compete with coal and oilurhe " There is no possibility that atomic power ever can be used to propel ordinary automobiles be cause of the huge steel or concrete shielding needed for protection from the radiation of any atomic energy machine , but large station ary power plants which might be used for space heating or in which the heat energy in the form of a hot fluid might be used in some industrial process are definite possibilities . It may be possible eventually to use it in large mobile units , such as seagoing vessels , including submarines and very large airplanes . " Even if the atomic source never provides cheaper energy than is available from common sources , it will still have an important future because of its advantages as a compact and almost inexhaustible source of power . "                     