@@709004

txt The Civilian General Prosecutor , Juan Alvarez , was entrusted by President Farrell today with the task of organizing a " cabinet of notables " to lead Argentina through a governmental crisis , climaxed by the recent resignation of Vice-President Juan PerOn . The Proseeutor moved into a key position following his appointment by the President as Minister of the Interior . Senor Alvarez is reported to have said that he would accept this position in the Cabinet only if he approved of other appintments to fill vacancies in the body . President Farrell answered this by giving him freedom to organize a Cabinet of his own choosing . The War Minister announced the liberation of Victorio Codovilla , Communist leader , whom he described as the last political prisoner in the nation . One of the first moves made by Gen. Eduardo Avalos and Vice-Admiral Vernengo Lima after assuming six of the 11 Cabinet posts was to issue a decree yesterday reopening the national universities of La Plata , Buenos Aires . // BY Roland Hall Sharp Former Staff Correspondent on Latin-American Affairs for The Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political freedom by a reinvigorated democratic diplomacy in the State Department at Washington , have won a significant battle against an entrenched fascist dictatorship . The military who have ruled Argentina in defiance of the Constitution and of their own pledged word since June 4 , 1943 , find themselves on the defensive as the result of stirring weeks that verged on civil war . Not even the most optimistic of Argentina 's friends underestimates the magnitude of work ahead . Downfall of the former strong man , Col. Juan D. ** uncitiestionably was speeded by actions of courageous university students , professors , and patriots of all classes who braved saber-swinging mounted police . Yet the removal of Colonel PerOn does not change the basic controls of Argentine government . The Army remains supreme . Argentine liberals accept gladly and Litoral , which were ordered closed by Colonel Perim last month following demonstrations against his regime by students . At the same time all professors and teachers who had been dismissed for supporting the students were ordered reinstated . Other measures taken simultaneously by the two new strong men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Rodolfo Barraco Marmol of Cordoba . who was dismissed Sept. 29 for issuing habeas corpus writs to several political prisoners arrested on Colonel PerOn 's orders . 2 . Lifted censorship restrictions recently imposed on the Argentine press . 3 . Displayed their control over the nation 's armed forces by a drastic shakeup of the Army command . 4 . Ordered police who have been concentrated in the center of Buenos Aires dispersed to other parts of the city . There also were unconfirmed reports that General Avalos had asked all 14 provincial interventors , who were appointed by Colonel Perim , for their resignations . The interventors hold the authority of governors . Shifts in Army Command All actions taken by General Avalos and Vice-Admiral Lima were approved by President Farrell , whose resignation is being held by the two officers for use if they deem advisable . The shift in the Army command included the appointment of Gen. Francisco Saenz as Commander of the Camp de Mayo Garrison  --  a post formerly held by General Avalos himself : the appointment of Gen. Santos Rossi as Commander of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernesto Florit as Director of the Military College . A high military source said that Gen. Alberto Eluglielmone and Gen. Alfredo Escobar , leaders of a group which has been insisting that President Farrell resign and turn the government over to the Supreme Court , had been confined to quarters . Three high-ranking army officers . all close associates of Colonel Perim , meanwhile followed his lead in resigning their commissions. % They were Col. Filomeno Velazco , former Chief of the Federal Police : Brig . Gen. Bartolome de la Colina , former Executive Secretary of Aeronautics , and Lieut . Col. Domingo Mercante , former Executive Director General in the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare . The newspaper La Nacion said Colonel Peron had been removed from the gunboat where he had been held under arrest and transferred to the naval base on Martin Garcia Island in the River Plate . Strike Threat Denied Labor union leaders in Buenos Aires denied rumors they planned to call a general strike in protest remedies which disregard legitimate rights . " Delay on Braden WASHINGTON , Oct. 15 ( W ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably will be approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee this week , members said today . For nearly a month the Committee has delayed action on Mr. Braden while it wrangled with State Department officials over their action in getting the proposed Inter-American Conference called off without first consulting members and other nations involved . Some committee members said the State Department was being spanked by the delay in approving the appointment . Mr. Braden , former Ambassador to Argentina , was named to head the Department 's Latin-American Division . continued porn rage I the efforts of the new Cabinet to ease public clamor . Reopening of closed universities , relaxing of press consorship , and return to his bench of the first judge ever dismissed by this dictatorship , are all welcomed . The question asked by Argentines who often have been tricked in the past is this : " Will the military regime prove its full sincerity by turning over its powers to the Supreme Court and perniitting genuinely free elections ? " Most Argentines know in advance that the regime has no such intentions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure . During the past week of intensive struggles for power among opposing factions of the Army and Navy , Gen. Eduardo J. Avalos emerged as War Minister and new strong man . He and his faction staved off forces favoring solution through the Supreme Court . Events in Argentina focus attention on a pattern that runs through present politics of the Western Hemisphere . Essentially , this pattern is a projection of the world struggle between fascism and democracy . Strong Fascist Clique Military classes in all of the Latin-American countries were more or less in sympathy with the aims , methods , and world order for which the Hitlerian Axis fought its futile war . Some Latin-American military men had foresight enough to see that the only profitable diplomacy fn the postwar world would be one aligned with the United Nations . Others , especially in Argentina , have plunged along a path that seemed incredible to outsiders . They have sought to cling openely to fascist methods , while at the same time pretending to be democratic . In Argentina the fascists were able to prolong their grip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of diplomacy in Washington that extended friendly hands to Colonel Peron . That was the time w hen Argentina came into the United Nations and attended the San Francisco Conference . When Argentina 's military showed by repeated actions that they were not fulfilling their Mexico City and San Francisco promi , es , the State Department saw its mistake . Meanwnile , the Argentine ex , les had been deceived by a similar ruse . They came home from Montevideo on the promise that their civil r:ghts would be respected . Army Officers Divided By mid-September the Argentine people and the State Department in Washington were sufficiently wearied of evasions by the Farrell-PerOn regime , to take action . Then it was that the regime sought to stifle rising public de- mands . A reign of political terror began that resulted in several Sattlities , and arrest of leading Argentines by the hundreds . Civil war hung in the balance . The people could not launch actual fighting themselves , since the regime has disarmed most of its potential leaders through the secret police . A decisive change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest reports the Argentine Army consisted of some 185,000 men . Its officers are divided .. Some favor return of the Government to civilians . The still-dominant fascist clique stubbornly resists giving up power . That is the present situation , with War Minister Avalos , and the Campo de Mayo Garrison near Buenos Aires . as decisive factors . The outstanding , and encouraging , fact is that the military has been compelled to shift ground . Consultations already initiated by Washington with the other American Governments aim at a definitive , and democratic , solution of the Argentine political problem .                     