@@710259

txt Formal requests for public hearings on the Condon-Wadlin bill to prohibit strikes by public employes before it is signed were filed with Governor Dewey today by Democratic leaders and spokesmen for organized labor . Charles D. Breitel , counsel to the Governor , indicated at a conference with representatives of the Transport Workers Union that the request for hearings would be denied but that all persons interested in the measure , one way or the other , would have an opportunity to submit memoranda and briefs on it . He suggested that all such briefs and memoranda be filed within five or six days . While Mr. Breitel did not close the door on a public hearing , he reminded his visitors that Mr. Dewey had not held any such hearings since he became Governor . Views on Political Reaction Up-state Republican leaders who have talked to Mr. Dewey and members of his staff since the bill in its revised form was submitted to the Legislature are convinced that its enactment will help Mr. Dewey politically rather than harm him . They do not share the misgivings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , and the fifteen who voted against it , that its passage will cost the Governor the support of organised labor and a large segment of the liberal vote . Party leaders are convinced that voters will regard the Governor 's insistence upon passage of the bill as a courageous defense of American principles and further proof that he can not be swayed by minority pressure and propaganda tactics . Lieut . Gov . Joe R. Hanley , of whom it had been said that he had disagreed with the Governor on the need and wisdom of the legislation , made this reply today to questions about his stand : " The Condon-Wadlin bill is an honest and courageous attempt to prevent the catastrophe of public employes striking against the municipalities of the state . I sincerely hope that it will accomplish its purpose . " Minority Backs New Bill Democrats gave notice in the Assembly today that they would force a vote on Monday on a bill , backed by the Congress of Industrial Organizations , to set up grievance procedure for all state employes and provide a forum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessary concomitant of the Condon-Wadlin bill whose passage they opposed unsuccessfully . The grievance procedure bill , sponsored by Bernard Austin of Brooklyn , would provide specifically that all state employes have the right to join organizations of their own choosing and that no department head should do anything , directly or indirectly , to intimidate , discriminate against or spy upon any employe because of membership in any such organization . It provides also that department heads aball establish procedures for hearing grievances of employes under their control and sets up a state personnel board of three members to hear appeals by employe representatives who are dissatisfied with the disposition of complaints by department heads . The vote on the bill will come on a motion by Mr. Austin to have it discharged from the Committee on Rules and brought to the floor for debate and final action . Leo Isacson , state legislative director of the American Labor party , asserted today that public employes had the right to strike . Senator Thomas C. Desmond 's bill to reduce the number of postions in the state service that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate today . The vote was five in favor and thirty-eight opposed . Reversing a decision of the Joint Committee on Elections , the Assembly rejected a bill to provide for holding only one primary election in Presidential years .                     