@@704500

txt " Mr. Youth goes to Washington " this week end . He is 3,000 strong . He parades up Pennsylvania Avenue led by a modern Joan of Arc , crusading for " Jobs , peace , education and civil liberty . " From Southern tenant farm , from New Yo k 's East Side , from exclusive eastern colleges , ( loin church groups and labor unions the younger generation has been summoned by the American Youth Congress to a " Citizenship Institute . " " Citizenship Institute " usually Implies a quiet forum where the audience sits around and asks questions of experts on public offal 's . But not youth ! At least , not that fraction of youth associated with the National Youth Congress ! It knows what it wants and believes that the Government can supply it . It is seeking security , in the form of jobs , enough income to get mat rued and establish a home , schooling that will lead more directly to jobs . Most of all it does not want to go to war . The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States to a youth movement . It was founded in 1034 at New York University by Miss Viola Ilona , a young woman who has since bolted . Today , the Youth Congress claims representation of 4,000,000 of the NatiOn 's 21,000,000 young people . Still Welcomes Communists Just as Fascist and Communist youths obi mid have enthusiastically followed their favor ite governments , so the Youth Congress has patterned its assembly as closely as possible lifter the United States Congress with " Senators " from nationally-organized groups and " Representatives " from local or state organizations . Since the Communist ticket is generally legal in the United States , the young people have made no move to oust the leoresentatives of the Young Communist League and other groups described by the Dies Committee as " Communist Fronts . " For several years , Youth Congress spokesmen have come to Washington each year to ask Congress to pass the $500,000,000 American Youth Act to furnish jobs and schooling for young people , but no one has paid much attention to them . Even their close friend , Mrs. Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Communist issue has been raised against the Youth Congress , it is getting much more attention . The Dies Committee found that the Young Communist League had at times exerted undue influence on the Congress , but at the same time it noted the vast majority of members " have no connection with Communism , Naziism , or any movement of the sort , but are members of some of the most necessary and valuable organizations which our country possesses . " Tarred With the Same Stick There has been a great deal of confusion in the press recently as to the stand the Congress has or has not taken on pro-Communist resolutions . Frequently , the Youth Congress has been confused with one of its member . groups , the American Student Union that met in Wisconsin during the Christmas holidays and refused to adopt a resolution condemning Russia for invasion of Finland . ' 14he Dies Committee called the Student Union a " Communist Front . " Just to keep the record straight : The American Youth Congress In New York last July refused to p. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " equally oppressive of human tights and liberties , " but did iecord its opposition to " all forms of dictatorship , regardless of whether they be Communist , Fascist , Nazi or other type . " The Arne ' icon Student Union , in Madison , Wis. , during Christmas Week , refused to indorse n resolution condemning Soviet Russia for invasion of Finland . The New York unit of the American Youth Congress last week took a decisive stand against the wanting of United States loans to Finland . Those who attended the latter meeting say that while there were a number of Soviet sympathizers pu esent , ma y of the young people cast their votes against aid to Finland simply because they felt such loans would be a step toward war . No generation in the history of America has been so continuously and so peisistently bombarded with anti-war propaganda ns the young people of today . Now for the ( lust time in their lives United States entrance into a major conflict looms as a possibility . The deep Impression peace propaganda has made on them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Council on Education estimates that six youths out of every ten believe that wills ale not only needless but preventable . In other weds , ninny of the young people today ni 0 pacifists , Like a good many adults they oppose any aid In European nations as as step toward involving the United States 41 hostilities . Actually , they are siding with the isolationists , but many isolationists with whom they might be aligned attack them as pro-Moscow . Little wonder youth Is bewildered , Mary Hornadsy                     