@@707001

txt Charges of neglect of duty have been filed against hundreds of firemen off duty who failed to report to their assigned fire stations during the air raid drill last Saturday afternoon , Commissioner Patrick Walsh disclosed yesterday . The order to file charges was sent to all division commanders . The action was one of the matters discussed during the day at a stormy closed meeting of the Uni- ' formed Firemen 's Association at the Hotel Capitol , Eighth Avenue and Fifty-first Street , where 3,000 firemen were prepared to act on a resolution directing Vincent Kane , - president of the association , to notify Commissioner Walsh at once that they would perform no V duty after March 1 except in the event of actual fires or real air raids . The V duty involves eight extra hours of work for each fireman , without pay , as their contribution to the civilian defense effort . Recently the association rebelled against these extra hours of duty and there followed an exchange of letters between Mr. Kane and Commissioner Walsh . The agitation subsided after Commissioner Walsh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened to recommend to Mayor La Guardia that all firemen be placed on twenty-four-hour duty , as was done during the first World War . Mayor La Guardia declined to comment on the growing revolt against V duty , declaring that the matter was in the hands of Commissioner Walsh . Action Delayed One Week Action on the resolution directing Mr. Kane to notify Commissioner Walsh that V duty was " out " after March 1 , except in cases of actual disaster , was postponed one week after word reached the firemen that Mayor La Guardia had ordered a " double red " airraid drill for Tuesday night . Commissioner Walsh said that he expected every fireman to obey departmental rules on Tuesday and to go to the fire station to which he was assigned . Charges were filed , he said , against " hundreds " of men who went on Saturday not to their assigned stations but to the stations nearest their homes . Many others , Commissioner Walsh said , did n't report to any station but returned to their homes after the all-clear signal sounded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " They must go to their assigned stations and sign in personally , in accordance with orders . A fireman 's work in an air-raid alarm is n't done when the all-clear Is sounded . The firemen may have many hours of work to do after an enemy air raid . There will De incendiary fires to fight . " Must Be Followed to Letter Commissioner Walsh said that he issued a warning Friday night to all departmental commands that the procedure laid down for air raid drills must be followed to the letter . It was intimated at Fire Department headquarters that the charges filed against men who did not comply would probably not be pressed to trial unless there were similar delinquencies during later air raid drills . " They 'll find out that they ca n't fool with me , " Commissioner Walsh declared . " We are not fooling . Men must take this seriously . There is a war going on . " Commissioner Walsh said that during air raid drills men must make their way as speedily as possible to their own fire houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , has assigned spare apparatus in outlying sections of the city to provide transportation when other forms of transit are stalled because of the air raid warnings . " We want to know how long it takes them , " he said . Commissioner Walsh said that he wanted strict compliance with the rules covering firemen 's duties during air raid warnings because it proved the need for the V duty . Conceding that many firemen must make long trips and face lack of adequate transportation facilities to report to their own stations during an air raid . alarm , Commissioner Walsh insisted that memhers of the uniformed force must be as willing as those of other protective agencies to bear the added responsibilities of wartime conditions . Oath of Allegiance Repeated The regular 7:30 P. M. broadcast from WNYF , the departmental radio station , directed to members of the- auxiliary force but heard in all fire houses , repeated the oath of allegiance taken by the auxiliaries on their recent mass induction into the United States Civil Defense Corps . Recitation of the oath , with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , was viewed by some of the firemen who heard it as an indirect warning that they were expected to contribute at least as much to the civilian defense effort as did ordinary citizens who sacrificed time and energy to that end . Mayor La Guardia , who was in Boston ? on a speaking engagement on behalf of the Red Cross war fund , Vies MA available for comment on the revival of the firemen 's protest against V duty . The Uniformed Firemen 's Association is affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and is regarded as one of the most powerful of the various organizations of city employes . Through its efforts firemen have been the beneficiaries of much legislation improving their lot . ? Until recently city firemen made no contribution to their own pension fund and were eligible for retirement after twenty years ' of service . About a. year ago , as the result of conferences among Mr , Kane , Mayor La Guardia and other city officials , a plan was adopted under which firemen now contribute to the pension fund .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          