@@705855

txt BUENOS AIRES , Argentina , Sept. ** proposal made last June by the Uruguayan Foreign Minister , Alberto Guani , that any American republic at war with an extracontinental power should be regarded as a non-belligerent by its sister republics , is as convenient a gauge as any for measuring how far the governments of this hemisphere are ready to cooperate in the policy of effective continental solidarity . Of all the principal South American countries , Brazil alone replied affirmatively . Argentina , Chile , Peru and Colombia , though emphasizing their continued adhesion to the commitments assumed at Lima , Panama and Havana , preferred to retain full freedom . So far as Argentina is concerned , it would be a mistake , however , to jump to the hasty conclusion that this attitude was prompted by either violent hatred for the United States or immoderate love for any kind of totalitarianism . Slow to Move There are without any doubt some dark corners in Argentine officialdom where old grudges against the United States are nursed and where sneaking eulogies of totalitarian ideologies are whispered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said is that the Argentine Government has been slow to follow the lead of public opinion . Though the Argentine Government has been slow to move , it has been by no means stationary , and the last few months have seen a series or edicts and regulations , phrased in general terms to avoid violating Argentina 's official neutrality , but most obviously aimed directly at German activities . The turning point in Argentine policy seems to have been the discovery of a short-wave wireless sending set in a diplomatic pouch for the German Embassy . Even before that , however , and especially after the arrival of the new Foreign Minister , Enrique Ruiz Guinazu , the persons responsible for Argentine policy had gradually come around to the realization that Argentina could not but suffer from the isolation in which she would sooner or later find herself if she persisted in opposing the United States and the policies for which the United States stands . Argentines feel they occupy in South America a place as responsible as that of the United States in North America and are impelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absurd but are at least understandable . One of them is to oppose any proposal or suggestion that comes from the north , and they do this almost automatically without real animosity . Economic considerations also undoubtedly have contributed to determine Argentina 's original position . Contrary to an almost universal belief , meat is only a small part of Argentina 's export problem , since nearly three-quarters of all the meat produced is consumed in the country . The same is not true of wheat and corn , and linseed , 68 and 90 per cent , respectively , of the total production of which are exported . Nation 's Best Market The United States is Argentina 's best market for linseed , but except under unusual circumstances it buys only an insignificant part of her wheat and corn , for which markets can be found only in Europe . This sufficiently explains why . Argentina wished to avoid any action that might antagonize Germany at a time when it was thought likely that Reichsfuehrer Hitler would . dominate all of Europe . Now , however , if an attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause of democracy , which is so intimately interwoven with the cause of the United States and England as to be indistinguishable from it , the list would include all political parties of any standing , all principal newspapers , a vast majority of the prominent personalities , and by far the greater part of public opinion . Among the political parties special mention must be made of the Radical party , which under the leadership of Marcelo Torcuato de Alvear , has fought hard and enthusiastically for all the things that the United States stands for today . Among the newspapers the most authoritative are the Nacion and the Prensa , which , often under difficult circumstances , . have been equally unswerving in their defense of the democratic cause . Forces of Fascism On the other side is a heterogeneous collection of forces drawn from the most diverse quarters . There are , in the first place , the Italian and German colonies , both of which are numerically important  --  the first considerably more than the second . Then there are various " nationalist " organizations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men , some of whom are moved by genuine patriotic motives . Then there is the Spanish element , the force of which is greatly lessened , however , by the fact that a considerable proportion of it loaths General Francisco Franco . Then there is the army , part of which has such a profound professional admiration for the German war machine that it admires the regime that built it . Then there is a sector composed of stanch Catholics , who hate the Nazis and hate the Communists , but hate the Communists more than they do the Nazis . Finallyl. there are small scattered group &; whose mental equipment makes them like nazism for its own sake . - The last group is steadily decrea$h Lag in numbers .                     