@@712307

txt BUS SERVICE BY CITY DOWN TO 9 VEHICLES IN QUEENS WALKOUT Adequate , ' Says Mayor , but Union Tactics Are Seen Scaring Off Drivers and Passengers TALKS " ARE AT STANDSTILL Might Be Resumed Next Weekl After ' Cooling Off  --  Operators Said to Ignore Fares By STANLEY LEVEY Emergency service provided by the city on the strikebound lines of the Triboro Coach Company in Queens was sharply curtailed yesterday as the walkout passed its third stalemated day . There were no negotiations yesterday and none scheduled for the week-end .. Only nine buses were operating on nine of the ten routes originally mapped out by the city . They ran on the average of once an hour , and from 6 A. M. until 1 P. M. were used by 1,520 persons . During the late afternoon rush period the traffic was equally light . There were several explanations for the scarcity of municipal equipment and personnel on the lines . Mayor O'Dwyer said that the situation was well in hand and that the number of buses was " adequate " to meet the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Workers Union , CIO , took full credit for the curtailment of service . They had made it clear to union members on the Civil Service reserve list , from which drivers were drawn , that running the city equipment was " scabbing . " Union Tactics Seen Effective Other sources close to the operation sided with the union version . They indicated . that TWU 's opposition to the project had made it difficult to recruit enough drivers to man , a full-scale schedule and had also served to discourage passengers from using whatever facilities were available . Nevertheless , the city planned to continue to provide emergency service . Today buses will run over the nine routes until 2 P. M. None will operate tomorrow , but on Monday the Board of Transportation will use fifteen superintendents on the lines . There were persistent rumors that some drivers were not charging fares on the city buses yesterday , and it was learned that five superintendents were letting passengers on free because they did not have facilities for making // STRIKE BUS SERVICE IN QUEENS IS CUT // change . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that most of the free passengers would be taking subways anyway and that the loss to the city in that case would only be 2 cents . Stresses Rush-Hour Service Mayor O'Dwyer was asked about these reports during a press conference at City Hall . After checking with the Board of Transportation , he denied them . He also declared : " I want an adequate number of buses during the rush and business hours and I do n't want any more . I do n't want them to run at any other hours . These were my instructions . When we take buses off other lines , we deplete service on these lines . " Ordinarily the Triboro company runs 110 buses to accommodate a passenger load of about 120,000 a day . On Thursday , Mayor O'Dwyer said it was his objective to provide service for 79,000 living in remote sections of Queens where no other facilities were available . On that day , the first of city service , forty-seven buses were used , carrying 7,700 persons . Late that night Michael J. Quill , international president , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yesterday , according to reports , the operation was carried out largely by supervisors and instructors . It appeared doubtful that the city was breaking even . All fares collected went into the city treasury , but the light traffic , it was believed , hardly made the operation a paying proposition . Ironically , many residents of Queens were not using the lines because the service was inadequate . " Cooling-Off " Period Seen Meanwhile , Joseph E. O'Grady , director of the city 's Division of Labor Relations , was in close touch with the situation . One theory for the lack of negotiating sessions was that the company and the union would be subjected to a " cooling-off " period and that talks might be resumed sometime next week . If this were true , it would mean an indefinite prolongation of the strike . Neither the union nor the company was known to have changed its position and this state of affairs did little to provide a basis for new negotiations . Striking union members held a closed meeting yesterday morning at Transport Hall , 153 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out " until they got a " fair basis for settlement . " Matthew Guinan , president of Local 100 , said the men were " very determined and their spirit is excellent . " The union soft-pedaled its threat of Thursday that if ' members were forced to drive city buses there might be a general strike on the subway systems . The reason for this apparently was that no TWU members were working and none were being asked to work , since the operation is on a volunteer basis . Another reason was that neither the union nor the city appeared anxious to force an issue that might necessitate invoking the state 's Condon-Wadlin Act , which makes refusal of a Government employe to work during a strike punishable by loss of his job . Working Conditions Are Issue The union is demanding the same working conditions for Tri boro employes that are in effect on the Jamaica Buses , Inc. , a sister company . The company , earlier this week , conceded on some of these points but refused to do so on others . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excess of ninety minutes . The Triboro company offered to pay its employes for all swing time in excess of two and a half hours . It also offered smoking time , sick leave , job reclassification for shop men and overtime after eight hours . The Triboro men also want to be paid for report and turn-in time four times a day instead of twice a day and for their eating periods . The company says it can not afford to meet these demands , holding that its present offer wohld cost $120,000 and that its financial conditions do not make it possible to make further concessions . However , it has offered to arbitrate the demands . The union 's other major demands  --  a 24-cent-an-hour wage increase , reduction of the work week from forty-eight to forty hours with no loss in pay and a company-financed pension plan ? are expected to go to arbitration without difficulty .                     