@@706544

txt When you look out of the Pullman window of a sidetrackeJ crack passenger train and see a 100-car freight train roar by on the main line you err. ? witnessing a tiny part of the greatest transportation movement in history . The hand that guides this train  --  and thousands of others like it ? is right here in Washington , at the offices of the Transportation Service of the Services of Supply . U. S. Army An army is only as good as its supply line Modern day soldiers are helpless without modern day tanks , planes , guns and hundreds of other items . It 's the job of the Transportation Service to see that this equipment gets to the men when and where they want it . It has to see . too , that the men get where the Army 's Operations Division ( which really runs the war . Ming the successor to the old War Plans Division ) wants to send them . That means ocean transportation also comes under its wing . a ! - though the Navy is actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the high seas . Scope of the Task How big is this job ? The railroads are handling more freight today than they ever did before , although they 're doing it in fewer cars . It is n't an unusual month that sees 600 , - 000 soldiers traveling by train . Every ship the United Nations can lay their hands on is being used . That 's how much material and how many men are being moved What happens to the airplanes , tanks and other military supplies as they come off the production hoes ' The Army 's Transportation Service knows the answer best Through its Traffic Control Division it directs the movement of all munitions from the time they are manufactured until they reach world fighting fronts . The whereabouts of all freight cars are known to the traffic control division . It keeps in close touch with the carriers themselves ( the Association of American Railroads maintains a special staff in the same building with the Army setup ) . A constant watch is maintained so that congestion on all lines of transportation can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line already handling a peak load is avoided . Nowhere in the mammoth , sprawling war production machine does there seem to be such a display of anxiety lest some of the happenings of World War I be repeated . Everyone seems to remember the jammed traffic of 1918 when cars loaded with military freight were backed tip for miles behind the ports . Arm3 Does n't Want To Take Over The Army does n't want to take over operation of the railroads in this war . One officer after another will tell you that . The belief is just as strong that priorities on all freight shipments can be avoided The Army does believe , however , that when necessary military freight should be given preferential treatment over civilian shipments . That 's why " special " freight trains , obviously loaded with consignments for overseas destinations , get the right-of-way over other trains , even including passenger trains in some instances . The practice is not common ? it has been done most frequently on movements to the Pacific Coast . Finger-tip control of all kinds of transportation heads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two carloads or more within the continental U. S. is handled in the central office . In the case of shipments going abroad , the Washington office routes all shipments of one carload or more . The field service takes care of small consignments The Traffic Control Division does not handle rail shipments exclusively . Operating in much the same way that the traffic department of a large commercial organization does , it decides what is the moat expeditious way to get the goods shipped to their destination . Before the war , very strict - attention was paid to rates and land-grant roads were used whenever possible . Rates are still watched closely even in wartime but getting the goods moved is the prime consideration . If the division decides that it is necessary to speed a shipment along faster than it would move normally by rail freight , it may specify rail express . Special Air Division Set Up Sometimes , it is necessary for the shipment to get to the receiving point , even faster . In that case , air express is use . A special air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service which determines and ad ministers priorities for both cargo and passengers on commercial airlines . Motor truck transport also is used extensively by the Army It is estimated that about 20 ' , of all military shipments go by truck In the interest of rubber conservation , the traffic unit has adopted a policy of not using trucks for long hauls over highways when parallel rail service is available . Where does the Army 's job begin ? Usually , it starts at the end of the munition plant 's assembly line It ends on the firing line . whether the fighting front is in Australia . India . China . or Libya . For a brief interlude , the authority over each consignment is vested in the Navy  --  from the time the vessel clears the U. S port until it docks in a foreign harbor . Sometimes the Army transport supervision starts ahead of the war plant . This occurs when a manufacturer calls on the War Department for an assist in getting to his plant the raw materials he needs or parts he needs for assembling into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spans an even wider area . Importance of Transportation It is when the first plans are being laid for prosecuting a war that the transportation element becomes important . If you have to fight a foe with 10 million men fully equipped with planes and tanks and guns , you start figuring how you can match him or excel him numerically You have to determine how you can produce the necessary equipment for an army of that size . Officers are needed to train the men and command them in the field . Cantonments are required for their housing and training . Food and clothing must be provided . Tied into every one of those assignments is a transportation angle . It will do no good to build camps if you ca n't move the troops in and out of them quickly . Implements of war will stack up in the factories if there are n't trucks and freight cars at the loading platforms to take them away . Plants should n't be rim at capacity if there Is n't pouring into them a constant stream of steel , aluminum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tin . Munitions will stand on the docks and jam the warehouses if there are n't boats in sufficient numbers to carry them to the theatres of war It does no good either to send an expeditionary force abroad if it ca n't feed on the land it occupies or the supplies from home are inadequate . An invasion of a foreign land must be delayed until adequate transportation is available . Problem , ' to Be Solved Smooth as performance may appear to be . there are still some kinks in military transportation . A few months ago two major ports of embarkation showed signs of congestion , with lend-lease materials This threatened to get worse before it got better . The obvious solution was more ships but there were no more ships available . Another solution had to be found  --  quickly and the Army did . it It established agencies at these ports to handle lend-lease as well as Army shipments . If ports are filled , munitions are temporarily stored in transit depots , which are holding and reconsignment points inland from western . southern and eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an overnight freight run from a port so that . on 24 hours ' notice , goods can be moved to the harbors from which Army transports sail . In the long , thin-spun communication lines of the United States armed forces all over the globe , new kinks can be expected at any time . To straighten these out is a never-ending job for the Transportation Service . ( This is the first of two articles discussing problems of transporting the army and its equipment . The second , to appear in an early issue , will take up some- details of handling goods on ocean shipments. )                     