@@712373

txt Pennsylvania Station sounded last night like Ebbets Field during a sustained Brooklyn rally . Nearly 25,000 Dodger fans milled through the vast station screaming a welcome to the Brooklyn ballplayers on their homecoming , On hand for the teitm that had clinched the National League pennant just a few hours earlier were the cowbells , the five-piece band and that coterie of wildest Brooklyn rooters , the Section 8 Club . More than an hour before the players returned from Philadelphia , a 7:50 P. M. , Brooklyn rooters had begun swarming across the station trying to ferret out the track on which their team 's train would arrive . Then for fifteen minutes after the last of the Brooklyn players had either run the gantlet of screaming admirers or sneaked out a back staircase , the rooters were still pummeling one another along Seventh Avenue and staging celebrations . The climax ' of the triumphal march was the quick passage of Jackie Robinson past thousands of men and women pressed against wooden horses . At one point they burst past the barricade and forced back the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the station and the crowd pushed back . The fans not only pressed against the police lines , but swarmed along lower level stairways and even braced themselves along a ledge that was at least thirty feet above the Thirty-first Street driveway to the station . The frenzied reception began in confusion and for a time it looked as though the players might be smuggled out without too much notice , The first batches of Brooklyn fans gathered along the lower level where the time and track numbers of arriving trains are usually posted . By 7 o'clock , nearly an hour before the train arrived , nearly 1,000 persons , many with crudely scrawled posters , were jammed into the small rectangle near the bulletin board . As minutes passed with still no train announcement , the fans became worried . They broke off intd scouting groups , sometimes drawing as many as 200 in their wake . Passengers for regular trains joined the pastime . Sometimes there would be a few thousands in one section of the station and a few minutes later they would all be gone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At 7:35 the Sym Phony Band thumped and blared its way into the rotunda , the echoes making it . sound more like an Army regimental band than just five pieces . The crowd fell in behind . The station became filled with Dodger battle cries . Whipped up by these strange Pied Pipers , the crowd , which by now was more than 5,000 , roared approval as the band struck up " St. Louis Blues . " The drum beat was solid and slow and the accompanying applause sounded much like that which fills Ebbets Field when the Dodgers start a scoring spree . At 7:40 the hand leader , Lou Sorrano , complained the crowd was too thick to play . " We 're gettin ' snowed under , " he growled and moved his musicians into the street . The musicians reappeared ten minutes later , stepping proudly before the first of the Brooklyn ball players , Preacher Roe . The crowd went shrill . Those who had guessed wrong about the track on which the train would arrive stampeded to the scene , waving pennants , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then came Rex Barney and Peewee Reese . Another roar that hit a new crescendo when Gil Hodges and Ralph Branca walked quickly into the driweway . For a few minutes there was a lull . Suddenly flashlight bulbs began exploding and the crowd closed in , muttering excitedly . In a few seconds they spotted Jackie Robinson . He wiz being hurried along . The *crowd surged ahead and the wooden horses opened inward . The police threw themselves into the opening and Mr. Robinson was pushed past the shrieking throng . After him came Red Barber , the announcer of Brooklyn games and the Sym Phony Band brought up the rear . At 9 o'clock a hundred stragglers from this mass , reception committee were in Times Square singing " Hail , Hail , the Gang 's All Here . " 