@@710030

txt A court decision on whether John L. Lewis had the right to terminate the agreement of the United Mine Workers of America with Secretary of the Interior J. A. Krug was postponed today until the Supreme Court acts on the Lewisunion appeal from Federal Justice T. Alan Goldsborough 's $3,510 , - 000 fines for contempt of court . The stipulation for postponement was signed by Attorney General Tom C. Clark for the Government and counsel for Mr. Lewis and the miners ' union . - The stipulation between the Government and the defendants was filed in the Federal District Court here late this afternoon . It is as follows : " It is hereby agreed , subject to the approval of the Court , that all further action and proceedings in this case be stayed until ten days after the conclusion of argument in the Supreme Court of the United States in the case entitled United States of America v. United Mine Workers of America , et al , Nos. 759 and 760 , October term , 1946 , after which time either party upon five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as may be appropriate . " Piompt Decision Expected Last Saturday , after a conference with - Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson , Government attorneys and counsel for Mr. Lewis and the miners ' union , it was arranged to have the high court hear the appeal from Justice Goldsborough 's fines ' on Jan. 14 . It is generally expected that the court will decide the issue within a fortnight of Jan. 14 . The stipulation would postpone any further action by the Government on two pending court suits for fifteen days . Even if the Supreme Court Ihould take longer than two weeks to make its decision it is expected that the stipulation would be renewed for a period to cover the additional time . The two proceedings that are thus stayed are : 1 . The Lewis-union motion before Justice Goldsborough to dismiss the Government 's petition for a declaratory judgment ; 2 . A special appeal before the Circuit Court of Appeals by Mr. Lewis and the union to dismiss the preliminary injunction . This was signed by Justice Goldsborough directly after he had imposed the $3,500,000 fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally for contempt of court . borough held that Mr. Lewis and the union had violated his restraining order and had been guilty of contempt of court . He imposed the fines and both Government and union counsel hurried to the Supreme Court for an early adjudication of the issue . Last Saturday , two hours after the case was officially placed in the hands of the high court , Mr. Lewis called off the strike . Today , the second day of the resumption of coal mining operations in twenty-eight States . it was reported by the Solid Fuels Administration that operations were 95 per cent of normal . Out of a normal daily tonnage of 2,200,000 tons it was said that the miners had produced 2,000,000 tons . The Government , in seeking a declaratory judgment against Mr. Lewis and the miners ' union , asked in effect for the adjudication of the dispute over termination of the agreement . Mr. Krug 's contention is that the contract is for the period of Government possession of the mines . Mr. Lewis ' view is that the union has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speculation on Decisions This argument stems from the contract of April 11 , 1945 , between the union and the bituminous coal operators . Under this agreement , which Mr. Lewis maintains was carried forward by the Krug-Lewis ted to give ten days notice of the desire for a conference . If , after fifteen days of collective bargaining , either side desired , it might give five days notice of cancellation . The Supreme Court proceedi , ngs on the contempt issue and the issue over contract cancellation are separate . If the Supreme Court , in the former case , upholds the Government and the fines stand and subsequent action upholds the union 's right of cancellation this would prove a costly victory for the union , it was said in circles which speculated on the situation today . Thus the union and Mr. Lewis would have been punished for doing something that the court might hold they had a right to do from the beginning : to abandon the contract on due notice . If the court , in the case for a declaratory judgment , holds that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue the Krug-Tiewis agreement so long as the coal properties are in Government possession . But Mr. Lewis , by his action of last Saturday , decided that this was what he would do until March 31 , 1947 , in any event . In an adverse action on this aspect of the controversy it is regarded as unlikely that the union would reverse what it did last Saturday . If so the Government would go to court and seek compliance . Coal Output Near Normal The contempt issure arose out of a temporary restraining order issued on Nov. 18 by Justice Goldsborough which sought to have the union cancel its notice of Nov. 15 ending the Krug-Lewis agreement . The union did nothing to withdraw the order of cancellation which went into effect on Nov. 20 and the 400,000 miners quit work . They did so under the union practice of " no contract no work . "                     