@@707015

txt WASHINGTON , March 6 ? Con ? flicts between Congress and the executive branch over policies and prerogatives are not new , but the one currently generating steam has potentialities ranging beyond its predecessor because of the tremendous war and post-war issues involved . The current controversies arise basically from political trends recognizable throughout the country . Partisanship aside , the Congressional rabbit of the past decade would not be challenging the executive bulldog had it not partaken freely of the elixir of the last election . Whatever it may have signified regarding fundamental policies of the Roosevelt Administration , that election clearly reflected dissatisfaction with methods employed in the execution of some of the programs built upon those policies . 0PA Shift a Sign The new Congress got a taste of victory before it ever was officially the Seventy-eighth Con , gress . The announcement that Leon Henderson would-be replaced as Price Administrator by Prentiss M. Brown , a defeated Senator , followed so promptly upon the last election that it could be interpreted only as an indication of Administration awareness that one of its outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Congress convened . " Government by directive , " wherein policies and procedures are set up by executive order , is the source of most Capitol resentment . This issue seems headed for a showdown in the Disney amendment to the debt limitation bill , which would repeal the $25,000 limitation upon salaries fixed by Mr. Roosevelt through an execuCOIVGIRESS1141,42V DISNEY , He sponsored the rider to repeal $25,000 salary limitation .. there is much concern among the administrative agencies , however ? can not be gainsaid . That Congressional action will force modifies .. tion of many administrative policies and practices is reasonably certain . In fact , the tendency on the part of rationing authorities to ease up on such things as the ban on pleasure driving , and of price-control authorities to heed the pleas of industrial and commercial elements in such matters as a ceiling price on livestock , are indications that administrative agencies are hearing the political rumblings that always come first to the more sensitive ears of Congress . Many Phases Involved For the most part , Congressional insistence upon recognition or restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military phases of the war . The new spirit of Congressional independence touches , however , many other phases of the highly integrated war effort . Manpower is one of the matters which Congress seems determined to have something to say about , and conferences of Administration leaders have concerned themselves with devising a program that will deflect a threatened storm in these already troubled waters . ? tive order . The House Rules Committee voted this week to send that issue to the floor , where a fight impends that might result in Congress revoking an executive order  --  a rare thing indeed . Much of the heat in this controversy is generated by the fact that Mr. Roosevelt issued the order after the last Congress had passed an anti-inflation law on the understanding that no such order would be promulgated . Challenge to Policy A Senate committee has challenged another Administration policy ; tying in closely with the conduct of the war , by approving a proposal for wide deferment of farm workers from the draft . This bill was reported formally this week and comes up for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would strike a blow at the structure erected by the Administration to provide for the armed forces and for war industries . The whole situation stems from a desire of Congress to recapture ground it has lost during a decade , when the country looked to the executive rather than the legislative branch to solve national problems and the executive showed no reluctance to proceed along that line . By " Executive , " President Roosevelt is meant , of course , because he is the head of that branch and basically responsible for it , but the sharpshooting is being directed at the administrative agencies . Agencies Alarmed The skirmishing so far is mostly preliminary and it is too early to say whose flag will wave from the ramparts when the battle is ended . Capitol Hill is carrying the fight to the White House at the moment , but there is no indication of panic in the Executive Mansion . That                     