@@710708

txt A special session of congress in November to consider an emergency aid program for western Europe became a strong nrobability today . . The summons may come from President Truman soon after his return from Brazil on Sept. 20 , It was reported . Bridges Calls Committee Developments pointing to this action included : The senate appropriations corn . mittee was ordered back to Washington on Sept. 20 , the day of Mr. Truman 's return , to consider " a critical situation in western Germany . " Chairman Bridges R. , N. II. ) , said high war and state depart . ' ment officials had requested the meeting and would testify in secret session . World bank officials announced G. that the bank 's policy , makes It impossible to provide the stop gap funds , estimated at 2.5 billions , which the state department says are needed to tide over Europe during the winter months . The war department announced 0 ? that the United States has agreed to a British request to review next month the existing agreement for sharing the cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its shortage of dollars makes a revision of the agreement necessary . The war department said it has notified the senate appropriations committee of the proposed conference with the British . The meeting will he held in Washington by the war , state , treasury , and other interested departments . Diplomatic sources said the British would ask this country to assume a larger share of the Gunton ocetwaitoh cost . It was indicated Britain wants ' to scale down its share of the cost to about 15 per cent . " Crisis " Buildup Seen Rep. Bender R. , 0.1 said there was every indication that the state department was building up another " crisis " to justify the calling of a special session . It is now admitted that the so-called Marshall plan for ' European recovery ca n't be translated into action before next January or February . William L. Clayton , undersecretary of state economic affairs , has urged a special session by December at the latest to appropriate 2.5 billions as an emergency advance to western Europe or the situation " will explode . " Acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic plight of Great BIrtain. and western Europe could not wait for the Marshall plan and that " affirmative action " by this government would be required before Jan. 1 . Marshall May Urge Session He mentioned the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a possible source of aid . But today Robert Garner , the bank 's vice president , ruled out that possibility . The bank could not be " a stop gap " in the situation , he said flatly . As a result , State Secretary Marshall was said to be prepared to urge President Truman to call a special session as soon as he returns from Brazil . I The unexpected announcement of the senate appropriations commit ' , tee recall was regarded as highly significant . Sen. Bridges , it was ' learned , was summoned to Washington last Saturday for a conference with War Secretary Royall and top army and state department officials who requested the emergency meeting . The immediate subject of the committee 's deliberations will be the notice from Britain that she needs assistance in bearing the cost of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be asked to authorize the army to spend additional millions toward the cost of administering the British and American zones .                     