@@705381

txt physiognomy of Southeastern Europe , and more directly the Belkans , is destined to undergo a radical revolution soon as a result of the recent diplomatic initiative by Germany . Such are the conclusions reached by neutral quarters in Berlin , which incline to accept the amity between Turkey and Bulgaria and conversations between German and Yugoslav statesmen as the final steps in the process of welding that giant continental bloc which is to constitute the " new order in Europe " under Italo-German leadership . Yugoslavia is believed here to have been brought into line with Italo-German plans for continental collaboration . But the accord between Ankara and Sofia is appraised as being of still greater importance to the promotion of stability in the southeastern area . This pact , in German opinion , disposes definitely of British hopes of constructing a " Salonika front , " which proved decisively disastrous to the Central Powers during the World War . End of " Disunity " Seen In its larger aspect the Turkish3ulgarian contribution to political stabilization in the Balkans suggests , the Nazis assert , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prerequisite to complete realization of Italo-German aspirations for that " New Europe " which is to emerge from the war . These more recent diplomatic undertakings by Germany and those that previously brought Rumania and Hungary within the orbit of the Axis powers are vociferously being acclaimed as marking a definitive limitation of British influence on continental Europe . Great Britain , according to the Nazis , has now lost her bridgehead in Southeastern Europe and with the capitulation of Greece , which is now confidently reckoned with , her last continental ally . The liquidation of the Italo-Greek conflict is believed not only impending but optimism even goes so far as to assume it will be achieved without a shot 's being fired by the Germans . Donovan 's Tour Attacked German comment on the shifts in the political orientation of Balkan statesmen does not omit a caustic reference to the recent tour of Colonel William J. Donovan through Southeastern Europe . That itinerary , it is remarked , studiously avoided Budapest and Bucharest , capitals of members of the Threepower pact , but ostentatiously included Sofia and Belgrade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Churchill 's envoy quite as much as the personal representative of President Roosevelt , and his mission primarily concerned the establishment of a " Balkan front . " That this mission failed because of the farsightedness of the Bulgarian and Yugoslav statesmen is the conclusion reached by The Southeast Echo of Vienna which specializes in political and economic exploitation of Southeastern Europe . Revival of a " Balkan front " is a cherished dream of Mr. Churchill , and there can be no doubt , says this publication , that in deputizing Colonel Donovan to tour the southeastern capitals Mr. Roosevelt gave moral support to Mr. Churchill 's determination to extend the theatre of war to the Balkans . " It was a piece of audacity on the part of Colonel Donovan , " says The Southeast Echo , " to invade areas which have been spared war only because of the military strength of the Axis powers . If a German military expert had ventured to make a similar tour through South and Central American States we would have experienced a violent outburst of indignation and possibly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany 's intention to interfere in Internal American affairs . ' Looking to Future " We are confident that the time is not far away when the absolute solidarity of the European States will definitely make Impossible demonstrations of impudence conforming to that exhibited by Roosevelt . " If the process of galvanizing this European bloc into a harmonious political and economic unit is still going on , the " new order . " which is being so loudly acclaimed by the Axis , is nevertheless definitely counted " in the bag . " Its final consummation will also determine , in German opinion , the future domination in the Mediterranean . 