@@711497

txt As a contribution toward the bipartisan efforts to preserve the bipartisan character of American foreign policy during the Presidential campaign , former Secretary of State Byrnes appealed last night for the continuation of that policy as the best means of coping with " the greatest danger in the world today  --  the danger of continued aggression on the part of the Soviet Union . " There is no doubt , as Mr. Brynes points out , that this policy is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people , which is in itself a most cogent reason for its preservation . Few will quarrel with his idea that as part of that policy we should organize the military and moral strength of the free world to discourage Russian aggression , while negotiating with Moscow for agreements that will exclude both war and appeasement . That , in fact , is exactly what is now being done . At the same time , in attempting to answer attacks on that policy on the basis of past performance , Mr. Byrnes enters upon more controversial ground by undertaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies after the cessation of hostilities . In that attempt he advances powerful arguments that are conveniently forgotten by those who judge events with all the wisdom of hindsight . He defends the wartime agreements as , growing out of the military situation and as efforts to save American lives while keeping both nations in the war to the finish , which , he rightly points out , was in keeping with both American interests and American sentiments at that time . And he is doubly right in emphasizing that the present world tensions are due not to the observance of the wartime agreements , but to the Russian violations of them . For if Russia were to return to the letter and the spirit of the wartime agreements  --  if it were to retire behind the Curzon line and the Amur , liberate Eastern Europe , Manchuria and Korea , and cease to conspire for a Communist conquest of the world ? both the wartime agreements and the entire world picture would immediately assume a different aspect , and peace would be assured . But powerful as these arguments are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wartime agreements and our postwar policies did produce wholly unintended and highly dangerous results . This Suggests that there is some middle ground between an uncritical defense and an equally uncritical condemnation of them . That middle ground can be only a constructive scrutiny of  --  our past policies to ascertain why some of them failed and what lessons these failures hold for the future . One of these lessons would seem to be that by compromising our own proclaimed principles for the sake of expediency we not only encouraged Russian aggression but also compromised our own moral standing until , as ' Mr. Byrnes says , the world today suspects our motives . But the main lesson is that our wartime policy was mistaken in so far as it sought to build a new world on an illusory and ( in its contemplated extent ) impossible cooperation with Russia , while at the same time creating vacuums to tempt Russian expansionists and abandoning any balance of power to keep their aggression in check . That foundation is now being recast along more orthodox lines by Western rearmament and by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that foundation both the two main American parties and the American people can and do unite .                     