@@706686

txt In our Magazine today there is published an article by Sir Stafford Cripps which we believe makes indispensable reading for any American who wishes to understand the present situation in India . The article has been sent . by wireless from London . It is therefore thoroughly up to date in its comments on all that has happened since Sir Stafford himself went to India five months ago as a special emissary of the British Government , with authority ? which , unfortunately , he could not use ? to effect a settlement of India 's longstandinVclaims to self-government . On at least three important points the article will dissipate , for many fairminded readers , misconceptions about the present situation which are widely held in this country . The first of these misconceptions has to do with the position of Cripps himself in the present crisis . What might be called a whispering campaign is now under way in this country to the effect that Cripps , whose deep friendship for India can not possibly be doubted , has been brushed aside , as a factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now being made by blindly reactionary Tories who have forced Cripps into silence . It is clear , from the article we publish , that Cripps himself believes that Gandhi has chosen to lead his followers on a course " which can do nothing except give aid and comfort to the enemy " and that he is in entire agreement with the present policy of taking strong measures to repress civil disobedience in time of war . This second misconception has to do with the state of Indian opinion . Because they are poorly informed , many Americans conceive of the present situation as one in which a united India , under leadership of Gandhi 's Congress party , is clamoring iit ) r independence , while a hard-hearted Britain stubbornly says no . The Cripps article shows clearly how far from united Indian opinion is , with respect to Gandhi 's program . The Congress party lacks the support of powerful factions " totaling at a conservative estimate 160 , - 000,000 , in addition to great numbers of others who have no particular affiliations and to a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It was the disagreement between the Congress party , predominantly Hindu , and the principal Moslem faction that wrecked the plans for a settlement which Cripps took with him to New Delhi in March . " When I was in India it was not possible to get the leaders of the Congress part and the Moslem League even to meet , much less discuss any constitutional question . " Finally , there is a third misconception  --  this one being the belief that the Indian people totally lack self-government today . The Cripps article shows hOw far from the truth this picture is . It shows that of the fifteen members of the Executive Council , which with the Viceroy constitutes the Central Government of India , only four are British and eleven are Indians . Four 4rovinces are governed by Indian Ministries and have Indian Cabinets and Premiers . The other seven could have the same control if they wished to have it . " It is only because the Congress party so willed it , and withdrew from responsibilities of power , that control is not now exercised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian-elected Legislatures . " Sir Stafford does not attempt to argue that self-government in India has gone as far as it must go , as far as it will inevitably go when the war is over . He does ask for a wider understanding , in this country and elsewhere , of the difficulties of the problem . " Bitterness and recrimination " will provide no solution . The British Government has no alternative but to enforce order in the face of threats of mass disobedience which would create chaos profitable only to Japan . But the British Government , while it is continuing to enforce order , can also continue properly and profitably to explore the possibilities of a settlement which will prepare the people of India . for full self-government and make them loyal allies in the war .                     