@@711698

txt The National Association . of Manufacturers adopted a resolu. ; . tion yesterday urging four restrictions on any compulsory economic controls that might be adopted by the new Congress to strengthen national security against possible foreign aggression . The four conditions follow : 1 . Limiting of controls to those absolutely necessary for national defense . 2 . Their administration in close cooperation with industry . 3 . Provision for their review by Congress from time to time to determine whether their continuation is warranted . 4 . Their removal as soon as possible to meet civilian needs . This was one of several resolutions adopted by NAM members at the fifty-third annual Congress of American Industry at the WalciprfAstoria Hotel , a three-day session that will end today . The members also heard warnings from several speakers that renewed governmental controls over the economy , continued heavy Federal spending , and further inflation might have disastrous results in the form of mass unemployment , national bankruptcy and socialism of one kind or another . The resolution on controls said peacetime controls were against the public interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American standard of living . At the same time , it said industry recognized that maintenance of national security was of paramount importance and pledged " full cooperation " to this end . " It further pledges its efforts , " the resolution said , " to produce and distribute the goods required for defense , for the fulfillment of our specific commitments abroad , and to meet our civilian requirements . " Another resolution urged man ' agement and labor to cooperate in practice as well as in policy to raise individual . and total production of goods in the fight against ' inflation and for the survival of the American political and economic system . " The public looks to both labor and management for industrial peace and greater efficiency in production , " this resolution said . " Both labor and management have responsibilities toward the public as well as toward each other , and should be equally responsible before the law . " Both have an obligation to achieve the highest possible degree al : individual productivity to help combat inflation and to maintain real purchasing power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts of labor and management are essential to meet the productive needs of the country . " Voluntary Cooperation Urged ? In another resolution all employers were asked to promote better understanding and voluntary cooperation with their employes through " two-way channels of communication , " as the basis for increased productivity . " A sincere desire of management to understand the hopes and ambitions of employes has been a fundamental factor in improving employer-employ relations , " this resolution said . " Managers of industry are demonstrating that where there is a free and steady flow of facts and opinions , both to and from employes , there is understanding , cooperation and harmony in working relationships . " The members also urged all employers to continue and expand programs for hiring all handicapped persons able and willing to work . Another resolution recommended that Congress revise the Federal tax system to diminish the reliance on income taxes and increase savings available for investment in capital formation needed to improve and expand productive facilities . The members also approved a resolution recently adopted by the NAM board of directors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 1 , 1949 be limited to $37,000,000,000 . While there must be no shirking of legitimate obligations in national defense and foreign aid , it said , there must be greater economy and efficiency and less waste in Federal spending all along the line . A resolution on education urged all employers to initiate and promote closer ties between industry and education in their own communities , and to support adequate educational facilities and compensation of teachers consistent with their professional stature . W. F. Bennett Elected President Wallace F. Bennett , a Salt Lake City paint and varnish manufacturer , was elected NAM president for 1949 , succeeding Morris Sayre , president of the Corn Products Refining Company . Mr. Sayre becomes chairman of the NAM board of directors on Jan. 1 . Mr. Bennett was elected at a meeting of the board of directors . He is president of Bennetts , a concern that employs 225 persons , and among other business interests , holds the Ford automobile franchise in Salt Lake City . His father crossed the plains to the Salt Lake Mormon settlement in a covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general board of the Latter Day Saints Sunday School . At yesterday 's meeting , Mr. Bennett was one of several NAM speakers who urged management to recognize its responsibility for the security of its workers in order to prevent the Government from assuming this function . He advocated " equitable " sharing of the rewards of a " partnership " of ownership , management and men , and said individual employers should develop " practical " programs of their own to this end . Thirty-six new NAM state directors and six directors-at-large were elected . Lee H. Bristol , executive vice president of the Bristol-Myers Company , is the new director for New York State . The new directors-at-large are Walter Geist , president of the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company ; Austin S. Igleheart , president , General Foods Corporation ; John L. McCaffrey , president , International Harvester Company ; John R. Suman , vice president , Standard Oil Company of New Jersey ; E. 3 . Thomas , president of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company , and A. N. Williams , president , Westinghouse Air Brake Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Commission on the Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government , urged the NAM to lead the way in marshaling public opinion behind the commission 's report , which will be submitted to the next Congress . This commission is headed by former President Herbert Hoover . Mr. Brown warned that the entire American system might collapse unless the Executive Branch could be reorganized for greater efficiency and economy . He hinted that the commission would recommend savings in the Post Office Department through the integration of many independent post offices . He also suggested the need for consolidation in some of the scores of bureaus and divisions of nineteen Federal departments and agencies found to be dealing with matters of higher education . The Federal Government , he also said , has forty-eight different leading agencies , while more than fifty Federal activities are being conducted under corporate form , with obligations that " can conceivably cost the American taxpayers more than $100,000,000,000 . " Dr. Leo Wolman , Professor of Economics at Columbia University , said the business situation had reached a " critical " stage with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The situation is unstable , he said , because prices are too high , it is becoming too costly to do business , backlogs of demand are being used up and Government plans for further spending spell further danger . A fourth round of wage increases , he . yarned , would add fuel to the fire of inflation and do labor no good because the higher wages would soon be eaten up by higher prices , as in the past . Price controls also , he said , would only make things worse . The way to prevent or minimize trouble , he said , was for everyone to spend less and save more . Other speakers included George M. Gadsby , president of the Utah Power and Light Company ; Howard E. Blood , president of the Norge Division , Borg-Warner Corporation ; Lane D. Webber , vice president of the Southern California Edison Company , and Joseph M. Dodge , president of the Detroit Bank .                     