@@709891

txt The Republicans denounced President Truman 's radio speech today , hours in advance of its delivery , as a " political " gesture timed to influence the November Congressional elections . Soon after the President completed his speech the Columbia Broadcasting System , one of the three major networks that carried the message , announced it had granted free time under its policy of giving equal coverage to both sides of " controversial issues . " This followed a request by B. Carroll Reece , the Republican national chairman , for equal free time to offer a rebuttal by party speakers . Offer Is Accepted A CBS spokesman said the Republican National Committee had accepted the network 's offer to make available tomorrow night the same period , 10 to 10:15 P. M. , which President Truman filled tonight . The committee had not decided upon a speaker . This counter-measure illustrated a Republican determination to retain at all costs the initiative in the meat shortage controversy . Some of the party 's campaigners privately described it as offering the most effective by-election isI sue against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , Mr. Reece said that the decontrol action was too late . " The damage already has been done , " he said . " Truman is locking the barn door after the horse has been taken to the butcher shop . " Senator Robert A. Taft , Republican , of Ohio , asserted that the action should have been taken " months ago . " John Bricker , Republican Senatorial candidate in Ohio , argued that the removal of price controls at an earlier date would have meant lower prices and " plenty of meat , too . " Democratic politicians for their part made no secret of their profound hope that Mr. Truman 's address might soothe some of the more politically resentful areas . Returning from Texas , Speaker Rayburn declined to give aprediction as to whether the next House would be Democratic or Republican . Mr. Rayburn is preparing to go into Pennsylvania and other marginal States in behalf of the ticket . Coincidentally , it was disclosed that Henry A. Wallace , former Secretary of Commerce , had prepared ' a seven-State campaign sortie in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace 's list , as it now stands , is a visit on Nov. 4 , one day before the election , to New York City , which is regarded by politicians in both parties as a field of crisis . In New York , it was understood , the former Secretary would offer no full-dress speech but instead would make the circuit of the five boroughs with short campaign talks . The present Wallace itinerary , which will be broadened by other invitations , will take him through almost exclusively industrial areas , as follows : Oct. 18 , Grand Rapids , Mich. ; Oct. 19 , Lansing , Mich. ; Oct. 20 , Detroit ; Oct. 21 , Indianapolis and Muncie , Ind. ; Oct. 22 , Kokomo , Ind. ; Oct. 24 , Los Angeles ; Oct. 25 and 26 , tentatively , San Diego , Calif. , and San Francisco ; Oct. 28 , Tacoma , Wash. ; Oct. 30 , Minneapolis ; Oct. 31 , Madison , Wis. ; Nov. 4 , New York . At Republican national headquarters it was said that the party had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granted either on the same four-network system used by President Truman or split among the four chains into separate periods of equal length . It was conceded that never before had the party out of power insisted on time to answer a President speaking from the White House , expect when  --  the Presidency itself was involved ' in a campaign . In that case each party has always made its own arrangements with the broadcasting companies . Text . of Reece Statement Mr. Reece 's statement was as follows : " I am communicating with the four major radio networks asking that they provide Republican speakers with facilities on the air equal to those provided the official leader of the Democratic party , President ? Truman , for his scheduled political address tonight . " Just three weeks before a crucial Congressional election Mr. Truman has chosen to tie up most of the nation 's radio facilities with an explanation of his administration 's so-called stabilization program , with particular reference to the stabilized shortage ' of meat . Whatever may be the form of his explanation , its substance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Truman has in mind some action to solve the meat problem  --  ind it is to be hoped that he has ? he can take that action at his desk in the White House where it should have been taken many 4veeks ago . Moreover , he can be assured that any action of that nature would be adequately publicized without any personal exertion on his part . " The personal opinion is that the American people would receive at least ? as much enlightenment ? and certainly more entertainment ? from the regularly scheduled radio programs which the President is displacing tonight as they are likely to receive from his speech . " It is also my opinion that the practice of allowing a President to take advantage of his official position to tie up the nation 's radio facilities for political addresses whenever he chooses is a vicious practice which should be stopped . " However , so long as that practice continues , I conceive it to be my duty as chairman of the Republican National Committee to make every effort to obtain equal facilities for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requesting , and expecting , that the four major radio networks give equal facilities to the Republican party . " Twenty-seven . members of the New ' England Congressional delegation , eight Senators and nineteen Representatives , " respectfully and urgently " asked President Trtiman today to remove controls on meat . The twenty-seven , four of whom were Democrats , asserted in a telegram that action already taken to relieve the New England hide anh leather industries had been insufficient to provide the necessary materials " for minimum operation . " These materials could mot be provided , it was added , " unless you order the decontrol of meat prices . "                     