@@712182

txt LONDON , July ** only twenty-four hours left in which to call off the two-month-old dock strike or face the Government 's threat to proclaim a state of emergency , strike leaders here were believed today to be running into a growing return-to-work feeling on the part of 8,000 members of the Amalgamated Stevedores and Dockers Union . There were also signs that the strikers were beginning to run out of funds and that if fresh funds were not quickly forthcoming , the strike might collapse in the face of increasing public hostility , as a similar dock dispute did in June , 1948 . A member of the strike committee announced today that an appeal was being sent to all unions in Britain for support " as brother trade unionists , " but le emphasized that the strikers were sending this appeal not to induce other unions to participate in sympathy walkouts but " because we just want some funds to help us in our fight " . Meanwhile 300 to 400 members of the Stevedores Union met this afternoon behind closed doors in a three-hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met , it was learned that Cabinet officers were putting the finishing touches on a sweeping list of emergency powers that the Government would formally adopt tomorrow if the strike was not settled and the docks were not working normally . New powers that have been drawn up by J. Chuter Ede , Home Secretary ; Sir Hartley Shawcross , the Attorney General and the Government 's chief law officer ; George Isaacs , Minister of Labor , and their top assistants will be presented to a Cabinet meeting toniorrow morning . The Cabinet 's decision will be made known in the House of Commons in the afternoon in the light // SWEEPING POWERS DRAFTED IN BRITAIN // of the circumstances prevailing then . Among the powers that the Government would have , if it advises King George VI to proclaim a state , of emergency , would be authority to control the ports , to arrest anyone wit:lout a warrant , to billet troops , to prosecute anyone inducing others not to take part in essential services and to deal summarily with sabotage , loitering and interference with the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in speeches made yesterday by Sir Hartley in which he called continuation of the strike " treason " against the country and intimated that the time was at hand When the Government would move against Communist agitators obeying instructions " from abroad . " After the stevedores ' meeting this morning , Richard Barrett , secretary of the union and an acknowledged Communist , declined to reveal what had taken place . Both reporters and members of the non-striking Transport and General Workers Union , which is the smaller of the two chief unions on the London docks , were barred from entry , but later a stevedore said that the members present had voted to continue the walkout . " You must remember that we are not on strike ; we are locked out , " he declared . " We took a vote at the meeting whether or not to resume work on the employers ' conditions : that is , to work all ships , including the two Canadian vessels ( the Beaverbrae and the Argomont ) . Almost everyone in the meeting voted against working on those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are not called upon to work the Canadian ships , so the position remains the same . " Qualified sources declared that the number attending the meeting this morning was approximately one-twentieth of the total union membership . They added that the situation would become clearer after a mass meeting of all dock workers , called for tomorrow morning . On the rail front it was evident that settlement of the recent threatened " slowdoVvn " was only a temporary postponement and by no means a permanent solution of the unrest of the railway workers . Delegates representing more than 3,000 workers at nine railway freight depots in : Northern England voted at Manchester today to operate a " work-to-the-rule " ( go slow ) policy starting at midnight tonight . Their decision was reached after a three-hour meeting , during which the delegates scored as unsatisfactory the Government 's decision to upset the five-man conciliation board to inquire into railway wage demands . 