@@706659

txt 3,000 Men in . Uniform in Harvard Yard Give Picture of All-Out War . Effort Onetime Barracks for Revolutionary Troops Now House Future Soldiers and Sailors of the United States Left : In this picture , Naval officerq enrolled in the Radio Communications School at America 's oldest ' University are shown moving into Hollis Hall in HarvIrd 's Yard , long a point of interest for visitors to Cambridge . Hollis Hall was used as barracks for Continental troops who fought in the Revolutionary War . Center : This is the Navy 's mess hall now  --  but it used to be the Harvard Freshman Union . Here " Yardlings " ate , played , and studied during their first year 's stay at the college . Communications officers are shown coming out of the hall following a meal . Right : Cadets of the Army Quartermaster Corps are given practice In rolling their packs on Soldiers Field , home of Harvard 's baseball games , with the Stadium , where many a hard-fought football contest has been staged . shown in the background . Harvard 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' vital facts concerning status of aircraft , personnel , operations . and supply for tactical use . " This statistical school opened in June . 2 . The Army Quartermaster Corps , numbering approximately 400 , who take a 16-mon'th course in the techniques of feeding , clothing , and transporting Army troops . This school dates from early 1941. : 3 . A total of 1.100 nonuniformed students who pledge themselves to seek a military or naval commission upon graduation or take a proffered warindustr. - job . Most of the 1,100 are taking a 12-month accelerated course for a certificate as " Industrial Administrator . " Crossing the Lars Anderson Bridge to the region of the riverside Houses , you learn that Harvard 's regular students , crowded by all the new men in uniform , are doubling up in the formerly roomy suites until some are sleeping on upper and lower bunks . Freshmen have joined upperclassmen in the House rooms . They had to  --  the Navy took over half of their Yard dormitories and all of their eating place , the Harvard Union . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's house has been ? ipped of its rich furnishings and made into an office . Desks for officer : : of the Communications School ar- .. t in the parlor , the reception room , and even the pantry . Dr. Conant has moved to near-by Dana-Palmer House , first Harvard astronomical observatory . This school , for future radio of- ficers , opened July 1 and now has 750 men . It will soon be expanded to 1,000 . Many of the bluejackets live in Hollis Hall , where in the Revolutionary War , Continental troops we 're quartered . North of the Yard , in Perkins Hall where Law School students once lived  --  there are only 180 law men now , compared with a peacetime 1,500 ? Army chaplains are quartered , in the Country 's only school for these . religious leaders . There are now 141 such chaplains , but it is expected that there will be 500 trained every month before long . That 's not all . Over in the Cruft Physical Laboratory , big , redbrick , sprawling structure , 523 Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio detecting of enemy aircraft . Next door , in the Engineering School , 25 Army engineers are learning methods of controlling the soil for airport construction . Their job is to make the airports " no muddier than they have to be . " There is many another small unit which may be found in basements or sub-basements of Harvard 's imposing buildings . In the Littauer School of Public Administration , for example , one of the electronics laboratories is run in strictest secrecy . In Morgan Hall , at the Business School , a " fatigue laboratory " puts men through the heat of a desert , the cold of Russia , and the rarefied atmosphere of high flight to see what equipment they will need and how they will react . Regular undergrads compete for the privilege of naval or military Reserve Officers Training Corps instruction . In the Army reserve , 550 cadets will be accepted this fall for field artillery training . They come out second lieutenants . In the naval branch , 280 men will be accepted . They emerge as ensigns . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; over 4,000 expected to be shortly . For other students , the Navy 's V-1 is available ; also , the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps and Army Air Force Enlisted Reserve Corps . Compulsory physical training for all men , not just freshmen , is instituted in a " toughening-up process . " Heading the list of prominent Harvard officials aiding the United States Government is Dr. Conant , who was recently appointed to a three-man committee to study the rubber-supply problem and get exact figures for President Roosevelt . James M. Landis , Dean of the Law School , is National Director of Civilian Defense . Government professor William Y. Elliott is Chief of the Stockpiling and Shipping Imports Branch of the War Production Board . History Professor Samuel Eliot Morison , now Lieutenant Commander , is cornmissioned to write an official history of American naval operations in the war . In his address to the Harvard Alumni Association this commencement , Dr. Conant outlined the objective of Harvard 's all-out war program . " Education and scholarship as usual is no slogan for these days , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers surrender without condition , we now dedicate the resources of this ancient society of scholars . To speed the day when we can walk once more in the full sunlight of human liberty , we stand ready to make whatever sacrifice is required . "                     