@@707141

txt Mayor La Guardia went on a potato hunt yesterday and succeeded in locating between 15,000 and 17 , - 000 pounds stored in the back room of a barber shop on upper Sixth Avenue , opposite the Center Theatre . after he had become involved in a controversy with the Food Distribution Administration concerning the condition of another 438,000 pounds stored in Brooklyn for use of the Federal Government . Discovery of the potatoes in the barber shop at 1221 Sixth Avenue , near Forty-eighth Street , resulted in the seizure of their owner by the police , the impounding , but not the confiscation , of the potatoes , the closing of the barber shop for alleged violation of the building code and the issuance of a summons to the operator of the barber shop for violation of the fire regulations . The potatoes were trucked into New York yesterday afternoon , arriving some time between 12:30 and 1:30 P. M. As they were unloaded anonymous tips began to flow into the Mayor 's office , the Markets Department and the Office of Price Administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene in a few minutes . The Mayor himself arrived about 5 P. M. and remained until the shop was ordered vacated by the Building Department and the police , acting in cooperation with the Markets Department , had taken the owner of the potatoes to the West Fifty-fourth Street station for questioning . According to the police , the po- tatoes were owned by Benjamin Caplan , 39 years old , of Philadelphia . He was questioned at the police station last night as police and State troopers checked his story that he had bought the potatoes from a farmer named J. Hogan at Chateaugey , near Malone , N. Y. Later he was booked on the complaint of Henry Mandelbaum , Department of Markets inspector , on a charge of violating Section 194-A of the Agriculture and Markets Act in failing to label each bag with the net weight of its contents and to name the producer . Caplan will be arraigned today in Jefferson Market Court . On being booked he gave his occupation as restaurant manager . Earlier , while he was in the barber shop waiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cap Ian said his address was 28 West Forty-seventh Street and that he was in the jobbing business . He said also that he had paid $1.10 a bag for the potatoes and $120 for having them trucked into the city . At the police station he said that Charles Falcone , owner of the barber shop , was " doing him a favor " by letting him store them there until he looked into market conditions and OPA regulations . Says Family Bagged Potatoes Caplan said also that he had bought the potatoes as they lay in the farmer 's cellar and that he and his family had sorted and bagged them for transportation to New York . Anthony Zubinsky of Plattsburg , who drove the truck loaded with potatoes into New York , also was held for questioning while . police checked the story of the purchase of the potatoes . Mayor La Guardia 's arrival at the barber shop was followed shortly by the appearance of a dozen or more policemen headed by Deputy Chief Inspector John J. O'Sullivan , by a detail of building inspectors led by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department officials led by Commissioner Daniel P. Woolley , Secretary Max Mencher and Depity Commissioner Joseph M. Aimee and several inspectors from the Fire . Department headed by Battalion Chief Patrick Clancy . Commissioner Wilson conferred briefly with the Mayor , then led his inspectors into the cellar where , he said , they found dry rot in the beams supporting the floor on which the potatoes were stored . They found , too , he said , that the floor was carrying about seven times its safe load of 100 pounds a square foot and he ordered the shop vacated . Meantime , market inspectors thumbed through rule books and declared that Section 194-A was being violated since the bags bore no labels showing net weight and producer and the Fire Department inspectors found several five-gallon cans of kerosene that they said constituted a violation of fire regulations . Edward L. Coffey , an OPA attorney , disclosed that the OPA too was looking into the case for possible black market evidence and the police were questioning Caplan intensively about his Selective Service status . As officials , investigators and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner Woolley observed that the Markets Department would be glad to arrange for the distribution of any potatoes that farmers or dealers might have on hand and want to dispose of . Holds Potatoes Rot in Brooklyn Earlier the Mayor had charged , on the basis of a report from Commissioner Woolley , that 438.000 pounds of potatoes being held for government use in a storehouse at the Brooklyn terminal market , Remsen and Foster Avenues Brooklyn , were spoiling . He announced , too , that he had talked to Chester C. Davis , Federal Food Administrator , over the long-distance telephone on the subject and that Mr. Davis had told him he was sending an official here from Washington to make an investigation . Later the local offices of the Food Distribution Administration announced that an inspection had showed that the potatoes would keep in good condition for three to four weeks . Told . of his finding , the Mayor remarked : " Fine , I hope they 're right . Time will tell . " The potatoes in que9tion are held by Jacob Simensky , a potato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Claridge Food Corporation , a dehydrator , which is engaged in making up Army rations . An official of the corporation said last night that it did not take title to the potatoes until they are delivered . He said also that the Claridge Corporation used as many as 150,000 pounds of potatoes a week in its ration manufacture . Magistrate Abner C. Surpless also ran athwart of the Mayor on potatoes yesterday . Dismissing a charge against a retailer accused of selling potatoes for 2 cents a pound above the ceiling price , he remarked : " The trouble lies in the incompetency and political manoeuvering in Washington . " " I just ca n't believe any magistrate said that , " the Mayor declared when informed of the remark . " I wish you would check it . "                     