@@705018

txt With the announcement that Mal-Gent Issaku Nishihara , who has been negotiating for an agreement allowing Japanese troops and . naval forces to pass through Indo-China , is on the point of departure , the critical discussions appear to have been broken off . Japan is reported to have delivered a 72-hour ultimatum to Indo-China to accept its terms . Japanese nationals were gathered at Haiphong preparatory to departing from Indo-China . Details : Page 4 , By a Stall Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , Sept. 20 ? Tightening restraint upon Japanese expansionist ambitions lies behind the current Anglo-American " Pacific Defense " talks now reliably reported in London and Washington to be under way , it was learned here today . The three-cornered discussions among Secretary of State Cordell Hull , British Ambassador Lord Lothian and Australian Minister Richard G. Casey are said to be exploring the possibility of an Anglo-Saxon defense line beginning at the great British base of Singapore , running southeast to New Guinea and then northeast to the Hawaiian Islands . While the diplomatic effect upon Japan of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific would undoubtedly be great , the strategic importance of such increased collaboration would be incalculable , according to diplomatic sources close to the conferees . Three Principal Motives Preservation of western political and economic influence in the Far East , protection of British Oceania , particularly Australia and New Zealand , and a more thorough defense of the Panama Canal are believed to be the three principal motives for the discussions . Added to this is the fuller sense of security which the Anglo-Saxon world would obtain through greater unity against what are sometimes described as common enemies . Any concrete plans which may emerge from the conversations would be of a preliminary nature and would not involve the United States to an extent that might cause a return to the strong isolationalism of 18 months ago . On the other hand , there is reason to believe that the result will be strong enough to make a very definite impression in Tokyo , Rome , Berlin , and possibly Moscow . Concrete Steps Favored Here , as in the destroyer-naval base deal , the British Empire is thought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is particularly true of Australia and New Zealand , whose governments have become increasingly concerned with the almost unprotected isolation which would be theirs were Britain to succumb before the Axis onslaught . Since Army , Navy and Govern- ' ment circles in the United States have long felt that this country could never safely permit Japanese domination of either Australia or New Zealand , both President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull are reported to favor concrete steps to ensure their protection and to enhance American military and diplomatic influence throughout the entire Western Pacific . If the United States Navy and Air Force were given the right to use British Empire bases throughout the Pacific , this would enable them to give increased protection to American freighters carrying strategic raw materials from the British and Netherlands East Indies , Navy Department circles point out . In addition , it would enable the United States defense forces to plug several of the now wide-open gaps through which a marauding ship or flotilla might strike at the Panama Canal . Naval strategy would make it extremely risky for any effective naval force to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South America without having first reduced the American outposts in the South Pacific which an agreement with Great Britain could provide . In addition to Oceania 's importance to this country from a strategic point of view and as a source of vital raw materials as yet unobtainable elsewhere , there is also the question of preserving American trade with that part of the world . Faced with the distinct possibility that all Europe and a large part of the Asiatic mainland may become forbidden lands to American commerce , the Government is increasingly aware that vigorous steps must be taken to keep open as much of a trading area as possible if American farmers and businessmen are not to suffer severely . Australia , which has always taken a heavy volume of American exports , is being brought still closer to this country through the effects of the war and through the new Pan-American airline service . With this increase in commerce and communication there has come , according to diplomats here , an increasing realization of the mutuality of interests between the United States and Australia and New Zealand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact the revelation of these Anglo-American talks coincide with icports from Washington that the President may soon place an embargo upon the export of scrap steel . Such an embargo would he a heavy blow to the Japanese war machine .                     