@@710702

txt BUDAPEST , Hungary , Sept. 6 ? The result of the Hungarian elections has put an unexpected question mark to the two and one-half year chronicle of steady Soviet absorption of southeast Europe . . " ' OPPOSITION VOTER These were the elections that the Hungarian Communist party thought would improve its position , otherwise they would not have been held . But the actual improvement was only 4.6 per cent . If the result is matched with the Communist expectation the election must be put down as another demonstration by the Hungarian people that they do not want communisin at any price . It raises the question how other Danubian countries would react if they could express their wishes in a free election . Observers seem to agree that if this were possible , a 30 to 35 per cent Communist vote might have been expected in Bulgaria , a 20 to 25 per cent in Yugoslavia , a 20 per cent in Czechoslovakia and a 5 per cent in Austria , Hungary or Rumania . By a free election is meant one in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the strength of Soviet influence in southeast Europe must be gauged by the fact that Soviet armies are still occupying four countries . The Russians are not in Yugoslavia or Czechoslovakia . But in Yugoslavia Marshal Tito has established a tight little police state of his own . And if Czechoslovakia is still largely free to decide its domestic policy it is fettered in the field of foreign affairs . POLICE Each country has a political police and national gendarmerie on the Soviet model . The Ministers of the Interior everywhere but in Austria are Communists . With the exception of Austria and Czechoslovakia the armies of the satellite nations are being trained and equipped after the- Soviet pattern . Not only are heads of the political police systems in the Balkans generally Moscow-trained but special representatives of the Soviet MVD-Isecret police work in close touch with them and generally in the same office buildings . The concierges of apartment buildings in which 90 per cent of the southeast Europeans live , at least in the cities , are all police spies . 1.112 zolitical police of all Danubian countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are busily " building in " a huge army of amateur spies recruited by the simple device of catching them in the commission of some minor crime most often black market dealing and letting them go free on the promise to spy on their neighbors . EDUCATION In Slav countries like Yugoslavia and Bulgaria , the schools are almost completely subject to Communist influence . Little Yugoslays , for instance , are taught , by much the same methods as the Nazis once used , to consider Marshal Tito a god and to think of war as the highest good . In non-Slav countries like Rumania and Hungary this has been made impossible so far by the strong Catholic or Orthodox faith of the people , especially the peasants . INDUSTRY In all the southeastern satellite countries Communist influence is growing supreme in industry and " business " in the Western sense is tending to disappear . Even Czechoslovakia has nationalized 70 per cent of her industries . All these countries have two , three or five year plans designed to improve living standards . An important by-product is the inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rough average it could be said that industry in southeast Europe is almost 70 per cent communized in one way or another and that except possibly in Czechoslovakia and western Austria all private enterprise is on the way out . AGRICULTURE Agriculture is a tougher nut for the Communists to crack . So far the Communists satisfied themselves with land reform , which was not originally Communist-inspired . But they are seeking to modify the individualism of land reform in Yugoslavia , Rumania , Bulgaria and Hungary by encouraging the formation of . cooperatives . PROPAGANDA Culturally communism has made great inroads in Slav countries . In Yugoslavia , Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia loudspeakers blare all day , huge representations of Prime Minister Stalin or Marshal Tito or Premier Dimitrov or some local White in The Akron Beacon-Journal leader cover the walls , people are called into the streets for " spontaneous demonstrations " and a continuous stream of propaganda is poured into the receptive ear of the youth by means of books , films , parades and festivals . Much of this propaganda i7 directed against the United States . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled . It is remarkable how in face of this , Western influence has persisted . The " Voice of America " and the British ' Broadcasting Company reports are eagerly listened to , bulletins and pamphlets furnished by the British Information section and what Congress has left of the United States Information Service are eagerly read . But as the International Youth Festival in Prague indicated a month ago , communism is beginning to capture the minds of youth , and that is a victory whose importance can not be overestimated .                     