@@707201

txt BLOT ON TILE , scuweirimoieThe Detroit riots have smeared a dark blot on this country 's good name at the very moment when it could be of the most assistance to the enemy , and at the very point where it could be most effective . Detroit , with its vast automotive industries , is the key city in our " arsenal of democracy . " Now the news goes all over the world , to North Africa , among the dark-skinned and brown-skinned peoples of India and the South Pacific islands , among the yellow-skinned peoples of Burma , Malaya , Indo-China , Thailand , China and Korea , that black-skinned people are killing and being killed by white-skinned people in free America . These riots , and others resembling them in kind if not in magnitude , show that a certain fraction of our own people have reverted to the jungle . It is of no use to preach to the hoodlums of any race . Many of them , who might have been saved if they had been reared in a wholesome environment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmless by the stern exercise of the police power , and this is being done . But habitual hoodlums alone do not produce riots of this magnitude . There was a mass hysteria , involving members of both races , and producing violence in men who , whatever their innate prejudices , usually keep within the law . This situation in Detroit requires the most thorough , objective and fully publicized study that can be made . We ought to take the lid off and look squarely at this shameful thing . We ought to know to what extent antiAmerican individuals and organizations precipitated this outbreak . We know already that race hatred has been spread in Detroit and other American cities . Let us find out who paid for this vile propaganda . Then let us look further . Mob passion does not reach the pitch it did in Detroit without previous friction . What causes such friction ? In Detroit people 's nerves have been rasped by bad housing , from which the Negro was the chief sufferer , by congestion on the street cars and in every public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has provided places for thousands of newcomers to work , but has not been able to give them comfort or even decency in their leisure hours . But beyond the natural tension thus created there is an unnatural and dangerous tension brought about by a new assertion on the part of the Negro of his equal rights as a citizen and worker and an ancient prejudice on the part of some white people  --  certainly not all or even a majority  --  which denies him those rights . There is a job for the FBI in Detroit . There is also a job for a Congressional committee or some other public body with powers of subpoena and with funds , patience and time to trace every underlying cause of this outbreak . The whole truth will help the well-wishing majority in Detroit and elsewhere to do the quiet , fair-minded , undramatic things that stop race riots before they start .                     