@@707986

txt Surveying the battlefronts around the world , Prime Minister Churchill reported to the House of Commons today that the struggle between idealism and ideology that began nearly five years ago " crashes onward to its close " with every expectation of an early Allied victory . In Europe , now that the advancing Russian armies have " torn the guts out of the Wehrmacht , the Allied forces in Normandy and Italy are moving forward inexorably upon Hitler 's inner citadel , " he said . Looking eastward , he declared that he no longer anticipated as great a time lag between Germany 's collapse and Japan 's . He promised that before the year 's close the British Fleet in the Pacific would be strengthened to join forces with the mighty United States armada that is preparing to deliver a death blow to that " presumptuous , ambitious , treacherous oribntal power . " Discloses Turkey 's Decision Nor was he less optimistic in his survey of the political relations among the members of the Grand Alliance and the neutral powers . He was able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty signed with Britain in the autumn of 1939 by the severance of all relations with Germany . He said that if Germany or Bulgaria attacked Turkey the Allies would make common cause " with her . He promised that Bulgaria would be punished for aiding Germany . He said he regretted that Argentina had " chosen to daily with evil , and not only with evil but with the losing side . Expressing gratification that the United States had reached a working arrangement with Gen. Charles de Gaulle , the Prime Minister said " the whole tide of events shows quite clearly " that the time was fast approaching when FrenchGerman problems " along the Rhine " would have to be settled . It was impossible to settle them without including France in the discussions , he asserted . He declared his faith that France was destined to take her place again as one of the great powers in western Europe . After discussing the progress made toward composing the differences of the conflicting elements in Greece and Yugoslavia he expressed the hope that the most troublesome political problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find a solution to mark the liberation of Warsaw by the Red Army . Sees Blunders by Hitler He commented that " Corporal Hitler " had probably contributed enormously to the Russian victories , remarking that even " military idiots " could detect flaws in strategy such as leaving large German forces in the Baltic and in Finland until it was too late to rescue them . In speech on Sept. 30 , 1942 , Hitler , referring to rumors of a " second front , " bemoaned that " if one has before one military idiots , one can not even guess where they will attack . " While Russia 's part in the victory he saw nearing was incalculable , Mr. Churchill indicated his view that establishing a base in France , from which to start offensive action against Germany , would rank high . He paid tribute to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower as a genius in welding varied nationalities together into a fighting team . Since the landing in France he said we had been able to inflict casualties on the enemy that were double those the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thanks should be given to the British and American air forces , which had paid a heavy price for weakening the enemy . Between April 1 and June 30 , he said , the Royal Air Force had lost 7,000 men killed or missing and the United States losses were about as high . Because of their sacrifice , he said , half the batteries and guns the Germans expected to use to blow the invading armada out of the sea were dismounted or silenced on D-day . Deaf to Foe 's Bargaining He said this was not a time to base , strategy on the weakness of the enemy , but on the Allies ' own strength and on the righteousness of their cause . This was a time , he said , to " vie with our gallant allies to intensify the conflict " and to turn a deaf ear to enemy attempts to discuss terms of peace short of absolute surrender . As for the future , Mr. Churchill stressed that Britain was in many respects less powerful than her two allies , whom she depends upon to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to be excused from going into a detailed discussion of the machinery for preventing future aggressions . The major powers , he said , would have to assume the main task of preserving peace at the beginning .                     