@@710620

txt If the American effort to counter world Communism is to succeed , the United States had best recast its mental image of the opponent  --  or run the risk of wasting its ammunition wide of the target . The Communist still may be at heart the wolf  --  or tiger , or bearded revolutionary ? of the role into which he cast himself in the years following World War I. And I would be the last to suggest that he is now parading in sheep 's clothing . But after observing the new version of the Communist in power and in action over Europe from Poland back to England , I am convinced that he is quite a new form of animal in his methods , behavior , and appearance ? so new and so different that failure to appreciate the change can produce some unexpected and unpleasant surprises . Red Terror ' Outdated The old concept of the Communist was shaped largely by his behavior after 1918 when he promoted wherever possible a " Red terror , " and where that was not possible , every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either the terrorist or the avowed enemy of established forms and methods of government . Now the picture changes  --  perhaps not fundamentally , but certainly on the surface . This present postwar period has produced its most flagrant " Red terror " ? that in Greece . But there is basis for believing that this was not according to Moscow plan but rather was a case of the local boys getting out of hand . Certainly no single incident of the period has , done Communism quite the harm of that one " mistake . " It produced a strong right-wing swing in the Greek election , and an American awareness of Greece which hardly has served the Communist cause . Elsewhere , Communism has marched with wise and wary tread and donned , as best it can , the garments of eminent respectability . Thorez an Example Mr. Herbert Morrison , Britain 's Home Secretary , is wont to remark these days that people should stop talking about Communists as radicals . He claims that his own Labor Party is more radical than the Communists : that the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is open to considerable controversy , but after listening to French Communist leader Maurice Thorez expound his Party program in France for over an hour , I am convinced that where it suits the Communist purpose , they certainly are donning the outward garments of conservatism . M. Thorez advocates publicly , and claims sincere simport in pri7 vale , for the following domestic French program : 1 . Sound currency . 2 . A balanced budget to be achieved by cutting the military establishment and the colonial wars and the dead weight of probably the world 's most inflated and inefficient bureaucracy . 3 . Higher prices for the farmer . 4 . No strikes , harder work , and the same pay . Inroads Made It does n't really matter whether you regard all this as sheer temporary expediency or a sensible device for obtaining power , the fact remains that by espousing a program so respectable and conservative on the surface , the ' French Communists have made some surprising inroads into non-Communist sectors of the voting lists . Leon Blum outlined to me-the nature of recent Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since they were won in districts entirely agricultural and Roman Catholic which immemorially had voted conservative . Recent Communist gains in France have been small in working-class constituencies , but large in country districts and small towns . An American correspondent recently visited a Breton fishing village to watch the annual religious ceremony as the fleet put to sea . There was all the old ritual . My friend remarked to one of the fishermen , " This is all very charming , but I do n't understand ; you do all this as in the old days , but you voted Communist in the last election . " The fisherman replied : " Oh , its all very simple . Le bon Dieu takes care of the wind and the waves , but the Communists fix the price of fish . " Incident in Italy I have heard other versions of the same story from many quarters : stories of Communists winning votes by taking care of future voters ? a device not unknown to American political machines . There is the story of a Roman Catholic convent in Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when the convent was unable to obtain food for all the orphans left on the sisters ' hands in the wake of battle , it was the local Communist leader who got them food  --  all the way from Rome . Appeals through other channels had failed . The traveler is tempted to conclude that the Communists have learned that violence breeds much more resistance than the devices of the practical politician . The threat of violence may be used as a last resort where all else fails  --  and when power is firmly consolidated . But wherever I. have traveled. the Communist Party  --  to borrow from The Times of London  --  has shown itself much more preoccupied with " securing the control room than with pulling the levers . " Anomalous Result This produces a curious anomally . United States policy is concerning itself more and more with attempts to revive the doctrine of free enterprise . This causes friction with Great Britain 's Socialists who still are adhering staunchly to nationalization. - But this effort also makes that part of American policy a bedfellow with the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the Communists in Poland . and Hungary , who claim to be the only true So- cialists , have given free rein to free enterprise . In Austria I found big business making overtures to the Communists . All over Europe one hears rumors that Communists and Roman Catholics are very quietly but most industriously beginning to " do business " with each other , not out of affection , of course , but out of practical expediency , Many Straws in Wind It may be the most cynical kind of temporary expediency ; it may be done by both sides with tongue in cheek , but apparently it is being done to an interesting degree . This was rather startling to a correspondent touring Europe for the first time in two years with a background assumption that Communism and the Roman Catholic Church were implacable enemies . Perhaps they are enemies , perhaps this is only a limited and superficial appearance . I certainly have not been able to gather enough case history to justify firm conclusions . Of this one thing I am firmly persuaded : That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920 and also as distinct from the American brand of Communism , a new kind of Communist is visible . This Communist shuns the label of violence , uses ' every parliamentary device to obtain a position in government , parades his respectability before conservatives , servrs , every man who might give him a vote no matter who he may be , and hesitates not for an instant to employ a capitalist or a conservative policy wherever such methods may win power . If countereffort is directed against the classic picture of the wild-eyed intellectual or the unshaven radical with a bomb in one hand and a copy of Karl Marx in the other  --  that counter . effort is likely to hit a dummy .                     