@@708419

txt The Moscow , radio reported tonight that German naval personnel had revolted at the port of Bremen , the site of a Communist-inspired uprising that preceded the end of World War I. A German-language broadcast by the Soviet radio stated that sailors who had been " dragged " from ships for army duty had barricaded themselves in barracks and had refused to go to the front . German Elite Guard troops were dispatched to Bremen , Moscow said , and their attempts to quell the revolt resulted in a battle , with a number of casualties on both sides . During the political and social upheaval in Germany in the last days of World War I there were desertions by German sailors and street fighting . The activities of Communists were put down by Reich Government troops after the armistice was signed . Berlin Panic Reported The Moscow radio also quoted Stockholm dispatches that Berlin was growing increasingly panicky and that only a three weeks ' supply of food was available . All activity in the capital was reported limited to indispensable jobs with other workers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense of Berlin against Red Army troops , only thirty-one miles away , also were reported . At least fifteen Elite Guard divisions were reported in the capital in addition to " special task " formations made up of Gestapo officers , police and party offidials . The same report said that Gen. Sepp Deitrich of the Elite Guard had been appointed commander of the " fortress of Berlin . " The London Exchange Telegraph reported from the Western Front that the Nazis , on Feb. 3 , had shifted the capital from Berlin to Nuremberg in southern Germany , scene of Nazi party congresses . The Berlin correspondent of the Stockholm Svenska Dagbladet asserted that the suburbs of eastern Berlin had been declared zones of " military preparation " with the inhabitants evacuated and houses fortified . A Nazi radio commentator , in one of the gloomiest broadcasts in recent weeks , admitted that Germany was " by no means keen " to continue the war . Swiss dispatches reported rioting in the industrial city of Kassel , west of Berlin . Germans Are Warned LONDON , Feb. 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they failed to fight to a finish they could expect armed occupation of the entire country for a dozen years and occupation of strategic areas until the year 2000 . " Germany knows the price of continued warfare , " said a political commentator , Hans Haertel , in a domestic broadcast , " but it is preferable to be killed in battle than to commit suicide by capitulation . " While the Allies pressed deeper into Germany on the east and in the west , the broadcaster called anew on the Germans to resist . " History has no example for our enemies ' plans of hatred , " he said . " There will be no German industry , no air force , not even civil aviation . No German pilots may be trained . Submarines will disappear . All able-bodied men will be carried off to Russia , France and other countries for forced labor . ' Germany will be occupied for ' we 've years and strategic points until the year 2000 . No German police force will be permitted . " Meanwhile , the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terror attack on Weimar . " American heavy bombH 's raided the town 's war plants Friday . DNB said : " The Goethe and Schiller House and the National Theatre were completely destroyed , and the well-known Herler Church was largely destroyed . " The Berlin correspondent for a Stockholm paper , Svenska Dag ) ladet. wrote that the distance ' rom Berlin to the front was " only . short automobile trip " across territory lined with barricades and mines , between which refugees streamed . The correspondent , claiming to be the first neutral writer to have seen the German defenses west of the Oder River , wrote : " We meet gangs of troops felling timber in the surrounding woods on both sides of the road . We meet columns of heavily loaded war trucks headed east , and others , empty , going west . We see masses of barricades everywhere along the road . " The correspondent told of seeing Volkssturm recruits being trained alongside regular army men near the front . He quoted these men as having vowed : " Berlin may fall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungarian Prince Executed Prince Ferenc Odeskalchi , about 21 , member of a prominent Hungarian family of known pro-Allied sympathies , has been executed by the Germans for " treason , " the German-controlled Hungarian radio said in a domestic broadcast reported yesterday by the Federal Communications Commission . He was accused of " attempted desertion to the Russians , " the broadcast said . The British radio said in a broadcast recorded by the Office of War Information that " it would appear that other Hungarian nationals were also executed . " The members of the Spanish Embassy staff in Berlin have arrived at Constance on the Swiss frontier after " four days ' travel " from the German capital , the American Broadcasting Station in Europe said yesterday . Normally the trip from Berlin to Constance by rail should take not more than fifteen hours . DNB Derides Seydlitz Group The Soviet-sponsored Free Germany National Committee addressed two broadcasts to the German people yesterday , telling them that " to continue the fight is hopeless " and urging them to " take up the battle against the Nazis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflecting Nazi alarm over the number of listeners apparently being influenced by the Free Germany broadcasts , declared in a domestic press dispatch that " German morale is not undermined by the propaganda of these treacherous riffraff , for the German people merely scorns it . " The DNB dispatch , one of the few that have made any mention of the Free Germany Committee , reminded the Germans that the press had warned them last October against this " clique of traitors who had dishonorably sold themselves to the Russians and are today conducting anti-German propaganda on Moscow 's orders . " " This committee is directed by ? migr ? German Jews and Communists who have been joined by Gen. Walther von Seydlitz , the German general who shamefully disgraced his gallantly fighting troops and went over to the Bolsheviks , " said the DNB ' wireless dispatch .                     