@@708874

txt Through Secretary Vinson , Secretary Byrnes and the President himself , the weight of the Administration is being thrown into support of the socalled Full Employment Bill sponsored by Senator Murray . If there has been opposition in Washington it has so far been all but silent , for no one wishes to be accused of being against full employment . It is being taken for granted , moreover , that those who favor this objective must favor the particular means to achieve it that the Murray bill proposes . When we look at the Murray bill , however , we find that in spite of the disclaimers written into it , it rests essentially upon a basic distrust of private enterprise . It rests essentially on the assumption that private enterprise , left to its own devices , can not provide sufficient employment . It rests essentially also , again in spite of its disavowals , on the assumption that whenever there is unemployment the basic cause is an insufficiency of private spending , and that the basic cure is a huge program of Government spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fact that , through the terrible necessities of war , we have been running a deficit in the neighborhood of $50,000,000,000 a year , in spite of the fact that we have accumulated an unparalleled national debt of $262,000,000,000 , in spite of the fact that billions of dollars of purchasing power are still unused in the hands of the public , in spite of the fact that official agencies still insist on holding down prices on the ground that existing purchasing power would bring about inflation , the Administration is preparing to try to rush through Congress a bill " to give employment " by methods that would intensify inflation . It is talking of a huge public spending plan just at the moment when it may at last be possible to get the national budget into manageable shape . And the policies that are being pursued apart from this compensatory spending bill are such as to cause the very unemployment that the bill professes to cure . The Administration has acted with highly commendable speed in canceling war orders and in removing many wartime controls over our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wages and prices that can only slow down reconversion and prolong , unemployment unless they are immediately changed . On the one hand it is removing the controls on wages to such an extent that it may be seriously questioned whether it is still keeping within the legal directives of the existing stabilization laws . On the other hand it is keeping tight price controls through the OPA and adhering to a reconversion price policy that will subject manufacturers , at best , to red tape , uncertainty and delay , and that may discourage many of them from producing certain peacetime products at all . Thus while everyone is paying the most generous lip service to private enterprise our contemplated policies do not reveal a willingness to let private enterprise begin to function or a faith that it can provide full employment . While it should be thinking of beginning to put the budget in order the Administration is talking as if its main reliance for employment were on a bill that takes " compensatory " spending and deficit financing as its essential basis . While we talk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially sit on prices while raising costs of production . While we should be giving business all the confidence it needs to drive ahead we are still subjecting it to needless price-control uncertainties , production-cost uncertainties and tax uncertainties . Fortunately , we can still remove these uncertainties and change these policies before they have done much harm . But at this crucial moment , when it is imperative to get industry into full peacetime production , without a day 's unnecessary anxiety or idleness for the hundreds of thousands who now find themselves unemployed , there is no time to be lost .                     