@@712309

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 26 ? The cost of living dropped 0.6 per cent last month and a business survey indicates an optimistic prospect for the national economy . The Cabinet was informed of these developments today at its regular Friday morning conference with President Truman . Secretary of Labor Maurice J. Tobin brought the good news that the consumers ' price index had slid down a little more . Charles Sawyer , the Secretary of Commerce , having completed the first phase of an extensive tour of important business centers , said that conditions everywhere promised to remain steady . He issued later a 6,000-word report listing ten main recommendations made to him by business men for maintaining business prosperity . Mr. Sawyer 's survey was an outgrowth of the Administration 's plan to divert Federal contracts and procurement , when possible , to areas that have been hard hit by unemployment . His tour covered New England , northern New York and the southeastern states . ? He expects to devote three days to New York City in October , but before then he expects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and New Orleans . The report that Mr. Sawyer made to Dr. John R. Steelman , assistant to the President , also included the observations of other Commerce Department officials in the Kentucky area and in Georgia , Minnesota and Missouri . Dr. Steelman is coordinating the program to relieve unemployment , now put at 4,095,000 . Mr. Tobin based his oral report on the consumers ' price index , which later was issued by the 33u // LIVING COST DROPS ; BUSINESS CHEERFUL // reau of Labor Statistics of his department . This analysis showed that retail prices of goods and services usually purchased by moderate-income families in large cities had declined 0.6 per cent between June 15 and July 15 . This drop fixed the consumers ' price index on July 15 at 168.5 per cent of the 1935-39 average . The new figure is 3 per cent lower than a year ago , but 26.4 per cent higher than in June , 1946 , and 70.9 per cent above the level of August , 1939 . Food prices , dropping 1.3 per cent , were mainly responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residential rents and miscellaneous goods and services offset part of the food declines . Clothing fell 0.9 per cent and house furnishings fell 0.3 per cent . The food price index thus fell to 201.7 per cent , or 7 per cent below a year ago , but 38.5 per cent above the level of June , 1946 . Food prices fell in forty-nine of the fifty-six cities surveyed , rose in six and remained unchanged in one . Fruit and vegetable prices , declining 3.5 per cent , were the chief factors in the lowered food price picture . Meats , poultry and fish dropped 1.9 per cent in the month reported on . Egg prices rose 3 per cent . G. M. to Make No Change The general decline of prices would have warranted reducing the hourly wages of about 288,000 General Motors hourly-rated workers by one cent an hour . Their union wage contract is governed by the BLS Index . C. E. Wilson , General Motors president , announced , however , that the corporation and the United Automobile Workers of America , CIO , had agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rent component of the cost of living index by 0.8 per cent . This left the cost of living index at about last month 's level and it was decided that no wage adjustment would be made . Mr. Wilson said the bureau had advised it that the rent component was under-estimated at 0.6 to 0.9 per cent in its index and that it could not make an accurate measure of the bias at this time . The bureau announced early in the year that it could not furnish this factor accurately because Congress had cut its funds . Congress since has appropriated $1,000,000 to revise the index and the work is now going on . - Repeal of Excise Taxes Urged Among the recommendations given to Mr. Sawyer in his many talks with business men/the foremost , he said , were pleas that the high wartime excise taxes be repealed and that industry be allowed a more liberal allowance for depreciation in computing income taxes . " My most significant impression from these trips and discussions , " Mr. Sawyer wrote in his report , " is that people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business economy . I was reassured by the repeated expression of belief of business men , labor and Government officials that our business structure is solid and that our economy can look forward to more new growth and progress . " I have had evidence time and again of the enterprising spirit of American business and of a sturdy faith in the future of the country . Generally speaking , I find that business men considered the re cent declines in prices , sales and production as being temporary adjustments which were inevitable as our economy moved from the inflationary post-war peaks into a better adjusted level of prosperity . " Everywhere business men pointed to a sharp decline of inventories from the retailer back through the primary producers as being the major reason why manufacturing production and sales have declined . " Many felt that inventory reductions were due to the hope and expectation of price declines , although there can be little doubt that in the early spring they were also connected with fear of the business future . " The consensus of opinion seemed to be that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below levels needed for curI rent sales and t/r.t the near future would see a new stimulus to production as buying all along the line rose to the level of needs . " Suggestions Are Listed Until he has completed his survey , Mr. Sawyer said , he would not submit ' his own recommendations , but he listed the business men 's suggestions , as follows : 1 . In the areas hit by unemployment there was great interest in the Administration plan to funnel Government procurement there as a business stimulus . A suggestion was made that large contracts be broken up so that small business could bid on parts of them . 2 . The almost universal recommendation was that the Government should reduce its own expenditures as a means of reducing taxes . There was general approval of the President 's plans to reorganize the Government for economy and efficiency . 3 . " There was very strong demand , almost vociferous , that wartime excise taxes should be repealed as soon as possible ; that their original purpose had been served , and that at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industries producing the taxed items ; and that their repeal or substantial reduction would be a stimulus to business . " 4 . " Almost as much emphasis was placed on the need for liberalization of depreciation allowances in connection with income taxes . " It was pointed out that many countries , such as Sweden and England , were more liberal in this respect . 5 . Small business men urged exemption of the first $25,000 of business income . Another suggestion was that some business profits should be exempted when they are used for capital improvements . 6 . There was " no substantial sentiment " to accelerate Federal public works above the current level . Help Asked on Loans T. Small business complained of difficulties in getting loans for plant investment and operating capital , and suggested special Federal assistance , although bankers generally said that small businesses with reasonable prospects of success were getting fair treatment . 8 . Labor representatives pointed out that the unemployed were in a more serious plight than in the early thirties because of the higher cost of necessities . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was general agreement that prices should not be permitted to go ? up and that many prices should come down . Business men almost unanimously agreed that another round of wage increases now would have " a seriously depressing effect on business and would make price reductions practically impossible . " 10 . Business men in New England desired a larger share of orders financed by the Economic Cooperation Administration and wanted more ECA shipments routed through their ports . Mr. Sawyer had been asked by Dr. Steelman to make a survey with a view to concentrating Federal spending to relieve spot unemployment of distress proportions . He is to resume the survey Sept. 10.                     