@@705900

txt A proposal to establish Kenosha , Wis . as a " priorities unemployment area " entitled to preferential treatment in the allotment of defense orders has been forwarded to Washington , D. C , by the division of contract distribution of the Office of Production Management here . As a " priorities unemployment area " the city would receive in the nature of a subsidy on defense goods prices to maintain employment . This would obviate the necessity of labor migrating to procure employment in oth " r cities and would tend to help spread the load of defense work in areas and to companies that might not otherwise be able to obtain it . In such an area the Army is permitted to enter into negotiated contracts for the purchase of defense materials to be manufactured at prices up to 13 " , above the last price paid or above the lowest quotation received , for trial c , rders to be placed on a cost pit 's fixed fee basis , and for prime contractors to pay more for goods on sub-contracts than they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first result of the division of contract distribution 's efforts to place defense orders where unemployment is growing through a slump in normal manufacturing as a result of priorities , it is the first time the new procedure is being called into full play . The division of contract distribution has let two contracLs , one to the Aluminum Goods Manufacturing Co. of Manitowoc . Wis .. for 37 mm. shells and another of $3,173,975 to the Westinghouse Electric Co. plant at Mansfield , 0 .. for manufacture of binoculars . In both instances substantial unemployment was threatened through inability to obtain customary materials for making aluminum ? cooking ware and electric refrigerators . Presumably such defense orders were not let solely on the basis of procuring the materials at lowest cost but with reference to alleviating " priorities unemployment " ss well . Kenosha , Wis. , now proposed as the first " priorities unemployment area " has long been a hotbed for labor trouble and is now known as a " highly organized " city . Most of the southern Wisconsin manufacturing area Suffered from radicalism and attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed . As a result many ... major companies operating in that area have for , some years directed the major part of any plant expansion to other nearby states where labor conditions were more favorable , notably Indiana . To decide whether the city should be given preferred treatment in the placement of defense orders , the division of contract distribution of the 0 P M. along with the labor division of the 0 P.M. and the Army ordnance department has made a careful study of the city 's unemployment and manufacturing facilities . This disclosed that not only have several hundred been thrown out of employment through materials shortages resulting from priorities , but that several thousand more will become unemployed if no defense work is made available . The survey has extended into the manufacturing facilities of the city and disclosed little hope that it will be able to obtain any large amount of defense work on a strictly competitive basis with other communities .                     