@@705856

txt Wireless to TM ! NEW YORE TIMES . BAGHDAD , Sept. ** if by prearranged signal , a series of isolated revolts and organized rebellions against Axis rule is igniting Southeastern Europe . Something approaching a revolution  --  threatens the German and Italian front and rear at a period which historians may cite as the turning point of the second World War . Within three weeks after the German invasion of Soviet Russia , Serbia 's Chetniks began a series of sorties front the mountains of South Serbia , Herzegovina and Bosnia , attacking German and Italian supply routes and Axis army patrols themselves , beginning a revolt which has no'w spread almost the length and breadth of Yugoslavia . Reports confirmed by an Axis communiqud make it clear that the Bulgarian and Rumanian peasantry is increasingly dissatisfied with food shortages , the mobilization of younger men and German demands for the support of the war against the Soviets with foodstuffs and man power . The result has been outbreaks of sabotage , isolated but violent incidents and a general movement toward resistance to German domination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe 's always troubled Southeast is not directed solely against the Nazis , however . An old Balkan proverb takes the form of a question , asking : " Does a Serb hate a Croat more than a Croat hates an Austrian , than an Austrian hates a Hungarian , than a Hungarian hates a Rumanian ? " Europe 's Southeastern peoples are at once more united and more divided today than they have been in a quarter-century . The Serbs , betrayed , as they see it , by the Croats in their direst hour , are sworn to destroy the Croat leaders and Croat State forever . Croat Republicans , driven underground by the Axis troops , are nursing an age-old hatred against the Germans and Hungarians at the same time they are hating and fearing the remorseless Serbs . The Hungarians , at present crushed by a complete German military , political and economic domination , are awaiting the moment when they may unseat the Horthy Government , cast out the Germans and battle the Rumanians for the precious remnants of Transylvania that are still Rumanian . Sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are thoroughly sick of the Russian war and would be delighted to swivel their guns to the west in order to regain their World War prize , Transylvania , at the same time destroying their present despised and hated allies , the Hungarians . The Bulgars , beset by German demands that they join in the Russian war , stand ready to join in an invasion of Turkey , if necessary , and would be only too glad to strike a blow at the hated Turks . But they are fiercely resentful of the present necessity for belligerency against Russia , which is firmly tied to Bulgaria , ethnically and emotionally . A passive war reigns meantime I in Greece . While an estimated 20 , - 000 British , Australian and Yugoslav fugitives are harbored in Greek sanctuaries , the Greeks are nursing an undying hatred for the Germans and a complete contempt for the Italians , and are preparing to join the Balkan revolution . Reports in Turkey Reports from eyewitnesses arriving in Turkey and Syria almost daily indicate that something of enormous proportions is under way throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rumania and Greece may be there only in preparation for a new Axis drive southeastward upon Turkey  --  or they may have been necessitated by reported imminence of rebellion in Greece , Rumania and Bulgaria similar to the Serbs ' open warfare . Stern new military decrees in Greece , threatening death for the assembly of more than three persons and for listening to foreign radio broadcasts , may indicate the latter . German and Italian occupation forces , whatever is the case in Southeastern Europe , today face the severest test for all conquerers  --  retaining the mastery of suppressed peoples and at the same time waging war against powerful enemies elsewhere . These suppressed peoples hate one another with a violence surpassing their anti-German feeling in most cases , but it is probable that they would unite at least temporarily against a common enemy .                     