@@711555

txt The fundamental opinion of many high-ranking military and diplomatic officials now gathered in Paris is that a world war is not imminent . This view is held despite the belligerent attitude of the disputants in the present argument about Berlin , despite the grave tension in Germany and the continually tense incidents there , and despite the obvious disagreement between the East and the West on the subject of controlling atomic weapons . Almost everyone with whom this correspondent has discussed the matter has been most reluctant to commit himself flatly . Yet when those consulted were pinned down the response has been that there appears to be no material sign on the horizon that actual hostilities may break out , that war would move from a " cold " to " hot " stage . Those with whom this paramount matter has been discussed /include generals , admirals and statesmen of more than one nation and on both sides in the basic East-West dispute . Each has expressed reservations regarding the ultimate intention of the other side . A qualification almost invariably added by United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to predict with accuracy what Soviet leadership may decide upon , to gauge how accurately they may size up the situation or how far they are ready to risk going in their efforts to expand Communist control . " On the other hand there is ad- ' mitted/y increasing gloom among the assembled diplomats concerning the possibilities of preserving a long-term peace . Many say the gradual preparations for hostilities , combined with ideological differences , such as British Foreign Secretary Bevin stressed in his Assembly speech , indicate an eventual war even if its outbreak may be postponed for a considerable time . There is no doubt that the po- litical antipathies have reached a new and critical point at present . The question arises , however , as to how much substantial and material preparation gas this dialectical argument mirrored ? As far as this correspondent has been able : to learn there is no indication that the Russian bloc during recent weeks has taken ' any major steps implying that it is materially preparing for an imminent war . No Evidence of Preparations There seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : no suspicious movements of troops , no accumulation of transport in strategic areas , . no unusual preparation of supply depots in the Western peripheries of the Soviet bloc , no sudden assembly of military materials at potential jumping-off points . One ranking Western military officer views the situation this way : " Nothing from a physical standpoint indicates the possibility of conflict within the near future . I do not wish to stick my neck out but by the near future I mean at any rate the year 1948 . " It is. of course , pointed out by this officer , as well as by others , that , given modern circumstances , no such hints as Hitler gave of his plan . to attack Poland might be necessary . However , another strategical expert said : " Up to now war symptoms are entirely of the ' cold ' nature . Before World War II the present state of diplomatic hostility would have clearly indicated the imminence of a material conflict . It by no means can be assumed to have the same meaning now . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assemble the following picture . On the one hand it is evident that the Soviet Union is continuing with its full scale training program and the build-up of armed forces among satellite states- along Soviet Army patterns . Likewise the Soviet Union is amplifying its heavy industrial schedule and developing its Air Force and subsurface fleet . On the other hand a Western European defense program based on the Brussels pact is being ac-celerated  --  despite internal political difficulties in France  --  and both Britain and the United States are speeding up their defense preparations . Excluding the political aspects of the dispute between the East and the West , one can roughly summarize the physical or military aspects of the present troubled situation : The Soviet Army still includes between 150 and 200 ' divisions in Europe and Asia as compared with more than 300 divisions when the war ended . Following the period of Soviet demobilization and substitution of inexperienced for weathered troops , a. new situation seems to have been reached where neither mobilization nor demobilization is the case . - Attempt to Deceive West ' The Soviet armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the intention of deceiving and confusing Western intelligence agents . For months , especially in Eastern Germany , units have been undergoing shifts but no intimations appear to have been received of new and dangerous buildings of strength . The Soviet Army is actively staffing the Polish Army with officers and training cadres . It is learned that a similar program in Czechoslovakia will be developed and expanded ' shortly . In terms of this anxious post-war period this is not unusual . The Soviet Union did the same for Yugoslavia until quite recently and the Yugoslav Army -- still bound to Moscow by a bilateral military pact  --  is still probably the most powerful in Eastern Europe , excluding Russia . Nevertheless , it is considered by military experts that Belgrade 's dispute with Moscow has somewhat reduced the war chances so far as the possibilities of Eastern aggression go , not only because of the effects within Yugoslavia but the ramifications in other satellite lands . Stockpiling by West Lacking In the West there appear to be no important signs of stockpiling for imminent operations nor any heavy increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defensive preparations . Among these - were the newest consultations of adherents of the Brussels pact together with Canadian and United States observers , the stationing of a group of United States ** in Britain , the British increase in jet plane production and the decrease in the British demobilization rate . The most important factor has been the move of the United . S -- tes to expand the strength of its to ' , rapidly depleted forces and grant industrial orders for further military production including dummy orders to be acted on in an emergency . One United States officer , seeking to judge the balance of these two opposing material briefs , says : " These are normal long-range preparations for a critical political period . But judging from the purely physical evidence  --  excluding the acerbity of the political deate -- -there are no more indications of imminent war than there were six months ago . " ? " The political situation has indeed deteriorated , " he added . " But the purely political aspects may well be less indicative of war or peace now than before 1939 . " Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if disastrous incidents intrude upon the uneasy picture peace can still be controlled under the present conditions . They pointed out that in 1946 the Yugoslays shot down a United States aircraft ; that a British transport plane'was destroyed in a - . Talon with a Soviet - fighter ; hat intrusive forays have been made into the Western sectors/of Berlin and arrests have been made ; that isolated shootings are not unusual on both sides . Yet , while any of these might have precipitated ' a conflict in 1939 , none has done so since the German collapse . The question , of war ' or peace is naturally the ' most vital subconscious issue at Palais de Chaillot , where the United Iaations is meeting these days . Here are some random observations from authorita1 tive sources . The French appear by and large to believe less in the imminence.of conflict than Americans . Some of them think that so long as Premier Stalin holds the reins of the Soviet Government the dangers of an outbreak are ' distinctly limited . The French furthermore believe that Col. Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jingo party in the Moscow politburo . One argument heard against war 's imminence is that not only has the , Soviet Union and the Eastern block not yet sufficiently recovered either physically or psy chologically - to risk another out break but there is still too much evidence of unrest behind the Iron Curtain . This is evidenced not only by the mass desertions from the Soviet Army hut by the unrest in the Ukraine and the Baltic states and vast uneasiness in the sphere of influence ? especially Yugoslavia . Poland and Czechoslovakia , in that order . - In terms of heavy industry the Soviet Union has not yet completely recovered from the war ravages . On the positive side the following may be registered : The Stalingrad and Kharkov tractor , plants are now exceeding pre-war output and ten new hal . " vester combine plants ( convertible ' to war uses ) have been built. - The output of coal is above prewar levels but the most important field  --  that in the Don Basin  --  is still about 80 per cent of ' the prewar rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dnieper power station is operating - again  --  although the comparative rate is unknown . Two new power stations have been erected and others are under construction or planned . The steel industry is still lagging greatly in comparison with the United States ' expanding output . The important Karl Liebknecht mill at Dniepropetrovsk in the Ukraine just got under way again . The rubber industry , including artificial rubber , is way behind .                     