@@708597

txt SAN FRANCISCO , May 2 ? The United States , Great Britain and Soviet Russia made another attempt to solve the Polish Government controversy today and , while they did not succeed , the negotiations are active again and not entirely without hope . Two major conferences were held during the day . This morning , Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , Foreign Commissar , went to the headquarters of the American delegation and met with W. Averell Harriman and Sir Archibald Clark // Kerr , the American and British Ambassadors to Moscow , who sit with him on the Polish commission there , and with Secretary Stettinius and Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary . This meeting lasted nearly two hours during which participants noted some improvement in the atmosphere of the discussions but little change in the substance of the Russian arguments . After the eighth plenary session this afternoon the American delegation finished studying the new world-court statute , which it will support in the conrerence , and later in the evening the foreign secretaries of the four sponsor powers met together in a second conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amending the Dumbarton Oaks proposals . Issue Raised by French These meetings of the four sponsor powers have not been frequent , at least not to discuss the Dumbarton Oaks proposals , and there has been some criticism that the Foreign Secretaries of the four powers were not meeting often enough on the primary purposes of the conference . But at the same time France has raised the issue that the sponsor powers are " sponsoring too much " and has suggested that the Big Four should not arrange in private and in combination policies that it believes to be a proper subject for the conference as a whole . This point has been discussed privately for some days by delegates of the small powers who were not present at Dumbarton Oaks and who have feared that the representatives of the big nations were again going to organize everything here behind the scenes rather than to negotiate in the conference . But it remained for France to raise the point officially for the first time . When the list of commissions and committees was presented in executive session of the committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that the list was put before the conference in the name of the four sponsor powers . He said that he did not have any important complaints about the list , which he had received only half an hour before he was called upon to approve it , but that he did not believe it was proper for the sponsor powers to continue functioning as a group now that the conference was in session . Mr. Molotoff replied that the commission recommendations should not have come in under the name of the four Governments but under the name of " the four - presidents . " Mr. Bidault said that he did not wish to press the matter but merely wanted to express the hope that the " sponsor powers " would not allow the impression to grow that they were creating a combination within the conference itself . Argentine Factor Up Again It would not be wholly fair to attempt to report what happened in the combined meeting of the Big Three foreign secretaries and the Polish Commission this morning , for no report of the activities was made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advise reporters when the foreign secretaries were in session was not carried out . But at least a few facts about the meeting  --  and its inconclusiveness  --  are known . It is understood that Mr. Molotoff gave the impression this morning that he was concerned about the defeat of the motion to keep Argentina out of the conference , and allowed the American and British negotiators to infer that , even now , a change of policy to permit the Warsaw Government to come to the conference would dissipate his concern . This suggestion was met by Mr. Stettinius and Mr. Eden with the same persistent negatives that must now be familiar to Mr. Molotoff . But he continued to argue that Washington and London were not interpreting the Yalta agreement on Poland accurately , and they , in turn , contended that Moscow had failed to carry out its part of the Yalta bargain . Four words and a couple of omitted commas are playing an important part in this Polish controversy , which , in turn , continues to take up a considerable amount of Mr. Molotoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words are " L'i the First Instance " and they are interpreted in one way by Moscow and in another by Washington and London . The Yalta Words Involved The pertinent section of the Yalta communiqu ? reads as follows : " M. Molotoff , Mr. Harriman and Sir A. Clark-Kerr are authorized as a commission to consult in the first instance in Moscow with members of the present provisional government and with other Polish Democratic leaders from within Poland and from abroad , with a view to the reorganization of the present government along the above lines . " Washington and London understood these four words to mean that the commission would consult " in the first instance " in Moscow . Moscow understood them to mean that the commission would consult " in the first instance " with members of the present ( Polish ) Provisional Government . Thus two capitals defined the words primarily in terms of geography and the other in terms of a political entity , and while this may seem like a controversy over shadows behind words , this controversy has provided weeks of discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories even of those officials who are charged with working out the Polish difficulties often disagree on the facts , it seems that the United States and Britain are still insisting that they can not accept the Warsaw Poles as the " basis " of the new government , even though they admit it will inevitably get most of the places in the reformed government , but insist that all groups get together and proceed to form from them all a new Polish provisional government of national unity . There was more work on the world-security charter among conference delegates today than appeared on the surface . In rooms and offices all over San Francisco , 1 the forty-six delegations discussed and drafted amendments to the Dumbarton Oaks proposals . Already more than 700 pages of observations on the proposals have been submitted to the Secretary General by these delegates and he will have a lot more by Friday , which is the deadline for amendments . Voting Procedure to Fore Mr. Molotoff , who will be here at least until the week-end , and perhaps longer , had a busy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the foreign secretaries of the other sponsor powers , he presided over this afternoon 's eighth plenary session of the conference . Tomorrow or Friday it is expected that there will be some discussion in the executive committee on the voting procedure in the conference and on this topic there are several misleading reports . The United States Secretary General suggested before the conference started that when the delegates came to voting on the text of the new world charter , or any part of it , a two-thirds majority of those present and voting would be required . On all other questions , he proposed a simple majority . Several days ago , the Australians suggested that this be changed so a simple majority would suffice for any decision of the conference , but the Russians yesterday argued against that and in favor of the original proposal . This subject , however , is now before the Executive Committee and there are reports that the Russians will seek a two-thirds vote on all questions , in the hope of minimizing the voting power of the Latin-American vote . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it had been reported , though tomorrow is another day . Conference Office an Issue SAN FRANCISCO , May 2 ( The United Nations Conference , running smoothly in most respects , warmed up tonight for another possible scrap involving Argentina , Poland and a vacant conference job . This is how the three are tied together : Some Latin-American countries want Argentina to have the post of rapporteur ( reporter ) for a conference commission which will consider a world court . The American delegation is against it . United States delegates feel that the South American country , a late entry into the war and into the conference , must prove herself a " good neighbor " before she gets anything more than a seat in United Nations peace councils . If the Latin Americans insist on an officer 's post for Argentina , Russia probably will counter with a proposal that it be left empty for Poland . Russia did not want to invite Argentina to the conference in the first place , and her delegates have not shown up here . Some American delegates were as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentina because of her past links with the Axis . They want to see how far she will go in putting internal and external affairs on a democratic basis before giving her a prominent position in the work of the conference .                     