@@709810

txt Organized labor must turn to the Democratic party to protect and enhance the gains it achieved under Franklin D. Roosevelt , Herbert H. Lehman , former Governor , declared today in a speech before the State Convention of the Congress of Industrial Organizations . He warned of efforts to curb and restrict these rights , now guaranteed under Federal law . The Democratic-American LaborLiberal candidate for the United States Senate , detailing the role the Democratic party played in championing labor , spoke just before he and the balance of his ticket , headed by Senator James M. Mead , candidate for Governor , received a rousing , unanimous endorsement by the convention . In another feature of the closing day of the State CIO 's first postwar convention , the organization , in an unprecedented action , made the posthumous award of a gold medallion to President Roosevelt . The medallion , struck by Jo Davidson , the sculptor , honors the late President " for the tireless service he gave to the toilers of this nation and the world . " Sidney Hillman Honored The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf of the family in a speech it which he paid a personal tribute to the late Sidney Hillman , whose widow sat on the platform . Young Mr. Roosevelt describes the former CIO leader as " not a brother exactly but one who cherished the same ideals , worked foi the same caiuses and shared the same victories as my father . " In still another major action signifying the unity of the CIO as it enters a political campaign termed " no less decisive than that of 1944 , " the convention by acclamation re-elected Louis Hollander of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union as president , and Harold J. Garno of the United Automobile Workers Union as secretary-treasurer . Mr. Lehman , tanned and vigorous , strode to the platform to the thunder of an ovation . This was exceeded by the cheers he received after he attacked the Republican party and Governor Dewey in his talk . In his speech , the forme ' Governor directed two questions to his Republican opponent , Irving M. Ives . " Will some particular representative of the Republican party whc wishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hi : party ? " Mr. Lehman asked the 1,100 delegates representing more than 1,000,000 CIO members of the State . " Will he vote differently from his fellow Senators  --  from the Tafts and the Wherrys  --  will he vote differently from the way they have always voted ? " The former Governor attacked Mr. Dewey as one who , in his role as " titular leader of the Republican party , " once again professed his friendship for liberalism and labor , but was silent about exercising his ( Mr. Dewey 's ) national leadership " each time a bill important to labor and liberalism was awaiting the vote of his colleagues in Washington . " With regard to the Republican party as a whole , the former Governor declared : " Our Republican friends never seem to like labor as much from early in November to the middle of September as they do from the middle of September to the first Tuesday of November . Their ardor always seems to wax for a part of the autumn and then wane for the rest of the year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the threat to labor gains achieved under the New Deal , Mr. Lehman asserted that there were those " who are not very happy about this legislation . " " They would drastically amend it so that it would not be there effectively at all , " he said . " They would administer it differently so that the life would go out of it . They would get the Government out of labor disputes if they could . Or those who claim to be more ' enlightened ' would get the bureaucrats out of there and substitute statesmen ' to administer the labor laws . " By way of pledge , he asserted that the country needed a higher minimum wage law ; effective barring of discrimination because of race , color or creed ; adequate housing on a long-term plan ; a national health program and protection against the drop in real wages caused by inflationary prices .                     