@@711967

txt Making good a threat he made Tuesday to eliminate useless boards , Louis Johnson , new Secretary of Defense , abolished nine of them today and ordered a sweeping review to determine the fate of hundreds more . Mr. Johnson Issued these directives : 1 . The Secretaries of the Army , Navy and Air Force , the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the chairmen of the Research and Development , Munitions and Personnel Policy Boards are to review their committee systems to see whether they are essential and functioning effectively . 2 . The Secretaries of the Army , Navy and Air Force are to review and eliminate by May 1 their representations on any of more than 100 committees outside the military establishment which are no longer necessary . 3 . Each of the . Secretaries of the three services is to assign an officer of general 's or flag rank to Mr. Johnson 's office " to make a thorough examination of the committees and boards within the national ; unitary establishment , particularly the independent , joint or interservite committees , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary These boards were abolished today : Joint Army-Navy Air Transport Committee , the fl Mar functions of which are perfogitad by the Military Air Transport MATS ) . Army-Navy Amphibious Equipment Board , which was established in December , 1945 , to coordinate operational testing and evaluation of amphibious equipment of interest to both the Army and Navy . This board has been inactive since July , 1946 . Joint Army-Navy Amphibious Warfare Committee , established in September , 1943 , for wartime purposes . It has never held a meeting . Civilian Components Inactive Duty Training Facilities Board , established in 1947 to study economies in joint usage of facilities . The board made its report on March 15 , 1948 . Joint Army - Navy Post Exchange-Ships Service Stores Working Committee , established July 2 , 1947 , to standardize operational procedures . The functions of this committee have been transferred to the Munitions Board . Armed Services Deterioration Prevention Committee , the duties of which have been transferred to the Research and Development Board . Joint Board to Study Matter of Decorations and Medals , the duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board , which was an advisory group on morale and welfare of service personnel . Its functions were taken over by the Personnel Policy Board . Joint Merchant Vessel Board , formed in 1917 to survey merchant vessels to determine their suitability for Army or Navy use in event of need . Its functions were determined to be within the province of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Bill for Under-Secretary Signed President Truman signed this morning a bill creating the new position of Under-Secretary of Defense and expressed gratification that it would permit Mr. Johnson and his principal assistant to begin working together promptly . There has been no hint from the White House as to who will be named to the $10,000-a-year job . The Chief Executive said , however , that this was only one change needed to strengthen the National Military Establishment . He again urged Congressional action on his proposals to improve the unification of the armed forces . A request for an under-secretary had also been made by James Forrestal , Mr. Johnson 's predecessor , who said he needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this recommendation came also from the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government . Mr. Truman 's statement upon signing the bill was as ' follows a " Today I have signed for an enrolled bill which provides for an Under-Secretary of Defense . This improvement in the Security Act meets with my hearty approval , since it was one of the proposals for strengthening the National Military Establishment contained in my message to the Congress of March 5 , 1949 . " This act becomes law at a particularly opportune time in that it will permit the new Secretary of Defense and his under-secretary to begin working together at an early date . " Provision of an under-secretary is , however , only one of the changes necessary to achieve truly effective organization and management in the Department of Defense . As I indicated in my message to the Congress , amendments of the Security Act should be directed at accomplishing two basic purposes : First , conversion of the National Military Establishment into an Executive Department , and second , providing the Secretary of Defense with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance adequate to fulfill his responsibility . "                     