@@706985

txt Congressional groups took steps today in the war manpower situation which were aimed at checking the drafting of men for the armed forces . By a vote of 23-2 , the House Military Affairs Committee approved for passage the Kilday bill , opposed strongly by the War Department , to grant prior deferments in all States to married men . The same measure , as amended just before the approval vote was taken , would nullify the recent order of Paul V. , War Manpower Commissioner , which prescribed definite non-deferrable occupations , and would forbid the induction of individuals or groups because of their types of employment . Meanwhile , a group of thirtyseven Senators , headed by Senator Bankhead of Alabama , sponsored the introduction of legislation which would order the deferment so long as they stayed on their jobs , of every bona fide farm worker . This measure would not permit a deferred worker to leave his production or harvesting post for armed service or higher-paying industry without permission of his draft board . Furlough Plan Is Pushed Further , by terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bankhead and twenty-six colleagues in the upper house , the Secretary of War would be directed to release on furlough until next January all men in the Army and stationed in the United States who immediately prior to induction had been engaged regularly in agricultural occupations or endeavors . Soldiers so furloughed would be required to agree to return to and remain at the types of agricultural employment in which they were experienced , and to accept assignment , if necessary , to any farm labor shortage area . They would be " entitled " generally to the wages prevailing in the areas to which they were sent . If that average were less than a soldier was receiving in the Army he would be " entitled " to receive the latter amount . Records of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicate that the average farm labor pay , where supplemented by board and lodging , is below the 850 base pay of a private in the Army . This , it was pointed out at the Capitol , would mean that farm labor costs would rise materially in instances where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , would be borne by the employing farmer . These actions were taken after a Senate Agricultural sub-commitee , its members expressing continued doubt concerning the necessity of building up armed forces of about 11,000,000 men , determined to call General George C. Marshall , Chief of Staff , and insist that he explain the need in detail . Smith Critical of Hershey Senator Smith of South Carolina , chairman of the Agriculture Committee , criticised Major Gen. Lewis B. Hershey , Director of Selective Service , for giving the sub-committee what Mr. Smith said he viewed as unsatisfactory answers to its questions . General Hershey , an all-morning witness , maintained that the country could feed and supply a combined Army and Navy of 11,000 , - 000 . Senator Smith held that the putting of that many men under arms was " nonsense . " He brushed aside the general 's assertion that 405,000 unmarried men and 2,627 , - 000 men with dependents in farm areas would be deferred by the end of this year as essential to maintenance of a healthy war-time economy . Under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only two dissenting votes  --  those of Representatives Andrews and Sheridan  --  the order of calls for induction of men in each State would be prescribed by categories . No person assigned to any of four categories , by the measure 's terms , could be called for induction prior to the call for induction of all persons within the same State who had been put in categories made subject to induction first . The first-call category would be made up of registrants , otherwise qualified , who did not have dependents and who did not maintain a family relationship entitling Ithem to be put In a class with married men . In the second-call category would be those registrants otherwise qualified , who , while unmarried , had persons financially dependent upon them who could qualify as dependents under the Selective Service regulations . The third category would include registrants , otherwise qualified , who did not have children but who had wives with whom they maintained a bona-fide relationship in their homes , provided that in such cases marriage took place prior to Dec. 8 , 1941 , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the men involved were beyond the maximum age then liable for selection under the law or regulations of the President . Category four would contain registrants , otherwise qualified , who , with their wives and children , or with children alone , maintained a bona-fide family relationship in their homes . The same marriage provisions as to date and age would apply also to this category . Efforts would be made , said Representative Kilday , author of th measure , to take the issue to the floor next week . Application would be made for an early hearing by the Rules Committee to obtain a resolution to give the bill a right-of-way in the House , he added . Ohioan Seeks WMC Curb The amendment designed to nullify the recent order of Chairman was sponsored by Representative Elston . No committee votes were cast against it , according to reports . The amendment would provide that no individuals be called for induction into the armed forces or be inducted " because of their occupations , or by occupational groups , or by groups in any plant or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elston said later , " men can not be deferred because of their occupations , but nothing is said in law to the effect that men can be drafted because they work at certain jobs . However , this is what the order says . " I have doubts that Mr. has the authority to issue such an order , but that 's neither here nor there ; he did issue it . " Senator Bankhead said that he introduced his farm deferment and furlough measures " because there is a shortage of food . "                     