@@704922

txt COURT IN FRANCE DOOMS DE GAULLE General at London Says Act Is ' Enemy Order ' ? Vichy 's War Guilt ' Judges Named By LANSING WARREN Wireless to Tax NEW YORE TIMES . VICHY , France , Aug. 2 ? General Charles de Gaulle , whose attacks from London on the French Government of Marshal Henri Philippe P  --  tain have been featured over the British radio , was condemned to death in absentia today by the Military Tribunal at Clermont-Ferrand . The new Supreme Court of Justice , which will try former government members , including former Premier Edouard Daladier and former Interior Minister Georges Mandel , who are accused of " war guilt " and plotting against the State , was convoked during the day to begin its sittings Aug. 8 at Riom , twenty-five miles from here . The sentence against General de Gaulle involved the stripping from him of his rank in the French Army and confiscation of his property in France . General de Gaulle Replies The British Broadcasting Corporation , according to an Associated Press report , quoted General de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French tribunal : C " The sentence is that of a court largely under the influence and possibly even under the direct orders of the common enemy . The enemy will one day be driven from the soil of France . On that day I will submit myself willingly to the judgment of the people . " General de Gaulle went to London in the Spring on a diplomatic mission for the government of former Premier Paul Reynaud . When it ended he stayed on , and , after the fall of the Reynaud government he formed the French National // COURT IN FRANCE DOOMS DE GAULLE // Committee in London to continue the war . According to members of the diplomatic party accompanying Charg ? d'Affaires de Castellane from the French Embassy in London , the de Gaulle committee has not acquired great influence among the French colony there . M. de Castellane and French consular agents from Britain traveled by steamer to Lisbon and arrived in Vichy during the day after a journey of thirteen days . They asserted that the average Briton did not share the British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had laid down their arms because they could not do otherwise . It is understood here that Paul Morand , French writer and career diplomat , has been selected to go to England soon to liquidate French official affairs . After his broadcast from London on June 23 , repudiating the surrender of France , General de Gaulle was sentenced by a court martial . The doom now pronounced is for alleged offenses committed since that date . Specific charges against him were propaganda against France on the British radio , dealings with a foreign country with a view to favoring action against France , inciting French soldiers to enter service with a foreign country and actions of a nature to expose France to the danger of reprisals . In addition he was found guilty of desertion and of flight to a foreign country in wartime . Members of " War Guilt " Court The first cases to be heard by the Supreme Court of Justice will be those of officials accused , according to the decree charging the court of having " failed in their duties during the period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war previous to Sept. 4 , 1939 , and who later made worse consequences of situation thus created . " Next it will hear the cases of those charged with having plotted against the State . The court will be presided over by Justice P. Caous of the Criminal Section of the Court of Cassation . It will include four prominent jurists reported by The Associated Press as H. Lagarde and LouisJacques Tanon of the Court of Cassation , Georges Ripert and Jean Benoist and Admiral Herr and General Watteau as representatives of the armed services . The charges will be prosecuted before the court by a special Attorney-General 0 . Cassagnau , former Attorney General in the Court of Cessation at Paris . Minister of Justice Raphael Alibert announced the calling of the court . The duty of the Supreme Court , according to the text of the decree published in The Official Journal , will be " to search for and judge , first , all those envisaged by Article I , paragraphs 1 and 3 , of the Law of July 30 , 1940 , who have during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their charge by acts that led to the passage from the state of peace to a state of war before Sept. 4 , 1939 , and by acts which thereafter aggravated the consequences of the situation thus created ; " Second . all those guilty of aotions against the security of the State committed in connection with acts envisaged in the previous paragraph and of all connected crimes and misdemeanors . " No names are mentioned of those who will be brought to trial , but the scope of the instructions to the court is so wide that it is easy to suppose who many of the accused will be . One man , Georges Mandel , is indirectly designated by the paragraph stating that all proceedings already commenced will now give way to trial by Supreme Court . F M. Mandel was reported several days ago to have been brought before a court-martial in Algeria . Court Likely to Act Rapidly The choice of the president of the court . Justice Caous , Vice President Lagarde and the other judges is generally approved . They are expected to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fixing of Aug. 8 for the official beginning of the inquiry does not imply that the proceedings will actually start that day . It is expected , however , that the trials will be formally opened very soon afterward . The accused will incude the former Ministers and their direct and indirect collaborators , but the formula is so broad that the court will be able in its primary stages to push the inquiry very far . Interest in the trials in the nonoccupied part of France is very evident , for the proceedings correspond to a very wide demand to know how and why France was drawn into the war in a now-obviously unprepared state and without a formal declaration of war on her part . That Sunday afternoon session of the Chamber of Deputies last September when war credits were adopted without discussion has often been criticised and will be a very important feature of the investigation . The ministerial and diplomatic aspect of the situation , therefore , comes first . Secondly , in the phrase , " those who thereafter aggravated the consequences of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military conduct of the war and for the failure to prepare adequate air and mechanized defense . There , again , the field is wide open . Apart from the unoccupied territory , there are two other sections of French opinion that will be also intensely interested  --  the population in the occupied districts and the 1,800,000 prisoners who are victims of this " situation , " as The Official Journal calls it . It is understood that the names of the principal accused will be published soon . Be Gaulle Scores " Men of Vichy " LONDON , Aug. 2 ( UP ) ? General Charles de Gaulle , when informed today that he had been sentenced to death in absentia as a traitor to France , said : " I shall have a settlement of accounts with the men of Vichy after the British victory . " I consider this act to be entirely void . "                     