@@711420

txt The British Government today offered to make an immediate contribution of ? 100,000 about *400 , - 000 for an emergency program for the ' relief of Arabs who have been driven from their homes in Israeli-controlled areas of Palestine . Sir Alexander Cadogan , the British representative , toldthe United Nations Security Council that there were at least 250,000 Arab refugees , constituting " an even larger problem " than " the 200,000 Jewish displaced persons in Europe . " Referring to the decision of the General Assembly to recommend the partition of Palestine , Sir Alexander said that " since the position of the Jewish refugee was a major factor in the deliberations of the General Assembly last autumn , it is only logical ' to contend that the larger problem of the Arab refugees should be regarded as a major factor in the Palestine problem ? as it now presents itself . " Jacob A. Malik , the Soviet representative , who took over today as chairman of the Security Council for August , objected that the British delegation did not give the required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's meeting of the Council , and most of the meeting was devoted to a procedural wrangle . British sources said later that the United Nations Secretariat failed to submit the proposal to Mr. Malik . - But Faris el-Khouri , the Syrian representative , contended that discussion today was authorized in view of the fact that " the Palestine question " was on the Council 's agenda and that ' members of the Council had read I the impending British proposal in the newspapers . Aubrey S. Eban , Israeli representative , reiterated Israel 's refusal to discuss the return of large numbers of Arab refugees except in connection with a lasting peace ) settlement , not under the revived truce , which , he said , might be followed by a resumption of hostilities . The Council finally agreed to Mr. Malik 's suggestion that he inform Count Folke Bernadotte , United Nations Mediator , of the British statement , with the proviso , suggested by Alexandre Parodi , the French representative , that the question of refugees should not take precedence over the establishment of supervision machinery for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain was willing to supply the ? 100,000 immediately as an advance against the ultimate British contribution , subject to the condition that " other I Countries also made appropriate contributions , " but the other members of the Council remained silent . United States delegation sources said , however , that inquiries were being made in Washington to determine whether any Federal funds were available . Sir Alexander suggested that the proposed fund might be administered by the International Red Cross and said that the British Government was willing to spend part of its initial contribution on " whatever medical stores and tentage may be found to be available from British military resources in the Middle East . " As a first step , " Sir Alexander proposed that " the Security Council ask the International Red Cross to send a small party at once to Palestine and the neighboring Arab states to examine the scope of the problem and to make recommendations , " and suggested that ) it would work in conjunction with the Red Crescent . which is the cor- ; responding organization in Moham- ' medan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the failure to give ad- ' vance notice , however , the Council adjourned without taking action at this point . Longer Term Aspects Sir Alexander 's statement made two other points : ( 1 ) Quoting Arab social workers as saying that there are now 550,000 displaced Arabs , of whom 300,000 are outside Palestine and 250,000 in the Arab area , Sir Alexander expressed the hope that Count Bernadotte would deal with the " longer term aspects " of the Arab refugee problem . ( 2 ) Sir Alexander told the Council that Palestine had " absorbed far more Jewish refugees than any other country , " and that the Arabs felt " a sense of injustice arising from the fact that other powers have been content to leave the problem of anti-Semitic persecution to be solved almost exclusively by settlement in Palestine . " The British representative said be was aware of efforts by the Economic and ' Social Council and specialized agencies of the United Nations to deal with the problem , but emphasized that " if the existing agencies can not make some marked progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consider what other steps might usefully he taken , " Dmitri Z. Manuilsky of the Ukraine and Mr. Ehan replied to Sir Alexander by raising the question of the 10,000 or 11,000 Jews of military age who are now held by Great Britain on Cyprus . It was finally decided that Mr. Malik should send out cablegrams to the various Governments concerned making enquiries on all of the points raised in the debate . No date was set for the next meeting on Palestine .                     