@@705367

txt Justice John E. in a twenty-eight-page decision handed down yesterday in Bronx Supreme Court , declared invalid the Police Department regulations that sought to exclude interstate and interurban buses from the midtown area on the grounds that the act was unreasonable and the Police Commissioner had proceeded beyond the power conferred upon him by the City Charter . The regulations were to have become effective on Jan. 1 , but the bus companies obtained a temporary injunction pending litigation . The suit , which started on Dec. and continued for twenty-six days , was a consolidation of four actions brought by the Bus Depot Holding Corporation , owner of the Midtown Bus Terminal , Forty-third Street east of Seventh Avenue ; the Bowery Savings Bank , owner of the property housing the Dixie Bus Terminal , 241 West Forty-second Street ; the Alurion Realty Corporation , owner of the terminal at 246 West Forty-second Street , and the Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines , Capitol Theatre Bus Terminal and . other lines using the Thirty-fourth and Fiftieth Street terminals , Jersey Interests Presented Also an interested party was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testified in behalf of the residents of New Jersey and short haul bus companies , which are Jersey corporations . Justice held that the act , which gives the Police Commissioner the power to regulate all traffic in the city , was unreasonable and that Police Commissioner Valentine had acted arbitrarily and capriciously when he proceeded beyond the purview of the power expressed and conferred on him by the City Charter . He declared that " inescapable facts present themselves very clearly to this court along with the realization that New York City may suffer adversely if at some future date it falls within the power of selfish and corrupt politicians to name the Police Commissioner and to dictate and control his official acts . " Justice asserted that heretofore the Police Commissioner had cooperated with local elected officers and that Section 435 of the City Charter , which gives the Police Commissioner sole power to regulate pedestrian and vehicular traffic , " will have far-reaching consequences for years to come although it may not be apparent on the printed record . " " This court has considered this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light that the making of the rules and regulations for the conduct of pedestrians and vehicular traffic is a matter that has been entrusted exclusively to the Police Commissioner , and that this court function 11 Is to determine the issue that has been raised by the pleading . " This function is entirety disassociated from the process of regulating traffic , and only in those ' respects in which the Police Commissioner 's acts have become relevant and material to the issue before this court have his acts been considered , appraised and adjudicated by this court , not in the capacity of a super-traffic tribunal , but in the capacity of a judicial tribunal which has been entrusted with the responsibility of judicially deciding certain questions of fact and applying appropriate principles of law . " It had been asserted during the trial that the Police Commissioner bad adopted these . regulations because of growing traffic congestion and the belief that the exclusion of buses from the midtown area would alleviate heavy vehicular traffic . No Passage to East Side Singling out one point of Mr. Valentine 's traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made to allow such buses to pass over to First Avenue and attending restrictions absolutely forbid such passages . " Unless the bus is equipped ' with a magic carpet to enable it to pass from the West Side to First Avenue , Brooklyn will be a sort of paradise beyond the grasp of any man traveling by this route . Perhaps he should not have proceeded south on the West Side in the first place . " Justice declared that it was worthy of note that all existing off-street bus terminals in midtown Manhattan were within the area designated by the Police Commissioner from which all interstate and intrastate buses would be banned , and at the same time they all were situated outside of the specific limits for the " operation areas " in which interstate and intrastate buses would be permitted to operate . " The real end attained through the promulgation of these specific limits , " the justice said , " is the effective elimination of these existing bus terminals in midtown Manhattan for interstate and intrastate buses and the effective nullification without further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of occupancy to use these buildings as bus terminals for these buses . " Evidence Confined . Justice pointed out that the evidence of congestion had been confined to four terminal streets where bus congestion is considered to be the greatest . " There is , however , no assurance that traffic congestion will be alleviated in the slightest degree by the enforcement of these regulations because it is apparent that traffic congestion upon the streets in midtown Manhattan is caused by many factors and upon close analysis this court finds that the part played by interstate and intrastate buses is comparatively small . " On Dec. 7 , while this suit was being litigated , an application was Made to the Board of Estimate for permission to construct and operate a $4,000,000 union terminal for interstate and interburban buses by the Times Square Terminal , Inc. , a corporation headed by Harold W. of the Hill Pub ' lishing Company , Inc . The application was approved by the Board of Estimate on Jan. 23 . The terminal is to be situated at Forty-second Street and Eighth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if they had to abide by the Police Commissioner 's regulations ? as far as they were concerned  --  they would be forced to relocate in terminals west of Eighth Avenue .                     