@@709690

txt A physician attending Representative Andrew J. May , chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee , told the Senate War Investigating Committee today that a heart condition made Mr. May 's appearance as a witness inadvisable for at least ten to fourteen days . Chairman Mead said the Ken:ucky representative 's testimony was necessary to round out the committee 's story of the munitions r.ontract activities of Dr. Henry M. ** his brother , Murray Garsson , and a group of associates whom Mr. May befriended . The committee had planned to recess public hearings for a few weeks with the adjournment of Congress at the end of next week but will reconvene whenever Mr. May is able to appear . Heart Condition Aggravated Dr. Henry M. Lowden , physician to the 71-year-old Kentucky Representative , testified under oath in an executive hearing . Later it was announced that Dr. Lowden and Warren E. Magee , Mr. May 's counsel , agreed that the following statement should be made public : " Mr. May is suffering from a heart condition which , although chronic , has recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inadvisable for Mr. May to appear as a witness before the committee in his present condition . Dr. Lowden estimates that , if recovery s as expected , Mr. May will be lble to appear before the committee in ten days to two weeks , but even then should not be questioned at lengthy intervals  --  not more than two hours per day . " At today 's public hearing the committee directed officials of the Controller General 's office to make a thorough investigation of contract-termination settlements involving companies in the Garsson combine . An examination of tax records also  --  may lead the committee deeper into the operations of the sixteen companies , including the Cumberland Lumber Company , which issued checks cashed by " A. J. May . " A Presidential order will give the committee blanket access to tax records it may need in connection with any other case . The committee received in evidence a Labor Department file on ? the activities of Murray Garsson when he was an immigration inspector and a special assistant to the Secretary for some two years ended.March 15 , 1933 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of memoranda which were undated , unsigned and in many cases did not mention his name . One of these said : " Very friendly with Al Capone . Talked with him at Cook County jail by himself . " Other memoranda reported personal relationships , friendly and otherwise , with persons in Hollywood , some of them aliens whom he threatened with . deportation . One report said : " I knew that he associated with many connected with the movie industry and thought myself that by reason of his attitude against movie stars he was either trying to drive them out and drive down wages or he was trying to break into some executive position with the studios and hoped to do so through his official position . " I honestly believe that he was using his position to that end and hoped either by his action , force the industry to hire him to keep him quiet . " Among those he questioned or investigated were Gilbert Roland , Barry Norton , Leopold , brother of Victor , Ivan Lebedeff , Lila Lee and the Marquis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other memoranda reported him as friendly with the Selznick interests and Joseph Schenck . The files showed that Murray Garsson was employed at $1 a year at first and later received $25 a day . On March 14 , shortly after Frances Perkins took office as Secretary of Labor , she sent him a telegram terminating his services on the ground that funds were exhausted . On the same day she canceled the termination order , thus giving him an opportunity to resign . The next day he resigned and the Secretary replied : " I am confident that the efforts which you have made on behalf of the work of the Department will give you much satisfaction , and I have no doubt that the good results " that flow therefrom will be appreciated . " The committee convened its hearing as scheduled today to hear Representative May and was formally advised by his counsel that he could not appear . The committee then heard two witnesses from the General Accounting Office and a Navy captain . Charles A. Iovino , chief of the audit division , testified that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army officers to New York in January , 1944 , coincidental with their attendance at a Garsson wedding party there , the General Accounting Office had taken exception to payments made for these trips . Mr. Iovino explained that this meant the individuals would have to make a specific showing of official duty performed on those trips or the amount would be charged against the disbursing or certifying officer of their department . The records showed payments of $36 to four or five Army officers who attended the wedding , and $36.28 to Albert W. Jacobson , consultant in the Chemical Warfare Service , who also attended . Capt . Chester C. Wood testified briefly about eleven contracts which the Navy had with Garsson companies . He acknowledged the omission of a $1,000,000 contract from the list originally supplied to the committee . The witness said he had mentioned it to committee aides and in conversation with them got the impression that it was " peanuts " in comparison with the other contracts being investigated . Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican , of Michigan , advised him that in the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a million-dollar contract ' peanuts . ' " Will Study Tax Records WASHINGTON , July 26 ( 2 ) ? The Senate War Investigating Committee laid plans today to look into income tax returns of all officials of the Cumberland Lumber Company , along with those of principals in the Garsson munitions combine . Chairman Mead told reporters President Truman , whom he visited this morning , had agreed to make available to the committee , through the Justice Department , the income-tax returns of persons concerned in the war profits inquiry into the munitions group . Asked whether the files the committee will ask to examine include those of Representative May , Mr. Mead replied : " It would include all of the officials of the Ghrsson companies and all of the officials of the Cumberland Lumber Company , of which Andrew J. May was the fiscal agent in Kentucky . "                     