@@708502

txt New York Mayor La Guardia 's defiance of the war time midnight curfew today had Washington officialdom flabbergasted with develop . ments as follows : War Mobilizer Byrnes admitted 1 . after a day long silence that he Is powerless to do anything about the New York mayor 's rebellion because " controversial enforcement of the measure without the support of local authorities would be impossible . " Sen. Bridges LH. , N. III called Gr. on the senate floor for enforcement in New York or lifting of the curfew for the rest of the country , asserting that New York and its mayor are not bigger than the rest of the nation . New Yorkers Confused . Widespread confusion among O. night club and saloon operators and theaters was reported from New York , with police giving varying interpretations to the La Guardia order in various precincts but most places taking jubilant advantage of the " hour of tolerance " and doing a land office business right ' up to 1 a. m . A ? Mayors of many cities , including 1 . Chicago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of following La Guardia 's lead in relaxing the curfew , but there were Indications of a spread of the New York move with Mayor Albert W. Glynn of Haverhill , Mass. , assertMg the government is " not going to make fish of New York and fowl of Haverhill . " La Guardia In New York was re ? ported sitting tight on his announce ? ment of yesterday that he would grant " an hour of tolerance " on the curfew which would enable liquor and entertainment purveyors to stay open until 1 a. m . The mayor said the 1 a. m. curfew should be permitted thruout the nation . Byrnes Asks Cooperation . In ' a statement which he said had the " full approval " of President Roosevelt , Byrnes appealed anew for nation-wide cooperation rIn enforcement of the midnight curfew and said , " We must convince our fighting forces that the home front- Is prepared to sacrifice for their support . " Byrnes commented that the go ' . ernment has no police force of its own available to discover local violations and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would In Itself be a diversion from the war effort . lie Insisted , however , the government does not intend to withdraw its curfew request . " Measures of this type adopted by the federal government must apply uniformly thruout the country , " Byrnes said . " We can not set one standard for New York and another standard for the rest of the country . " Hopes for Suspension . Byrnes offered a- broad hint that the curfew order may be rescinded after the end of the war in Europe , stating he is confident many of the existing shortages will disappear after the defeat of Germany . Altho New York proved itself between midnight and 1 a , m. today anxious to take full advantage of an extra hour of frivolity , three city councilmen spoke out against the mayor 's method of raising the curfew , Hugh Quinn , Queens Demo. crat , urged a prompt Investigation of La Guardia 's action by Gov . Dewey to " ascertain whether or not impeachment proceedings are in order . " New York 's neighboring cities were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of comments was that of Alfred E. Driscoll , New Jersey state alcoholic beverage control board commissioner , who described the mayor 's move as " an apparent attempt to substitute government by whim of a man for government by law . "                     