@@707927

txt American completion of the capture of Saipan provides a moment to survey the progress of our war in the Pacific . The Marianas ' campaign , of which the Saipan action is a part , dominates one of the most critical periods in the United Nations offensive against Japan . The period from June 15th to the present has seen audacious thrusts by United States amphibious and carrier task forces into Japan 's dooryard . Two Main Objectives It has also witnessed the first B-29 raids on Japan , the first attempt of the Japanese fleet to check our westward Pacific advance , dangerous victories of the . Japanese armies driving south from Changsha , and United Nations steady successes in the Burma-India theater . Two of the objectives in all these crucial and closely inter . ' related efforts are : 1 . To shut off all shipping be . tween Japan and its southern empire . 2 . To prepare the way to China . The Japanese who probably ca n't build merchant ships as fast as the American forces can sink them are attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railway running from Rangoon to the Siberian border ; second , to cut Free China in half by this action to prevent or at any rate delay , Allied reinforcing of China from the Pacific . Saipan 's Vast Importance Since the Gilberts ' campaign opened the Central Pacific offensive last November , the distance between United States Pacific forces and Japan has been cut from 3,000 to 1,300 miles . Whether or not Japan falls in 12 months as Vice-President Wallace has pre . dicted will depend largely on Al- lied ability to cut Japanese supply channels and open their own . It is n't difficult to see how the Saipan occupation fits into this scheme : In addition to its obvious advantages as a forward offensive base the island will supply anchorage and air fields from which United States air and sea power can choke off the delivery of supplies to isolated Japanese forces in the South and Central Pacific ' and can hamper the shipping of raw materials . Speed has perhaps been the predominant consideration in the attack . For speed has been necessitated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives the enemy more time to strengthen and reinforce his defenses . Twenty fleeting Japanese ships which United States carrier planes sank or damaged early in June may have brought supplies and men into the Marianas before American Marines began storming the heavily defended Saipan beaches . Victories Without Ship Losses We who have been traveling with the Pacific fleet in this operation have had plenty of time to reflect on the critical nature of this campaign and on the tremendous changes that have been taking place in the Far Western Pacific . Tokyo radio has furnished its imaginative version . One thing we have realized  --  and with considerable relief  --  isthat " Japanese-controlled waters " have dwindled by the thousands of miles in the course of this sing ) * operation . The United States has n't lost a ship in this operation so far . Any false optimism excited by this favorable situation has been tempered by reports of the Saipan fighting and casualties . The Japanese recognize all the dangers inherent in the loss of this island . They proved this by their first attempt to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved it further by their use of planes for their amphibious counterattack in 20 barges . A Desperate Fight One can not say that the Japanese have fought more fiercely than at Tarawa or Kwajalein or Eniwetok . But these are the biggest concentrations of troops and the biggest land mass the Allies have struck in the Central Pacific . High officers forecast that it would be a " fight to annihilation . " Considering the naval superiority held the United Nations may soon control the Pacific virtually all the way to the China coast . The bombing of Japan is not alone expected to bring about victory . But the bombing of Japan plus the cutting of of its supply lines , plus the opening up of Allied channels to China will contribute tremendously to this end . The date of Japan 's defeat is still undiscernible to the naked eye . But it is no longer on the other side of the horizon .                     