@@708029

txt Today has fittingly been chosen for two historic ceremonies . One will be the signing of an agreement between the British Government and the Provisional Government of France . This will take place in London , with British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and French Foreign Commissioner Rene Massigli affixing their signatures . The other will be the signing of a similar agreement between the American and French Governments somewhere in France . The names of General Eisenhower and General Koenig will probably appear at the bottom of this document . Andre Le Trocquer , French Commissioner for Civil Affairs , will then take over , for General de Gaulle , administering the civil Government of liberated France so far as military conditions permit . In due course , if present plans are followed , there will be an election and out of this election should emerge the form and spirit of the new France . With every passing day , indeed almost with every hour , new areas are freed . Visibly France is rising from her ashes . Even today the Nazis seem to be abandoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of the Seine is drawing to its inevitable close . Patton 's steel arms are wrapped round Paris , reportedly extending to the Marne . Three Nazi divisions are trapped in Toulon . Allied troops have cut off Marseille and penetrated to its environs . For the Germans the fighting in the South is a delaying action , the outcome of which can not be in doubt . The main battle recedes northward , into regions rich and sad with familiar place names . The frantic courage of some Nazi units does not give them immediate hope of establishing a line . If they do establish a line the greater part of France seems certain to be on the Allied side of it . The German problem just now , with total casualties which may have run to 300,000 men since D-day , is not to hold France but to get out of France . If France were being freed solely by foreign troops , one could still be glad . But the French are doing all that men can do to free themselves . French tank units are operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or French Forces of the Interior , who received during July a total of 1,000 tons of arms and ammunition from Allied aircraft , have been of inestimable service . Fourteen Departments are now reported in their hands . Above Bayonne and probably elsewhere they are harassing German columns as our own forefathers harassed Lord Percy 's troops on the retreat from Concord . In Paris itself they did not wait for Allied forces to enter , but rose against the oppressor as Parisians once rose against an arbitrary and treasonable king . Vichy is abandoned by the collaborators and if they took refuge in Belfort they are in hot water there . Nor is fighting all that the French can do . There were reports yesterday that within two hours of the American entry into Aix-enProvence they were ready with a civil government . To the strains of the Marseillaise , almost loud enough to be heard in Marseille itself , a new Mayor stepped forth . The Nazi twilight is a sure thing , though it will be bought by casualty lists that must sober every one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure . Invasion tries the soul , and the weak as well as the vicious break under it . But now we have much evidence that the soul of the French nation did not break and that it is coming into the light again in a new splendor.                     