@@704588

txt The belligerents have come to a turning point . That is the unquestioned belief in informed circles here tonight . Nobody knows whether Chancellor Hitler , in his conversation with Premier Mussolini today , asked his Axis partner to help him to start the war or to liquidate it , but in either case it is believed here that total war , so often threatened and so long delayed , will again be offered as the alternative to a negotiated peace . Whether there will be a " white peace " or blood-letting on the Western Front may depend on the extent of the willingness of the United States to associate itself with a peace drive . Neither the French nor the British are in any mood to accept Herr Hitler 's word for anything . As matters stand tonight , the . only hope , for peace in Europe lies in the remote chance that President Roosevelt is willing to pick up the torch of Woodrow Wilson and stump the country for an end to isolation and deliver in advance a Congressional pledge for making effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little expectation that anything like this will happen across the Atlantic . However , the atmosphere here in Holy Week is like that of the pre-Christmas season in this war of nerves . Every one recognizes rationally that there is no chance of peace as matters stand now , but at the same time , under the influence of the season , everybody hopes without faith that a world tragedy may by some miracle be averted . The emphasis here , as across the English Channel in France , is now on security against recurring threats of German aggression . Less is heard about the distinction drawn early in the war between the German people and their rulers . Britain is coming around to the French view that the Germans themselves were born with more than a fair share of original sin and that chastisement is necessary to help them orientate themselves in world politics . How this chastisement is to be administered , now that there is no longer a , possibility of opening flanking operations from the North with the excuse of going to the assistance of Finland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been outmanoeuvred in the North , and tonight they are asking themselves whether they may not have been outmanoeuvred in the South . If they have been , they are left with the frightful necessity of administering the chastisement through Germany 's front door , and that means an attack on the Westwall . Confronted by the loss of alterna- tive flanking fronts , the Allies are being brought to a choice between acceptance of a negotiated peace and a fearful blood bath on the Western Front . What choice will be made depends very much on the part the United States elects to play . It is believed here that Herr Hitler would be willing to concede some sort of token Polish and Czecho-Slovak ' States as a sop to Allied conscience and that he would be willing to make some gestures toward disarmament to retain some semblance of victory . It is conceivable , too , that his gestures toward peace would be so plausible and convincing to his own people and neutrals  --  and even citizens of France and Britain  --  that it would be difficult , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war without accepting the role of aggressors . Therefore it is important to examine the British attitude toward the peace moves believed imminent before they are made . The British , who did not want the war , would welcome peace , but not a truce that would bring them back a year or two hence to the uncertainty that plagued them before and after Munich . It would take more than a token restoration of Poland and Czecho-Slovakia to make them lay down their arms . Assurance against any future Axis threat against the lifeline of the empire through the Mediterranean would be essential to any peace proposals . That means that Germany would have to promise not to expand southward toward the Straits and that the German promise would have to be backed by a convincing guarantee . That guarantee could come only from the United States to satisfy the French and the British . Thus , if anything is to come of any Easter peace move , the United States must be associated with it and be in it up to its neck and not , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with head well above water and Congress uncommitted . Mr. Roosevelt 's speech of two days ago , defining his idea of - what would constitute a just and lasting peace , went far toward allaying fears that political considerations would lead to Washington moves embarrassing to the Allies , but there . is still the question of whether positive help toward negotiation of an honorable peace may be expected from that quarter . The majority opinion is that it can not be expected , and therefore preparation goes on for a long and bitter war . It remains to be- seen whether today 's conversation between Herr Hitler and Signor Mussolini will end any hope of an attack on Germany from the South , leaving the only choice a negotiated peace or an attack on the Westwall , with the inevitable heavy casualty lists like those of the World War . Faced even with this sorry choice , this country , it can be said , will choose to fight on even against a strong and securely entrenched Germany unless certain conditions are met . First of these is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Second is that the terms of settlement be such that they offer an even chance that Herr Hitler will be discredited among his own countrymen . Third is that the terms be such that the German man in the street will be convinced that force does not pay . Finally , any promises made by Herr Hitler must be guaranteed by forces superior to any he can muster . Anything less than this kind of negotiated peace , it is insisted , would instantly be rejected by the Allies . Few except eternal optimists believe that anything approaching such conditions can be reached in advance of complete victory over Germany . Therefore , at this Easter season , there is hope , but not confidence , for the success of any peace moves .                     