@@708265

txt In our Magazine last Sunday Anne O'Hare McCormick vividly portrayed the perplexity of European peoples at the disparity between our military might thrown into Europe and our influence on European affairs . Indeed , this influence seems at some points to have developed in inverse ratio to the development of our power . The mere prospect that our potential force might be thrown into the scales of battle was sufficient to procure the eager adherence of all the United Nations , large and small , to those principles of a post-war settlement which we helped to frame . Yet the actual employment of our might on a scale sufficient to assure victory has been accompanied by a number of unilateral actions on the part of European Powers which are extraneous to the agreed principles . It is in these circumstances that the new Secretary of State , Mr. Stettinius , had made a statement of American policy . If this statement is intended to emphasize America 's vital interest in Europe and to demand action by consultation in conformity with agreed rules , instead of unilateral action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For it gives renewed vitality to the first principle of all United Nations agreements , to the effect that each nation is entitled to solve its problems of government along democratic lines without influence from outside , and it expressly applies this principle not only to the specific situation it . mentions but in an even more pronounced degree to all liberated territories throughout Europe , and that means west as well as east , south as well as north , But it is to be hoped that this policy will be pursued with more skill and discretion than is displayed in the first statement of it . The peg on which the statement is hung is Britain 's objection to Count Sforza as Italian Foreign Minister , and the State Department undertakes to administer a public rebuke on that point to the British Government . The result was inevitable . The British Government replied in kind and stood pat on its action . What else could be expected ? Shirt-sleeve diplomacy may look bold and " democratic , " but it is not the best means of obtaining results in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Sforza case seems clear , but results which might have been obtained by vigorous if more discreet diplomatic action have now been made impossible by the State Department 's public move . Indeed , that move has merely caused further confusion in Italy and has conjured up the semblance of a public quarrel between the United States and Great Britain over issues on which they are I , fundamentally in agreement . Beyond that , however , the timing of the Department 's statement was such as to lay it open to the interpretation that it was directed not only against Britain 's attitude toward Count Sforza but also against Britain 's use of troops to prevent a Communist coup d'etat in Greece . At any rate , the appropriate elements immediately seized upon it to proclaim that America has declared a " hands off " policy in Europe and has given the green light to ' ' the revolution . " It is impossible to assume that this was Mr. Stettinius ' real intention . America , together with the other Allies , has contributed toward creating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are threatening to prevent the establishment of new Governments on the basis of free elections and to throw Europe into revolution . Neither America nor the other Allies can wash their hands of this situation . This is not the way to a democratic settlement . Moreover , any disorder , or any rise of new dictatorships of whatever color behind American or British lines , involves questions of military security and morale which are beyond the province of the State Department . For all these reasons the State Department 's statement needs to be clarified in some respects . This clarification ought to be accomplished through close consultation and cooperation with our allies . On the diplomatic front , no less than on the military front , unity is essential .                     