@@708995

txt A little more than twenty-four hours after having resigned all his Government posts , Col. Juan D. PerOn was haranguing a large , enthusiastic crowd tonight outside the Labor and Social Welfare Ministry , whose chief he was up to yesterday . He said he spoke as a simple citizen and never mentioned his Presidential aspirations , but he made it clear that his withdrawal from the Government did not imply his withdrawal from politics . His followers had no doubts on this point , for they frequently interrupted his speech with shouts of " PerOn for President ! " Colonel Perlin , who was dressed in civilian clothes and was bareheaded , was received with great applause and a show of real enthusiasm by a crowd estimated at more than 10,000 persons . The cheering reached its maximum when Colonel PerOn announced that before leaving the Labor Ministry he had signed a decree granting all Argentine workers salary increases and a share of the profits of the companies for which they work . When he said that he was a simple citizen there were cries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fighting speech and urged Argentine workers to prepare for war if necessary . This was a reference to civil war , which Colonel PerOn has said he was ready to face . He declared that he would remain firm against " the oligarchy of capitalist interests " and said he would join a labor union so he could defend the workers ' interests better . He urged the workers to remain united and follow his leadership , promising " victory will be ours . " He repeatedly promised to dedicate himself exclusively to serving the interests of the workers . A new era began today , he added . He said no person or thing could restrain the forward march of the Argentine workers until Argentina was at the head of all the nations of the world . He called upon the Government to release all workers who were under arrest for any reason but seemed slightly nonplussed when a man in the crowd shouted , " Including Communists ? " He said President Edelmiro Farrell had promised to maintain and defend the social conquests of the workers and ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march and would never disappoint the hopes of men who worked and suffered . Police Still Pro-Perbu After Colonel PerOn had spoken , crowds of his supporters paraded through the central streets of the city , acclaiming him as the next President . Mounted policemen , who yesterday charged persons expressing their joy over Colonel Peren 's resignation , were used today to chase away any one who attempted to interfere with the proPer6n demonstration . It was significant that Colonel PerOn 's speech was broadcast over the official state network and that all other stations in the country were obliged to broadcast it . The Government today filled some of the vacancies produced by Colonel PerOn 's resignation and by those of some other officials , which followed shortly after his . Gen. Eduardo Avalos , hitherto commander of the military base of Campo de Mayo , was appointed Minister of War . He led the movement against Colonel PerOn yesterday and Is generally considered a candidate for the Vice Presidency . Col. Aristobulo Mittelbach , hitherto one of the President 's aides , was appointed chief of the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as a man of the extreme right . Commodore Eduardo Sustaita was appointed Air Secretary , replacing Gen. Bartolome de la Colina . He is reputed to be a staunch supporter of Colonel Perlin , as his predecessor was . The Government cracked down hard on all newspapers that dared to publish even part of what happened yesterday . All those that even distantly mentioned troop movements or anything of that sort were particularly singled out . The Razon and Noticias Graficas were suspended for an indefinite time . Since Critica had been closed previously , this meant that all afternoon newspapers of any standing would be unable to appear . Of the important morning newspapers only the Nacion and the Prensa are left . Those suspended include the Mundo , the English Standard and the German anti1Nazi Argentinische Tageblatt . A great number of newspapers were closed in the provinces . Colonel PerOn 's resignation therefore has brought about a worsening of conditions for newspapers . As the Argentine people look toward the future they are far from sure that all the reasons for uneasiness have been eliminated or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggles . There is no clear indication that the Government and the Army as a whole have thrown Colonel PerOn overboard definitely and abandoned all intention of supporting his Presidential aspirations . The Army has for many months been alarmed by the thought of what is likely to happen to it if a civilian president is elected . Many officers fear that the Army would be exposed to reprisals , or at least to measures aimed at ensuring that military revolutions such as that of June 4 , 1943 , shall never occur again . The Army has therefore always thought that the present military regime should be followed by a " transition government " acceptable to it and headed by a high Army officer . Even General Avalos , who quarrelled with Colonel PerOn some time ago , considers it indispensable that the next president should be an army man . Colonel Perlin would in many ways be the logical choice for the army 's candidate despite the fact that the army forced him out of office and he has many powerful enemies . Even if he were rejected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be welcomed by the Argentine people . They are tired of military regimes and are anxious to see the soldiers get out of the Government House and return to their barracks . The resignation of Col. Juan D. PerOn from the Buenos Aires Government was said by Secretary of State James F. Byrnes today to be very significant and very important . While not in a position to make extended comment in the absence of official reports showing fully . the implications of the resignation , Mr. Byrnes said we were intensely interested in developments in Argentina and hoped they might result in happier days for the Argentine people , for whom we have warm feelings of friendship . CHILEAN 'S VIEW OF PERON President Juan Antonio Rios of Chile , Argentina 's closest neighbor , published today an attack on government by force as dispatches from Argentina reported the resignation of- Cola Juan D. PerOn , key figure in the Argentina military dictatorship . The Chilean Chief Executive wrote his statement on the plane bringing him from Balboa to Miami before he knew Colonel PerOn had quit . Asked last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chilean President said he had not received official confirmation of press reports and that his statement covered his views of the situation . President Rios ' program today called for departure on the Florida East Coast Railroad and arrival early tomorrow at Richmond , Va. , where he will have luncheon before proceeding by automobile to Washington , where he is due at 4 P. M. at the White House as an overnight guest of President Truman . Before learning that Colonel PerOn had resigned , President Rios told a news conference here that " governments of force are transitory by their very nature since the human being , and especially the civilized man , resists being oppressed by the sword or any arbitrary power not in accordance with the law . " President Rios mentioned Argentina specifically and added that he regretted " very deeply what is happening in our brother country " and that " acts of violence which are now occurring can not be justified . " President Rios made clear that ? he would give President Truman a detailed picture by saying he wanted to " transmit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Peru , Ecuador , Colombia and Panama where executives " have the greatest purposes and desires for keeping strictly within democratic lines . "                     