@@707867

txt After deliberating 28 hours , a federal jury of six women and six men yesterday found Hans Max Haupt guilty of treason ; but expressing " only what is in our hearts , " the panel recommended mercy in an Informal move to save him from a possible death sentence . Haupt was convicted of shielding and harboring his son , Herbert Hans Haupt , young Nazi saboteur , whose mission to wreck American war plants led him to the electric chair two years ago . It was the elder Haupt 's second conviction for trea ? son . He received a death sentence in the first trial , but this was set aside on appeal , and a new trial ? the one just ended  --  granted . Mercy Plea Not Binding . The jury 's mercy plea for Haupt is not binding upon Judge John P. Barnes , the trial judge . He may sentence him to the electric chair , or to prison for any number of years from five to life , and impose a fine of $10,000 . This question may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion for a new trial . Haupt 's case was given to the jury at 11:20 a , m . Thursday . The jurors deliberated without sleep thruout the night and yesterday morning . They paused only once to ' hear the reading of the testimony of three witnesses . At 3:20 p. yesterday they agreed on a verdict . It was read a few minutes later . Haupt heard it with apparent disinterest . Then Joseph M. Callner , 8143 Evans ay. , the foreman , handed Judge Barnes the Jury 's petition for mercy , signed by all 12 jurors . Text of Jury ' . Plea . " Realizing fully that our tunetions terminate with the rendering of our verdict , we , the jury , are moved humbly to beseech your honor 's consideration fn dealing mercifully with the defendant , " the petition read . " In conformity with your honor 's instructions , neither pity nor sympa ? thy has entered into our deliberations . In this plea , we express only what is in our hearts . " Judge Barnes ordered the recommendation made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A formal mo . Lion for a new trial then was made by Defense Attys . Paul A. F. Warnbolts and Frederick J. Bertram . Present were Asst . United States Attys . Richard G. Finn . and Earle C. Hurley , who with United States Atty . Woll , had prosecuted Haupt . Report Seven Ballots Taken . The jury reportedly took seven ballots , voting eight to ! oar for conviction on the first four ; 10 to two on the fifth ; 11 to one on the sixth , and unanimously on the seventh . Haupt was the first of six defendants , including his wife , Erna , to go on trial . All six were tried together originally and all convicted , but the Appeals court reversed the convic . Non and ordered separate trials .                     