@@706744

txt Evidence that a Japanese seaplane , possibly operating from a submarine , may have attempted to set Southern Oregon forests afire in the first air bombing of continental United States was reported by the Western Defense Command today . Lieut . Gen. John L. De Witt , commander of the Fourth Army and the Western Defense Command , issued the following communique : " The Western Defense Command is investigating the circumstances surrounding the discovery on Sept. 9 of fragments of what appears to have been an incendiary bomb . These fragments were found by personnel of the United States Forestry Service near Mount Emily , nine miles northeast of Brookings , Ore . Markings of the bomb fragments indicated that the missile was of Japanese origin . " At about 6 A. M. Pacific War Time , Sept. 9 , a small unidentified seaplane was observed coming inland from the sea , and a half an hour later a plane was heard at the same point headed toward the sea . Due to poor visibility , the plane was not seen on its westward trip . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forestry Service observer on Mount Emily , reported seeing an unidentified seaplane come from the west , circle and return toward the sea . He described the plane as a single-motored biplane with a single float and small floats on the wingtips . The . plane appeared to be small and of slow speed . It had no lights , no distinct color and no insignia was visible . It is possible that a plane of this type might have been carried on a submarine . " About 11 A. M. , Pacfic war time , Sept. 9 , an Army patrol plane reported sighting an unidentified submarine about thirty miles off-shore in the same general vicinity . The submarine was bombed by the airplane with unobserved results . " At about 12:20 P. M. , Pacific war time , the same day , a small fire was observed about three miles south of Mount Emily . Investigation by forestry patrols who extinguished the fire , disclosed a small crater about three feet in diameter and slightly more than a foot in depth . The earth appeared to be scorched . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicinity revealed about forty pounds of metal fragments and number of small pellets . " The fragments disclosed markings of Japanese ideographs which may have been part of a code indicating the arsenal where the bomb was manufactured . A search ' of the area has failed to reveal the I presence of any other indications of bombs having been dropped . "                     