@@708716

txt BUSES ' SLOWDOWN ONCITY-WIDE BASIS BEGUN BY DRIVERS Whole System of the Omnibus Corporation Delayed in Union Move to Force Pay Rises RUSH HOUR JAMS RESULT Delayed Passengers Crowd Into Subways and Taxicabs ? Police Action Unavailing A slowdown on the system of the New York Omnibus Corporation , operating about 90 per cent of the city 's longitudinal and crosstown buses , was begun yesterday by the drivers , members of the Transport Workers Union , a Congress of Industrial Organizations affiliate , in an effort to compel wage increases and improvements in working conditions . The slowdown was similar to the one carried out from last Saturday to Monday on the line of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company in protest against a company proposal to introduce one-man operation of double-deck buses . Yesterday 's slowdown on the lines of the Omnibus Corporation , which is owned by the Fifth Avenue Company , began after the drivers had voted not to work dyertime . The effect was to reduce the service , slow up operation and create passenger congestion . Buses Behind Schedule Buses were running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as on Broadway and Madison and Lexington Avenues , the disarrangement of schedules manifested itself in long waits by crowds at bus stops followed by the appearance of several buses trailing each other in caravans . Efforts by policemen to break up the practice by handing out summonses to drivers for obstructing traffic failed to remedy the situation , which reached its worst point of passenger congestion during the rush hour . Because of overloading of buses , there was a rush by passengers to subways and taxicabs . Department store customers at Union Square crowded bus stops for long periods , unable to board the vehicles . The slowdown began in the afternoon , continued through the rush hour and showed no abatement throughout the evening . It was marked on Broadway , Lexington Avenue , Sixth Avenue and along Madison Avenue . Ninth and Eighth Avenues also were affected . Statement by Union Head Without making reference to the slowdown , Douglas L. , president of Local 100 of the TWU , issued the following statement : " The drivers of the New York City Omnibus Lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighty and more hours a week , but the company stubbornly refuses to take the necessary steps to attract more drivers , to ease the physical , mental and nervous strain on present personnel and to protect public safety and comfort . " Although there are now 20 per cent fewer drivers on the New York City Omnibus System than before the war , these men are carrying between 25 and 50 per cent more passengers than in peacetime . " The Omnibus Corporation Is making huge profits . Yet it has refused to agree to changes in wages and working conditions which other war industries have adopted to solve their manpower shortages . The company flatly rejected proposals of the Transport Workers Union . These proposals include higher beginning and intermediate rates , overtime for employes who work on their regular days off and after forty hours a week , and other changes consistent with wartime wage stabilization , that would make bus drivers ' jobs more attractive . " In meetings of Omnibus members held June 13 and 14 , day and night men unanimously decided to work only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week . After years of this back-breaking work Omnibus drivers are at the point of breakdown and can no longer agree to endanger public safety and invite accidents under these conditions . " Negotiations for a new contract , between the union and the company have been in progress for many weeks without result . The // old contract expired on April 30 . Union officials contend that the excessive overtime drivers are required to work has been due to the company 's inability to attract additional personnel because of the low starting rate of 71 cents an hour and the slow progression of increases to $1 an hour , which is reached only after four years of employment . Union officials declared that as a consequence only eleven additional drivers had been enlisted by the company in the last year . The overtime load placed upon the drivers , union officials maintain , has reached a point where they can not continue under the present working schedules , with passenger loads doubled from an average of 140 to 340 persons . Union officials explained that under the old contract the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not desire to do so . No statement from the company was available . A driver on the Columbus Avenue-Amsterdam Avenue line said last night that traffic had increased 35 per cent since the war , yet there had been a 15 per cent decrease in the number of vehicles in operation . He added that he was too exhausted after a shift to work overtime . " After pushing one of these dilapidated buses around for eight hours a fellow is too tired to work further , " he declared .                     