@@709154

txt A reluctant 1 House of Lords ratified today the financial accord , with the United ' States by ninety votes to eight , with about one hundred Conservative peers abstaining and some 600 absent . Immediately afterward the Bretton Woods agreement was also passed . The next step is up to the United States Congress , which now knows beyond any doubt that Britain considers that a desperately hard bargain has been forced upon an ally and partner who feels that she deserved better treatment . All the reluctance , the fears , the resentments and the disappointments that Britons feel were summed up in the keenest debate the House of Lords has heard in years , but at least the day began with a statement in defense of the loan agreement by Lord Keynes which mane a deep impression on all . The leader of the British loan negotiators did not hide his own profound regret that the loan accord had fallen so far short of what he and his fellow Britons thought due to them but he put the case in its most favorable light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beaverbrook 's much feared attack proved to be ? merely an argument , that Britain did not need the loan , dud it tell on incredulous ears . Viscount Cranborne , leader of the Conservative party group , winding up the debate for the Opposition , derided Lord Beaverbrook 's stand and called upon his party members to abstain from voting while at the same time he gave expression to the fear and dislike they all felt . Lord Keynes took as the nub of his argument the striking assertion that the United States ' negotiators based their attitude on " their ar- dent desire to see this country a strong and effective partner in guiding the distressed and confused world into the ways of peace and economic order . " Hence , although he had felt that there should have been something approximating a grant instead of a loan bearing interest , the Americans had concentrated on the future and would not take the sacrifices of the past as a basis of argument . " What a gulf separates us from Washington and what a depth of misunderstanding governs the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Lord Keynes said sorrowfully , referring to " the politics of Congress and the immeasurably remote public opinion of the United States . " Quickly it became a matter of pride not " to show our medals and ask for a gigantic gift , " he said . " We soon discovered , therefore , that it was not our past performance or our present weakness , but our future prospects of recovery ' and our intention to face the world boldly that we have to demon-1 strate , " Lord Keynes added . Certainty Versus Elasticity The result , he said , was " a workable compromise between the certainty that they wanted and the measure of elasticity that we wanted , " Lord Keynes declared in discussing the vital factor of equilibrium in British trade and international payments . That was one of the points that every speaker stressed and there is no question that Britons feel that they are taking a desperate gamble in believing that their economy can be straightened out in the next five years so that multilateral trading and free convertibility of currencies can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut somewhat too fine , " according to Lord Keynes , but he acknowledged that " no comparable credit in time of peace has ever been negotiated before . " " I shall never , as long as I live , cease to regret that this is not an interest free loan , " he said , in the most striking passage of his speech . " The charging of interest is out of tune with the underlying realities . It is based on a false analogy . * But on no possible ground can we claim as a right a gesture so unprecedented . A point comes in a matter of this kind where one has to take ' no ' for an answer . " He went on to explain that noth- , ing else was possible " in that complex and highly charged atmosphere of that great democracy . " Keynes Offers Defense c , Havin said that , Lord Keynes launched into a long defense and explanation of the terms which , he said , did not call for very onerous , payments , permitted the credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lend-lease and other past debts . There was no alternative , he explained , and he ended with a plea for Anglo-American cooperation . Then one after another . Viscounts Swinton , Bennett , Hailsham and Lindsay , Lord Balfour ( formerly Capt . Harold H. Balfour ) , Lord Rennell and the Earl of , Portsmouth , and finally Lord Beaverbrook , attacked the agreements from various directions , with emphasis on imperial preference . Certainly there is great fear in London that the United States will not play its role adequately by reducing tariffs and accepting the goods of the rest of the world . Lord Beaverbrook surprised everyone by calling the terms reasonable but attacking the " strings attached to them . " He claimed that Britain did not need such a loan now that she could go without American cotton , tobacco , food , oil and films and that she had ample external assets . Bretton Woods meant a return to the gold standard . he said . Viscount Cranborne made fun of Lord Beaverbrook 's arguments but he , too , deplored the loan agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dominions Secretary , wound up the debate for the Government by pleading the need for help from the United States . When the division was called about 200 peers were present , packing the chamber to the doors . Of the ninety who backed the Government , twenty-four were Labor peers , about forty were Liberals and the rest Conservatives . So , with today 's vote , the burden of restoring world economy was passed to the United States .                     