@@708936

txt Incensed by a report that gambling was proceeding in various parts of the city on an organized basis , Mayor La Guardia summoned the borough commanders of the uniformed force and the detective division to Police Headquarters yesterday and read them a fifty-minute lecture , demanding that they clean up the condition . The Mayor is reported to have told the commanders that the report was made by Investigation Commissioner Louis E. Yavner , Mr. Yavner declined to comment on it , and the Mayor refused to discuss it . Police officials at the ( conference said , however , that the report dealt particularly with con1 ditions in the Clinton Street precinct , where Mr. Yavner 's investigators were said to have taken pictures of " horse parlors " and " policy drops " in operation . The Mayor ordered the commanders to meet him in the office // Mayor Spurs Gambling Crusade By ' a Beef and Pep Talk ' to Police 1 Page From the uniformed force and the detecContinued tive division . " I ca n't understand why there is n't cooperation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From now on I want cooperation and I want plenty of it . " Mr. La Guardia was also reported to have said that he did not want lieutenants and sergeants to be desk men or " chair-warmers " but he wanted them to go out on patrol . He said his administration had only four months to go but he did not want that to influence criminal prosecution . " I want you men not to lay down on the job but get out and enforce the law , " he demanded , according to this account . Photographic Evidence Reported of Acting Police Commissioner Albert 0 . Williams at 11 A. M. They were waiting for him , the commanders of the uniformed force in their best uniforms , anticipating that he would name the new commissioner from among their ranks and on that account wanted them . to be on hand . " A Beef and a Pep Talk " But no such happy occasion was in store for the officials . After keeping them waiting for an hour and three quarters , the Mayor arrived and delivered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later as " a beef and a pep talk . " As the fifteen or sixteen commanders left the third floor office , faces that had been alight with hope and anticipation were dark , dour and grump , and a few were outspokenly disgruntled . " What does he think- we are , " one commander demanded , referring to the Mayor , " kids ? " According to the account that leaked out by way of the police grapevine later , the Mayor was very stern with the police officials . He discussed the Yavner report on gambling in the city and dwelt particularly upon gambling in the Clinton Street precinct . " That condition has got to be cleaned up and you men have got to see to it that it 's cleaned up , " he is reported to have told the commanders . Only one of those present , Assistant Chief Inspector John J. De Martino of Manhattan East , is responsible for the Clinton Street Station . The Mayor also stressed that he wanted closer cooperation between To back up his demands the Mayor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street-corner gambling , including the operation of conspicuous dice games , which he held could not have gone on if the officials were out on patrol instead of lolling on chairs in their offices . After the commanders had gone the Mayor remained in Commissioner Williams ' office for a half hour and then left for City Hall . He refused to talk with reporters on his departure . Upon his arrival he had told them that he would not accounce during the day his choice of a successor to Lewis J. Valentine , who resigned last Friday . " I 'm just going to talk in the Commissioner 's office , that 's all , " the Mayor said . Several officials who heard the talk said they were left with the impression that the Mayor had decided not to announce his choice until gambling conditions had been cleaned up . The Mayor had said previously that he would name a man from the ranks .                     