@@708139

txt BIG 3 PEACE UNITY TOASTED BY STALIN Soviet Premier Acclaims U. S. , British Armies at Luncheon for Churchill and Eden By W. R. LAWRENCE Bs , Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . MOSCOW , Oct. ** Joseph Stalin paid the highest tribute today to the British and American forces who have broken into Germany and thereby brought nearer Adolf Hitler 's defeat . The tribute.of the Soviet Union 's war leader , more expansive and more generous than the usual corn-I ment in the Soviet press , was paid at a luncheon given by him in honor of British Prime Minister Churchill and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , at which Marshal Stalin sat between Mr. Churchill and United States Ambassador W. Averell Harriman , and Foreign Commissar Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff sat between Mr. Eden and British Ambassador Sir Archibald Clark-Kerr . In the space of a few hours Mr. Churchill got the answer to the question he had raised at the Mos- , cow airport after his arrival yesterday when , after declaring that the United States and the British Commonwealth of Nations had strained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is for you to judge whether or not we have struck heavy blows . " Premier Stalin , who wore a marshal 's uniform , was in high good humor and the generosity of his toasts in recognition of British // and American assistance drew from Mr. Churchill this response : " It is a sign of a great nation and a great man to be diag , nanimous and generous , and Marshal Stalin has been both . I have always thought , and I think now , that it was the Red Army which clawed the guts out of the filthy Nazis . " Premier Stalin spoke most earnestly about the need for future cooperation to insure continued world peace and to avoid the mistakes of the past , as peace-loving nations apparently are never prepared , but aggressor nations always seemed to be . He added : " In the future this must be avoided . This is the duty of a security organization . " About fifty guests attended the luncheon , held in the Soviet Foreign Office guest house , Spiridonovka , where last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toasted the continued cooperation of the United States , Britain and the Soviet Union in the post-war world to preserve peace and establish security for all nations , large and small . Mr. Churchill , refreshed by his night 's rest in a country house after his arrival in Moscow . followed up the Stalin luncheon with a frank conversation with the Dominion representatives in Moscow . He had already talked privately with the British and American Ambassadors . Premier Stalin 's toast for continued post-war cooperation emphasized that peace-loving nations must prepare as they had not prepared for war in 1939 , when Hitler struck , Friendly Atmosphere Prevails The expansive official luncheon included toasts so numerous that the guests lost count of them , but the atmosphere was much friendlier and more cordial than on Mr. Churchill 's last visit here , when he had the unhappy task of informing Premier Stalin that a " second front " in Europe in 1942 would be replaced by the North African invasion . Beneath the cordial atmosphere of the luncheon was an unmistakable undercurrent of concerned opinion about the type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keynote of every Soviet editorial on the front page today regarding the world security talks concluded at Dumbarton Oaks . The delegations representing Britain and the Soviet Union lost no time buckling down to the work of attempting to settle speedily the ' political and military questions that confront them at this stage of the world war . Mr. Eden , accompanied by Ambassador Clark Kerr , saw Mr. , Molotoff and Vice Foreign Commissar Andrei Y. Vishinsky for an hour and a half , beginning at 6:30 last night , and two hours later Mr. Churchill and Mr. Eden met for three hours with Premier Stalin and Mr Molotoff  --  a session that ended at 1 A. M. today . Mr. Harriman , who is President Roosevelt 's personal representative at these discussions , did not take part in either initial meeting . Significantly , on the day after Prime Minister Churchill 's arrival the Soviet press published fullpage texts of the agreement on vital questions of world security reached at the Dumbarton Oaks conference . It is an interesting fact directly linked with the success of the Churchill-Stalin parleys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole pattern of post-war Europe , that the keynote of all Soviet editorial comments regarding Dumbarton Oaks is that there must be unanimity among the three great powers on all major questions affecting the future peace as well as the present war . Unanimity in Issue The major issues that were not settled at Dumbarton Oaks doubtless will be discussed by Messrs . Stalin and Churchill , even in Mr. Roosevelt 's absence , and the Soviet press makes it clear that one of the questions that have not been settled is the Soviet Union 's view that this unanimity must be expected to endure in the future even in disputes directly concerning one of these powers . All the leading editorials indicate that the Soviet Government is not willing to accept the proposal put forth by the British or American delegates , that the principle that the United Nations ' Council decisions must have the unanimous support of the five permanent Council members shall be waived when the dispute in question affects a permanent member . To permit such a waiver of the unanimity rule would , in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the back " of the power involved , and nullifying the principle of unanimity would be to destroy the cornerstone around which an effective security organization can be erected , the Soviet press contended . Izvestia , the organ of the Supreme Soviet , said the principal lesson to be drawn from the failure of the League of Nations " is that without a firm agreement and joint activities of the leading peace-loving powers , the preservation of peace , warding off of aggression and , even more , the suppression of aggression remain illusions capable only of bringing harm to peace - loving peoples and lulling their vigilance in the face of threatened danger of aggression , as occurred in the years preceding the present war . " Sequel to Dumbarton Oaks The same day that the Soviet papers gave their readers the news that Prime Minister Churchill was here and had met with Mr. Stalin editorials observed that questions that could not be settled at Dumbarton Oaks would be discussed and itoned out , and added : " With cairn confidence the Soviet public is awaiting further steps - in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before and during the war the Soviet Union has shown the whole world that it is the truest bulwark of peaceful and friendly relations between peoples and countries , an unconquerable barrier in the path of the aggressor . The foreign policy of the Soviet Union is unvaryingly determined not only by interest in its own security but by a desire to curb an aggressor who has threatened the security of all other peace-loving peoples  --  large and small . "                     