@@704809

txt The chances of removing most of the patronage in the Federal Government now hangs in the balance in Congress . The ' Ramspeck bill that would cover between 125,000 and 200,000 employees into civil service has passed the House and is now reported out unanimously by the Senate committee . The measure is faced with ' a race against time in which its contestants are apathy and indifference . If it crosses the deadline in the next few days or weeks left before Congress ? quits it will be the culminating act in the broadest Federal extension of civil service in years . The situation is this : When President Roosevelt took office in 1933 the ratio of civil service to political appointees in Washington had reached an equilibrium , after years in which , the civil service group had gradually growls : The civil service ratio was 75 to 80 per cent . The New Deal enormously increased federal employees , and these were picked from the party faithful according to the ancient political custom . As the ranks filled and agencies stabilized , the joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under civil service . The Post Office has at last been put under civil service protection after generations as the chief political pie-counter . The process was extended to other agencies . Pressed Reform Mr. Roosevelt pressed this reform . So far as his power has gone he has blanketed in government workers under civil service by executive order . A recent sweeping executive order completed the work so far as the President 's authority went . But in the course of years Congress had excluded tens of thousands of jobs specifically from civil service and held them as political appointees . All told some 300,000 jobs are specifically exempted by Congressional order , in ' creating the agencies , from non-political protection . To meet this situation the Ramspeck bill was introduced in the 1939 session , authorizing the President to extend the civil service provisions , at his discretion , and with certain qualifications , to exempt agencies . The bill specifically continues the exemption of WPA . The Tennessee Valley Authority is not under civil service , but is operated on a strictly non-political basis . The Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 125,000 and 150,000 would be covered in practice , the largest prospective l unit addition in history . The bill passed the House on Feb. 9 by the overwhelming vote of 214 to 110 , after months of delay . Apathy and Delay Its chief enemy in the Senate has also been apathy and delay . William J. Bulow ( D ) of South Dakota , Chairman of the Civil Service Committee , has made little or no effort to secure a quorum. , He seemed unable to get his committee together . It seemed that the bill would be killed by indifference . At the last minute on Thursday when a committee quorum failed to appear Senator James Mead ( D ) of New York went out into the corridors and rounded up two Senators : Matthew M. Neely ( D ) of West Virginia and Walter George ( D ) of Georgia . At the first roll-call only three Senators ( Bulow , Mead and Walter H. White ( R ) of Maine ) had appeared , which was one short of a quorum . Mk . Mead is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and initiative the bill was unanimously approved . Senator Harry F. Byrd ( D ) of Virginia voted by proxy . Now the question is , can the Senate act in time to save the measure ? There are two obstacles to overcome . First is ? to get the Senate to act before it quits . It may quit in a few days . Second , to compromise differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill .                     