@@706500

txt Boston hospitality burst into rolling breakers of cheer upon cheer ; it stretched the civic countenance in one long , joyful grin that would n't come off the whole day through ; it spilled , full and over-flowing , in a straight-fromthe-heart welcome that all but overwhelmed the 13 modest Americ ' and British war heroes upon whom it was unloosed here today . Originally 10 British and 5 Americans were expected to arrive this morning , but at the last moment two of the American men were called back to active duty . They were Lieut . Commander Harold P. Smith , and Second Lieut . George S. Welch . Tough men of the British Commandos . RAF pilots , recently in the daring raids over Rostok and Lubeck , over Occupied France and far-away Tobruk , and three of America 's ' own  --  fliers who have sent their bombs hurtling upon the Japanese in the Pacific  --  heard today , instead of the roar of guns and the crash of exploding missiles , the full-throated acclaim of ' thousands along the route of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived at 10 o'clock this morning to be greeted by Mayor Maurice J. Tobin , to the Boston Navy Yard and the Fore River Shipyard whei.e they saw America 's mighty answer to the Axis , and along Boston 's bunting-adorned streets in the afternoon parade , these quiet men-of-deeds returned the salutes of the crowd with spirited thumbs-up and V 's for Victory . Throats tightened as fathers and mothers saw in these smiling , keen-eyed boys , their own sons as they might come home from war  --  heroes and beloved of their nation . Hundreds of young men about to go into the service dreamed dreams of great feats to come as the fliers , Commandos and Naval men passed by . While the visiting heroes gave the impression of men more at home on business-like bombing expeditions and stealthy , split-second Commando raids then perched on numbered automobiles to be seen of many crowds . there was no doubt but what they were deeply touched by the reception they received , and pleased at the evidence of active patriotism which they witnessed , as their cars filed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quincy More at home , perhaps , when they mingled at the Navy Yard and Fore River with the unsung heroes behind the scenes who build the ships to beat the Axis , both Britons and Americans expressed enthusiastic interest in the records which these workmen have made in repairing and turning out new ships weeks ahead of the schedule . The heroes were given lunch at the Neighborhood Club in Quincy , after their visit to the Fore River Yard , as guests of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , represented by one of its officials , Edward C. Geehr . The great parade which formed at Dartmouth and Beacon Streets , and wound through the confetti-strewn streets of downtown Boston was colorful with smart detachments of Marines , with marching men of the Navy and Army , with spectacular costumes of Greek Evzones of the infantry , with 12 Army tank guns , with uniformed women of the Women 's Defense Corps , with Boy and Girl Scouts , units of the Red Cross and the American Legion . Fifteen bands gave snap and rhythm to marching feet and drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Band calling for special applause , with their gay costumes and stirring music . The heroes rode in numbered cars , identified by placards giving the name of each , making the Reproduced with permission John Daring Nettleton , who led two formations of six bombers 1,000 miles into Germany to deliver a low-level bombardment in full daylight on the Diesel engine factory at Augsburg . His bullet-ridden plane was the only one to come through that assignment . In Car No. 9 , Flight Sergeant Maxwell Alexander Dick Riddell , who was decorated by the King with the Distinguished Flying Medal when he was only 19 . He , too , has left German cities a smouldering heap of ashes . In Car No. 10 , Lieut . William C. Carrithers , whose skill as a bomber navigator has brought his ships over the target time and again  --  the target being Japanese troops and installations in the Pacific . " Great Gallantry " In Car No. 11 , Lieut . Thomas Wilson Boyd , decorated for " great gallantry " in action as a Commando during the attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Car No. 12 , Sergeant R. George Herbert , a Commando of the Vaagso and Lofoten Isles raids in Norway , and possessor of Distinguished Conduct Medal and Military Medal as a result . In Car No. 13 , Chief Engine Room Artificer Harry Howard , veteran of Tobruk , the Mediterranean , and recently in action in the St. Nazaire raids . The crowds who gather on Boston Common tonight will thrill to the remarkable precision drill of 76 Royal Canadian Air Force Cadets , who will drill for 15 minutes without a single command to guide them . These Cadets and the Highland Piper band came from Canada specifically to appear today and to express Canadian co-operation with the War Hero Tour which is under the sponsorship of the United States Government and designed to stimulate patriotic interest in the purchase of war bonds and stamps . Song Sheets Over half a million song sheets , with patriotic songs for group singing , will be distributed prior to the opening of the program at 7:00 with the singing of the " Star Spangled Banner " by Miss Pons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Walter Kidder . There will be a mass induction of army selectees , Navy air cadets and Marines , followed by a presentation by Mayor Tobin of a gold medal from the City of Boston to each member of the visiting hero party . Each of the hero guests is scheduled to speak from the platform .                     