@@709306

txt Empowered by the 7,000 West-1 ern Union telegraph workers in this city , to call a new strike or take any other action they deem necessary to force reinstatement of the arbitrator originally named 1 ' by Supreme Court Justice Aaron J. Levy in their dispute with the company , officers of the American Communications Association , CIO , announced last night that their first move would be to appeal to the Appellate Division against Justice Levy 's appointment of Samuel Seabury as arbitrator in place of Abraham L. Pomerantz , his original choice . Their statement was made after Justice Levy had approved the company 's request that Mr. Pomerantz be disqualified on the ground that he was an enroll ' d member of the American Labor party and had made many speeches upholding strikers and " castigating " management . In his decision Justice Levy expressed the fear that management - labor strife might lead to " anarchy " and said he did not believe Mr. Pomerantz could function effectively in the light of the evidence presented by the company . Neither Mr. Pomerantz nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one of New York 's best-known citizens , had anything to say about the situation , although Mr. Pomerantz previously had filed a brief with Justice Levy in which he denied any bias against management and voiced apprehension that his disqualification as arbitrator might be construed as an adjudication of his permanent disqualification for judicial , office . He was candidate for Supreme Court justice on the Democratic and Labor party tickets last November . The company , through its vice president , T. B. Gittings , applauded the selection of Mr. Seabury and said it would do everything in its power to expedite the arbitration proceedings . The question to be decided is whether the National War Labor Board , in a decision made before it went out of existence on Dec. 31 , intended to provide any wage increases for one group of New York employes . The union agreed to end its five-week strike against Western Union on Feb. 11 , when the company signed a stipulation submitting this question to arbitration by an arbitrator to be selected by Justice Levy . Asserting that the substitution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record in which an arbitrator had been removed on the basis of his economic , social or political views , Joseph P. Selly , president of the union , accused Justice Levy of " craven subservience " to the Western Union company . " We do not know wha influences and considerations may have entered into this perverted decision , " Mr. Selly said in a press conference before attending a meeting of 3,000 Western Union workers at the Hotel St. George in Brooklyn . Union Appeal Planned " The union will , of course , appeal this decision to the Appellate Division and , unless justice has gone completely awry and there is no sanity left in the courts , Justice Levy will receive the rebuke he so richly deserves by reversal . " Justice Levy not only gives no basis in law for his decision but , in addition , takes this occasion to make a gratuitous attack on the entire labor movement . His spleen and bile spill over in his attack on labor while he kisses the foot of management . " Mr. Selly described Mr. Seabury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-union employers . " In support of this assertion , he cited . Mr. Seabury 's appearance as counsel for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the Triboro Coach Corporation in actions against two other CIO unions . If - allowed to stand , Justice Levy 's decision would reduce the whole principle of arbitration . in labor disputes to an " absurdity , " Mr. Selly contended . Employers would be able to delay final rulings indefinitely by taking " appeals without grounds " and the confidence of labor in the courts would be undermined , the union leader said . At the Brooklyn meeting the strike strategy committee of the union , which conducted the last strike , was authorized to take " any and all actions necessary to protect the interests " of the Western Union workers . Asked whether the committee would withhold strike action until its appeal to the higher court had been considered , Mr. Selly declined to make a commitment . " With the kind of provocation and double-dealing our membership has been confronted with , anything is possible , " he declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to less desirable assignments and failed to return to this city relay facilities moved to Philadel1phia and other centers during the strike , thus threatening additional lay-offs . All of these actions were in violation of the company 's promise that there would be no discrimination as a result of the strike , Mr. Selly charged . Would Halt Arbitration As part of its motion to have Mr. Pomerantz reinstated , the union will ask that all arbitration proceedings before Mr. Seabury be halted , he added . In his decision Justice Levy said it was plain that the interests of labor could not be further advanced " when in constant conflict with management and when its leaders hold it to be adverse in interest to that of management . " " Unfortunately , the entire world has been and continues to be in a conflagration of strife and disunity , " the court declared .. " Should this conflict continue long in our management-labor relations , only anarchy can follow . Indeed , it is difficult to perceive why a wave of strikes is being permitted to engulf the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a pattern to alter the prevailing social and political concepts . " Calling for more harmonious relations between employers and employes , Justice Levy warned that the only effect of partisanship was to set the parties more widely apart , instead of bringing them closer together . Under these circumstances , he observed , it is imperative that those dealing with labor problems in a judicial or quasi-judicial capacity be wholly free from bias . " It is with considerable satisfaction , " he added , " that I note that the honesty and integrity of the arbitrator Mr. Pomerantz have not been questioned , thus , in some measure at least , vindicating the appointment . That , however , plaintiff says , is not in the circumstances enough and , indeed , it is not enough if , in fact , as plaintiff endeavors now to make it appear , the arbitrator has for some time past evinced a course of conduct that places him not merely among those articulate concerning the social and economic problems confronting us but rather ' among those who with all the ardor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of labor so stirringly . Even more , it is fair to say , that this advocacy is not set in the framework of belief or desire to establish a unified relationship of management and labor , with increasing enlightenment in conferring upon all the people the benefits of industrial enterprise , but rather in opposing the interests of management and labor as irreconcilable . Idealism Held Hindrance " I must confess that by the disclosures presented I have now come to know of the idealism of the arbitrator but this , it seems to me , can only hinder him in the proper performance of his task . Paradoxical as this may apepar , the circumstances permit no other thought . At all events , this very challenge , it may well be said , arrests , if it does not substantially impair , the usefulness of the incumbent . " In the light of these observations , Justice Levy said , the office of arbitrator was declared vacant and Mr. Seabury appointed to fill it . The first Western Union strike , which lasted from Jan 8 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of the country to one-third of normal , shut off all messenger service and reduced the flow of trans-atlantic radio and cable messages . The strike was called in protest against a reduction by the NVVLB of an earlier wage award by the New York Regional War Labor Board . Under the settlement ar ranged by Justice Levy , the union agreed to accept the average wage increase of 1231 cents an hour au thorized 13y the national board , ' on condition that the one clause covering a group variously estimated at 1,100 to 2,000 - workers be submitted to arbitration . The company contends that these workers are not entitled to an increase under the award ; the union maintains that they are ..                     