@@707658

txt Inefficiency on the part of the Government in estimating military oil requirements plus an effort by the Government to placate John L. Lewis and eventually put the Government in the oil business were today held to be the reasons for the current shortage of fuel oil in the United States by Warren C , Platt of Cleveland , Ohio . Mr. Platt is President of National Petroleum News , and was a speaker at the luncheon meeting of the Oil Heat Institute of New England at the Hotel Statler . Mr. Platt mentioned the oil conversion bill sponsored by both President Roosevelt and Petroleum Co-ordinator for War Harold L. Ickes . This bill , he said , originally had been planned for the purpose of taking over the ? organization and control of oil wells on Government-owned land . Governors Object The bill was objected to , Mr. Platt stated , by 17 Governors from 17 Democratic States in oil-producing areas . They held it not only to be an invasion of States ' rights , but recognized it as an attempt on the part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of natural gas as well . Automatic oil heating equipment stands second on the list of home appliances which civilians desire most after the war , according to a national- survey , asserted T. A. Crawford , General Sales Manager of the Timken Silent Automatic Division of the Timkeri-Detroit Axle Company . Beyond any doubt , Mr. Crawford added by way of assurance , people will be able to get all the oil and gasoline they want after the war , and at ? reasonable pricv , He pointed to a chart in a recently issued pamphlet of the Oil Heat Institute of America , wherein it is shown that " the earth should ultimately give up 700,000 , - 000,000 , barrels of petroleum . So far , he added , 44,000 ,  |p00,000  barrels have been discovered in the United States . Petroleum Used This 44,000,000,000 barrels represents all the petroleum used since it was first discovered in America , plus what is expected to be consumed during the next 14 years . In addition to this , another 56,000,000,000 barrels is estimated to be hidden under American'soil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out , some 37,000,000,000 barrels already have been discovered in other parts of the world . This leaves an ultimate reserve of oil in the earth of some 600,000 , - 000,000 barrels  --  all this on the credit side of tomorrow 's ledger . Furthermore , homes of the future will be better built to retain heat , so that less oil will be needed to keep them warm , Mr. Crawford stated . Surveys , even today , show that two houses of the same size in the same location  --  one modernly constructed , and the other without proper insulation  --  may consume from 900 to 3,400 gallons of oil during the heating season . " There 's a marked movement toward improved insulation , and people are daily demanding better construction for the future , " he added . Luncheon speakers today included Frank Spencer , of Chicago , National Chairman of the Distribution Division of the Oil Heat Institute of America ; Carroll E. Lewis , of Rochester , N. Y. , National President of the Oil Heat Institute of America . Election of officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted in J. Henry Brody , President of the Automatic Heating Corporation of Massachusetts , Timken Silent Automatic dealers for the Metropolitan Boston area , being named President . Edward P. Hacker and Francis Gilbane were . named Vice-Presidents ; Fred . N. Beckwith was reelected Executive Secretary ; and the following were elected to the Executive Committee ; Don J. Edwards , Chairman ; Joseph F. Walsh ; and Ivan C. Sutherland .                     