@@708973

txt The Japanese press and its readers , perhaps encouraged by Gem Douglas 's series of crackdowns on old practices of propaganda and censorship , now have quietly begun to air a whole series of complaints against present conditions in conquered Japan and to place the blame for at least part of the empire 's current misfortunes on " bureaucratic " Imperial officials . The situation is something novel in these islands , where during the war " thought police " and spies would have prevented even the private utterance of such statements as are now being made publicly in. the large Tokyo dailies . At the same time , readers ' and editors ' complaints , which receive no particular prominence , but come in a steady daily stream , paint a grim picture of the condition of the ordinary man in Japan after three and a half years of war , and make apparent the degree of general misery that may be expected during the forthcoming winter . The popular grumbling against the Administration does not reach the level , for example , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixty-five officials of various Ministries that " the bureaucratic conception of the almighty government official must be abandoned , " or the statement last month of Prince HigashiKuni 's personal adviser , Yoshido Kodama , that the elder war leaders should retire in mass , returning their war-gained orders , ranks and distinctions . The complaints now voiced in the press deal with the difficulties of obtaining food , the scarcity of everything from matches to rice kettles , cutlery , soap and wooden clogs and the alleged apathetic attitude of the " bureaucrats " toward the situation . Thus one workman , writing recently in Mainichi , bitterly protested that " we ca n't work with the present ration of food , which barely maintains our constitution , " and demanded a higher allotment to save workers from exorbitant black market prices . A similar letter in the same newspaper complained that the Ministry of Agriculture had not made public any policy dealing with the shortages or figures showing how much rice was in stock or what the prospects of the coming harvest were . The writer  --  anonymous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I wonder if the Ministry knows that the people of my district have received soy beans and potatoes in place of rice , but have received no rice for a long time . " Another issue taken up by the newspapers is the continued absence of illuminating and cooking gas and the lack of Charcoal to take its place . Since the Japanese are not willing to use their remaining charcoal for cooking , knowing how badly they will need it for heat when cold weather begins , it is now proposed that the neighborhood associations cut down Tokyo 's remaining trees and turn them into fuel . Other letters and editorials picture air-raid victims as deprived of such necessities as cooking utensils , tableware and blankets as , winter comes on , and point out that the needed metalware for cooking and heating can not be manufactured before the end of the year , when , it is said , 5,000,000 aluminum pots will be put on sale , wiping out the black market in that commodity , which is charging 1,500 to 2,000 per cent more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be conjectured , no writer or editor ' I yet has named any of the " bureau ' crats " on whom the blame is placed , but they might be presumed to include Japan 's 70,000 local police chiefs and Mayors , who formerly ruled the rural communities , as well as petty GovernIment officials in the cities . Perhaps their severest spanking came a few days ago from the industrial-economic organ , Nippon Sangyo Keizai , which asserted that " there is no country where people are so slighted by the governing class as in Japan . " All Government officials , from top to bottom , should now radically rectify their haughty attitude toward the people , " the newspaper continued . " If they do not , it will be necessary to regard them as opponents of liberalism and treat them as criminals who are restraining the development of Japan 's new peaceful nation . " In Japan the people have been treated like dust , while the bureaucrats have spent their hours idle in slumber and the people were reluctant to go to Government offices because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Japan 's newspapers and readers apparently are just beginning to awaken to the fact that the old regime may indeed be over , and with the coming of the Allies they propose all kinds of remedies for Japan 's ills , some advanced , some fanciful . Arms Inventory Ordered TOKYO , Oct. 2 ( 1 . T.P. ) ? General today demanded a full accounting of all Japanese armament and all war production of the last five years . The Allied commander demanded specific armament statistics for each year from 1941 through August , 1945 , when the Japanese surrendered . He directed the Japanese Government to furnish information as to the number of units of each type of weapon manufactured , the number of rounds of ammunition made for them and the number of combat vehicles and automotive equipment . Observers believed this information would be used as a check against existing stores and estimated battle expenditures to determine whether any large supplies had been hidden . The Imperial Government was directed to produce the information in the shortest possible time . An editorial in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full military administration upon Japan ! because of the Cabinet 's failure to act . " If the present Cabinet has not that initiative , then it has no political power to overcome the present difficulties , wherefore it should manfully resign , " the paper dedared . General ordered the confiscation of all copies of the September issue of the widely circulated English-language Japanese magazine , Toyo Keizai Shimpo . The issue carried an anonymous article dealing with Japanese reaction to American occupation , which General termed , " material inimical to the interests of the occupation forces . "                     