@@712318

txt The fateful Washington conference on Britain 's dollar gap is to begin today . There has been much ill-natured , ill-advised and ill-informed criticism of the Labor Government which has been in power since the end of the war , and it is well for both sides that the worst of the storm has blown over . At the same time it would be neither frank nor honest to let our British friends feel that we do not remain critical of some of the things that have been done and are still being done . Where , from our point of view , did the Socialist Government go wrong ? Concededly Britain ended the war with a damaged and antiquated industrial structure , with her foreign ivestments greatly reduced and with many markets lost . No one could question the need for vastly expanded exports nor the political and human necessity of maintaining high-level employment and establishing " social justice , " including the continued rationing of food and clothing . The civic discipline was wonderful to behold , but one harmful economic effect of rationing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods , drawing off labor and raw materials to their manufacture and sale . Moreover , price controls led to ever-mounting government subsidies , especially on food . Other features of the Welfare State , such as housing , family allowances , national insurance and later the National Health Service , placed too great a burden on the budget which is to say on the people and on industry . High profits , high wages and underproduction added to the inflationary pressure . The Government was trying to do too much too quickly . it was offering the mass of the people more goods , houses and social services than before the war , Nit it disposed of fewer resources . Neither capital investment nor increased efficiency as shown by output per man hour filled the gap . British trade unions retained too many of their restrictive practices , while they went after shorter hours and higher pay in a period when the nation 's survival depended on increased output through harder individual work . Wage rates rose 34 per cent between June , 1945 , and April , 1947 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five-day- week . British workmen worked hard and well , but , given the desperate situation of their country , one must conclude that they have not worked as well or as hard as was necessary . On the management side there should have been a more drastic reorganization of industry . British employers clung to their restrictive practice , their price fixing , their cartels and monopolies , their trade associations and market-sharing devices and their antiquated equipment even in cases where they could have modernized . The export trade , as is now recognized , was not given proper incentives to encourage sales to the dollar area . Instead , the British relied on Schachtian methods of forcing others to purchase goods by manipulating sterling and the sterling war balances . The employer was protected against a slump as the worker was against unemployment , and meanwhile ? both foreign commitments and the internal standard of liv= ing were sustained in part by American aid . Other commitments were too heavy  --  Germany , Austria , Palestine , defense expenditures including a conscript army . Granting that Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and the Soviet Union  --  her sickness needed cure before the nation could resume its natural role in world affairs . It was like a convalescent bringing on a collapse when patience , rest and taking it easy for a while would have restored his strength . The Labor Government has maintained high employment , splendid social I services and budgetary surpluses . It has taxed and taxed and taxed , and the people paid loyally and cheerfully , but in the long run the bill could only be met by exports . The problems were not unemployment , over-production , under-consumption , as in the hated inter-war period of depression , but overfull employment , an inflationary consumer-pressure and under-production in vital fields like coal , textiles and pottery . Many Americans would add the extravagant effects of nationalization , which to us is a wasteful and inefficient method . Americans , in short , feel that British economy will only straighten out by the painful process of , facing temporarily a , reduced standard of living , cutting the cost of the Welfare State and standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry reequipped and efficiency improved so that British products will be able to compete on terms of free trade in world markets and the pound sterling will have a stable , convertible value . No one asks or expects these goals to be reached now or in the near future , and no one underestimates the self-sacrifice , patience , discipline and hardships that they entail . The point is that Britain 's American friends can see no other solution in the long run .                     