@@705889

txt ACTS IN EMERGENCY Government Carries Out Ultimatum in Face of Union Threat 11 SEIZURES DUE TODAY Seamen Refuse to Arbitrate Bonus Demand  --  Operation Now Federal Problem The United States Government seized three American-flag freighters in Weehawken , N. J. , late yesterday afternoon to break a week ' old strike called by an American Federation of Labor sea union to enforce its war bonus demands . At 5:30 P. M. Captain Granville Conway , district director of the Maritime Commission , appeared at Pier K in Weehawken on instructions from Washington and posted notices on the freighters Alcoa I Scout , Alcoa Banner and Alcoa Trader , saying that the ships had been requisitioned by the government pursuant to powers bestowed on the commission under the national emergency proclaimed by President Roosevelt . General Strike Threatened The seizure was taken in the face of a threat of a general " ship strike on the part of the Seafarers International Union , which had warned earlier in the day that seamen on lines not now affected would he called off to support its demand for war bonuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday night by Rear Admiral Emory S. Land , chairman of the commission , that if the unions and the companies involved would not agree to arbitrate the dispute , the government would take the unprecedented course of seizing the ships and operating them in their accustomed routes . The three vessels were only the first to be taken over and the others that have been tied up may be seized today . Yesterday morning S. L U. strikes were in effect on eleven vessels , involving four steamship lines . In the morning seamen of the Sailors Union of the Pacific walked off three more ships operated by two other lines . They gave no reasons and did not make demands on the companies , and it was believed the strike was a sympathy move , as the two unions , while not affiliated , are friendly and work together , one on the West Coast and the other on the Atlantic . With fourteen ships idle , including several that have passed their sailing dates and are loaded with important cargoes for United States bases in the West Indies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizure was one that has been threatened vaguely on several occasions and it is one that // 3 STRUCK VESSELS SEIZED BY U. S. HERE // the Maritime Commission took reluctantly because of its serious ramifications . Deadline Postponed The commission even postponed its own deadline from noon to 4 o'clock , and at the latter hour Captain . Conway made a final check by telephone with the parties involved . Harmon Lewis , president of the Alcoa Line , a subsidiary of the Ali , minum Corporation of America , reiterated his willingness to arbitrate the dispute . John Hawk , secretary and leader of the S. L U. , held to his position and refused arbitration , at least on the government 's terms . Mr. Lewis , in reply to a question , said he thought the seizure of his ships was " a reasonable act " on the part of the government . The commission , he added , had taken an active part in trying to solve the difficulties and he expressed gratitude for the time and attention given the strike by Admiral Land . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moat of which operate in and out of New York . Of these the line owns twenty-four and the others are chartered or operated under similar arrangements . It carries cargoes to the American bases in the West Indies and brings back large quantities of bauxite for the manufacture of aluminum . Its ships sail out of Atlantic , Gulf and Canadian ports . Union Offer Refused Earlier in the day the S. I. U. had made a proposal to the steamship company , setting forth its demands for war bonuses , and offering to accept a minimum bonus , said to be $60 a month for operating in the West Indies , and leaving the maximum figure to be determined by arbitration . The offer was refused by the company , apparently on the ground that it was not an offer of arbitration but another demand for a war bonus . In a press conference held in his office at 17 Battery Place , just as Captain Conway was visiting the three ships and officially removing them from the ' field of private enterprise , Mr. Lewis said that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the union on war bonuses , as it felt that the question was of such a scale as to require settlement on a broad basis , in association with the government , with all unions and all shipping lines operating to foreign points . This conception of an industrywide settlement of seamen 's pay under the emergency was suggested by the Maritime Commission some weeks ago , and meetings with officer unions were held with success . The conferences covering unlicensed unions were postponed pending the establishment of a formula , or index , based on the rise and fall of hull insurance rates as a guide to actual danger faced by seamen in belligerent trades . This index has been delayed , and the S. L U. , a week ago , decided not to wait longer , and called the strike against the Alcoa Line after Alcoa had refused to bargain independently on war bonuses . The S. L U. and other unions had agreed to the industry-wide conference and had subscribed to an understanding that whatever scale set by the conferences would be sent to impartial arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steadily The strike has spread steadily . By early morning yesterday eleven vessels here and in other ports were brought into the strike . In New York they were in addition to the three Alcoa ships named , the passenger liner Evangeline , under charter to Alcoa , the Robin Gray of the Robin Line , operating to South and East African ports , and the Oakmar of the Calmar Line . The Alcoa Transport , Alcoa Rambler and Alcoa Carrier were affected in New Orleans and Mobile , and the Waterman Line freighter Beauregard in New Orleans . In Boston the passenger liner Yarmouth , about to begin her season 's voyage to Canadian ports , was struck . Yesterday the Sailors Union of the Pacific struck on the American-Hawaiian Line freighters Minnesotan and Oklahoman , both engage4 in a defense route in association with the government but under private operation . They also walked off the Sea Thrush , of the Shepard Line , which was loading in Brooklyn for foreign ports . A staff of men contributed to by the commission and the Alcoa Line started work immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No effort was made , as far as could be learned last night , to man the ships . The question of crews will be faced this morning by the commission , as it will be necessary for the government to sign on its own seamen . One determining factor will be the attitude of the officer crews . The Alcoa Line has contracts with the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association and with the National Organization of Masters , Mates and Pilots . If these men elect to extend their contracts under government operation or to remain at their posts under any conditions set forth by the government , the only problem will be to provide unlicensed men for the stewards , deck and engine departments . Mr. Lewis said that the Alcoa had about ' twenty-five unlicensed men in each of the crews . " Free " Hiring Hall Opened The government Is already prepared for the manning question , through the office of the Shipping Commissioner in New York , which has opened a " free " hall for independent hiring . This hall already is signing men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless of union affiliation or the lack of it . Moreover , the government can call upon its own training stations on the Atlantic , Gulf and West Coast . As a last resort it could man the ships with Coast Guards or Navy men , but this contingency was not expected to develop . How the operation will work out was not clear as it has no precedent . It is possible that the government , having possessed the ships , will allocate them to private interests for operation on the government account . In this case it is likely that Alcoa will receive them . Thus Alcoa would be operating its own ships as agents of the government , with the difference that the government would be dictating terms to any seamen that wish to sign . A membership meeting of the S. I. U. was held last night at union headquarters , 2 Stone Street . It was attended by about 600 members , according to Leonard Tir , chairman of the strike committee , who said later that the position of the union had not changed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was said that union officers were not empowered to call a strike without a referendum of the membership , and thus far no attempt to hold a referendum had been made . Shipping men in the city were hoping that the unions would waver this morning . They pointed out that the seamen had little to gain by striking , and that the proposed industry-wide scheme to stabilize war bonus matters was ideal for all concerned . If no weakening is visible today the government will go ahead with other seizures and start to recruit men for emergency operation .                     