@@709654

txt Reversing a previous stand for an increase in the Social Security oldage insurance tax , the House Ways and Means Committee announced today a decision to " freeze " the tax for another year at 1 per cent on employers ' payrolls and employes ' pay . Moreover , the committee cut out of its Social Security revision bill ' a provision for larger grants to low-income States for the payment of benefits to needy aged , blind ' and dependent children . The reversal occurred when the committee confronted a deadlock in the House Rules Committee. , Representative Harold Knutson , ' Republican , of Minnesota , said such a compromise was necessary to get any bill at all passed before Congress adjourns for the summer . The new changes in the bill probably will block a House floor battle on the Townsend old age pension plan , since under the com- , promise the leadership hopes to present the bill to the House with a rule barring amendments . Provisions of Measure As newly drawn the security revision measure provides : . 1 . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survivors ' insure ance . The committee previously had voted to put this tax at 1.5 per cent against employers and employes . for a five-year period beginning Jan. 1 . Without Congressional action this tax , by provision on the original security statute , would increase automatically next January to 2.5 per cent on employers and employes 2 . Special survivors insurance coverage for the families of veterans of World War II . This stipulation would give insurance protection , without cost , to the families of any veteran who dies within the next three years . 3 . Blanketing 200,000 maritime workers under the unemployment compensation features of the Social Security Act . These workers have not in the past been covered . 4 . An increase from $20 a month to $25 in the amount the Federal Government will put up for matching State funds paid to needy aged , blind and dependent children . This makes it possible , under the fiftyfifty Federal-State matching arrangement , for a needy peison to receive $50 a month instead of the present $40 top . The committee previously had voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to $30 , and to put up two Federal dollars for each State dollar in those States where individual incomes are 66 per cent or less of the national average . This earlier provision , by a special formula , also would have given more Federal dollars in those States where the income is 66 to 99 per cent of the national average . This provision encountered formidable opposition from House members representing States with high individual incomes . With the Ways and Means members at loggerheads also on the effort to raise the old age insurance tax , the Rules Committee balked on a request by Chairman Robert L. Doughton of the Ways and Means Committee to limit amendments that could be considered on the House floor . Thus facing a possibility the bill would go to the floor wide open for amendments , the Ways and Means group rewrote its bill .                     