@@708488

txt Britain and the allies have laid aside a " consId ? erabie stock of essential foodstuffs which will be sent into western Holland with all possible speed as soon as the Germans are driven out or retire , " Prime Minister Churchill told the house of commons today . He disclosed that an " interim civil import program to meet the immediate needs of these areas has been prepared by the Netherlands gov-1 ernment and approved by the British and United States governments and supreme headquarters of the allied expeditionary force iSHAEFl and deliveries already are being made against this program in addition to the regular inflow of essential civilian supplies under the military program . " Denied Having Such Stores . The Churchill disclosure was made after a lengthy private inquiry here into the relief supplies situation in which British officials denied that this country has great stores of food , clothing , or raw materials which could be made available for the liberated countries . Reluctance of British officialdom to provide fats and figures on what might be termed their " strategic reserves " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stocks to meet the nation 's own emergency needs . It is foreseen also that a strong demand will be voiced by the British people for more liberal food and clothes rations when V-day signals the prssing of the need to retain anything against the threat of German bombs , blitzes , or invasion . Meat Ration Cut Hinted . On the other hand , Britishers were warned today they might have to accept possibly a severe cut in the meat ration within a few months ) because of the enormous demands ' of the liberated countries on the alligs ' stocks which have been depleted by bad drouths in Australia and New Zealand and because reserves have reached such a level that they can not be allowed to dwindle further . The British have been protesting recently that they should not have to suffer any further cuts in essential ration categories . One national newspaper the other day gave wide circulation to a cartoon showing puzzled Britisher being outfitted with a very skimpy suit of clothes by a beaming tailor who had hid . den under the counter huge bundies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relief and Ile. habilitation Administration Forces and Export . " The question of British reserves which might alleviate suffering in recently*. occupied lands arose when Samuel Rosenman , one of President Roosevelt 's economic advisers , cTme here recently to discuss measures to increase the flow of vital supplies , other than finished munitions , to the liberated allied countries and to ascertain what they need to restore their economies . Reports circulated in the United States that Britain had huge re ? serve stocks were termed a misap ? prehension by officials of several British ministries . They said that stocks which Britain began building up In 1940 against a threatened Ger . man Invasion already had been poured back into civilian channels or released for a pool of allied supplies which the United States , Canada , and the United Kingdom have sent to the continent since D-day . 900,000 Tons to France . This combined civilian relief program . War Minister James Grigg said in commons yesterday , has sent more than 300,000 tons of food to France , Belgium , and Holland , 150 , - 000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million tons to Italy . Deliveries to France and Belgium are averaging 7,000 tons daily , he added . Tho Grigg emphasized that " these supplies have been a joint United States , United Kingdom , and Cana. dian responsibility , " both the British war office and the food ministry refused to give a breakdown of the percentages contributed by each of the three sources . Altho a member of the Rosenman mission had said British reserve stock piles of food are " very substantial " tho the exact . quantity is a secret , a food ministry spokesman insisted that all invasion reserves except some " bulk stores " have been released into normal trade channels . Loaned to France . The stores still held include cooking oils , sugar , fats , and other such items that can be preserved in bulk . Some of these supplies , which were cached in 1940 in 8,000 warehouses , are being loaned to France to relieve shortages until the French again can obtain supplies from the colonies . Paris reports have indicat. ed that Britain will send 7,500 tons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons of coal a month . Altho a food ministry authority declined to disclose the quantities of bulk stores being maintained , a board of trade index indicated that the food reserves on hand last Janu. ary were 13.4 per cent lower than on the corresponding date in 1944 . The same secrecy is maintained regarding clothing supplies on hand in this country as well as the " con. siderable " quantities sent to the liberated lands . A board of trade spokesman admitted there were large stocks of raw cotton and wool in warehouses , but said the supply of finished materials for clothing was limited . The retailers ' association recently protested to the government that unless more labor was released to manufacture raw material into clothing , there might not be enough clothes to meet ration demands . Clothing dealers were informed nine months ago they might clip into stocks of essential clothes set aside in 1940 against possible heavy losses due to bombing . However , tile board of trade index stocks of wearing apparel on hand in Janu. ary , including materials , clothing , boots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below 1942 when the average quality on hand equaled two to two and a quarter months ' requirements . Compared with last year the decline in such items ranged from 7.7 to 34.9 per cent . In the raw materials field , a spokesman for the ministry of supply said not much is stocked here aside from what various plants are able to hold for their own reserve use . Dispersal of these stockpiles of steel scrap , iron , and iron ore at plants thruout the country makes it possible to obtain the exact figures on reserve supplies tho hoard of trade figures show stocks of nonfood merchandise at almost 13 per cent below the 1940 level . The only raw material which seems to be in a strong position here is timber , large stocks of which are ; set aside for the repairing of air raid damage . A spokesman for the ministry of reconstruction said , however , that reports of huge reserves were based on a complete misapprehension of the situation . He explained reports that the country has more than it did in 1940 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line , but now have been restored to a safe level .                     