@@705305

txt With the country facing the danger of in ? V n I % ? crnent I n foreign w 11 r Ihr most moMellious ina u guration of a President in generations will take plate at the capitol t o - morrow noon . IncidentRoom , rII . For the first time in our history a man will enter upon a third term in the White House when President Roosevelt takes the oath of office administered by Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes . Not since Woodrow Wilson 's second inauguration 24 years ago has the United States been so close to war . Not since Abraham Lincoln 's first Inauguration in 1801 on the eve of the civil war has a President 's Inaugural address been awaited by the country and by the world at large with so much suspense . Look for More Per Talk . Altho Mr. Roosevelt several times in the last few weeks has declared the annihilation of the axis powers essential to American security and welfare . his inaugural address tomorrow is looked to for further enlightenment on his war program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service at St. John 's Episcopal church , across Lafaycite square from the White House . Then he will return to the White House and proceed In state to the capitol where he will tal:c the oath on the east front before an enormous assemblage of people and deliver his inaugural address . From the capitol the President will return to the White House for a buffet luncheon at which there will be several thousand guests . Next there will be an air show . Then he will review the inauguration parade from a stand in Pennsylvania avenue in front of the White House . Later he will receive state governors at the White House and then appear at a tea there where several thousand more guests will be entertained . All Hotels Are ? Filled . Washington is jammed with the inauguration crowd which was arriv. ing all day in regular and special trains , buses , and automobiles . The hotels are  --  filled to the last cot , and a hundred Pullman cars are housing the overflow . The bunting fluttering streets are crowded with throngs of inauguration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their suites who have come in full regalia to do special honor to the thrice elected Democratic President . The preliminaries today Included an interdenominational church sere . Ice at Lafayette square , a reception to the visiting governors by Joseph E. Davies , chairman of the inaugura ? lion committee , and Mrs. Davies ; a 1,500 plate dinner by the members of the electoral college , and the entertainment by stage stars tonight at Constitution hall . Day 's Lull in Battle . Over all the inauguration festivities ' mpg the pail of foreign war in which America Is becoming more and more deeply involved . Inauguration day is ' to furnish only a 24 hour lull In the hostilities on Capitol hill engendered by the President 's bill to clothe the executive with dictatorial powers to furnish unlimited quantities of armament to any nations he may designate . With the administration contending that the third term election'is a popular vote of confidence in the Roosevelt war program , and the opposition asserting that the Roosevelt program is driving the country into war in defiance of the popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing before the house foreign affairs committee Tuesday . The prospect is that the hearings will continue all of this week and that the house will not . receive the bill from the committee till next week . Passage of the bill by the house Is assured , but with numerous modifying amendments .                     