@@712241

txt New MTA fare maps were being closely studied today by Boston 's trolley and bus-riding putlic . Posted in 300 strategic points along the Metropolitan Transit Authority 's widespread system , the maps closely resemble spider webs  --  with heavy lines , thin lines , and spotted lines designating the new 5-10-15-cent fare rates which . will go into effect at 4:30 a.m. tomorrow . At the same time , thousands of Fare Guide booklets were being distributed from collectors ' booths to commuters who wanted to brush up on just how they 'll pay their new fares . Actually , it 's not too complicated . And the change-over is expected to be accomplished with the ease and smoothness of a bus or trolley car just getting under way . Paper Work ' for Few Eighty-five per cent of the nearly half a million pasengers expected to use the MTA tomorrow will pay straight fares of 5 , 10 , or 15 cents . They will not be bothered with so-called " paper work . " The remaining 15 per cent comprise " short-run riders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will encounter complications with the array of new identification slips and warrants  --  in a myriad of color combinations . However , the MTA has completed elaborate plans to facilitate matters , so that the public should be " educated " within a few days . MTA employees have been posted on the new fare schedules by an 80-man team of instructors . While . the new identification warrants and checks are expected to cause some confusion , MTA employees no longer will be bothered with transfers . They have been elilninated entirely . The new fare schedule will be as follows : Five cents for a single local ride on 125 of the 129 surface car , bus , and trackless trolley lines , or portions thereof , Five cents for pupils ' fares . Five cents summer fare for children continues through September 8 , 1949 , Ten cents for a single ride on the subway , tunnel and elevated lines  --  the rapid transit system  --  and on four surface lines . Fifteen cents for a combination surface anti rapid transit ride . Twenty cents for a combination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents for any ride , with universal transfer , on lines operated during the early morning hours  --  the " Owl " service , The convenient , pocket-sized MTA Fare Guide not only contains complete information for specific lines all over the system , but lists the six methods of fare collection , as follows : 1 . For local surface ride , pay enter 5 cents cash in fare box or present valid identification check . For rapid transit ride , pay enter 10 cents cash in station passimeter. 2 . For local ride , pay enter 5 cents in fare box or present valid identification check . For combination surface and rapid transit ride , pay , enter 15 cents cash in fare box and obtain duplex identification check to change to lines connecting with rapid transit linos , to lines running into the subways , and to enter stations on the rapid transit lines . Identification Check 3 . For local surface ride , pay leave 5 cents cash in fare box or present valid identification check . For rapid transit ride , pay enter 10 cents in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave 5 cents in fare box or present valid identification check . For combination surface and rapid transit ride , pay leave 15 cents in fare box and obtain duplex identification check to change to lines connecting with rapid transit lines , to lines running into the subways , and to enter stations on rapid transit lines . 5 . For local surface ride , deposit 5 cents in fare box , hand operator 10 cents , and obtain identification warrant which , if presented to operator within limits of local ride , will be exchanged for 10 cents cash . For combination surface and subway ride , pay enter 15 cents cash in fare box or present valid identification check . 6 . For a ride starting at a rapid transit station or at last stop before entering a subway , pay enter 10 cents in station.passimeter or in fare box on car .                     