@@707304

txt The coordination of the Office of Economic Warfare , the Office of Lend-Lease Administration and the Office of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation Operations by the State Department in a way which will give the department complete control over their activities and leave them as instruments executing its policies has been planned and will shortly be put in effect , it was learned today . Part of the plan is the formulation of a definite and coordinated policy with regard to the international economic activities of the Government . Hitherto there has been a general understanding in theory , but in practice some of the agencies which were supposed to execute economic policy have worked at cross-purposes . The conflict between the foreign activities of some of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation subsidiaries and those of the Board of Economic Warfare exploded recently in the row between Vice President Wallace and Secretary Jones , which led to the coordination of these activities by the OEW under Leo T. Crowley as its new head . Some Friction Still Exists But there is still uncertainty regarding the representative spheres of OEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction between OEW and the War Food Administration as regards foreign food purchases . The plan , therefore , is to have the State Department effect a final coordination of their efforts , and there is a possibility that some or all of them might be absorbed in the process . This is not only believed to be the policy of the President and Secretary Hull , but it is understood to be approved by Mr. Crowley and Edward Stettinius Jr. , lend-lease administrator . There is some doubt , however , whether ex-Gov . Herbert H. Lehman is willing to subordinate OFRRO to the State Department to the extent desired . From a spokesman for Mr. Crowley it was learned that close collaboration with the State Department has from the first been one of his objectives . Mr. Crowley has indicated that as soon as the coordination is made and the administrative facilities have been set up , the time will have arrived for a substantial simplification of the Government 's foreign economic set-up . OEW Changes Held Temporary It was because of these views that the reorganization of OEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent character . For instance , James L. McCamy , who was appointed assistant to the director , will soon leave again to join the Bureau of the Budget . Hugh B. Cox , who will act as general counsel , will work only part time with OEW , and the rest of the time as assistant attorney general of the United States . No executive director was named , and Lauchlin Currie , who will act as executive officer , is on " loan " from the President 's office . Before OEW and lend-lease are placed under the State Department , however , the details of foreign economic policy will have been worked out and men of the requisite business ability will have been added // HULL TO TAKE REINS IN ECONOMIC FIELD // to its staff . The department has already obtained from the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce field officers with the proper experience . What is contemplated is said to be the appointment of an Assistant Secretary of State to head such economic activities . A name mentioned in. this connection is that of George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consul and consul general in many parts of the world before becoming Assistant Secretary of State and then Ambassador to Mexico . Coordination of economic foreign policy is at present being effected by the State Department 's Office of Foreign Economic Coordination . It has been prepared for an enlarged role by the issue recently of two departmental orders setting up ( 1 ) a War Commodities Division which will be responsible for all matters of foreign policy involved in foreign purchases for any purpose ; ( 2 ) a blockade and supply division responsible for the formulation and execution of programs relating to blockade of the enemy , preclusive purchasing abroad , all buying for export , whether for Lend-Lease , relief or economic warfare outside the Western Hemisphere and the formulation and execution of all programs for imports outside the Western Hemisphere ; ( 3 ) a Division of World Trade Intelligence which will control the blacklist of Axis-controlled firms in Latin America . Thomas K. Finletter , deputy director of the State Department 's Office of Foreign Economic Co , ordination , has also been authorized to plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions . In practice , of course , the Treasury has always worked in close cooperation with the State Dapartment in foreign exchange decisions . The position of OFRRO in all this is felt by some of its officials to be ambiguous . Some belief exists that between the Army 's AMG , which was created for the first civil control of liberated or conquered territories , and the State Department , with its final coordinating power over relief and rehabilitation , OFRRO may be squeezed out of all but nominal existence . In that event , it is considered by some of Mr. Lehman 's friends , the job which would remain for him would not be the one he thought he had accepted .                     