@@705078

txt 50 AREAS BOMBED Germans Attack Capital 34th Night and Raid Many Other Zones BUT DAMAGE IS LESS Casualties Also Reduced Now  --  Cathedral High Altar Demolished By RAYMOND DANIELL Special Cable to THE NEW YORE TIMES . LONDON , Friday , Oct. 11 ? German bombers caused fresh destruction last night and early today as they attacked more than fifty districts of London and its outskirts , while other raiders loosed explosives on many other parts of the country , including the Midlands and the Liverpool area . These raids came after a day in which it was disclosed that the high altar of St. Paul 's Cathedral , saved from a delayed-action explosive by the heroism of a disposal unit last month , had been demolished by a bomb that pierced the roof just east of the great dome . German bombers attacked in force at night with increasing boldness . They flew low , defying guns and balloons to pick out their targets in the clear moonlight as they ranged over wide stretches of the country . London got its warning within seconds of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was subjected to the same tactics . First came flares , then incendiaries to start fires as beacons for the " heavy stuff . " What relief London and the rest of the country could get was due to tile fact that the raid ended two hours earlier than on the previous day . Germans were active over the southwest , the southeast , the Midlands , the northwest , northeast and Wales . Workmen 's Hotises Destroyed Working class houses were demolished in a town on the Welsh coast and fire broke out in a timber yard . Inland mountainous sections of Wales also were bombed . A school and a church were hit in a southeast town , where many windows were blown out . Although the main force of the German bombing attacks was centered on London , the heaviest daylight battles took place over Dover and along the Kentish coast . In that area British fighters drove off waves of 200 or more German fighters and bombers while Nazi longrange guns shelled Dover at intervals . Four German - planes and four British fighters were shot down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The night raids outside the London area were carried out by lone attackers , who swoop down from the clouds releasing bombs at random and destroying houses and churches , but damaging few factories and military objectives . Despite the intensity of the attacks on the London region , life is returning to near-routine . Gas and water supply is normal in all but a few isolated districts . The people are now becoming reconciled to months  --  and years , if necessary  --  of raid-shelter life , and they are showing remarkable ingenuity in mak --  // 50 AREAS BOMBED IN SIEGE OF LONDON // ing these underground refuges homelike and comfortable . The only new disturbing note last night  --  the thirty-fourth consecutive night of aerial siege  --  was the sound of German planes diving and flying lower than usual , but some thought this was a hopeful sign . They argued that the Germans migh now really try to hit military objectives and give civilians a little respite . Thus the war goes on . Yesterday it was disclosed that damage to key industrial and military objectives this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casualties had been materially reduced now that the people are learning to take cover or flatten themselves on pavements whenever they hear bombs whistling down . It has been found that many of those killed in the streets have been blown through windows by blasts as they sought protection against buildings . Most of the injuries to pedestrians have been above the waist and the people are beginning to realize that , as the force of exploding bombs is exerted upward , they are reasonably safe in lying flat unless a bomb hits within fifty feet . While the effects of the raids on civilian life and morale and on industrial output are decreasing , the cumulative effects of the random bombings by raiders swooping down from the clouds at night are beginning to show in London 's battlescarred face . Monuments , shrines and landmarks are vanishing or exhibiting marks of battle . It was a tribute to Sir Christopher Wren 's architectural genius and to the quality of the workmanship of the men who carried out his plans and of the materials they used that the bomb that obliterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main structure of the edifice , which dominates the city from its eminence just above Ludgate Circus . The bomb exploded on the double roof of the cathedral , just missing the dome . It tore through the upper roof of lead rafters and blasted great blocks of masonry from one of the arches of the main roof underneath . These blocks , some as much as a cubic yard in size , crashed ninety feet to the high altar . The force of the blast caused the heavy lead of the roof to buckle away from the rafters , leaving gaps two feet wide , and showers of splintered wood and stone fell on the other leaded roof below . Today a heap of stones marks the place where the high altar stood . Thick dust has covered everything . Some chapter seats were smashed . The Bishop 's chair was flung against one of the wrought-iron sanctuary gates and some of its carving was badly scarred . Two immense bronze candlesticks , copies of originals now in St. Bavon 's Cathedral at Ghent , still stand upright amid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The famous Gibbons choir stall is gray with dust , but undamaged . The pediment of the stone reredos was damaged , but the crucifix and other figures were not.blemished . In the Jesus Chapel , behind the reredos , other havoc was caused . A picture over the altar , " The Doubting of Thomas , " was torn and pitted by flying masonry that crashed through the stainedglass windows . The effigy of Cannon Liddon was not damaged . The beautiful cross that once graced the cathedral 's black and gold high altar was nowhere to be seen . Four flower vases designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens had been removed from their usual place beside the altar . The Lord Mayor 's stool was undamaged .                     