@@708761

txt ASKS QUICK ACTION President , in a Personal Plea , Asserts Choice Is Charter or None NOT A STATIC TREATY ' He Predicts Improvements in Plan  --  Crowded Floor and Galleries Hear Speech Text of President 's address to Congress on Charter , Page 7 . By JAMES B. RESTON Special to Tin Nay , YORK Timm WASHINGTON , July 2 ? President Harry S. Truman took the Charter of the United Nations to the Senate today and asked his former colleagues to ratify it quickly as the only way to an enduring peace . In a brief and simple speech Pefore a crowded chamber , he told the Senate that its choice was not between this Charter and something else but " between this Charter and no charter at all . " This observation was something less than an ultimatum , however . The tone of the President 's speech was conciliatory , and as he left the chamber he made a point of shaking hands with Senator Burton K. Wheeler , Democrat , of Montana , who has been a major critic of the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate began with the unanimous confirmation of James F. ? Byrnes of South Carolina as Secretary of State , and thus indicated the start of a new phase in the nation 's foreign policy , Mr. Truman sought to show that the presentation of the Charter framed at the San Francisco Conference was merely the culmination of a policy which had started with the Fulbright and Connally " world organization " resolutions in both houses of Congress two years ago . Linked to Action by Congress The Fulbright and Connally resolutions , placing both houses on record as favoring the creation of an international organization to maintain peace and security , contained the essence of the United Nations Charter , Mr. Truman said , and thus both houses of Congress had a hand in shaping the Dumbarton Oaks proposals on which the new Charter was based . The President , who wore a gray summer suit and dotted bow Ve and who was tanned and smiling , listed in his 600-word address six objectives of the Charter : To prevent wars , to settle international disputes by peaceful means and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and higher standards of living , to achieve universal respect for human rights and fundamentals for all men and women and to remove the economic causes of international conflict and unrest . He did not attempt to claim perfection for the document . Aware that many Senators would have preferred a Charter which went farther toward establishing an organization to take action against any nation which broke the rule of law and that others still hesitate to go as far as the San Francisco Charter goes toward the ideal , he emphasized that the completed agreement was the product of many men and many influences and would be improved with time . Predicts Improvements He did not mention that the Charter could not be amended except with the unanimous consent of the Big Five , but he expressed confidence that it could and would be improved . " Improvements will come in the future as the United Nations gain experience with the machinery and methods which they have set up , " he said . " For this is not a statics treaty . It can be improved  --  and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as our own Constitution has been improved . " This Charter points down the only road to enduring peace . There is no other , Let us not hesitate to join hands with the peace-loving peoples of the earth and start down that road  --  with firm resolve // TRUMAN PRESENTS CHARTER IN SENATE that we can and will reach our goal . " I urge ratification . I urge prompt ratification . " Today 's proceedings in the Senate were in striking contrast to the developments in the Senate at the start of the League of Nations debate . This was supposed to be the beginning of another " great debate , " in which two sincere and conflicting groups in the Upper Chamber would contend for the decisive role in shaping America 's future foreign policy . Floor and Galleries Crowded The setting was equal ' to that prospect . The British and French Ambassadors were in the diplomatic gallery ; the floor of . the chamber was crowded with members of Congress , Senators and guests from the House , the galleries were crowded to the doors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debates which resulted in American repudiation of the League of Nations and , in more recent days , in the decision to put the material weight of the United States against the Axis , ended there . Everything else was different . Twenty-six years ago , when President Wilson brought the treaty back from Versailles , the league was , as he said , " inextricably bound " to all the controversial terms of the peace treaty ending the first World War and Mr. Wilson did not even send a message to the Senate about it in the early days , let alone appearing before the Senate to present it . Instead , the opposition was allowed to interpret the league and the treaty first , and that opposition was loud and bitter . Today the Administration not only took the lead in giving its interpretation of the security charter , but was preparing a 50,000 word official explanation of it which will be released tomorrow . And this time , instead of opposing it , the Republicans were among the most effective supporters of speedy ratifiWion Speculation on the Vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a two-thirds vote for ratification . The majority leader , Senator Barkley , was speculating about the possibility that only six votes would be cast against the Charter . Senator Connally , chairman of the Foreign , Relations Committee , was talking about three-fourths of the Senate favoring it . And Senator Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan , who is in a comparable parliamentary position to Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts twenty-six years ago , was speaking of the " unprecedented support " which the Charter would get . In fact , by this afternoon , only twelve requests had been received by Senator Connally from persons who wished to appear before the Foreign Relations Committee when the public headings start next Monday , and all of them indicated support . Former Secretary of State Stettinius will be the first witness before the committee and he will be followed by Leo Pasvolsky , special assistant to the Secretary of State , who has been an important , if not prominent , figure in the Charter negotiations . The guess here now is that the Senate will ratify the Charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gromyko , suggested today that his Government might ratify it about the same time . Ratification of the Charter by the Soviet Union , Mr. Gromyko told reporters , would depend on action by the Supreme Soviet Congress and , while this body is not in constant session , Mr. Gromyko , who will soon return to Moscow to report on the San Francisco Conference , indicated that it might be called into special session to give ratification at about the same time as the United States Senate takes its vote .                     