@@708560

txt The White House announced tonight that , in response to a request by President Truman , Marshal Joseph V. Stalin , Premier of Soviet Russia , had agreed to send Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , Foreign Commissar and Vice Premier , to the United Nations Security Conference in San Francisco . After a long conference yesterday with James F. Byrnes , in which it is known that the question of American relations with Soviet Russia was a main topic , Mr. Truman made his Administration 's first approach to a foreign Government . He directed Ambassador Averell Harriman in Moscow to assure Marshal Stalin that " the coming of Foreign Secretary Molotoff to the conference at San Francisco would be welcomed as an expression of earnest cooperation in carrying forward plans for formulating the new international organization as laid down by President Roosevelt and confirmed by the Yalta conference . " As a direct and immediate result of this intervention by the President and despite the fact that the Russians had previously refused a similar request , the White House was able to announce that " today the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would attend the San Francisco conference . " It was clear from the announcement that the death of President Roosevelt and the natural desire of the Russian Government to explore the intentions of the new American Administration were important if not decisive considera- ' Lions in Moscow 's change of posiLion . President Truman said in his message to Marshal Stalin that he " would look forward with pleasure to a visit by Mr. Molotoff to Washington . " The first reaction here was that this direct invitation and the Russian desire to explore the mind of the new President had brought the prompt and favorable reply . ' Text of the Announcement The text of the White House announcement was as follows : " The President yesterday directed Ambassador Harriman , who has been conferring with Marshal Stalin on plans for the San Francisco conference , to assure the Marshal that the coming of Foreign Secretary Molotoff to the conference at San Francisco would be welcomed as an expression of earnest cooperation in carrying forward plans for formulating the new international organization as laid down by President Roosevelt and confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would look forward with pleasure to a visit by Mr. Molotoff to Washington . " Today the President was advised by Marshal Stalin that Foreign Secretary Molotoff would attend the San Francisco conference . " Two distinct impressions were created in the capital by this development : The first was one of surprise and encouragement by the rapidity with which the new President intervened in the Russian situation , which had deteriorated since the Yalta conference further than is generally known . The second was the alacrity with which Marshal Stalin accepted the invitation . It is generally recognized here that , despite Mr. Molotoff 's high position , he is not likely to go to San Francisco with the power of decision . He undoubtedly has more authority than the Ambassador , Andrei A. Gromyko , who was going to head the Soviet delegation , but , like Mr. Gromyko , he too , has in the past naturally had to clear everything with Moscow . Therefore , the tendency here is to interpret the visit of the Foreign Commissar mainly in relation to the new President rather than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Eden were named to head the United States and British delegations and then Mr. Gromyko was chosen to lead the Russians , both the State Department and the British Foreign Office pointed out to the Kremlin that this might indicate a desire by Moscow to minimize the conference . Consequently Marshal Stalin was asked directly by the United States and Britain to send Mr. Molotoff . The reply then was that the pressure of the closing events of the war in Europe made it impossible for Marshal Stalin to do without the services of his Foreign Cornmissar . But Moscow 's reasoning seems to have been validated by the recent pace of the war in Europe . Consequently , the impression here is that Mr. Molotoff is coming here primarily to form views on the new President and secondarily to attend the conference .                     