@@708842

txt " Any more news ? " That was the big question breathlessly asked on every street corner , at every lunch counter , and in every taxicab today as tension mounted in downtown Boston over the prospects of a definite peace announcement from Washington . In almost every instance , the elevator operator , taxi driver , the man behind the bank window seemed convinced that the official pronouncement of peace is to be accepted as a natural consequence to the reports on peace and negotiations . " I think that peace is already declared in Washington , " said one taxi driver , " but government officials are keeping us on the fence until they are sure we wo n't blow off too much steam when they tell us . " Boston Waits At any rate four years of war had taught Bostonians to " hold everything until the final score was in . " And even when that comes , there is some question , in Boston at least , as to the intensity of these celebrations . Governor Tobin hurried to the State House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese report . He canceled his fishing trip to New Brunswick because of the fast-moving developments . Radio men were setting up microphones in the Hall of Flags so that the Governor could broadcast a proclamation when the war ends . In the meantime , the Governor today said in a statement : " The offer of Japan to surrender is indeed most joyous and welcome news . . .. The war is not yet over , however . There remains the question of whether the Japanese offer to surrender , with a proviso that the Emperor remain as head of the government , is compatible with the terms of the Potsdam ultimatum . " The answer to this question is with the Allied governments . Pending their decision and pending the designatiOn by President Truman of ' Victory Day , ' we , in this Commonwealth , have a sol emn responsibility to remain tempered and continue with our daily tasks . . . . " Mayor Kerrigan , moving swiftly to prepare for Boston celebration of VJ-Day should it come at any moment , called a meeting at City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston 's official celebration of VJ-Day will emphasize prayer for the victory and dedication of service to the men who are returning , especially to those men who have been wounded , it was planned at the meeting . Stress on Thanksgiving Stress was placed on thanksgiving rather than in drunken , riotous celebrflt ion . At the moment , even public announcement of the victory on the civilian air-raid warning system in Boston is not being planned . At the meeting were : Cvl . Thomas F. Sullivan . Boston Police Commissioner : Robert P. Curley , Public Works Commissione ? ; Edward W. Fallon , Police Superintendent ; John I. Fitzgerald , Fire Commissioner ; Pierce J. Haley , Chairman . Boston Chamber of Commerce ; Henry G. Brown , Chairman , Boston Retail Trade Board ; John J. Walsh , Director of the Boston Committee on Public Safety ; William P. Long , Park Commissioner : Miss Mary E. Driscoll , Chairman , Licensing Board ; Dr. James W. Manary , Superintendent , Boston City Hospital ; Rabbi Herman C. Rubenovitz , President , Rabbinical Association of Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holy Cross , representing the Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing , Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston . A representative of the Right Rev. Henry Knox Sherrill , Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts , was also invited to attend the meeting . In his VJ-statement the Mayor said that he would emphasize a prayerful attitude on the victory . He also expressed his hope that the developments of natural science will be used for the benefit of mankind , rather than its destruction . All Churches Onen Mayor Kerrigan said he would ask all the churches to remain open on VJ-Day , and furthermore called for a " reserved and sensible " public celebration . The Mayor also said that he would await President Truman 's word on a possible national celebration before he would proclaim any specific events in Boston . There may , however , be a big victory rally held.on Boston Common and possibly in the various city playgrounds as well . With the approval of the Retail Trade Board the Mayor said that he would send a letter to all mercantile agencies and establishments in the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also urged the flying of the American Flag by everyone on VJ-Day . Mr. Brown of the Retail Trade Board said that members of the board are meeting this afternoon to consider their plans for possible observance of the victory announcement . Fire Commissioner Fitzgerald said that the Department plans to guard all fire boxes in the city , to prevent the sending in of unnecessary alarms by celebrants . Miss Driscoll of the Licensing Board said that she was expecting the co-operation of all liquor dealers in the city , to prevent the excessive sale of beverages . The Mayor also announced that Iris office will in open 24 hours a day , pending developments , so that city and civic officials could contact it so as to he in complete touch with the Stillattittl , False Alarm F:xeites Crowd A stuck auto horn at Post Office Square started a run of people to the press room on the twelfth floor of the Federal Building to find out if the official ' news of Japanese surrender had been received . After it hadgone for five minutes , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Down on Cape Cod at the Army 's large Hospital Center in Camp Edwards , the news of the Japanese offer was greeted with a burst of enthusiasm . But , after no official confirmation was received , the G. l. ' s settled down to the regular Army game of " hurry up and  --  wait . " Selective Service is prepared to stop the drafting of men for the Armed Forces at a moment 's notice , according to the State Office . But , it was emphasized , the coming of VJ-Day would not mean the end of Selective Service activities even should drafting cease . Duty of Selective Service Unlike the draft of 1917-18 , the present Act places a distinct obligation on the shoulders of Selective Service in the re-employment of men taken from industry for war service . This job , it was pointed out , would be intensified by the accelerated rate of discharges which peace would bring . In Woodstock , Conn. , Dr. Hamilton Holt , President of Rollins College , Florida , a well known worker for peace and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truman to reject the reported peace offer with its reservation regarding the Japanese Emperor 's prerogatives , " If the Emperor is maintained and he left with authority , " he said , " Japan has won the peace . "                     