@@706732

txt The Baruch rubber investigating committee recommended today nationwide gasoline rationing and other rigid motoring restrictions to avert " both a military and civilian collapse " resulting from the rubber shortage , and President Roosevelt , promptly approving the report as " excellent , " promised that the recommendations would be put into effect " as rapidly as arrangements can be made . " Declaring that the choice before the country was " discomfort or defeat " and that there was " no middle course , " the committee advised a national speed limit of 35 miles an hour for passenger cars and trucks ; a reduction of 25 per cent in the average annual mileage for a car , from 6,700 to 5,000 miles , and this latter figure only for " necessary " driving ; compulsory tire inspections , and an increase of 205 , - 000 tons in the synthetic rubber program . The special committee 's report , warning of potential disaster unless remedial measures were undertaken at once , was critical of the government 's handling of the rubber stockpile and substitution programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was stated at the Office of Price Administration that nation-wide gasoline rationing could not be put into effect for " a matter of weeks " because of the tremendous administrative job , including the printing of millions of ration books and the training of local boards . Officials expressed hope that they would be able to announce more definite plans within the next few days . Donald M. Nelson , WPB chairman , went to the White House for a conference with the President late today , but declined to tell reporters his plans for carrying out the committee 's report . The Baruch committee urged in strong terms the safeguarding of every ounce of rubber in the United States and the speediest possible construction of synthetic plants " to keep our armed forces fighting and our essential civilian wheels turning . " Unless this were done , the committee said , . there would be " no rubber in the fourth quarter of 1943 with which to equip a modern mechanized army , " adding that there would be in 1944 " an all but complete collapse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recommendations In a 20,000-word report prepared after a month and four days of intensive investigations by a staff of about twenty-five engineers and technicians , the committee , consisting of Bernard M. Baruch , chairman of the 1918 War Industries Board as its head , and Dr. James B. Conant , president of Harvard University , and Dr. Karl T. Compton , president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , made these major recommendations to the President : Gasoline should be rationed co a nation-wide basis to hold down the average annual mileage per car to 5,000 , as compared with the present rate of 6,700 miles and the pre-war rate of 9,000 miles . Production of synthetic rubber should be rushed without changing present plans , and the production goal should be increased to 1,106 , - 000 tons , with provision for new processes in any expansion effort . Governmental machinery dealing with rubber should be reorganized completely to vest complete control in a Rubber Administrator , who would exercise powers given by the President to the War Production Board chairman , with the new official to have " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including research , development , construction and operation of plants . " Funds for plant construction should be made available directly to the Rubber Administrator , replacing the indirect method whereby WPB asked the Federal Loan Agency to build the needed plants . More rubber should be made available to the public fully to maintain , by recapping or by new tires , the necessary civilian driving . Prompt and strict enforcement of a national speed limit of thirtyfive miles an hour for passenger cars and trucks should be accomplished to prolong the life of tires by nearly 40 per cent , and an appeal made for a voluntary reduction to thirty miles an hour for a substantial further saving , with periodic tire inspection made compulsory . No agencies or officials concerned with the governmental handling of the rubber program to date escaped criticism from the committee , which said frankly that the public was being asked to make sacrifices now " because of mistakes that have been made and - for which the people are not to blame . " The report spoke of errors growing out of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personalities , lack of understanding , delays , and early non-use of known alcohol processes , " and referred to " the failure to build a greater stockpile of crude rubber . " Few believed before Pearl Harbor that 90 per cent of our rubber supply would be cut off following such an attack , " and only a few evaluated the situation correctly after that date , " the committee said . Governmental agencies , it said , had proceeded to make rubber plans without adequate technical advice , and had employed " procedures bordering on the chaotic . " Some of the adjustments in the rubber program " appear to be the result of bad administration , " the report said . Nd one official was singled out by name , but the reorganization recommended by the committee could result in the elimination from the rubber program of Secretary Jones , who has been criticized for alleged failure to build an ' adequate stockpile and for alleged slowness in starting synthetic ' plants . Governmental heads were criticized inferentially when the committee stated that this government had failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February , to make ? available detailed information concerning the Russian process for making synthetic rubber . " Russia has been manufacturing synthetic rubber successfully for more than ten years , " the committee said . " It would seem natural to have endeavored to benefit from this experience as soon as rubber became of major concern to the United States . If the Russian offer made in February to exchange men and information had been accepted and Russian engineers with blueprints of manufacturing had been rushed to this country last Winter , it is conceivable that plants for producing synthetic rubber by the Russian process might well be now on the way to completion . " To date we have no detailed information as to the process and no samples of Russian tires have as yet been obtained . Every effort ought to be made to obtain this information . " Discussing the difficulties in ob-1 taining critical materials for the construction of synthetic plants , the committee said that some of the shortages had been due in large part " to permitting materials to be used for purposes not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of all , to the changing , complicated and ineffective methods that have been used to distribute materials and to control priorities . " An Appeal for Conservation The report was , in large part , a plea to all Americans to conserve vital rubber stocks wherever possible . It gave this summary of the " dangerous " situation in crude rubber : On hand on July 1 , 1942 , in the rubber stockpile was a total of 578,000 tons . The estimated imports from July 1 , 1942 , to Jan. 1 , 1944 , were set at 53,000 tons , thus giving an estimated total supply of crude rubber up to the latter date of 631,000 tons . The estimated military and other essential demands from July 1 , 1942 , to Jan. 1 , 1944 , with no allowance for passenger automobile tires , were put at 842,000 tons , thus leaving a deficit of 211,000 tons which must be met by syntheticrubber production . " If our hopes are realized , the production of Buna S and neoprene ( the two synthetic materials on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total 425,000 tons by the end of 1943 , " the committee added . " But , on the other hand , the figure might easily fall to less than half that amount if delays occur  --  delays of as little as 120 days . " With 425,000 tons we should , have a margin of safety , a slight one , to be sure , perhaps 100,0001 tons above necessary inventories for ourselves and our Allies  --  for the front . With only 200,000 tons of Buna S produced , our supplies would be exhausted .. The successful operation of our mechanized army would be jeopardized . " We can not afford to take a chance . It is better to be safe than to be sorry . We can not base military offensives on rubber we do I not have . " The difficulties of any sizable increase in natural rubber supplies were emphasized by the committee , which stated : " How much rubber we shall get from South America , for example , depends on the shifting of nearly half a million natives into the Amazon Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history  --  and on how many of them succumb to sickness and disease . "                     