@@712145

txt In the mechanization of its agriculture and the expansion and modernization of its industry , the South is headed in the right dii but it still has a long way to go . says the National Planning Asociation 's Committee of the South . Development of the South is a matter of major national policy , say ' the committee . Federal policies can continue lo help the trends which are diminiShing the South 's economic-lag , but . it adds , private individuals and corporations must carry out the operations which will produce greater income . in industry and agriculture . The committee is in agreement that the South still has great undeveloped resources , untapped markets , and manpower available . Crux of the South 's economic problem with which federal policy must deal is that of how per capita wealth and income in the South can be raised effectively , the repot t states . The SoUth 's low per capita income stems from a low ratio of developed natural and capital resources to population , it points out . Economic Lag " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be overcome is through the increase of productivity and value of output of southern industry and agriculture , " says the committee . " This means that the South must have more industry and the kind of industry in which the value of output per worker is higher . " It means an agriculture of fewer uneconomically small farms and of more medium-size farms employing fewer people , with larger output per capita and with greater diversification in crops . " These trends in agriculture and industry already exist . and through their operation the per capita income in the South in recent years has increased more rapidly than for the country as a whole . The committee is composed of southerners active in agriculture , business , industry education , government , and other fields . Its report is considered to be fully as important a social document as the one 1. ) repared more than 10 years ago under President Roosevelt . Many arguments have been advanced explain the South 's economic backWardness . These include the protective tariff imposed by the North on the South , higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , and the wage differentials between the South and the rest of the country . The committee , however , finds these alleged causes " actually either of minor importance ? or are not truly causal . " The committee . believes the number of people employed in southern agriculture must be reduced , and proposes the extension of such federal activities %- support of research carried on in agricultural colleges and experiment stations : erosion control and soil conservation , and the federal-state extension system . It also recommends a more general extension of loans for soil improvements and for similar purposes by local banks at reasonable-rates . Notable 31embers The committee is made tip of notable Southerners . From the ranks of industry there are men like E. W. Palmer , president of the Kingsport Press at Kingsport , Tenn. : George Watts Hill of Durham , N. C. ; Donald Comer , chair. - man of the board , of Avondale Mills in Sylacauga , Ala . From business there are Robert M. Hanes , president of the Wachovla Bank &; Trust Company of Vinston-Salem , N.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board of the Atlantic Coast Line . Editors are represented by Ralph editor of the Atlanta Constitution and George W. Healy , Jr .. managing editor of the Times-Picayune of New Orleans among others . Educators on the committee include Frank P. Graham . former president of the University of North Carolina and now a United States Senator , and Frederick D. Patterson , president of Tuskegee Institute in Tuskegee . Ala . Labor is represented by Charles H. Gillman , State CIO director for Georgia and George L. Googe of the American Federation of Labor . Meinbers , connected with agriculture include William Rhea Blal:e , executive , vice-president of the National Cotton Council of Memphis and Dean Paul W. Chapman of the College of Agrit. culture of the University of Georgia .                     