@@710396

txt Abroad Nostalgia for a Time That Is Past By . ANNE O'HARE McCORMICK It would-be pleasant , to live in the world envisioned by the Appropriations Committee of the House of Representa.tives when it eliminated from the budget the funds for the State Departmentforeign cultural relations program , ' including the " Voice of America " ' broadcasts . " A Governmentsponsored program is slightly out of tune with American precedents and American principles , " said the committee report . " Our forebears planted on this soil the seed of liberty and freedom which , if properly nurtured , should outgrow our boundaries and reach out into the rest of the world , not through a centralized disseminating agency but through the force of its own dynamics ? ' These nostalgic sentiments are wholly admirable . They appeal to every American . Thee idea of Governmentsponsored information is repugnant to the citizens of a free country . It smacks of totalitarianism , of Goebbels , of all those ministries of propaganda which one-man and one-party regimes have exploited to twist facts to their own purposes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disseminate news into hands that wield political power . The instinct is sound , and so is the judgment that the world has become so allergic to official hand-outs that even straight news is suspect if it comes through Government channels . War Propaganda Poor Moreover , we are not good at foreign propaganda . Commercial advertising as developed at home had no runnerup in the best of times in any other country , but this unparalleled ability to sell goods by argument , persuasion and reiteration does not extend to the business of selling ideas . Our war propaganda in Europe , for instahce , was not worth the money spent on it ? not because it followed an official line too closely but because it did not seem to stick to any line . It was full of contradictions and poorly keyed to the countrieisit reached . Judged by results observed at the receiving end , it failed to convey any true picture of the United States at war , its aims , efforts , sacrifices and ideals . The response in unexpected quarters to the present widespread anti-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure . Maybe the peacetime cultural relations program designed for foreign consumption is not worth the $31,000,000 the State Department asks for it . Some of the exhibits deserve the criticism they have received , in Congress and outside . The " Voice of America " broadcasts , which are beamed to many countries besides Russia , are an experiment  --  and according to reports of those who follow them not always successful . It goes without saying that the example of democracy would be more impressive than precepts or illustrations ; and news distributed by normal competitive agencies would be more effective than selected items issuing from official sources . It would be infinitely better if " the seed of liberty and freedom reached out into the rest of the world through the force of its own dynamics . " But that is n't the kind of world we live in . Facilities for communication were never so easy as in 1947 and facilities for reception were never so restricted . How are ordinary news agencies to get their news into countries where Governments control the press ? How are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penetrate the thick walls erected to keep them out ? A group of radio executives met with Secretary Marshall on Monday to discuss the problem of communication as an instrument of foreign policy . Like the news agencies , no doubt they would prefer to do the job themselves , and they would probably do it better ; our system is based on the assumption that private enterprise in this field , at least , is more competent , more creative and safer for the citizen than Government control . But the radio executives told Congress that " if international broadcasting is to be made on the scale required by the national interests , the funds for this purpose must be provided by the Government . " America Must Compete The national interests require that the voice of America be heard where at present it can not be heard . The question is not whether we like Government-disseminated ? information . Of course it is out of tune with the American tradition . The question is not whether the programs are good . If they are not we have to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task for amateurs . It calls for the best professional experience in evaluating news and presenting it straight and the best available knowledge and judgment of conditions in the countries concerned . The point is that in the world as it is , a world of competitive systems and competitive propaganda , the United States has to compete in every way it can . To win in this competition , nothing is so important as to make our system work , politically , socially , economically . Retreat on any of these fronts is fatal to the cause of democracy everywnere . The next important thing is to let people know that it works . Money has to be spent to tell the story , to give the population of the Soviet Union and eastern Europe some idea of America other than the image etched on their minds by incessant false propaganda . If a thousand listeners in ' the upper ranks of the Communist party hear the voice of America it is worth the investment . Congress takes a grave responsibility in silencing a whisper that has already begun to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    