@@709173

txt Letters to The Times CLAIRE G. SALTER.JAMES F. JOHNSON.ELIZABETH W. WILSON.WILL CLOSE.DAVID H. FOE ... Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Anne O'Hare McCormick in her Dec. 26 column brings up a very interesting fact regarding Italy 's pre-war and present status which points up the complete failure of the Allies to live up to their promises . Mrs. McCormick writes : " During the Fascist regime Mussolini tried to revive the greatness of the Roman Empire . And for a gaudy interval he succeeded in keeping the spotlight on himself and making Italy a key factor in world politics . Because of defeat and its virtual loss of independence , Italy as a nation ( today ) swings no weight in the international scale . " This is an obviously true but sad commentary on the Allied policy toward Italy , since it becomes apparent that the Allies tolerated a totalitarian Italy in the international scene and now bar from the same scene a government suffering the labor pains of a democratic birth . The Italian people were promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would throw off the yoke of fascism and German domination , and they had faith in the Allied word . Today they are enduring the pangs of untold misery , yet the Allies show a callous indifference toward the problems of Italy and pursue a dangerous game when they allow a nation whose spirit had always been on the side of the democracies to lose faith . Bitter Resentment Found I have just returned from Italy , where for two months I surveyed conditions in that destitute nation for both American Medical Relief for Italy and for the Allied Commission to which I was attached as a member of the Public Health Subcommission . I was privileged to talk with people from every walk of life from one end of Italy to the other , and all of them spoke of the complete let-down by the Allies with bitter resentment . In a conference with Crown Prince Umberto , Lieutenant General of the Realm , the Regent impressed me with the fact that mainly through material help can a strong democratic government emerge and bring forth a new Italy which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this point was well illustrated as I traveled up and down the country and noticed the apathy toward local , provincial and national government , since the main preoccupation is to earn or obtain a crust of bread and keep hunger and sickness at a distance . By their failure to send the material aid promised to the Italian people , the Allies are weakening , albeit unwittingly , the chances of democracy 's rise in Italy . Work the Great Need I must say that I was very forcibly struck by that show of innate pride so characteristic of Italians despite their tragic situation . Everywhere I went I was told that nothing was wanted from anybody except the chance to earn their livelihood and so put their country back on the road to complete rehabilitation . That opportunity must not be stymied but rather encouraged and aided --  by the willingness of the Allies to assure the economic function of the country . Finally , I wish to say that when I was received in private audience by His Holiness Pope Pius XII , I was carried away by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faltered , due to the efforts of the Vatican to reassure the people and assuage their sufferings . Had these values suffered or been shaken as much as the social and economic structure , Italy might have sunk into the mire of chaos and distintegration and might have also lost its nationhood irretrievably . CHARLES MIJZZICATO , M. D. , National Chairman , American Medical Relief for Italy . Suggested for the New Year To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is high time we called a moratorium on all the needless rudeness , bad manners and abusiveness which is noted on all sides in these days . Hearts are bleeding with sorrow and suffering , misery and disappointment on all sides , with the world in one awful mess and everything up-side-down . Let us all start in today to be decent , kind and well-behaved toward everyone around us . I heard a man say the other day : " We could stand things as they are , and keep our chins up , and put up with all our troubles if everybody was n't always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonsense , let us try and make this tired old discouraged world more livable by being pleasant and polite and giving out good cheer and amiability . CLAIRE G. SALTER . New York , Dec. 29 , 1945 . Comment on the New Cardinals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I point out that your excellent coverage of the news on the newly appointed Cardinals contains one error and one slightly misleading statement . Australia is not to be ranked among the countries which have not had Cardinals , for Archbishop Francis Patrick Moran , of Sydney , was a Cardinal for many years . To state that Ireland was a " noteworthy omission " in the distribution of the red hats might lead certain of your ireaders to think that the Holy See had some reasons for not so honoring this very Catholic nation . As Cardinal is only two months dead , and as his successor has not been named as yet , it would be impossible to nominate the new Armagh Primate a Cardinal . Usually , also , the man who assumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being made Cardinal . Well-informed Irish circles have speculated on the possibility of the Irish red hat going back to the more important Metropolitan See of Dublin , where the first Irish Cardinal held office . It will be borne in mind that Armagh is situated in Northern Ireland and therefore , politically , the Archbishop there would not represent Eire . JAMES F. JOHNSON , . Valley Stream , L. I. , Dec. 24 , 1945 . Health Insurance Costly Increases Noted in German and English Systems With Politics Involved To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I express approval of the recent editorial in THE NEW YORK TIMES on the possible costs of a compulsory health insurance system ? I have spent years studying the subject of health insurance in other countries and the probable results of its introduction on the economy of this country . The average citizen here does not know that the per capita cost of German health insurance increased eightfold in forty-five years . In England the cost per worker doubled in six years , : 1921-27 . This increase in cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health insurance systems , despite the fact that in most of them the administration of the scheme has been entrusted to the workers . Such personalized management is admittedly more efficient than a governmental administration . Actuaries estimate that the cost per worker here  --  this should be differentiated from the contribution per worker  --  will be something like $75 plus 3 per cent of his income up to $3.000 . The entire cost of social security will vary between $12,000,000 , - 000-$18,000,000,000 a year . I fear two other phases of compulsory health insurance  --  namely , the medical and political . Many authorities believe that the medical ca re given workers under health insurance is less efficient and effective than it would have been under a regime of private practice . In both England and Germany the administrative Drganizations became politically powerful . In fact , one of the first acts of the Nazis was to seize the health insurance system and to use it as a bureaucracy to regi ' . ment the German people . Authorities estimate that the administration of the system in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ever seen . ELIZABETH W. WILSON . Cambridge , Mass. , Dec. 28 , 1945 . Bus Driver Talks to the Point To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A wise bus driver on a Broadway bus starting at Twenty-third Street this morning made some comments which seem worthy of being recorded . As we awaited the green light he said : " Will you look at that dummy turning the street into a lake , squirting his hydrant out into the slush ? And his gutters all filled up . The city would do well to have some gutter openers to run down the curbs , so melting snow and slush can have somewhere to , go . " A passenger got aboard , carrying a half-snuffed-out cigar butt . It was particularly foul . A loud argument arose . " One guy like you stinks up the bus for all the other passengers.4 " It 's not lighted , and I 'm not smoking , " was the reply . At the next stop , our busman settled the matter to the sat , isfaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , facing the stubby butt-carrier . " MisteN , if you 'll throw them two inches out the window , give you a nickel to buy two more like that cigar when you get off . " A water main had burst on Broadway , and we had to detour east at Houston Street , I think it was , down Lafayette , and back to Broadway at White Street . A car was parking at curb just east of Broadway , with a truck already parked at opposite curb . " Mister , if you want to find your car whole when you come back , park it across Broadway . " The man drove on : No argument . Everything was under control . WILL CLOSE . New York , Dec. 29 , 1945 . Italians Show Resentment Failure of Allies to Keep Promises Has Caused Some Bitterness Mr. Petrillo Held Selfish To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is little doubt in my mind that James Petrillo had the best interests of local musicians in mind when he issued the ban on recording and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from abroad . But does n't it also seem a hit short-sighted , even selfish , to rob the American public of hearing new recordings by their favorite musicians for more than two years , and then prevent them from hearing the premier musicians of Europe by the most convenient . means ? Under the present regulations , one must buy not-too-plentiful recordings by the foreign orchestras , or take a trip to Europe . Either method is at best unsatisfactory , at worst quite expensive . I am sure the competition from broadcasts of this nature would not cripple the economic status of our musicians . DAVID H. FOERSTE , R. Norwich , Conn. , Dec. 27 , 1945.                     