@@705124

txt Hitler -- A Menace Solution of World Problems Put Up to Us To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The next President of the United States will have one problem on his hands that overshadows all other political and economic tasks . This paramount problem can be named Adolf Hitler . Hitler , the master of the European Continent ; Hitler , the menace to England and to the British Navy , the any of Japan and leader of the Triple Alliance , the threat to the Dutch East Indies and South America ; Hitler , the organizer of fifth columns the world over ; Hitler , the man , the prophet , the idea , the system . This problem will have to he solved in a definite and final way before anything approximating normalcy and stability in world affairs can be encompassed again in our age . The problem  --  Adolf Hitler  --  can in principle be solved in one of two ways : Hitler either will win the European war  --  and any form of negotiated peace or appeasement at this stage would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat . A third alternative does not appear to exist , since a stalemate and long-drawn-out mutual siege in Europe can mean only a postponement of decision . Hope Against War Both President Roosevelt and Wendell Willkie have rejected the idea of appeasement . Both have committed themselves to give all aid short of war to Britain . Both candidates have thus implicitly committed themselves to the program of defeating Hitler . Most Americans hope and many hold firmly to the belief that this objective can be accomplished without the United States becoming actually engaged in war , either in the Pacific or in the Atlantic Ocean . Be that as it may , there can be few who will dispute the contention that Hitler and Hitlerism can be defeated only by a well-timed , well-prepared and powerful offensive on the part of their opponents . For almost a decade now Hitler has held the initiative , making one powerful thrust after another , while his adversaries have sat waiting in indecision behind what they hoped to be impregnable defenses . The German Social Democrats and conservatives , the Austrian Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  they all sat inert while the initiative remained with Hitler . With Britain cornered as she is and fighting for survival , it seems questionable whether she will have the strength , at least for a very long time to come , to seize the initiative in the epochal struggle . Spiritual Force Needed To seize the initiative means , first of all , to seize the spiritual initiative . Clear and vital aims and a passionate will to put them into reality are more important even than guns and bombers . This , at least , his opponents should have learned from Hitler . To achieve a treat counter-offensive necessitates first the launching of a spiritual counter-offensive . Diplomatic , financial and military means will be found to accomplish the desired result once the truly great , the transcendental aims of the counter-offensive are envisioned . Hitler 's successes of the past decade , I venture to say , were made possible to a very large extent by the absence of positive spiritual convictions and broadbeamed political objectives on the part of his opponents . This holds true equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing makes it more tragically clear than a thoughtful reading of Jules Romains 's ' Seven Mysteries of Europe " and of Rauschning 's " Voice of Destruction . " World Visions Here  --  in Hitler  --  we see a . far-flung vision of the world , a vicious world truly , but a world of Wagnerian grandeur and a relentless , never-abating energy to build it up . There  --  among Allied statesmen  --  we see the casual " wait-and-see " attitude , sustained by kindliness , to be sure , and adorned with charm but never ready for commitments , always haphazard , political men whose leisurely approach to politics compels one to suspect that their center of activities lies elsewhere , in the realm of art or the humanities . In Winston Churchill , in his political career , probably for the first time , Hitler has met in battle a man of his own determination , of his own breadth of vision , of his own demonic dynamism  --  a man of the twentieth century . In order to destroy nazism and the Nazis , aims far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler must be embraced . To defeat Hitler in battle without the will to envisage a better world to come and without the courage to stake everything on its attainment is only to invite a Super-Hitler to take the place of the present monster and carry on where he left off . If the Second World War were only a continuation of the First  --  another episode in the struggle of the European powers for markets and supremacy ; if it were merely a conflict between nations and patriotic loyalties , spiritual values and forces of a higher type could hardly be brought into play . But this war is infinitely more , and something else than a mere war between various nations . The dominant question it poses is not a preference as between things German or English . The issue is not whether the English or the German people shall rule over Europe and its vast dependencies . The present war is a revolutionary war , a war between forces transcending all national boundaries , a war between different civilizations , a life and death struggle between two world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own position . Only in this manner can they endeavor to fasten their minds upon the vision of the world to come . To hope for the defeat of Hitler , and to help to bring it about by aiding Britain is a meaningless undertaking on the part of Americans , unless they are willing and ready to play a part  --  perhaps a leading part  --  in the reconstruction of Europe and the world after the disappearance of Hitlerism . Unless the forces that are grouped against Hitler today  --  the government and people of the United States among them : - . succeed in encompassing the vision of a new order that will be stirring in its revolutionary appeal to the masses in America and Europe , their ultimate victory over Hitler and Hitlerism will be , I am greatly afraid , a Pyrrhic victory . Important Factors Two very important facts became . increasingly clear today : the first is that , while the great nations of the West devour each other and destroy each other 's cities , peoples of other continents and cultures are proceeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to increase their own power . And they are doing this to an extent that becomes ever more alarming to the Occident as a whole . In all probability , furthermore , the now belligerent nations of Europe will be so weakened and exhausted after the war that without outside assistance they can not build up the strong and stable post-war Europe that the world needs so badly . There exist in the world today only two " outsiders " Who can undertake this task : the United States and the U.S.S.R. Either Washington , in cooperation with other components of the English-speaking world , or Moscow will become the focal point of European reconstruction , should Europe find herself exhausted at the end of this war . Need for Alertness The task of taking a leading hand in reconstruction may thus be thrust upon the United States regardless of whether she is mentally prepared for the historical opportunity . Would it not be one of the great tragedies of world history if the hoped-for " American Age " would dawn only to find Americans slumber-ing ? It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aims in concrete terms at present . But it is up to men and women in the United States and throughout the British Commonwealth , to citizens , civic institutions , churches , universities , newspapers and political organizations to work and study in preparation for the one great task that , suddenly , perhaps , and only as a short-lived opportunity , will sooner or later fall upon them . And that is the building up of a better , a finer world for the Occident after the present war . To envision it , to study its intricate problems and to present it to the peoples of Europe , including the Germans , as a revolutionary alternative to Hitler and all that he stands for may he said to constitute the most vital force in the spiritual offensive against nazidom . HANS SCHMIDT . Chicago , Oct. 29 , 1940 . Spoons Used Largely Here Before Italy Sent Us Forks To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIES : Answering Mr. Dock 's query , there is no evidence to suggest that what he calls " genteel people " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more years ate with their knives , although the children who were warned ag'ainst it may have attempted to do so . At the time America was colonized the spoon was the universal implement . Forks , which originated in Italy , did not come into use either here or in England until much later . The first fork to be brought to these shores in 1633 belonged to Governor Winthrop of the Massachusetts Colony . Later in the century a few two-tined forks appeared here . Meat at that time , with the exception of small animals like rabbits and fowl , which were occasionally roasted , was cut up in pieces , stewed and eaten with a spoon . To be quite frank , English and American habits at table have always been more fastidious than those of the Continent until within the last twenty or twenty-five years , since when our eating customs have been emulated . KATHERINE METCALF ROOF . New York , Oct. 27 , 1940 . Air Control Urged Aeronautics Authority Held New York 's Need To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes which are bound to occur once the national defense program in the field of aviation gets into full swing . This State has no laws for regulating intrastate commercial air service . None of the uniform State air laws has been adopted . New York laws on aeronautics are a hodgepodge , spread out in the General Business Law , the Penal Law and the General Municipal Law . Finally , the State has no coordinating agency to administer the ever-growing aviation activities within its borders . This month a $40,000,000 appropriation bill was passed by Congress for national airport improvement . The Civil Aeronautics Authority envisaged development of 4,000 airports in the country , 116 of them in New York State . When actual work begins , New York may still be without an official aviation body , unless something is done very soon . If there is any danger of Federal control over State aviation , that danger lies in New York State 's own failure to establish a permanent air agency now . State Action Needed To protect State sovereignty from possible abuses of Federal control , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Thus far only eleven States require certificates of convenience and necessity for air carriers operating intrastate . All other States have various licensing regulations for pilots , aircraft and facilities , but depend upon the CAB for approval of commercial air service . Recently this writer urged Governor Lehman to create a permanent New York State Aviation Board by the same executive authority he used to establish the State Defense Council . Soon afterward a start was made in a study of the State aviation problem for defense when Speaker Oswald D. Heck appointed Assemblyman Mitchell to survey State air facilities . The effect on our civilization of aviation progress and the importance of aeronautics in militant politics demand that this State , as well as the national government , be equipped to handle changing conditions . Our national defense depends in part on the extent of New York State 's ability to defend itself . With their concentration of commerce , population and industry , the sixty-two cities of this State are exceedingly vulnerable to attack . A State Aviation Board is needed to coordinate the civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Government can not work its defense program without the cooperation of properly authorized State agencies . Under the general powers of the CAA , the Federal agency is empowered to " confer with or hold joint hearings with any State aeronautical agency or other State agency , in connection with any matter arising under this act , and so avail itself of the cooperation , services , records , facilities of such State agencies as fully as may he practicable . " Cooperation Necessary Such cooperation with the Federal authority is necessary for a smooth functioning government , and New York as well as the nation will benefit if this State has a permanent aviation board . A permanent board could establish for the requirements of its own citizens a uniform program in the following activ-ities : 1 . Coordination of State and national defense programs . 2 . Expansion of airplane mantifactur-ing ? 3 . Supervision of commercial aviation and promotion of air transportation in the State . 4 . Establishment of complete , uniform systems of airway beacons , radio beams , weather data and airmarkings. 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviation schools ; ( b ) sponsoring aviation clubs for youth ; ( c ) promoting civilian gliding activities ; ( d ) using the radio , motion pictures , newspapers , magazines and other media of public information to arouse and encourage popular interest in all phases of aviation . THOMAS C. DESISIOND ? Newburgh , N. Y. , Oct. 30 , 1940 . Our Own Fifth Column We Have , It Seems , Fomented One by Our Own Indifference To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We are paying more than the usual amount of lip-service to democracy in these days . But whether or not our American experiment is to succeed does not depend in the long run upon our decision as to a third term , or our scathing denunciations of European dictators . This question is being answered in every village when it names its candidates for the school hoard or the county commission . It is answered in every city ward when powers are delegated to a rascal . We drive a large brass nail into a coffin for democracy when we name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own fifth columnists ; and it is well to consider whether we have named any for a term in Washington . The man who has wangled his own name onto the ballot without protest from an indifferent or sentimental electorate because he can no longer earn a living in any other way . The man who has worked his way to the surface up through the muck of filthy politics , has washed his face , and now demands his reward from the machine . Some woolly-minded sheep - who hurries now this way , now that , after the largest flock in sight , blatting ancient platitudes . The shrewd man of affairs with whom politics is a business ; who has bought and sold influence until he has accumulated enough of his own to buy what he seeks . Just now we are all becoming more than a bit frightened . We are arming ourselves in frantic haste to protect our Republic from foes without , and peering around with scared eyes trying to recognize alien foes who have slipped in among us . If this awakening leads to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civic indolence and indifference ? the fright will have been well worth while . BURGES JOHNSON . Schenectady , N. Y. , Oct. 31 , 1940 . Army Physical Defects Physician Finds Most Rejections Due to Our Own Faults To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIDIES : I am sorry that you did not take the opportunity of pointing the obvious moral in your editorial of Oct. 29 on the article , " Causes for Rejection for Entrance Into the Regular Army Due to Physical Defects , " as reported by Captain George R. Leone , M. D. , M. C. , U. S. A. , in the Oct. 12 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association . His list of the reasons for rejection of 32.5 per cent of volunteers is very illuminating . It shows that the most important cause for rejection of applicants ( 23 per cent of the total ) was inadequate teeth . Neglecting the influence of heredity , the only way to insure good teeth is to make sure that one 's mother was well nourished during her pregnancy , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors , it is recognized , are dependent upon a family income adequate to purchase an optimum diet . Eye Trouble Preventable The next most important cause for rejection ( 21 per cent of the total ) was eyes , with the prevailing defect myopic astigmatism . To the best of our knowledge this can be prevented , again neglecting heredity , only by adequate nutrition and avoidance of conditions that put unusual strain on the eyes during childhood . This again is dependent upon adequate family income , that is to say income adequate to purchase good food , good housing and good school buildings . The third cause ( 15 per cent of the total ) was lack of adequate height and weight , a defect obviously due to some undernourishment during childhood , adolescence and young manhood . This also is uncorrectable without adequate income . We have thus 59 per cent of the defects due primarily to defects in the family income . In the lesser causes of rejection there are others due to income difficulties , as , for instance , heart disease . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart disease that disables young individuals  --  is enormously greater among the ill-fed and 111-housed , and that the only effective treatment is to remove the patients from their substandard environment . Environment Important - Captain Leone points out that some of these tooth and eye defects are correctable , and from this I have no dissent , though certainly a good tooth is infinitely preferable to a crowned and stopped and dead tooth ; and a good eye equally preferable to a pair of spectacles . But to me the whole importance of this and other similar surveys lies In the fact that almost all the remediable and preventable defects can be prevented and corrected by improvement in environmental conditions , and this can come only from an increase in real family income . That , of course , is something we poor medicos are as yet unable to prescribe . So give us , If you must , the diagnostic centers . There are already many such in this city available to the various income groups . But give us first the means of carrying out their recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the environment of that third of the nation which is 111-fed , illhoused and ill-clothed . BIM ) WILLIAMS , M. D. Assistant Visiting Physician , Bellevue Hospital ; Physician to Out-Patients , New York and Manhattan Eye , Ear and Throat Hospitals . New York , Oct. 29 , 1940.                     