@@705751

txt Britain 's warning to suspend economic assistance to Spain if Madrid con= tinues its present unfriendly attitude toward the democracies marks the end of the appeasement policy toward that country . It invites Gen. Francisco Franco to state plainly his attitude toward the whole war . Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's statement yesterday bluntly affirmed that " if economic arrangements are to succeed , there must be good . will on both sides " and the British Government 's " plans and future policy must depend on the actions and attitude of the Spanish Government " Is Spain prepared to deprive itself of British and American financial help ? That question is being asked here today . If so , then it is evident the Caudillo has decided that Germany is going to win , if not already won , the war and Spain can get all it requires from the Third Reich . Hitherto General Franco has left extreme anti-democratic statements to Foreign Minister Ramon Serrano Stiller and other " wild men , " but now General Franco has joined them . Internal reasons may explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Falangists ' propaganda explanation that Spain 's difficulties are due mainly to the " policy of strangulation " adopted by the plutocratic democracies , there is little to distinguish his opinions from theirs . Civil war left Spain exhausted . The country is dependent upon trade agreements with Britain and relief from the United States . British credits during the past 18 months have amounted to more than ? 6,500,000 , including a direct loan of ? 2,000,000 and another ? 2,000,000 from Spanish blocked accounts here in London which was used for the purchase of foodstuffs ? especially wheat ? Oil , and fats . These followed a trade and payments agreement of March , 1940 . A tripartite agreement in July , 1940 , provided for supplies of wheat and other products from Portugal . A further loan of ? 2 , - 500,000 was granted in April of this year . In addition , navicert arrangements enabled Spain to get food and other supplies through the blockade from Latin-American countries . Complaint on Shackling General Franco 's complaint that British help for Spain always was accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dignity as a free nation " make strange reading when it is remembered to what extent the German Gestapo dominates Spain and how Germany has not hesitated to deplete that country of precious metal and other products essential to its own war effort . But General Franco undoubtedly shares the Falangist dream that German help can revive the Spanish Empire by rekindling the allegiance of Latin-American repub- lies and through Spanish expansion in Morocco and Northwest Africa at the expense of France . How easily he accepts German propaganda is illustrated ' by the fact that a warning to the United States in a recent speech was due to Berlin-inspired reports that if the United States entered the war it immediately would occupy the Iberian Peninsula and , therefore , Germany might have to forestall this move by it own occupation of that area unless an energetic attitude by Spain were adopted . That the German General Staff had made complete preparations to march into Spain in the first half of July has been substantiated by many reliable reports . Petrol supplies had been guaranteed by Britain which was supplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributed to such an extent that 50 per cent of the fuel which passed through the blockade became available for the German Army . Delay in carrying out occupation plans was due to Hitler 's sudden turn to the East against Russia . But this does not mean that Spain is not useful to Germany as a " non-billigerent . " Spain is the only gateway left for communication between Germany and the outside , especially the United States and Latin-America . Through this route masses of propaganda , especially instructions to agents , have gone out . German propaganda countering Pan-Americanism has been operated largely via Spain . The Nazis always could wage a war of nerves there in order to prevent Britain from feeling fully secure in Western Europe . Nation Disorganized But whatever General Franco and the ? Falangists may feel regarding German help , there is no doubt but that Spain , faced with economic disorganization , a chaotic state in its transport system , starvation , and general dissatisfaction with the Franco regime , can not receive any effective help from the Nazis when it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation which , despite the Nazi Gestapo influence in Spain  --  still makes the Iberian Peninsula a useful field in which Britain can exert some counterpressures against Germany . For the German General Staff clearly feels the danger of further disruption within Spain . It knows full well the dangerous lengths to which disintegration has gone under the Franco regime . It also understands the narrow margin by which the Caudillo has managed the twin accomplishment of maintaining his own control and his alliance with the Nazis . Thus , in taking a stronger line , the British may believe that they may gain through vigor what they have failed to accomplish through appeasement . Granting of food and loans to Spain clearly has been insufficient to accomplish Britain 's political purposes in Madrid . The curtain raiser on the next act may be the lion 's roar .                     