@@709080

txt The first great experiMent in the occupation and administration of a great conquered nation by several conquering powers is now a little over six months old . How is it going ? At this time Washington is inclined to cite the record in Germany as justifying its refusal even to consider joint responsibility in Japan . The British tend to charge Russia , France , and America with dangerous disregard for the physical well-being of Central Europe . The French feel that Germany is being allowed by the others to remain too strong potentially . The Russians are inclined to feel that the others are withholding from Russia compensation for its sufferings in the war . Centralization Missing So far there is almost no progress toward the re-establishment of any central German economic life . Trains do not operate between the different occupation zones . Communications exist only between the allied military forces . No unified feeding standards or systems exist . ? Is four-power control of Germany , therefore , to be considered a failure ? This question has brought America 's top officials for Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several of his top political advisers have been back and made their- reports . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower has just arrived . The danger of acute food and shelter shortages during the onrushing winter points up the consultations . London is openly worried about famine and its effects , which would bring chaos into all of ? Central Europe and would , if it developed is feared , endanger the well-being . if all Europe . The problem is further cam --  ; : heated by one factor which kmerican military authorities teem to have failed entirely , : o anticipate . The whole program ! ) f American participation has 3cen undermined and jeopardized oy the urge to bring American troops back home at the earliest rssi b le moment . Whole sections of the American ) ccupation force have bedh disnantled in this homeward migraIon . Long - term arrangements lave been wrecked and rendered mpossible of fulfillment . General Eisenhower has been forced to all ypes of improvised expedients to : cep a control mechanism funclolling . The Army , which origf7 tally declined to admit civilians .0 its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest possible sub stitution of a tern . All of this of the ledger . But there are credits as well . And those who try to draw up a balance are inclined to say that after all when something so unprecedented as this is attempted it is surprising , not that there is so much on the debit side , but that anything at all has been accomplished . B ? ttered Expectations As a matter of fact the Control Council sitting in Berlin has done better than those familiar with I Germany had apticipated . One of the more interesting facts about the current situation is that the hardest problems of the Control Council are arising not out of western friction with the Russians , but out of friction be : tween the three big powers  --  Bus : sia , Britain and America  --  and France . It is the French who are currently blocking every effort to carry out one major part of the Potsdam Declarations , The Declarations called for the early establishment of central administrative departments for finance , transport , communications , foreign trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their negative tactics to force the other powers to agree to their request for internationalization If the Rhineland and Ruhr . The other three oppose this on the basis that to separate Germany 's main industrial center from Germany would deprive their zCines of occupation of the products of this area and would enhance their occupational problems . All three seem to feel that what the French really are trying to get is a reorientation of the Ruhr-Rhineland industrial complex to France . They do n't object to the benefit this would bring France . But they feel that is would convert the balance of Germany into a pauper 's prison which they would have to guard . So the Control Council 's further plans are stalled on French obstructionism and no one has yet devised a formula for ? resolving this problem . But in matters on which agreement already has been reached the Council seems to be functioning well . Ambassador Murphy has not been noted in the past for a tendency to admire the Russians . Yet he paid them compliments for their co-operativeness in Berlin in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariably have executed all their specific undertakings . The trouble is that there are not very many specific undertakings by the four occupying powers .. How Zones Compare All current reports from Germany agree on one thing , which has not been appreciated before . It is that the American record on de-Nazification has bten by all odds the best of any of the occupying powers . The French have been preoccupied with taking from their zone what they can use in French rehabilitation . The British have been preoccupied with efficiency . The Russians have stressed reparations and political reindoctrination . But the Americans have done the most thorough job of de-Naziflcation . So there is the least poverty and suffering and unemployment in the British zone , the strongest new political ideas inthe Russian zone , and the most deprivation of Germans in the French zone . But there are fewer Nazis still holding administrative and business positions of authority in the American zone .                     