@@711229

txt John R. Steelman will confer at the White House this morning with leaders of the three railroad brotherhoods who have threatened to take 150,000 key operating employes off their jobs in a nation-wide strike next Tuesday . Mr. Truman 's top negotiator is expected to hold similar talks later with representatives of railroad management . It was reported yesterday that after these conversations the President might issue a statement urging labor and management to " get together and settle their differences " before the strike deadline , now only four days away . It is sincerely to be hoped that Mr. Truman will not adopt any such course as this . In the first place , it is doubtful if the procedure would avert the threatened strike . It is exactly seven months to the day since , on Oct. 7 , 1947 , wage negotiations were begun between the railroads and the big five operating brotherhoods . On Nov. 14 two of the brotherhoods  --  the trainmen and conductors  --  accepted the railroads ' offer of an increase of 151 cents an hour . A week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three holdout unions ( which demanded an increase of 371A cents an hour ) had collapsed . On Nov. 24 the National Mediation Board , provided for under the Railway Labor Act , intervened . After nearly two months of effort the latter announced , on Jan. 16 , that it had been unable to bring the two sides into an agreement and that the unions had rejected arbitration . At the same time spokesmen for the unions declared that members would strike on Feb. 1 . At this point President Truman brought into operation the emergency provisions of the Railway Labor Act . He named a fact-finding board to study the merits of the controversy and report its conclusions to him . The law prohibits any change in the status quo while such a board is preparing its report and for thirty days thereafter . As the board 's investigation itself required nearly two months this provided three additional months , all told , for " cooling off " and for a continuance of direct negotiations . In its report , handed to the President on March 27 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 151,47 cents an hour  --  the offer which had already been accepted nearly five months earlier by the two other operating brotherhoods . Notwithstanding the fact that the President 's factfthding board is , under the law , what amounts to a court of last resort in disputes of this kind , the three recalcitrant unions refused to abide by its conclusions and waited only until the end of the legally required thirty-day " cooling off " period to redeclare their intention of resorting to force to gain their demands . To ask the railroads now , in the light of this record , to " get together " with these union leaders would reflect a grave misconception of justice . The railroads have carried out their obligations under the law with great patience and good faith . Such a course as that suggested would be tantamount to asking them to make additional concessions to those which have already been accepted by the other unions and determined by the President 's own commission to be fair and reasonable . It would be placing them , moreover , so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to share with the leaders of the labor unions responsibility for preventing a strike which , if it develops , will be purely the result of the latter 's unilateral action . But there is a more important issue involved here , even , than the one of fair play for the railroads in the immediate situation . This is the issue of whether we are to continue to have one law for railroad management and another for railroad labor . On four different occasions now since 1941 the unions , when they have failed to obtain through the accredited machinery of the Railway Labor Act everything to which they thought they were entitled , have resorted to extra-legal methods to gain their ends . These methods have featured political pressure on the White House , accompanied by threats of paralyzing nation-wide strikes . It is not surprising to hear at the present time , therefore , that union strategy is based on the assumption that " you can always get concessions from the Administration in an election year . " The President has already gone further than the law requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mediation after the brotherhoods ' leaders had renewed their earlier announcement of strike plans . To make any further concessions to the demands of those leaders , even if they resulted in a temporary peace , would mean paying a price for the latter which neither the Administration nor the country can afford .                     