@@708390

txt The writer of the following letter was a war correspondent for many years , starting with the Russo-Japanese War . He . was a major of United States Cavalry and later a lieutenant colonel in our military intelligence service . He was also aide to the Root Russian diplomatic mission and the Stevens railroad mission to Russia and acted as liaison officer to the American and Japanese delegations to the Washington Disarmament Conference . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The greatest danger that confronts a winning army is overconfidence and its accompanying corollary that a retreating ' army ? is a beaten army . It must never he forgotten that a fatally wounded beast is most dangerous in the throes of death . Germany has lost this war because of her failure correctly to appraise the character , the stamina and the resiliency of almost every enemy she has fought . She assumed that England would not fight , or could not fight long even if war started . Next , in spite of the lessons of history , from the Napoleonic campaigns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be swept aside by one or two blitz campaigns with their terrific losses to a retiring army . Then , after three years of overwhelming victories , Hitler felt so certain of ultimate success that he invited America to join the struggle by boldly declaring war on our country after Pearl Harbor . Each time a hope was substituted for reality . Complete failure to appreciate the psychology and the character of the United States , a sleeping giant , led him blithely to challenge the greatest potential force in all this world . The price of a persistent underestimate of his enemies has brought the nation and the people of the would-be conquerors of the world into the desperate plight in which they now find themselves . War Not Yet Won The war in Europe is still a long way from its conclusion , even if Berlin be , as we hope , promptly taken by the advancing Russians . It seems wise to emphasize this now , in the moment of the sweeping Russian victories and the dayby-day progress of the western armies . We must stress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what can happen . The final objective of all military operations is the destruction of the enemy 's army and his means of supporting it  --  not necessarily the taking of a city , even if that city be the capital , as is Berlin . The situation never looked more promising than it does today , but the course of wisdom is not to be too sure . The capture of Berlin may be but a matter of days or weeks . But in the realm of possibility this may require a much longer time , and even when taken , its capture will be the beginning of more and more battles . When each is victorious , the United Nations still face a long and tedious period of mopping up . The optimism of last summer , when our magnificent troops swept through France and public opinion reached the conclusion that the war was about over , led to plans for reconversion and a. rush for peacetime jobs . Thus labor shortages were created and presently , at the most critical moment of the war to date , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter how rosy the outlook for an early conclusion of the struggle . Enemy Strategy Examined Let us take a look into the strategy of the enemy . It is well to study the types of strategy : one , that we may call luxury strategy , the other the strategy of necessity . In Germany 's bid for world conquest it is safe to assume that Poland , Norway , Denmark and the numerous other occupied states , especially the hid for the Russian Ukraine and the Balkan advances , were in the first group . On them Germany was not dependent for its existence , as they merely gave the opportunity of widespread loot , even without which Germany could have lived and prospered . Now , however , the enemy is dealing with the strategy of necessity . It seems safe to assume that in such a crisis she will gradually release her grip upon these theatres of war , beginning with Norway , Denmark and Italy , then , step by step , proceeding to the relinquish-ment of every foot of stolen territory . It seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or will be available for the final last-ditch stand at or beyond Berlin . This will be made , let us say , by thirty divisions of trained and desperate troops . The most vital areas within the Reich were the Saar and the Ruhr industrial districts , with their mineral resources , in the west , and the Silesian industrial counterpart in the east . It now seems clear that the German High Command did not believe it could hold both with the same strength , and therefore the emphasis was placed on the western front  --  the protection of the Rhine Valley , with the great centers of Cologne , Mayence , Frankfurt - am - Main and many others , became the main center of their whole plan , even at the risk of Belgian bulge and its fatal failure to achieve its objective . No doubt , as usual , the Germans failed to estimate the true strength and power of Stalin 's armies , but as the campaign progresses it seems evident that they fear the loss of the western areas more than they fear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they fear the loss of Berlin . From the rapidity of the German I withdrawal there seems to have been little effort to put up a powerful rearguard action or anything like a lastditch stand . Perhaps that stand will be made at Berlin itself or even beyond , and it is fair to assume that , in spite of the enemy 's internal troubles , we yet may be facing a situation analogous to that at Stalingrad , with the sharp contrast , however , that that epic stand was but the prelude to the slow but powerful Russian counter-offensive . The fatally wounded enemy , driven hack to his lair , may launch a counter-offensive in strength which will surprise us as much as did the German attacks of Dec. 16 . Though for the moment this seems impossible , in a war against such an enemy it is for the apparently impossible that the United Nations must be prepared . As of today , it seems that the Russians can not he checked , but it must ever be kept in mind that these huge offensives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks become a diminishing return , and though they still make progress , it becomes slower and slower . Students of the last great war will recall the German attack on Verdun in 1916 , which for two weeks seemed assured of victory , but which gradually petered out and failed completely . Similarly , few have forgotten the German attack on the British Fifth Army in the spring ' of 1918 , not to mention the futile effort the enemy made against our own Army in May , June and July of 1918 . That the Russians will have the power for immediate pursuit and battle after the German armies have abandoned the Berlin field of operations is a matter of grave doubt . And , if so , can they keep up enough steam to do this before the frost comes out of the ground , and maneuver becomes more difficult ? Perhaps the course of wisdom is to conclude that the war in Europe will go on to midsummer or even until fall . If a collapse conies sooner , so much the better . It has always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , off and on , for forty years , that we should hope for the best and prepare for the worst . If we are prepared for war until fall , it may end in June . If we again are caught with overoptimism , as we were last summer , it is even possible that , God forbid , it may slip over into 1946 before the final victory and the complete mopping up . As said Pascal in the seventeenth century : " To govern is to foresee . " The writer of the following letter has been associate executive secretary of the Foreign Missions Conference of North America and executive secretary of its Committee on East Asia . He was a delegate to the conference of the Commission on a . Just and Durable Peace of the Federal Council of Churches . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We are indebted to the Commission on a Just and Durable Peace of the Federal Council of Churches for the action taken in Cleveland last week recommending that the churches support the Dumbarton Oaks proposals as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission listed nine measures for improvement in the proposals . Among these measures was one which read : " In order to permit such changes in the charter of the organization as may from time to time become necessary , the provision for amendments should bt liberalized so as not to require concurrence by all the permanent members of the Security Council . " This referred to Chapter XI of the proposals , which , as it now stands , demands the consent of all members with permanent seats on the Security Council and a majority vote of all other members before an amendment can become effective . It is hard to believe the Dumbarton Oaks proposals so perfect that at some time amendments will not be required . Any number of inadequacies and flaws may be accepted in the plan as originally adopted if only reasonable opportunity for amendment existed . Chapter XI makes an amendment so difficult that the demands of a. changing ' world could easily engulf us in another war . We know the extent to which our own foreign relations have suffered because one-third present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaties . Yet Chapter XI of the proposals provides that ratification of amendments must be by all the members ? of the organization having permanent membership in the Security Council " in accordance with their respective constitutional processes . " thus extending the veto power of a Senate minority to world organization . I do not believe that on sober second thought the American people will wish to see that done . Chapter XI is the door through which all changes and improvements must move . That door should not be cio small that it can be blocked by any one Power . It needs to be enlarged to the point where the consent of only four out of five , or better yet , three out of five , of the Powers with permanent seats on the Security Council will be required . Otherwise we may find ourselves tied to a rigid political organization in a world whose chief characteristics are growth and change . It is for this reason that this particular recommendation of the Commission on a Just and Durable Peace needs to be considered with all seriousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing the importance of Chanter XI to our attention . The Dumbarton Oaks proposals entrust the enforcement of peace to the Security Council , dominated by its permanent members , the five Great Powers , Thus those Powers appoint themselves a vigilance committee ? plaintiff , prosecutor , jury . sentencing judge and hangman , all in one . That is not a system of law and justice and it has failed to warm our idealistic people . It is dubbed an alliance , another Concert of Europe , a program envisaging colliding spheres of influence . The little nations have reason to distrust it . So have the people of Main Street , who fear to underwrite with promises of armed force the future decisions which the other great Powers may regard as essential . Rather should the great Powers volunteer their overwhelming joint strength to the world as sheriffs -- sheriffs of the International Court , to enforce its decisions and exalt its jurisdiction . The Great Powers have already said : " We will not aggress . " Let them now say further : " If we are ever accused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court and abide by the decision . " Next , " we will expect all other nations to do likewise . " If the Court reports that it has been flouted , we  --  i , e. , the Security Council  --  will take on the duty of enforcing the judgment with such economic and armed force as the Council members and other nations intimately concerned in the matter can muster to support the law as laid down in the case by the Court . Changes Suggested More specifically , the Dumbarton Oaks proposals should be amended to provide  --  and in no uncertain words ? that : Complaints of the use or threat of force may go to the Court . The Court may issue peremptory temporary injunctions on either party to the dispute for averting hostilities . If a nation flouts the Court , the Court may assess penalties and costs . The Security Council shall undertake enforcement . Each nation may determine what economic and armed cooperation it will furnish for the task . Thus force steps aside for justice . Judicial procedures and successive precedents govern enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Great Powers give evidence to a cynical world of their sincerity by voluntarily renouncing their own freedom of action against aggressors save as sanctioned by the Court .. The fears of little nations are allayed . The fears of our people that they will at some future date become involved in foreign imperialistic projects are allayed . The democratic peoples will respond more alertly and unquestioningly to a call to support the Court than to a summons of the Foreign Ministers constituting. the Security Council . No Pohey-Making The Council can act without unanimous vote , since it is no longer making the foreign policies of its members but moving within a frame of law toward a limited objective . The American delegate , in a Security Council thus diminished to the sheriff 's function , can he left free to pledge our prompt cooperation in enforcemeht of Court decisions , without fatal delays for separate referrals to Congress . Sovereignty survives ? all nations come under law , but no nation is subordinated to the judgment of other nations if it respects the Court . Winston Churchill in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adjust . disputes and with forces , armed forces . national or international or both , held ready to enforce those decisions and prevent renewed aggression and the preparation of future wars . " James Brown Scott in a classic volume in 1919 analyzed the first eighty decisions of our Supreme Court in interstate disputes . proving that the nonexistence of written law in such matters had been no handicap to satisfactory adjudications.                     