@@706315

txt President Roosevelt urged today , in identical letters to State Governors , that speed limits of forty miles an hour be established for the country 's highways and roads to conserve tires . The President also suggested that regulations be established for regular inspection of tires in order to make sure of their repair or possible retreading at proper times . Coincidental with the President 's action came an order from the War Production Board cutting by onefifth , beginning Thursday , deliveries of gasoline to service stations and bulk consumers in seventeen Eastern States , the District of Columbia and the States of Washington and Oregon . The order also limits hours of service station operation . Another order issued by the board for the same area forbids , in effect , future installations of new fuel-oil heating equipment . The order , effective at once , forbids delivery of such oil for use in any new equipment unless installation is completed within thirty days , and , further , forbids delivery of oil for use in any converted facilities unless the conversion is completed within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move to conserve fueloil stocks m East and West Coast areas remote from the sources of supply . President Cites Expert Views In his message to the Governors the President noted that experts held that fast driving " wastes " rubber . He said that the tires on more than 30,000,000 motor vehicles in this country constituted a large part of the country 's rubber stock pile . Conservation of rubber , the Executive said , was essential to the winning of the war , in view of the situation in the Far East , where rubber-producing areas have been captured by the Japanese . He expressed the view that it was important to disturb civilian transportation as little as possible and that slow driving would be an aid in assuring this . The President 's letter read as follows : " My dear Governor : " As you know , we are doing everything possible to conserve rubber . The situation in the Far East makes this very necessary for the successful prosecution of the war effort " It has been said that a large part of our rubber stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - 000,000 motor vehicles of the country . If this stock pile is conserved by the individual motorists , as we are endeavoring to conserve the national stock pile , tires will last much longer , cars will run much farther and civilian life will be less disturbed because of lack of sufficient transportation facilities . " Rubber experts agree that fast driving wastes rubber and that tires may run many more miles when driven at limited rates of speed . May I suggest that this waste could be curtailed to the advantage of the individual motorist , and likewise to the advantage of the country , if the speed of all motor vehicles were limited to a maximum of forty miles per hour and if regulations were promulgated requiring frequent checking of tires in order to insure their repair or , where possible , retreading at the proper time . I would greatly appreciate your cooperation in an effort to achieve these objec-I throughout the country . " Tire-Rationing a Success " " The tire-rationing program , so recently established by the Office of Price Administration , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United . States , largely because of the enthusiastic cooperation and participation on the part of the Governors and their State Defense Councils . " Reduction of speed limits and regular inspection of tires constitute another important means of Federal-State cooperation in the war effort . " Very sincerely yours , " FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT . " In line with the President 's request , the American . Automobile Association today advised passenger-car owners not to sell their cars or put them in storage , but to use their vehicles wisely . Thomas P. Henry , president of the association , said that this country could not afford to proceed on the assumption " that nothing can be done to provide wheel equipment for more than 20,000,000 au , tomobiles now performing a vital transportation function . " If the present selling wave of cars continued , he added , " the bottom will fall out of the used-car market " and the automobile would be worth " just the tires on its wheels . " The War Production Board 's order cutting gasoline deliveries and limiting service-station operation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now extended to the two West Coast States , a possibility envisaged , when the previous regulation was in operation .                     