@@707516

txt The Seventy-eighth Congress came back for its second session today fresh from contacts with its constituencies and bearing a few proposals for compromising the legislative and policy snarls it left behind when it recessed on Dec. 21 . Whether harmony lies ahead on food price subsidies and other inflation brakes , absentee service ' men 's voting programs , labor-industry problems , war profit curbs and taxation should be indicated soon . President Roosevelt discussed such problems late +oday with his Congressional leaders . Tomorrow the Senate and House , each in its own chamber instead of in joint session , will receive the President 's annual message on the state of the Union . Mr. Roosevelt 's physician , Rear Admiral Ross T. , asked him not to deliver the message in person , even though he has virtually recovered from his recent attack of grippe . Most , if not all , of the problems discussed by the President and the Congressional leaders were expected to be dealt with in the.message , which was being completed tonight . The leaders indicated that they expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifty-one Senators and 316 Representatives answered to the first quorum calls . The Senate , having made as its unfinished business the proposal to freeze Social Security old-age benefit taxes at the present 1 per cent level for another year , recessed after seventeen Minutes . It desired to transact no business before receiving the President 's message . Other phases of the controversial $2,275,600,000 revenue bill which contains the Social Security levy amendment will be taken up this week and next . The House , by its brief speeches and a great inpouring of bills and resolutions , displayed many moods in giving its reactions to its latest contacts at home . For the most part , however , they appeared to be the same moods , brought up to date . Men and women in the armed services obviously were uppermost in the minds of the returning Congress , with concentration upon mustering-out pay , adjusted compensation , or bonus ; medical care , readjustments to civilian life and the right to vote from all domestic and overseas stations . Other expressions , contained in bills and in addresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes , to demand simplification of the pyramided tax structure and to relieve , as far as possible , the stress of administrative detail . attending Government contacts at home . National Service Move Awaited Reports persisted that President Roosevelt would suggest , later if not immediately , a form of limited national service , under which the Government , rather than seizing plants , mines and railroads when strikes threatened production or transportation , could assign management and labor - to duty by executive order . Congressional leaders were prepared , if other recommendations were lacking , to sponsor amendments to the Smith-Connally strike control law to extend the Presidential powers to all plants , mines and railroads , either with or without seizure . The question of whether Congress would remain injected into the wage case of 1,100,000 nonoperating railroad workers , a controversy related closely to the stabilization program , was not resolved today . A House Interstate Commerce subcommittee , assigned to draft an amendment designed to exempt the Railway Labor Act from the stabilization laws and programs , reported for a third time that it had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The resolution to which the amendment would be attached has been adopted by the Senate . It would give Congressional approval to a wage increase of 8 cents an hour , a rise declared by the Administration to be inflationary . Hearing Set on Prohibition While a Senate Judiciary subcommittee prepared to resume its investigation on Thursday into whether scarcities of liquor are genuine or artificially created , a House subcommittee completed plans to start hearings the same day on a wartime prohibition measure . The prohibition bill hearing , which will be conducted by a subcommittee headed by Representative Sam Hobbs of Alabama , was limited to two hours of testimony taking , all from the dry side , with further sessions postponed until other measures are out of the way . Senator Walter F. George , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , predicted early studies looking to a simplification of the tax structure . Representatives Frank Carlson , Republican of Kansas , a member of the Ways and Means Committee , introduced legislation which set a deadline of Sept. 15 for the production of a. simplification program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous revenue bill was before Congress . Under his new bill a commission of fifteen members would be created to establish " a streamlined , long-range , integrated Federal tax policy . " Congress will receive the budget message on Thursday , giving the estimates of the vast funds required for the impending invasion of Europe and the stepped-up general offensive . Mr. Roosevelt decided not to hold his usual budget " seminar " privately with the press . The session will be conducted by Harold D. Smith , Director of the . Bureau of the Budget , and Wayne Coy , assistant Budget Director .                     