@@705128

txt A determined crowd of those who mean business when they chant " We Want Willkie ! " repeated it for as long as four and a half hours in chilly Forty-ninth Street last night at the overflow meeting centering about a bunting-draped speakers ' stand midway between Eighth and Ninth Avenues . While Chief Inspector Louis F. Costuma estimated that the total turnout for the evening ? in the Garden and out , between Broadway and Ninth Avenue and between Forty-eighth and Fifty-second Street ? was conservatively 90,000 , Deputy Inspector Martin Brown set at 30 , - 000 the patient partisans who clogged Forty-ninth Street alone . They got what they wanted at 10 o'clock sharp . From a door behind the platform , out of sight of most of the audience , the Republican candidate for President emerged smiling . The packed enthusiasts up front took up the yell ; it spread Like fire and lasted for three minutes . During that time Mr. hatless , an open gray topcoat over his blue suit , " took a bow " without actually bowing . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head , thrust them wide - apart , waved one and dropped the other , and then concentrated his friendliness on the western rim of the throng , while his wife stepped quickly to the front rail . Mrs. Willkie 's smile was more tense than her husband 's ; she seemed more keyed up by the occasion  --  and the audience responded accordingly . Then she dropped back and the candidate neared the microphone while the inevitable " We Want Willkie ! " boomed deeper and deeper . Richard F. Lawrence , treasurer of the Republican State Committee , made a brief introduction . The roar went up again , as Mr. Willkie grasped the microphone with his right hand and raised his left for silence . He waited . The chant slackened , and he spoke . " My voice is a little husky , " he said ? and it certainly was ? " It never was very golden . I 'm sorry I ca n't stay here longer to talk to you ? I 'd like to so much  --  but I 've got to he on my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom of my heart for this generous reception . " Big Moment Passes He disappeared via the same mysterious door  --  and although thousands remained to hear by amplifier the speech he began inside the Garden within half an hour , somehow the almost electric tension of the street rally , a tension built up in almost every one as legs grew stiffer with standing and the cold began to get uncomfortable  --  passed its peak . The fringes of the throng began to unravel . The fire-escapes across the street yielded some of their pro-tern tenants . The big moment was over . But just how big a moment it was appeared from the police crowd estimates and comment . A lieutenant queried independently of his chiefs put the all-over total at 85,000 ; another officer said there were 35,000 within range of the Forty-ninth Street platform . Estimates at such rallies are always difficult to substantiate ; exactly seven years ago Police Commissioner Bolan became involved in a controversy because of the estimate that 50,000 Fusionists had swarmed about the Garden for the final rally before La Guardia 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who lined Eighth Avenue and who were wedged back on the side streets toward Broadway , the Fortyninth Street crowd took on a personality of its own . Nearly every other person wore a white card reading " No Third Term ; Save Our Country . " And virtually every one had on at least one Willkie button . The only discordant note was implicit in three blue and white Mead banners that flapped from a fire escape , a note that became especially discordant during the speech of Bruce Barton , Senator Mead 's opponent . Mounted patrolmen guarded the wings of the platform ; and when Mr. Barton appeared the flashlights and burst of applause frightened two of the horses . Sparks flew from one 's heels ; both animals spun around , and a woman had to be carried out , a bruise on her right leg . During the long wait at least three other persons fainted . Each was carried by patrolmen inside the Garden . From the platform , midway to each avenue , twin batteries of the glaring searchlights associated with movie premieres played blue-white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a knot of listeners in the eyes ; the victims waved futilely toward the lights . which were only one of the problems of those in the front rows , who had the skittish horses , the angle of the platform and the inward surge of those behind to contend with . But aside from the handful who keeled over , no one seemed to mind . Besides the climactic appearance of Mr. Willkie , the outsiders  --  who took good-naturedly the fact that most of them had tickets , unhonored because the place was filled by 6 P. M. ? had personal words from virtually every one who spoke inside . Not only that ; they had occasional compliments from speakers inside , who said they knew who the real heroes of the gathering were . Newbold Morris spoke and Joseph W. Martin and Robert Moses and Messmore Kendall and Mary Donlon . But the hit of the evening , prior to Mr. Willkie , was unquestionably Clare Booth , playwright , who appeared , hatless , to read the speech she had given inside . Like all political fans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt , all New Dealers , Mayor La Guardia , Elliott Roosevelt , Dorothy Thompson and Stephen T. Early . The mob started to hiss Jack Dempsey , too , but Christy Walsh pointed out that it was only the American way to concede that there might he sincere feeling on the other side , too . Throughout , Chief Inspector Costuma had 870 patrolmen , 200 detectives , 59 sergeants , 20 lieutenants and 9 captains on the job . One hundred and fifteen of them , under Inspector Edmund Mead , handled the Forty-ninth Street crowd . 