@@706927

txt United States motor torpedo boats beat off , on Sunday night ( Solomons time ) , the second attempt by the Japanese within a month to send destroyers , presumably carrying reinforcements and supplies , to Guadalcanal Island . They torpedoed two and possibly a third . In the Sunday night action , a Navy communique issued here today stated , the PT boats " attacked a number - of Japanese destroyers near Guadalcanal . " In the ensuing engagement , the torpedo boats reported , one enemy destroyer was hit with two torpedoes , , a second was hit once , and two possible hits were , made on a third . The announcement added that " the enemy force retired to the northwest . " There was no announcement as to the number of Japanese vessels involved in this engagement or the number of torpedo boats used by our forces . There also was no reported destruction or damage suffered by our attacking craft . In December the Japanese were repulsed in a similar manner when torpedo boats and airplanes dis- I covered and attacked ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to subsequent observation , the enemy destroyers were attempting to run close enough to shore to drop supplies , sealed in floating containers , into currents that would carry hem to points where enemy forces on Guadalcanal could salvage them . It appeared possible to informed observers here that the same attempt had been repeated , but confirmation of this view must await further advices . Military officers here said that the Japanese may have attempted to get more food and supplies to their beleaguered forces on Guadalcanal to place these troops in a position to open an offensive that would serve as a diversion for Japanese attempts at counter-invasion . While the motor torpedo boats again apparently frustrated such plans , our air and ground forces pressed their attack against the enemy troops on Guadalcanal , and continued their advance . For the first time in several days our bombers let alone the Japanese air base at Munda on New Georgia Island , while diverting their blows to Rekata Bay , some 150 miles northwest of Henderson Air Field on Guadalcanal . Rekata was visited on Wednesday by a force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aircobra and Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighters . These planes bombed " enemy installations at Rekata Bay , " which are known to include installations to service both war planes and light surface craft . Large concentrations of ammunition and supplies also have been reported from time to time as bombed at Rekata Bay . There apparently was considerable activity on Guadalcanal itself but the Navy 's communiqu ? was most reticent in describing it . It stated only that " United States ground forcees on Guadalcanal Island supported by air forces continued their advance . " There was nn amplification of this announcement , which implied a direct aggressive movement . Since the main body of Japanese are reported to be west of our positions , beyond the Matanikau River , it appeared probable to observers here that the advance is progressing in ti ant direction .                     