@@707660

txt DUBLIN MOBILIZES , SEEING ULTIMATUM Border , Ports , Airfields Are Guarded  --  Politics Suspected in de Valera 's Reaction By JAMES B. RESTON By Cable to TITS NEW YORK TIMES . LONDON , March ** Irish Government not only rejected th , United States request that German and Japanese diplomatic missions be closed but choose to interpret the State Department 's note as an ultimatum and immediately took military precautions against an Anglo-American invasion of southern Ireland . All leaves in the Irish Army were canceled immediately after David Gray , United States Minister in Dublin , presented the State Department 's protest , special guards were placed over airfields , ports and other strategic positions ; bridges leading from Ulster into southern Ireland were mined and the Irish local defense volunteers were mobilized and armed . It is understood that despite Mr. Gray 's statements the State Department 's note meant just what it said and did not imply a threat to take over the Irish ports or to " invade " the country . Mr. de Valera took all precautions and cabled immediately to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an // DUBLIN IIIOBIMZES , SEEING . ULTIMATUM // ultimatum . This reassurance was given immediately by Secretary of State Cordell Hull through the Irish Minister in Washington and was repeated again by Mr. Gray in an interview with Mr. De Valera on Feb. 29 . Despite these statements Mr. de Valera sought additional reassurances from the Canadian Government . He appealed to Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King for help in the matter and Canadian officials in Dublin , Ottawa and Washington evidently sought to do what they could to mediate in the dispute . The personality of Mr. Gray evidently played a considerable part in the exchanges . He is said to have put the State Department 's case in " a very forceful manner , " pointing out that the large number of Irish citizens working in Britain afforded an excellent opportunity for the Germans and Japanese to plant members of the Irish Republican Army in British factories and in military establishments in North Ireland , where the Allies have large military forces . Evidence of Axis Plot Among the evidence presented to Mr. De Valera to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy was a document captured by the Royal Ulster Constabulary , showing a detailed map of the coast of Northern Ireland with all inlets , bays and beaches marked and with the depth of water indicated at all different stages of the tides . The weight of the evidence presented to Mr. De Valera did not budge him from his position . If he closed the Japanese and German diplomatic offices in Dublin , he said , he would have to do the same to those of the United States and Britain , a suggestion that might be accepted by London and Washington as a means of removing the threat of Axis espionage . The American Minister was said to have pointed out to Mr. De Valera that the United States Government was not charging the Irish Government with duplicity , that , on the contrary , the collaboration of thousands of Irish citizens in the Allied war effort was thoroughly understood and appreciated , but that the Allies were complaining that under the present situation it was not within the legal power of the Irish Government to stop the leakage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German and Japanese diplomatic missions remained in Dublin and so long as they had the diplomatic privilege of sending their couriers back and forth from Ireland with pouches full of documents which no Irishman ever saw . Irish Politics Involved Mr. de Valera 's alarmist reaction to the State ' Department 's note can not be explained by his fear of invasion alone . Part of the explanation lies in Irish domestic politics . Mr. de Valera still heads the strongest party in Ireland and there can be no doubt that in staying out of the war he is following the will of the overwhelming majority of the Irish people . Only one man in the Irish Parliament , James Dillon , has dared to support Irish intervention in the war . But in last year 's election there were signs that Mr. de Valera 's party 's popularity was waning . The Fianna Fail , which he heads , lost ten seats in that election and since then there has been growing opposition to the Government on small local issues . It would not be fair to say that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but , judging from the way in which he called in the leaders of all parties when the United States note was delivered , it is clear that he is using the United States note to appeal to his political opponents for support . This has not increased Eire 's chances of reaching her main political objective , the political unity of Ireland . While the British have respected Eire 's neutrality throughout the war , the chances of persuading them now to abandon the Ulstermen , who supported them in the war , in favor of the southern Irish who did not support them has grown slimmer than it was in 1939 . The German and Japanese diplomats will probably remain , but so will the Irish " partition , " and after this incident Mr. De Valera will not have quite the same political support from the United States that he has always counted on in his ancient battles with the British .                     