@@709556

txt Confirmation of the departure for Moscow on June 7 of A. A. Heller , long-time " angel " for Communist undertakings here , intensified speculation yesterday over the real purpose and meaning of Earl Browder 's visit to the Soviet capital . The reputedly wealthy Mr. Heller , purchasing agent more than a quarter-century ago for the Russian Bolshevist regime , has been a stanch supporter of Mr. Browder . When the latter was deposed as head of the American Communist movement , Mr. Heller abruptly cut off his " contributions " to The Daily Worker and other Communist projects . This has been a heavy blow financially , it was learned , to the present leadership headed by William Z. Foster . In the past the leadership ' counted on Mr. Heller and several other " angels " to make up publication deficits that were said to run a quarter of a million dollars a year . Now Mr. Heller is supposed to be bound for Moscow to meet Mr. Browder and that is given as the ' reason for a week 's delay on Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due back last Sunday or Monday on an American Overseas Airline plane . It is known that he had booking from Stockholm , the European terminal for the airline , and that he failed to pick up his reservation . Mr. Heller left La Guardia Field on a Pan-American clipper on a United States passport and made ' Unite under the name of Abraham Heller , executive , with a home address at 104 East Thirty-seventh Street , according to the manifest . // His ultimate destination was said to be Moscow , - of which the flight to London was the first leg . The 71-year-old " financial genius " is no stranger to the land of the Soviets . In 1921 , en route to Russia on a United States passport with a Russian visa , he was momentarily detained by the then Latvian Government in Riga . A member of the Socialist party and a director of the Rand School , he had been since 1918 commercial director of the Russian Soviet Government Bureau in New York . Announced Credit Plan At a time when Ludwig C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unrecognized revolutionary Government , was trying to obtain a resumption of trade relations with the United States , Mr. Heller made the sensational announcement that the Russian regime was in a position to send to this country $200,000,000 in gold to secure credits . Then as now Russia needed machines , tools , agricultural implements , road building equipment and raw materials of tin and rubber to recover her industry and farming from the ravages of a war fought on her home soil . Mr. Heller 's latest visit was viewed by insiders here as a start by Russia to achieve by realistic economic moves the results that she has not been able to attain over the diplomatic council table . Despite formal announcement made more than a year ago by M. M. Gouseff , head of the Amtorg Trading Corporation , that the purchase of American goods and services for the post-war reconstruction and development of Russia would be made through his cooperation , there was ample evidence that Mr. Heller would take an active part in such transactions . Soviet Seeks U. S. Products With the Soviet embarking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Gouseff reported that Russia would utilize American products and methods " on a scale unprecedented in history , " and that purchases would include a vast series of plants for the manufacture of building materials and equipment and for making prefabricated houses and parts . An example of Russia 's determination to expand her industrial program of mass production , to mechanize her industry and to bring her whole method of factory production up to American levels was seen in the shipment to Russia last October of a mechanical press weighing 1,500,000 pounds , one of the largest ever built in this country . It was constructed at the Brooklyn plant of the E. W. Bliss Company . In January , 1945 , it was reported that Russia had requested more than $2,000,000,000 worth of goods from the United States , Great Britain and ? Canada under the fourth lend-lease protocol to buy heavy machine tools , presses and other industrial equipment , but that the United States had turned down this request on the ground that these items would be more useful for Russia 's post-war program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated strongly that he might again be put to use by the Soviet in the field in which he had demonstrated success in the past , the tie-up with Mr. Browder was not so evident . Mr. Browder 's mysterious journey to the Soviet capital six weeks ago in the face of his deposition as head of the American Communists brought consternation to the current ruling powers , who denounced reports of the journey as divisive propaganda on the part of the " capitalistic press . " Since then Mr. Browder , entertained in Moscow at a hotel reserved for foreign dignitaries and received by Premier Stalin , Foreign Commisar V. M. Molotov and other high Soviet officials , has said that he made the trip to make arrangements for representing Soviet book publishers . Mr. Heller formerly was active in the affairs of International Publishers , which brought out in this country the works of Soviet authors . Alexander Trachtenberg is now head of the publishing concern .                     