@@709725

txt Britain , awaiting President Truman 's decision on the plan for a federated Palestine , unofficially served notice today that her warships would intercept , search and arrest vessels of another nation carrying Jewish illegal immigrants to the Holy Land . An official Cabinet statement on policy for Palestine was expected shortly . At 10 Downing Street officials worked on a statement of policy that , authoritative sources said , visualized lana operations throughout Europe to end illegal immigration of Jews to Palestine , tile sea blockade , the establishment of the Cyprus detention camp and an appeal to sparsely populated countries to absorb as many of Europe 's refugee Jews as possible . Whitehall sources said the British Army in Palestine was prepared for " major developments . " Despite British representations to the Allied Control Commission in Rumania and to the Soviet Gov , ernment , Jews crowded aboard an immigrant ship in Constanta , Rumanian Black Sea port , a Foreign Office spokesman said . Flow Toward Ports Unchecked He declared that in Italy Jews were moving in big groups to Bari , Taranto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the west coast in defiance of a tightened Italian police control . Refugees were slipping across unprotected stretches of the Polish frontier and away from Soviet-occupied Germany , attempting to make their way down the Danube , the spokesman added . Other Jews in Germany were attempting to slip across the northwestern frontier into the Netherlands , he said . In Greek waters two British warships were on the alert for immigrant ships . Royal Navy patrols off Palestine intensified their watch for motor boats carrying refugees . Dawn-to-sunset patrols flew out to sea . A Foreii Office official disclosed at a news conference that the Cabinet statement on Palestine policy would deal with the British intention to search suspected ships flying foreign colors . He declined to say whether Britain had already conveyed this intention to any foreign power , but said the statemen would deal with that too . He said the British Government was pleased with measures taken by the French and Italians to stop illegal emigration at its sources . He added that the Soviet Government had orally replied to British representations , but declined to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no available information on the attitude of the Polish or Czechoslovak Governments , he said . A Rumanian spokesman in London said that his Government would do nothing to stop " legal " sailings from Constanta and that it was no responsibility of Rumania if Jews landed at a different destination from the one on their passports , the United Press reported . Mexican and Costa Rican diplomats denied that they had issued masses of passports that enabled Jews to sail without interference . In Palestine , reports suggested that British forces were ready to enter Phase C of their operations . Phase A was represented by a reliable London source as " a state of prepardedness " against sporadic acts of terrorism , Phase B as principally defensive and Phase C as an offensive . Zionist Leaders Deplore Blockade By Cable . o THE NEW YORK TIMES . PARIS , Aug. 10 ? Commenting on the British Government 's new drive against unauthorized immigration of Jews , a spokesman of the Jewish Agency for Palestine said today that the only effect would be to " prolong and enlarge the suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " At the headquarters of the United States delegation to the peace . conference it was said that , Secretary of State James F. Byrnes had no appointment with Foreign ' Secretary Ernest . Bevin this weekend . It was strongly implied that under no foreseeable circumstances would Mr. Byrnes discuss Palestine with Mr. Bevin inasmuch as the , former was known to regard it as ' strictly a White House matter . Perhaps as a result of the Palestine crisis there were signs that a number of Jewish groups hitherto at odds over broad questions of politics were drawing together on some of them . The thoughts of their leaders ' keep returning to the plight of , their fellow Jews . An agency ' spokesman said , " Jews all over the world will , of course , do all in their power to come to the rescue of I their brethren . " He added , " the lure to escape from the present misery to freedom is too strong to be checked by force . " The Hebrew Committee of National Liberation released the text , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British military and naval moves to prevent further immigration into Palestine . Charging the British with violating their mandate on Palestine , the committee expressed the assurance that Mr. Truman would " never tolerate such violation of international obligations . " Similar messages were , sent to the heads of all nations represented at the peace conference . Britain Modifies Parley Terms By Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . JERUSALEM , Aug. 10 ? Jamal el Husseini , vice chairman of the Palestine Aran Higher Committee , will fly to Egypt tomorrow to consult colleagues there on a. communication today from the High Commissioner . Lieut . Gen. Sir Alan G. Cunningham . This indicated that the British Government had modified its terms for Arab participation in the London talks on Palestine this month by extending their scope to include any proposals the Arabs wished to submit . The High Commissioner told Mr. Husseini , according to an official statement , that the British Government intended to place the British-United States Cabinet Committee 's plan for a federal Palestine before the conference as a basis of negotiation , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would receive consideration . The statement added that " His Majesty 's Government are not committed to carrying the plan into effect irrespective of the result of the conference . " Five young men were removed for further interrogation when the Jewish suburb of Mekor Haim in southwestern Jerusalem was searched today . A small quantity of revolver ammunition was found in one house . Palestine Eruption Predicted JERUSALEM , Aug. 10 UP ) ? A high authority declared today that " serious trouble " would soon erupt in Palestine regardless of steps that the British might take on the Jewish immigration issue . Jerusalem was becoming a tense , fortresslike city , with new security measures added daily . A requisitioned hotel housing the Government 's public works land office was hastily evacuated when a telephone call warned of an impending explosion . Nothing hapI pened and Government workers ' returned to their desks . A similar incident occurred at the British Overseas Airways office a few yards from the King David Hotel , which was blasted by an explosion July 22 after a telephoned warning . The Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other Government offices . New barbed-wire barricades were built across fields and olive groves in the vicinity of Government buildings . Hundreds of yards of barbed wire were being placed along sidewalks leading to Government buildings . Richard Stubbs , public information officer , denied reports that new censorship had been imposed on the Palestine press and radio on news of Jewish immigration . He said that the local press and radio ! were subject to the usual censor ! ship , which deletes any news or comment " deer-lied likely to incite the populace to violence . "                     