@@708670

txt The Big Four agreed in principle at the United Nations Conference today that nothing in the proposed new League of Nations should prevent a member from receiving an adequate hearing or expressing any opinion it liked in any controversy , but that the right of formal investigation of disputes by the world Security Council should be subject to the veto of any of the Big Five . In Washington it was stated that President Truman would fly to San Francisco June 5 and speak at the final plenary session of the conference the following day . This decision , which is at the heart of the controversy over the veto power suggested by President Roosevelt at the Yalta conference , was taken after the technical experts of the sponsor powers agreed that a decision to send a formal commission of investigation into an area of dispute was of such importance that the right of veto of all such decisions must be protected . The exact wording of the decision remains to be settled . In fact , there are now three drafts of the Big Four 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not far apart , the experts are expected to spend at least another day in trying to make their interpretation specific enough to answer some of the twenty-two questions put before them by the small nations without trying to impose too many conditions on the decisions of the Security Council . Argument in American Group The veto question has produced two discussions within the American delegation itself , one necessary and another , in the opinion of some members of our delegation , unnecessary . The first discussion was over what the words of the Yalta formula meant . This is a question of interpretation and , like all other delegations at this conference , the American delegation is made up of men who have slightly different interpretations about the intent behind the words . Therefore in the , last few days there have been several meetings during which , in accordance with the typical American method of argument and counter-argument , the delegates have all had an opportunity to say whether in their judgment the veto should be applied harshly or moderately , and whether the controversy over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change the language or merely by interpreting the language liberally . This has been the thoroughly normal method of dealing with the complexities of the problem , and precisely the same method has been followed in the British , Chinese and Russian delegations . The only difference is that yesterday the American delegation , which has always met in secret , decided to go into " executive session " and the members of the delegation and others in the room were sworn to secrecy . " Stormy " Delegation Meeting - This " executive " session of a normally secret delegation meeting intrigued some reporters even more than the subject of the secret meeting , with the result that , when they discovered that most of the delegates suddenly refused even to discuss the meeting , they kept asking questions here and there and finally discovered what everybody knew all along : That there were several interpretations of the Yalta voting formula within our own delegation and that the purpose of the secrecy evidently was to prevent discussion of these different interpretations . When the newspapers appeared this morning with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensued what was described as " a pretty stormy meeting " in which some of the delegates were charged with breaking their promise , and again it was emphasized that nobody was to talk to reporters about the proceedings in the delegation meetings . The conference reporters asked this morning to see Secretary Stettinius about the new rule . They were permitted to see one of his assistants and explained to him that the only result of the rule would be to create the very thing the rule was designed to avoid . This , presumably , was passed on to Mr. Stettinius and discussed at another delegation meeting this afternoon . Rule on Secrecy Is Ended Following this afternoon 's meeting , which lasted two hours , a spokesman for the United States delegation lifted the secrecy rule and let it be known that the delegation had reached complete agreement regarding its interpretation of the Yalta formula . The delegation meeting preceded a meeting of the technical committee of four , representing the United States , Great Britain , Russia and China , at which minor language changes were proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble was expected in the committee meeting in view of the progress already made . After the committee agrees on a statement to embody the four nations ' joint interpretation , a Big Four meeting of heads of delegations will be called to adopt it . It is expected they will issue a public statement setting forth their common view as to what the Yalta formula means . They will also decide whether to issue specific answers to the twenty-two questions asked by the small nations in their search for clarification . The Big Four explanation of the veto will come out early in the week , probably on Monday . Al that time it may be found that the interpretation of the Big Four will differ very slightly from the official American interpretation put out by Joseph C. Grew , UnderSecretary of State , on March 24 and by Secretary Stettinius on March 5 . Mr. Grew was asked whether the world organization could be prevented from discussing any dispute or situation which might threaten peace and security . He replied : " The answer is no . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any , decision or action the Security Council should take that the provisions covering the voting procedure would come into operation . This Government proposed the provisions of voting procedure in the Security Council which have been accepted by all Governments sponsoring the San Francisco Conference as part of the Dumbarton Oaks proposals which will afford a basis for a pattern for the international organization . " It is this Government 's understanding that under these voting procedures there is nothing which could prevent any State from bringing to the attention of the Security Council any dispute or any situation which it believes may lead to international friction or may give rise to a dispute . And , furthermore , there is nothing in these provisions which could prevent any party to such dispute or situation from receiving a hearing before the Council and having the case discussed . Nor could any of the other members of the Council be prevented from making such observations on the matter as they wish to make . " Mr. Grew went on to say that the Yalta voting procedure made a distinction between voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Under the proposed voting procedure for the Security Council , he explained , an affirmative vote of seven of the eleven members was necessary for decision on both substantive and procedural matters . Decisions as to procedural matters would be made by the votes of any seven members . In decisions on enforcement measures , he continued , the vote of seven must include the votes of all five permanent members whether or not they were parties to the dispute . On questions involving the peaceful settlement of disputes no party to the dispute ? whether or not a permanent member  --  may vote . In such decisions the vote of seven must include those permanent members which are not parties to the dispute . This means , he declared , that when a permanent member of the Security Council was involved in a dispute the representative of that state might not vote on matters involving the peaceful settlement of that dispute . In other words , that permanent member would have no " veto " in these matters . In this case , however , the remaining permanent members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Security Council reaches its decisions . Any permanent member not a party to the dispute would thus have a " veto , " should it care to exercise it . Further , he continued , if two of the permanent members of the Council were parties to a dispute , neither of them could vote , and the decision must be made by the three remaining permanent members and four of the non-permanent members of the Council . If more than two permanent members are involved in a dispute , the vote would require the concurrence of the remaining permanent members plus the number of non-permanent members necessary to make a total of seven .                     