@@708189

txt Accusing Governor Dewey of " desperate , contemptible fanning of the flames of religious hatred , " Harold L. Ickes , Secretary of the Interior , charged last night that " this Dewey smear campaign of hate and prejudice follows the pattern contrived by Adolf Hitler and the unspeakable Goebbels . " " Time after time , page after page , comment piled on comment , the Dewey campaign line and Nazi and Japanese propaganda have been identical , " Secretary Ickes asserted . He spoke at the " Every- , body for Roosevelt " rally at Madison Square Garden , and his address was broadcast nationally over the NBC network . Mayor La Guardia was chairman of the rally , which attracted a capacity crowd of 20,000 persons to the Garden . They heard President Roosevelt 's radio address from Washington , which was relayed over amplifiers , and a long array of speakers , including Senator Robert F. Wagner , Oscar E. Ewing , vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee , and Philip Murray , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations . Dan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union , of the American Federation of Labor ; Clifford M. Townsend , former Governor of Indiana , Andrew J. Higgins , shipbuilder ; Jo Davidson , chairman of the Independent Voters Committee of the Arts and Sciences for Roosevelt ; Elmer Milliman , international president of the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes , and Mary Bethune , Negro educator , were others who spoke . Many stars of the entertainment world , including Frank Sinatra , Charles Boyer and George Jessel , all of whom spoke in support of President Roosevelt ; Ethel Merman , who sang " Do n't Look Now , Mr. Dewey , But Your Record Is Showing , " written by E. Y. Harburg , and Jimmy Savo , Benay Ventura and Jan Kiepura , also took part in the rally . Mayor La Guardia , who was in high spirits , roused the huge crowd to bursts of laughter and shouts of approval . When the President finished his address , the Mayor brought a roar from the crowd with the remark : " I do n't see how anyone can vote against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mayor in pantomime made a telephone call , asking for ALgonquin 4-6500 , which many of those present recognized as the number of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America . " Hello , Sidney , " the Mayor said into the imaginary instrument , " I 've got a speaker I. want to clear with you  --  it 's Bob Wagner . " Secretary Ickes charged that by his Boston address on Wednesday night Governor Dewey had " annointed himself as commander in chief of the forces of hatred and intolerance . " He said that " this most hateful campaign in the history of the country " was being conducted not so much against the President as against Earl Browder and the Communists , who , Mr. Ickes said , " are about as relevant to the issue as mashed potatoes . " Mr. Ickes charged that " Dewey hopes that by rolling enough prejudices together he will snowball his way to victory . " He said that Mussolini and Hitler both had used similar tactics to kill democratic government , and that Governor Dewey 's " campaign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Japanese press and radio . Mr. Ickes charged that even before Governor Dewey 's nomination the Nazi official publication Das Reich in April , 1944 , expressed its preference for him . He added that as recently as Oct. 28 the German controlled radio , the so-called voice of Poland , beamed a broadcast in Polish to North America urging American citizens of Polish origin to vote for Dewey . He said that he did not mean to charge that Governor Dewey had solicited or welcomed the support of the German or Japanese radio , but he added that the charges voiced by Governor Dewey were " fascist and Nazi ideas . " He declared the most contemptible twist that had been given to any campaign since the defeat of Mr. Smith in 1928 was that built around the slogan " Clear it with Sidney . " Charges a " Sly " Campaign " I charge that the campaign of Mr. Dewey has been a sly but deliberate effort to encourage and to capitalize upon the anti-labor and anti-Semitic feeling which he behaves exists in the United States , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dewey and his supporters have referred to ' foreign-born ' or ' European-minded ' labor leaders . Their particular target has been Mr. Sidney Hillman . They have re , iterated that he is Russian-born ' or ' Lithuanian-born ' and they have referred to his ' rabbinical training . ' i " The entire Dewey smear cam-1 paign , built around the slogan , ' Clear it with Sidney '  --  a campaign which has been denounced by the originator of the slogan , ! Arthur Krock of THE Ntw YORK TIMES  --  is founded upon anti-laborjam and anti-Semitism . " Senator Wagner declared that ' the re-election of President Roosevelt would mean " the winning of the war in the fastest possible time , with the smallest possible loss of life , " while a Republican victory would place in the White House " a man whose unblushing falsifications sought to impair the morale of our fighting fortes , to satisfy his uncontrolled craving for political advancement . " " The re-election of Roosevelt will mean greater assurance of a lasting peace  --  with the peacemaking efforts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a household word among the nations , " Senator Wagner said . " A Dewey victory would put an obvious second-rater at the peace table  --  a man whose campaign has branded him and his supporters as fomenters of disunity , class antagonism , racial antipathies , religious prejudices and nationalistic hatreds . " The welfare of America demands the continued services of President Roosevelt in helping to build the permanent structure of peace , Mr. Murray said . He declared that the foundations for that structure already had been laid under his leadership , and contended that " we ' dare not change the architect of peace . " " Britain , Russia , China and the United States will be the four ' great pillars which support the structure of peace , " Mr. Murray ! declared . " Do we dare entrust our relations with Britain and China to a man who would have stood idly by when Britain and China were in ; danger and who opposed giving them aid by means of lend-lease ? IDo we dare entrust our relations with Russia to a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union ? " Mr. Murray said that President Roosevelt openly and boldly had proclaimed a program for full peace-time production and employment , and he charged that the men who " control the policies of Mr. Dewey  --  the Pews , the Weirs , the Girdlers and Sewell Avery , " were opposed to the very existence of labor unions , and " have learned absolutely nothing since the dark depression of Hoover . " Mr. Tobin devoted a large part of his address to an ' appeal for the re-election of Senator Wagner , asserting that he had known no man in the entire Senate " who has worked so unselfishly in the interests of the nation and especially1 in behalf of the toilers as has Senator Wagner . " He said he was confident that organized labor would support the Senator at the polls . " To contemplate for a moment making a change in the position of the Presidency of the United States at this time is depressing , " Mr. Tobin said . " We must do everything in our power to see to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect us and all the peoples of the world and the civilization that we stand for and believe in from future wars , and in order that we may speedily bring this conflict to an ending and bring back to our homes our loved ones . " Mr. Ewing declared that the advices reaching the Democratic National Committee showed beyond doubt that President Roosevelt would be re-elected and that only the size of his victory remained to be determined . " We must pile up an overwhelming majority so that there can be no shadow of doubt as to the President 's mandate to win the war quickly , to win the peace and then to establish stable economy in which there will be jobs for everyone to work , " he said .                     