@@712058

txt Court Bans Liquor Price-Fixing In State , Permitting Competition . The Appellate Division ruled unanimously yesterday that two sections of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law respecting mandatory price-fixing were invalid . The ruling was made on an appeal by Edward Sidney Levine , owner of a package store at 1 Park Row , whose license was revoked by the State Liquor Authority on March 11 " for repeated violations of the fair trade contracts . " The authority announced that it would appeal this morning to Presiding Justice David W. Peck for a stay of the ruling . Daniel J. Reisner , counsel for Mr. Levine , in interpreting the ruling , said that unless the decision was reversed or a stay granted , " the whole field of liquor competition on a legitimate basis is opened up again , " with retailers no longer bound by the price-fixing under " the existing mandatory fair trade laws . " As a result of the ruling the authority was expected to warn dealers today that fair trade ) contracts would be enforced pending the appeal . The opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " It should be borne in mind that Subdivision 12 ( b ) of Section 17 of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law does not direct the authority to fix prices in accordance with some declared standard or policy , but delegates to the authority the power to determine the important and delicate question whether price-fixing of branded alcoholic beverages doe 's tend to foster and promote temperance , and provide for orderly distribution of liquor . " The Constitution of the state and the orUrly processes of representative government require that the Legislature should make such important decisions itself . Otherwise there is no method by which the people can locate responsibility for such fundamental determination of public policy . " The decision noted that ; Mr. // Levine 's license was revoked after his third violation of the fair trade contracts , namely selling liquor at prices below the minimum retail price set by the contracts . Mr. Levine 's license had been suspended for ten days for his first offense , and thirty days for the second offense . The decision continued : " What has been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law . Such laws are primarily designed to safeguard the producers of branded commodities in the ownership of their brand names : the purpose here is different , viz , by avoiding price wars , to foster and- promote temperance and provide for the orderly distribution of alcoholic beverages . The motivation in the latter instance has nothing to do with protecting the property rights of producers in brand names . " Under the Fair Trade Law , the existence of price fixing depends upon the voluntary act of the owner of the brand name in entering into or refraining from entering into a fair trade contract ; in the present case , price fixing of branded alcoholic beverages is made compulsory by the State Liquor Authority except as it may , in its unlimited discretion , choose to make exceptions . " Authority 's Brief Is Recalled Justice Van Voorhis pointed out that the liquor authority in its brief argued that if the state could prohibit the sale of all liquors it could resort to the less drastic means of prohibiting the sale except at fixed prices . " Granting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it could not reasonably be argued that the Legislature could delegate to an administrative board the decision of the important question whether or not there should be state-wide prohibition , even though such a delegation of power were accompanied by a homily that the board should decide one way or the other in accordance with whether it deemed that prohibition would , ' foster and promote temperance . ' " The opinion concluded : " For the reasons stated , sub-division 12 ( b ) of Section 17 of the Alcoholic Beverage Control and Law and Rule ' 26 of the State Liquor Authority respecting mandatory price-fixing are invalid . " The American Fair Trade Council said this ruling would have no bearing on the fair trade practices used in selling other commodities in the state . Daniel Scotti , executive director of the Veteran and Affiliated Package Store Association , a group with more than 8,500 member stores , said the ruling was the most damaging ever struck against the small liquor dealer . " This decision , if upheld , will throw 80 per cent of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Dunne , executive director of the Metropolitan Package Stores Association , representing 1,400 stores , said all of his stores were being advised to " hold the line " until the ruling is clarified .                     