@@704403

txt Washington observers will be amazed if Mr. Roosevelt 's budget proposals are followed by Congress . They may be , but it is pointed out here that in the past seven years of the Roosevelt Administration , Congress has generally rewritten presidential proposals . Thus today , the generalized opposition to the Roosevelt tax program began finding expression in more specific comments . Senate Republicans under the chairmanship of Charles L. ( R ) of Oregon , minority leader , met in the morning to formulate a course of action . The conference went on record against any new taxes at this session of Congress and indorsed proposals for a joint Congressional study . On the House side , two Republican leaders , Representative Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois and John Taber , of New York , indicated they would not be satisfied with Mr , Roosevelt 's proposed reductions , but would use parliamentary tactics to hold President Roosevelt to his 1932 economy Pledge . Retrenchment Favored Senator Pat Harrison ( D ) of Mississippi , Chairman of the Finance Committee and one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal matters , voiced an undercurrent of dubiety over the budget also , though he took pains to say he was pot being critical of the President 's recommendations . He offered the most important proposal of the day with the recommendation that a joint legislative committee be constituted to examine the whole budget matter . To many observers , the program outlined by Mr. Harrison would constitute drafting of a " Congressional budget : . which would merely take the Roosevelt draft as a starting point . General approval was expressed in Senate and House over the trend toward retrenchment seen in Mr. Roosevelt 's proposals . But such Important Democrats as Senators James F. Byrnes of South Carolina and Tom Connally of Texas . not to mention many others , expressed the held that it would not be necessary to levy new taxes . Large Committee Proposed Mr. Harrison said he would introduce his resolution Monday for a temporary joint Congressional budget committee . This would be an impressive group taking six members from four committees . the Ways and , Means and Appropriations Committees in the Senate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last spring , but House leaders , who like to initiate fiscal matters without Senate interference , were cool to the idea , Republican leaders attacked the budget . Typical of the comment was that by Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio . The budget proposes a $3,000,000,000 deficit for next year as against the $4,000 , - 000,000 deficit this year , he charged , " A $700,000,000 return of Reconstruction Finance Corporation capital and new taxes of $460,000,000 are proposed , " he said , to divert public attention till after the election " ( torn the fact that the debt has reached the inconceivable statutory limit of $45,000,000,000. "                     