@@708590

txt A sharp controversy developed today in the first business meeting of the San Francisco security conference over the election of a conference president , but it was tempered later in the day when the Russians indicated a willingness to settle the difficult Polish question and accept amendments to the Dumbarton Oaks proposals . In a rapid series of events which left the delegates speculating more than ever tonight about the purposes and objectives of Soviet policy and tactics , the main developments were as follows : First , in this morning 's first meeting of the heads of the fortysix delegations , Foreign Secretary Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff rejected a motion that Edward R. Stettinius Jr. , Secretary of State , be made permanent chairman or president of the conference , and suggested instead that there he four chairmen : himself , Mr. Stettinius , Anthony Eden , the British Foreign Minister , and T. V. Soong , Chinese Foreign Minister and Acting President of the Executive Yuan . Second , in contrast with what some delegates described as his " curt and peremptory manlier " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even genial in his press conference this afternoon and told reporters that he had " no doubt " that the Polish difficulties " will be overcome . " New Russian Note Reported Third , he also scotched rumors that the Russians would oppose amending the Dumbarton Oaks proposals by saying that if It were not intended to amend these proposals there would have been " no use in having this conference . " Fourth , Mr. Molotoff said that it was only just that White Russia and the Ukraine should be voting members in the General Assembly of the proposed international organization , and he added that he was anxious that these two States and Poland should be represented in the present conference . Fifth , it was reported here that Marshal Stalin had sent a new note to Washington and to the United States , British and Russian delegations here giving his observations on the recent series of conversations between " the Big Three " Foreign Ministers and President Harry S. Truman in Washington . Nobody would talk tonight about the contents of this purported note , however . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolved after three hours of discussion at the Veterans Building this morning ' , but it was finally postponed until tomorrow to permit the delegates to have luncheon and attend the afternoon plenary session , which was addressed by the Foreign Secretaries of the four countries sponsoring the conference , the United States , Russia , Britain and China . It had been expected that thequestion of allowing White Russia and the Ukraine to be voting members of the proposed new League . of Nations would come up at this mornmeeting of the heads of delegations . In fact , there is : reason for saying that it was all set for a majority of the delegations here to approve the admission of the two Soviet Republics , and this will probably be done by the end of the week , but the delegation heads never reached the question because of the controversy over the election of the conference chairman . Though this meeting was held in executive session , it can be stated with authority that what happened in this session was as follows : After deciding that French should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the conference , a motion was made that Mr. Stettinius be elected permanent chairman of the conference . Mr. Molotoff rose immediately and opposed the motion . He argued , as several delegates who were there remarked , " in the sharpest terms " that Mr. Stettinius should not be made the sole chairman but that , since there were four " sponsor powers , " the United States , Soviet Russia , Great Britain and China , that the foreign ministers of these States should all be made co-chairmen with equal functions . Move by Mexican Minister The Mexican Foreign Minister , Ezequiel Padilla , is then understood to have obtained the floor and to have moved that Mr. Stettinius be made chairman of the conference and that the other three be deputy chairmen . Senor Padilla said that it was only normal in conferences of this kind that the head of the delegation of the country in which the conference was meeting would be made head of the conference . It was , moreover , simple courtesy , he added , that this procedure should be followed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again and thanked Senor Padilla for his " lesson in diplomatic procedure , " but , Mr. Molotoff added , he would like to see a vote taken immediately on the question of " the four chairmen . " The British Foreign Minister , Mr. Eden , who throughout the controversy , according to delegates who were there , remained cabin in his remarks , suggested that it might be all right to have four chairmen , each sitting in turn in the chair during plenary sessions . He added , however , that he believed Mr. Stettinius should be chairman during all " steering committee " meetings . Again , however , Mr. Molotoff rose . The question of who was chairman of the steering committee , he suggested , was a separate question . What he wanted , he said , was to have an announcement go out now that there would be " four chairmen " and that , perhaps tomorrow , it could be discussed about the chairmanship of the steering committee , which is to be made up of the heads of the delegations . Molotoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be under the impression that the Russian Foreign Commissar had agreed to the suggestion that Mr. Stettinius be made chairman of the steering committee and a vote was taken approving the naming of the four chairmen for the conference . However , a few mintues later , and either during or after the vote ( the delegates ' stories are contradictory on this point ) . Mr. Molotoff rose again and said that he had not agreed to Mr. Stettinius as chairman of the steering committee but had merely expressed " no objecl tion " on this point . But what happened about the chairmanship of the steering committee , he was said to have insisted , could be settled later , and he went back again to his premise : that the four chairmen of the conference should be elected immediately and the chairmanship of the steering committee brought up later . By this time delegates were rising all around and the parliamentary rules of procedure were not maintained . Throughout the discussion Mr. Stettinius was in the chair and did not take part in the controversy himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right time . Even this , however , was not always accomplished , according to the delegates . Mr. Eden repeatedly stepped into this breach and sought to mediate in the discussion , but , while he found the formula that will undoubtedly be accepted , probably tomorrow  --  having four chairmen ' of the conference and allowing Mr. Stettinius to sit as chairman of the steering committee  --  it proved to be impossible to resolve , the difficulty this morning and it was finally decided to postpone the meeting to permit the delegates to have luncheon . It can not be doubted that this unexpected development has already had a profound and depressing influence on the delegates . The heads of the delegations ( or those of them who would discuss the incident ) said that they did not care whether there was one or four chairmen , but they could not find an explanation of the Russian Foreign Minister 's insistence on his point and particularly they expressed surprise over the sharpness with which Mr. Molotoff expressed himself . This development , they said , was particularly surprising in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press conference and in his speech at the plenary session where he said that the Soviet Government " attaches great importance to this conference , " and added that the Soviet Union could not only be relied upon to do what was necessary to achieve and maintain a stable peace , but " was confident that the objectives ( of the conference ) would be achieved despite obstacles . " One probable key to the Russian attitude was contained in his repeated references in his plenary session speech to the League of Nations . He did not attempt to minimize his lack of sympathy for the League , which expelled Russia after her attack on Finland , and he referred significantly to it as containing several large imperialistic powers that had used it as a " tool " for their own ambitions . On the other hand , the foreign commissar repeatedly praised the work of the United States and Great Britain in the war . The " coalition " of the great powers in the war could not have succeeded , he said , without the aid of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was Russia which saved Europe from fascism and the fascist powers . Mr. Eden followed the Russian Commissar to the microphone on the great modernistic stage of the Opera House and urged the delegates to do their work with full realization of the political realities of the day and to do it with dispatch . He urged them , indeed , to set a , time limit , or at least a target of 1 four weeks for their deliberations , to set up the basic structure within the concept of their principles and to leave to time the working out of many intricate and perplex- i ing details . The Dumbarton Oaks proposals , he said , were admittedly a compromise . In the second place , he insisted , they did not constitute an attempt by the four big powers to dictate to the rest of the world on the kind of world organization there should be . The proposals should , he said , be taken as a basis for their consideration in the conference . 