@@710545

txt A. note - approaching desperation seems to underlie Chiang Kai-shek 's latest effort to rally his people to battle against the Communists . " Help us , " he says , " or stand by and watch your nation die . " The rebels are " only tools of a vast imperialism whose goal is eventual destruction of the - Chinese race . " This is plain talk . It leaves no doubt of what Power he regards as China 's real enemy in a situation grown - so critical that it threatens national survival . It helps to explain the stringent measures the Government has taken in the past week . Taxes have been increased in an economy already ridden by wild inflation . National resources and manpower are being mobilized as they were in the war against Japan . The Communists , hitherto treated as a dissident political faction , are outlawed by decree as rebels . Failure of previous strategy employed against them is acknowledged . Instead of being allowed to hit and run , they are now to be contained by a slow advance on wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government says it hopes to , achieve victory within a year . But it is never safe to venture predictions on the course of events in China . A month ago prophecies were freely made that the Communists were about to sweep the National armies out of Manchuria . China must keep at least her present grip on this rich province to maintain her sovereignty and strength as a nation . Chiang has his best troops there . Yet the situation had been allowed to deteriorate . Against feeble opposition the Communists advanced hundreds of miles beyond their base on the Sungari River to put the key rail city of Szepingkai under violent siege . For eighteen days they ? stormed it furiously and were only driven into the hills when two Nationalist columns surging suddenly forward closed in on them from north and south . Had the city fallen , the Communists might have destroyed the garrisons of Changchun and Mukden piecemeal and driven south clear to the Yellow Sea , where the Russians , without a shadow of legal right , still cling tenaciously to their base at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crest of the current Communist offensive . If so , the Government victory is the more impressive . Yet the threat to Manchuria is by no means lifted . The rebels have an unpleasant habit of retreating before superior forces only to strike again at some other point . This time they showed more strength than they ever revealed before . They seemed well equipped both with tanks and artillery and hurled more shells into Szepingkai alone than their own combined armories can produce . Nanking says they are being supplied by " a certain country " not difficult to identify . With the Russians firmly entrenched in Korea , Manchuria is now surrounded on land by Soviet forces . The struggle for control of the province may be just beginning . The fate of East Asia depends on who dominates it . What the outcome of such a struggle would be none can foretell . But China at last seems awake to her danger .                     