@@709276

txt One of the war 's top secrets , an amazing machine which applies electronic speeds for the first time to mathematical tasks hitherto too difficult and cumbersome for solution , was announced here tonight by the War Department . Leaders who saw the device in action for the first time heralded it as a tool with which to begin , to rebuild scientific affairs on new foundations . Such instruments , it was said , could revolutionize modern engineering , bring on a new epoch of industrial design , and eventually eliminate much slow and costly trial-and-error development work now deemed necessary in the fashioning of intricate machines . Heretofore , sheer mathematical difficulties have often forced designers to accept inferior solutions of their problems , with higher icosts and slower progress . The " Eniac , " as the new elee tronic speed marvel is known , vir-1 tually eliminates time in doing such jobs . Its inventors say it computes a mathematical problem 1,000 times faster than it has ever been done before . The machine is being used on a problem in nuclear physics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electronic numerical integrator and computer , " has not a single moving mechanical part . Nothing inside its 18,000 vacuum tubes and several miles of wiring moves ex " ept the tiniest elements of matter-electrons . There are , however , mechanical devices associated with it which translate or " interpret " the mathematical language of man to terms understood by the Eniac , and vice versa . Ceremonies dedicating the machine will be held tomorrow night at a dinner given a group of Government and scientific men at the University of Pennsylvania , after which they will witness the Eniae , in action at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering , . where it was built with the assistance of the Army Ordnance Department . The Eniac was invented and perfected by two young scientists of the school , Dr. John William Mauchly , 38 , a physicist and amateur meteorologist , and his associate , J. Presper Eckert Jr. , 26 , chief engineer of the project . As-1 sistance also was given by many ! others at the school . Army ordnance men had been on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of ballistic data , which in turn was needed to break a threatened bottleneck in the production of firing and bombing tables for new offensive weapons going overseas . Without the tables the guns . could not be used effectively . Project Took Thirty Months Capt . H. H. Goldstine , Army ordnahce mathematician , then at the school , heard of Dr. Mauchly 's ideas , told Col. Paul N. Gillon of the Aberdeen ( Md . ) Proving Ground , enlisted his enthusiastic support and the project went forward with Government aid . Virty months to the day later it wa finished and operating , doing easily what had been done laboriously by many trained men . The Eniac soon will be permanently installed at Aberdeen . " A very difficult wartime problem " was sent through its intricate circuits soon after it was completed . The Eniac completed the task in two hours . Had it not been available the job would have kept busy 100 trained men for a whole year . So clever is the device that its creators have given up trying to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This resolver of difficult problems is what computing experts call a " digital " counter . Basically , it does nothing more than add , subtract , multiply and divide . It does this by generating very accurately timed electrical impulses at a speed of 100,000 per second , and can do one operation every twentieth pulse , thereby adding , for instance , at the rate of 5,000 per second . Since all mathematical tasks , no matter how abstruse or involved , can be resolved to basic arithmetic if enough time is available , the Eniac can reverse the process , eliminate time , and arrive at an answer to virtually any problem . So say its inventors . Machine Has Memory , Too The machine , however , can do much more . It has the human faculty of " memory , " four kinds of it , to perform certain tasks in the proper sequence . It also has " control " elements , and can , up to a point , dictate its own action . It can , for instance , compare two numbers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two possible courses . First , it gets its original numbers from a series of cards in which holes are punched to indicate the " initial and boundary conditions " of the problem . One of the , Eniac " minds " performs this job . When the problem is punched on the cards they are dropped into a slot in a " reader . " The man who wants the answers may then sit down and await results . He seldom has to wait long ; the Eniac does most of its tasks in seconds . A unit called " a master programmer " oversees the whole computation and makes sure it is carried out . The Eniac has some 40 panels nine feet high , which bristle with control and indicating material . Pink neon lights blink on several panels as buttons are pressed . Numbers are printed beside the lights . Those who witnessed the demonstration entered a 30-by 60-foot room . The computer took up most of the space . Dr. Arthur W. Burks of the Moore School explained that the basic arithmetical operations , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve almost any problem . " Before You Can Say . .. " " Watch closely , you may miss it , " he asked , as a button was pressed to multiply 97,367 by itself 5,000 times . Most of the onlookers missed it  --  the operation took place in less than the wink lof an eye . To demonstrate the Eniac 's extreme speed , Dr. Burks next slowed down the action by a factor of 11,000 and did the same problem . Had the visitors been content to wait 16 2-3 minutes they could have observed the answer in neon light . The next was multiplication-13,975 by 13,975 . In a flash the quotient appeared-195 , - 300,625 . A table of squares and cubes of numbers was generated in one-tenth of a second . Next , a similar one of sines and cosines . The job was finished and printed on a large sheet before most of the visitors could go from one room to another . The Eniac was then told to solve a difficult problem that would have required several weeks ' work by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seconds . All problems must first be resolved to their essentials , punched on cards- and run through an International Business Machines unit called a " reader . " The reader translates the mathematical language to that of the Eniac , and vice versa . When this is done the machine is ready to operate . Numerical values covering a wide Dr. John W. Mauchly J. Presper Eckert Jr . range of scientific " constants " are interjected as and when they are needed . There are four kinds of " memory " in ' the Eniac to accomplish this . Constant adjustments are made in advance for each type of problem . Normally the Eniac handles tendigit numbers  --  a billion , for instance  --  but it can handle twentydigit numbers just as easily , resulting in number running to astronomical size . Machine Cost $400,000 More than 200,000 man-hours went into the building of the machine . It contains more than half a million soldered joints , and cost about $400,000 . Three times as much electricity is required to operate it as for one of our largest broadcasters-150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only an idea ; today it is perhaps the greatest marvel of electronic ingenuity . Dr. Mauchly joined the Moore School staff in 1941 , hoping he might be able to realize his ambition , to revolutionize the art of dealing with huge numbers in complex form . He believed , for instance , ' that something could be done about longrange weather predicting . In the field of peacetime activities Dr. Mauchly foresees not only better weather-predicting  --  months ahead  --  but also better airplanes , gas turbines , micro-wave radio tubes , television , prime movers , projectiles operating at supersonic speeds carrying cargoes in peace and even more and better accuracies in studying the movements of the planets . According to Colonel Goldstine , " mountainous " computational burdens have been carried by scientists in the past , which will be largely removed by electronic cornputers . He pointed out that the solution of equations of motion has been a hindrance in the past and that studies of shell flight , highspeed planes , rockets and bombs are " a few of the fields that will benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era which , with electronic speeds available , problems that have been thought impossible because they might require a lifetime will be readily resolved for man 's use . " The old era is going , the new one of electronic speed is on the way , when we can begin all over again to tackle sjientific problems with new understanding , " he told reporters . Mr. Eckert briefly described the Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology mechanical and electro-mechanical computing machines , the most recent of which was announced only a few months ago .                     