@@712351

txt Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee has ordered all government departments to make economies aimed at an all-round cut of at least 5 per Cent in administrative expenditure during the current year , it is authoritatively reported here . A great new hope for the worts has been snatched at the last moment from the embers of defeat in Britain 's financial Dunkirk . This conviction entigntens serious second thoughts expressed here by Sir Stafford Cripps , Chancellor of the Exchequer , on the twin subjects of sterling devaluation and the recent Washington agreement . Of course , failure to hold the line of the pound brings with it gravest new problems . It may bring too the most searching test yet of the strength of character and democratic understanding of the people of the United Kingdom , the British Commonwealth , and western Europe . It demands also a worldwide shift of economic balance , as the lengthening list of other countries ' devaluations clearly shows . It demands an effort to halt and then reverse economic trends that have been set for nearly half a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important and more positive has happened than even the biggest single currency revaluation in recent history . There is a chance to build again from rock bottom , but this time it is accompanied by something that has not occurred before except in time of war . That is the acknowledgment that this economic problem , this last chance to redress the balance between the Old World and the new , is a joint problem . It is everybody 's last chance . And the first joint policies . the first joint machinery to attack the problem , are the positive result of the Washington agreement . Sir Stafford made another significant remark . It was that hitherto there has been a " tendency on all sides to shy away from anything uncomfortable which would be involved in real progress . " That tendency has been pushed brusquely aside . and with it perhaps one of the unseen snares which so often has trapped the stumbling world . The depth of the chancellor 's feeling that the world has misunderstood the immense potential value for good of many recent events probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he came to face the biggest and probably most critical press conference he has yet faced in Britain . Sterling devaluation has set going a chain of reactions the final effects of which can be guessed but dimly . Failure to take advantage of this atomic change in the world 's financial chemistry would mean another crash of sterling finance  --  probably the last before the splitting of the world into three controlled , isolated units . Living Standards Hit Devaluation could be a great help . If should give the world 's exporters the incentive they have lacked to drive far and fast into the American market . Its " realism " should restoi e confidence in many currencies . It should increase opportunities tor trade . But it probably will mean a big relative fall if not an actual in British and European living standards , at least . until the longed-for increase in productivity actually occurs . At the same time , it should mean for Americans cheaper lotRign goods , cheaper tourism , cheaper shipping , cheaper nonctoilar oil , and a much higher potential return on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is big-time stuff . What is happening can be seen as an effort to make a substantial change in the pattern of living of the American people  --  to make the United States and Canada steady markets for vastly increased quantities of imported goods . The dollar gap arises , as we all now know by heart , because the world needs so much more from the vastly productive United States than the United States needs or even wants from the rest of the world . Fundamentally , there are only three ways of overcoming the gap ? by cutting United States export sales , by increasing United States imports , or by building a bridge of United Stat money , be it loans , gifts , or invatments . To Reverse Trend Another way of putting the job at hand is to say that it means halting and reversing the trend of trade , which has meant that since 1914 , the actual volume of manufactured goods entering world trade has been slowly but surely falling  --  by a total of about 10 per cent  --  while the percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falling even more . This also involves reversing the trend , which has been for the United States , by its wealtn , ingenuity , and economic philosophy of life continually to increase its own independence of others while those others succeeded only in increasing their dependence on the United States . It is a gigantic task . But it now is recognized as a joint one . In economic affairs , each nation now is his brother 's keeper . Acknowledgment of this brings new hope , as Sir Stafford stressed . Currencies may be , but man 's standards are not , devalued .                     