@@709112

txt The General Motors Corporation informed the United Automobile Workers , CIO , tonight that unless it was willing to modify its " unreasonable " wage demand and abandon efforts to bring - in the issue of " selling prices and profits " there was nothing to be gained from further discussion of the wage question . The company charged that the union was " creating a situation of lawlessness " by illegal picketing of General Motors ' plants and offices and asserted that the only point on which discussions would be of present value was " the illegal picketing by members of your ' union . " The statements were in a letter by H. W. Anderson , vice president of the company in charge of person-I nel , replying to a request yes- , terday from Walter P. Reuther , I vice president of the union in charge of its General Motors department , that negotiations be resumed . The letter was delivered on the sixth day of the strike which has ' tied up almost all General Motors operations in the country . Ford Announces Lay-Off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of strikes against fifteen plants of companies supplying it with parts it would have to lay off 40,000 production employes and workers in eighteen hydroelectric plants for the remainder of the week . The letter by Mr. Anderson to the UAW was as follows : " You broke off collective bargaining negotiations by calling a strike on Nov. 20 . With the strike in progress , you now request further negotiations with General Motors . " We engaged in collective bargaining with your union in many meetings covering a period of weeks . It was clear to us from the very beginning that you were de- termined to have a strike in General Motors . You now have that strike  --  your so-called ' Labor Blockade ' ? which you planned for many months . " In our negotiations with your committee and in a final effort to avoid a strike , we offered to make appropriate increases in wage rates to compensate for the accepted increase in the cost of living since January , 1941 . The Government has determined that living costs have increased 30 per cent since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all employes represented by your union would have had their hourly wages increased by at least 30 per cent since January , 1941 . You rejected this offer . Bars Prices-Profits Topic " It should be clear to you and all others that we will not negotiate with your union regarding our selling prices and profits . " Unless you are now prepared to modify your unreasonable wage demand , abandon your attempt to negotiate wages on the basis of our past profits , assumed future profits and our selling prices , and are now prepared to discuss wage adjustments on their merits , we do not think that anything can be gained by further discussion of the wage issue with your union at this time . " We are not attempting to operate any work formerly performed by strikers . We recognize your right to picket peacefully to advertise the existence of a labor dispute . But when your union uses force and threats of force to interfere with free entrance and exit at our plants and offices you have gone beyond your legal rights . You are creating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you at any time to discuss the illegal picketing by members of your union which is preventing our management and clerical employes from entering our offices and plants . A fair settlement of the strike itself can not be negotiated while such a situation exists . " The charge of illegal picketing made in the letter followed the assertion by the company during the day that UAW pickets had prevented about 50,000 of the 73 , - 000 salaried employes of the company from entering their places of work this morning . In connection with the charge it was noted that observers at the General Motors headquarters building had reported today that Mr. Anderson and Charles E. Wilson , president of the company , were halted by pickets at the garage entrance , as were many other salaried employes who were seeking to park their cars for the day . Mr. Wilson and Mr. Anderson , after a few moments of conversation with the pickets , were permitted to pass into the building . In brief comment on the Anderson letter preliminary to what he said would be a full reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been no illegal picketing in this strike . " " No prior complaint has been received either from General Motors or any law enforcement agency , " he declared . " We are still prepared to negotiate a settlement of this issue at any time and any place . " He called the letter additional proof that the company was engaging in unfair labor practices and said that the union would add the letter to its bill of complaint already on file with the National Labor Relations Board . The rejection by the company of the union 's proposal of yesterday had been expected . To have ac- cepted the proposal the company would have had to back down on previous stands , including its opposition to admission of the press and of representatives of the United States Conciliation Service to the negotiating sessions . An element of surprise came in the charge of illegal picketing . It served to emphasize to what extent the two parties in the dispute had drawn apart . Deny Federal Overtures Speculation turned here on whether efforts being made in Washington to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the contrary in Washington , both sides insisted today that they had received no letter , telegram , telephone call , personal visit or any other form of contact from any Government official regarding proposed conferences in Washington . It was understood , however , that Mr. Reuther had made tentative plans to go to Washington Thursday to confer with Secretary of Labor Schwellenbach , but at Mr. Reuther 's suggestion . The reported barring of the 50,000 General Motors white collar employes brought to about 235,000 the number of those directly affected by the strike . In addition , 140,000 other UAW members , not yet employed by General Motors because of reconversion delays , are indirectly affected by the walkout . The Ford announcement was made by M. L. Bricker , vice president in charge of manufacturing . He said that the 40,000 who would be unemployed worked in the River Rouge plant as well as the hydro-electric facilities and predicted that they would be back on the job by Monday . The number compared with 83,000 now employed by Ford in the Detroit area , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " policy , the union asserted that it would do everything possible to end the strike at those of the fifteen parts plants where the UAW had bargaining rights . Announcement to this effect was made by Richard T. Leonard , director of the UAW 's Ford department . The stated policy of the union is to give all assistance to competitors while General Motors is shut down . Mr. Bricker stated that the coming week-end would have been devotted to inventory and that . a comparable lay-off would have been necessary at that time . The fifteen Ford suppliers listed by Mr. Bricker as affected by strikes were the Warner Gear Company , Muncie , Ind. , manufacturer of transmissions ; the American Forge Company , Chicago , manufacturer of parts for Warner Gear ; the Galion Allsteel Body Company , Galion , Ohio , manufacturer of bodies fof export cars only ; the Fafnir Bearing Company , New Britain , Conn. , maker of ball bearings ; Campbell , Wyant &; Cannon , Muskegon , Mich. , manufacturer of production and service blocks ; the Mohawk Carpet Company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eclipse Machine Company , Elmira , N. Y. , manufacturer of starter drives . ? Also the Star Brass Works , Kalamazoo , manufacturer of tractor distributor bases ; the Ingersoll Steel and Disk Company , Chicago , manufacturer of tractor seats and other equipment ; the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company , Pittsburgh , and the Libbey-OwensFord Glass Company , Toledo , makers of plate sheet glass ; the Auto Specialties Manufacturing Company , St. Joseph , Mich. , maker of crankshafts and other equipment ; the A. C. Spark Plug Division of General Motors , Flint , which makes tractor radiator caps for Ford ; the Jackson Bumper Division of the Houdaille-Hershey Company , Jackson , Mich. , manufacturer of truck bumpers , and the Cleveland Graphite Bronze Company , Cleveland , manufacturer of bushings and bearings . All except the two glass companies , Galion , Allsteel , Star Brass and Cleveland Graphite Bronze had UAW-CIO contracts , according to a spokesman for the union . The strike against the A. C. Spark Plug Division at Flint was the only one , according to a Ford representative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday , and , by itself , would have had little or no effect on Ford production . A similar situation in September in a different set of supplier plants , mainly that of the KelseyHayes Wheel Company here , caused a shut-down of a month at Ford plants throughout the country , with 50,000 made idle . Production was resumed at Ford Oct. 15 , but , because of the shutdown and the present delays , the spokesman stated , the company had been able since July 5 to produce only 17,382 Fords , 395 Mercury cars and 168 Lincolns , far below the number it had hoped to put into the market . Linden Strikers Wait for Pay Mass picketing was resumed yesterday at the General Motors ( plant in Linden , N. J. An estimated 575 union members are on strike ' at the plant . About 350 of the strikers are waiting for a week and a half 's pay , because the union has refused to permit all office personnel to enter the building . Dominick Saragino , president of Local 595 , UAW , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enter , but that this proposal was rejected by the company . In New York the Seafarers International Union , AFL , said that its members had unanimously passed a resolution supporting the strike against General Motors . The support , it was stated , was not solicited by the CIO union and was proffered in ' a desire to help " establish a fair relationship between wages and the cost of living . "                     