@@709216

txt Secretary of State James F. Byrnes asked the United Nations General Assembly today to adopt ' the Big Four 's atomic energy resolution and proposed that the Security Council start work at once on defining the size of the forces to be placed at the disposal of the new world organization . Before an audience that cheered his assurance that this time the United States would give its wholehearted cooperation to the nations organizing for peace , Mr. Byrnes warned-the great powers that they must use their strength only in defense of law and cautioned the small powers not to expect too much from the United Nations Organization in its infancy . In accordance with his agreement with the members of his delegation who have taken a special interest . in his atomic bomb policy , the Secretary told the General Assembly that the discovery of atomic energy was " inseparably " connected with the problem of security and emphasized that " we must not fail to devise the safeguards necessary to insure that this great discovery is used for human welfare and not for more deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief reference to the security aspects of the problem Mr. Byrnes merely asked the Assembly to create a UNO atomic bomb commission to recommend ways of dealing with the problem , but when he had finished , the Brazilian Foreign Minister , L. M. de Souza Dantas , told the Assembly that while a few powers might be able to keep the bomb secret for a while this was no final solution to the prob ! am . Throughout history , the Brazilian said . these great new inventilns had soon spread and the only de ( eilso against the bomb was a new spirit of brotherhood in the ? vorld , transcending national inter-. ests and even national sovereignty . Mr. Byrnes. however , argued against changing the Charter at the present time or expecting too much of it in its infancy . " Let us not expect feats of magic overnight from the institutions we have created , " he said . " Let us beware of the die-hard enthusiasts as well as the die-hard unbelievers . Let us not think that we can give over any and every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solved . Let us avoid casting excessive burdens upon the institutions of the United Nations in their infancy . " In effect , this was another appeal to the Turks , the Iranians and other states with pressing foreign problems , not to raise them here before the organization was well started . These appeals have alroady been made in private , and as of tonight the Turks and Iranians , at least , have agreed to go along with the suggestion . Asks Individual Initiative " I recall to you . " Mr. Byrnes declared , " the clear provisions of the Charter which obligate member nations to make every effort to settle their disputes by peaceful means of their own choice , before calling upon the United Nations to intervene . " In line with his proposal that this meeting of the Assembly should concentrate on organizing itself into an effective instrument of security , however , the Secretary of State urged the members to start work " immediately " on the task of deciding how much force and what facilities they were prepared to put at the disposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant by ; this is not entirely clear , for the : United States itself has reached no policy decision on whether it thinks the American quota of I forces should be small or large. ; The United States has military ; and'havai advisers with the Amer-1 ican delegation in London , butt their advice is being given with ; // very little relation either to the obligations taken under the Chart ' er or the realities of politics at home . Consequently , if , as Mr. Byrnes suggests , the Security Council really does press forward immediately with this problem , a great many questions are likely to be directed , particularly to the United States and the other permanent members of the Security Council , as to what they are prepared to ' place at the disposal of the Council  --  a question that , as far as can be determined has not yet been settled at the political level of the United States Government . Yugoslavia Gets Place Before the Secretary of State spoke , the General Assembly resolved the deadlock between New Zealand and Yugoslavia over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council and allocated the three-year , two-year land one-year terms to the members of this Council . The problem over the last place on the Council arose last Saturday when neither could obtain the necessary two-thirds majority vote , and when it appeared it would delay the Assembly again today New Zealand withdrew and was warmly praised for her action by the United States , Britain and Yugoslavia . It is expected that New Zealand will get one of the three-year terms as soon as one becomes available next autumn . Nations elected to three-year terms on the Economic and Social Council were China with forty-four votes ; Peru , forty-three ; France , forty ; Chile , thirty-eight ; Canada , twenty-nine , and Belgium , twentyeight . Those elected for two years were the Soviet Union , forty-one votes ; United Kingdom , thirty-six ; India , thirty-four ; Norway , thirtythree , and Cuba and Czechoslovakia , thirty-two each . Those serving one-year terms will be the United States , Ukraine , Greece , Lebanon , Colombia and Yugoslavia . Today 's speeches in the Assembly were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the UNO preparatory commission  --  a debate that gives the delegates almost unlimited range for discussion . In addition to the speeches of Mr. Byrnes and the Brazilian Foreign Minister , the only other one in the general debate was made by Manuel Bianchi , the Chilean Ambassador to London , who spoke in glowing terms of the contributions made by the people and the atmosphere of San Francisco to the drafting of the UNO Charter there last spring . Chile , he said , had favored San Francisco as the permanent site and was sorry that the decision had gone against it , but he felt ? and the delegates supported him with their applause  --  that the Assembly should indicate its gratitude for the role of San Francisco in the early days of the security experiment .                     