@@712243

txt South Korea is wondering whether or not Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek will attempt to expand his Pacific alliance scheme into a full-fledged military pact . Actually , little is known here about the subjects which the Chinese leader will discuss with Korea 's President Syngman Rhee . It is considered somewhat strange from a diplomatic standpoint that the titular head of Nationalist China  --  still nominally one of the Big Five powers  --  should make a trek to South Korea . It is felt in most quarters , however , that the Chiang visit is partially in the nature of a bow to Dr. Rhee , who originated the idea of a Pacific alliance  --  but who was not in on the first conference in the Philippines . Speculation on Terms Presumably General Chiang will seek South Korea 's adherence to the alliance plan now being prepared . And in view of Dr. Rhee 's earlier advocacy of the alliance , it is further presumed that he will consent . The terms under which he extends support to General Chiang , however are the subject of intense speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chiang will seek first of all to secure South Korean assistance in a blockade which Nationalists are trying to enforce on Chinese Communist coastal ports . The Nationalist , navy , under Admiral Kwei Yung-thing , has established a fairly effective blockade of the Gulf of Po Hai , utilizing radar stations in the islands which command the gulf 's entrance , Useful Air Base If this blockade could be extended through cooperation of the South Korean Coast Guard , radar , shipping information , channels , and naval port facilities , it would be of immense advantage to the Nationalists . Another point of conjecture concerns the use of the Chinese Nationalist military forces . From the standpoint of General Chiang , himself , South Korea would be a useful place for basing that portion of his air force which now is on Taiwan ( Formosa ) , In return for these favors , General Chiang might be willing to provide South Korea with some vitally needed military equipment , large quantities of which now are rotting in Taiwan dumps . Split on Strategy . Aside from these speculative points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong here that General Chiang 's primary mission is based upon his own political troubles . The Kuomintang ( Nationalist Party ) is still badly split on the question of over-all strategy and the use of Taiwan at this time as a retreat . General Chiang probably has calculated that if he can secure international backing for his side in the quarrel , it will help to bridge the Kuomintangs chism and also furnish international backing for his utilization of Taiwan as a Kuomintang military refuge . It is becoming increasingly clear ? particularly in view of Washington 's publication of the China White Paper ? that General Chiang can receive no support from the United States for his Pacific alliance . Likewise it appears highly improbable that he will receive any backing or even moral support from the British , French , and Dutch in the Far East .                     