@@709500

txt Col. Paul G. Armstrong , state selective service director , said last night that Illinois local draft boards will be officially notified today to start reclassification procedures to induct men 26 thru 29 . The number affected by the order will be relatively sm all , Armstrong said . He explained that reclassification , examination , and appeal procedures will delay in. duction until about June 15 ? just 15 days before expiration of the draft extension as it now stands . Washington , D. C. , May 19 ( - Reconversion Director Snyder reported tonight that 2,080,000 persons , including 970,000 veterans , will want to go to college next fall but that only one million , including 690,000 veterans , can be accommodated . The report noted shortages net only of . housIng but also of facilities , books , and teachers . It urged President Truman to appoint a national commission on high . er education to work during summer on these and other problems and to report in time for their considers . lion by the administration and the - next congress . Higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be taken by the institu ? tions themselves , including : Raising teachers ' salaries " to corn . petitive levels . " Making " more effective use of present campus facilities . " In this connection , Snyder noted that during the war " such facilities as dining halls and gymnasiums were used in shifts , Laboratories , classrooms , and libraries were used for longer hours than in peace time , and afternoons , evenings , and Sundays were employed for classroom work . " Finds " Warr " Still On " The war is not over for the colleges , " he continued . " Until they can catch up with the demand for their services , they will be forced to use every physical resource to capacity and to postpone resumption of their normal , and desirable , peace time pace of operation . " Snyder 's estimates of prospective enrollment applications were based on continuation of the draft without exemption of 18 and 19 year olds . The house voted such exemption and the measure is pending In the sew ate . Snyder estimated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply for college enrollment in the fall if the teen-age draft is continued and that 275,000 will seek to enroll if teenagers are exempted . Even the 145,000 , he noted , would represent an Increase of 25,000 in the high school graduate category over last year 's enrollment applications . Earlier Estimates Upset The estimate of 970,000 veterans seeking enrollment next fall represents 9 per cent of those eligible under I he GI Bill of Rights and is an increase over previous estimates . " Even more veterans will be enrolled in the fall of 1947 , " Snyder added , " and the peak of veterans ' enrollment probably will not be reached until the fall of 1948 . Not until 1950 ) 51 will the number of veterans in college begin to decline Isignificantly . " Cost Billion in Year The federal government will spend at least 1 billion dollars for the college education of veterans in the 1946. ' 47 school year if about 700,000 veterans are enrolled , the report noted . " Over the years , " it continued , " the federal government will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War IL veterans  --  almost half as much as was the total for all purposes spent for all benefits to veterans of World War I , "                     