@@704810

txt BALTIC STEPS LAID TO MOSCOW PANIC Russia Reported Frightened by the Quick Nazi Victories in Western Europe By OTTO TOLISCHUS Wireless to THE NEW YORK Taos . STOCKHOLM , Sweden , June 18 ? For the present Chancellor Hitler has it completely in his power to create that " new Europe " that he announced in his New Year 's proclamation , and all countries in Europe will have to play their allotted parts in it . The contours of this " new Europe " have been outlined in these dispatches before , and the suggestion in the German press to make the Reichsmark the standard of currency for Continental trade is merely another interesting feature of the German plans . But while Britain continues the war this " new Europe , " it is held , can be little more than the " Continental system " created by Napoleon in his efforts to defeat Britain . At the same time it is also recalled that in " Mein Kampf " Herr Hitler demands the annihilation of France as merely " a means to give our people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only place he sees for such expansion is Russia . Fear Evident in Moscow In the light of this point of the program , which so far has been carried out almost to the letter , the Russian moves in the Baltic region find their own explanation . According to travelers returning from Russia , something like panic prevails in Moscow over the quick German victories , which have been wholly contrary to Russian calculations , and this is also advanced as an explanation of the precipitate Russian action in the Baltic . A Reuters dispatch from Kaunas , Lithuania , reported that German troop movements were being carried out in neighboring East Prussia . For four days additional Soviet troops , including motorized units , have been arriving in Lithuania . Several Kaunas buildings were requisitioned for Soviet military authorities . According to reports from Riga , Latvia , the Russian occupation of Latvia precipitated a Communist uprising in the capital that was soon crushed by the police . Several persons were killed and scores // TOKYO WILL OPPOSE INDO-CHINA CHANGE // China to the Chinese Government . Masayuki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French Ambassador , to the Foreign Office this aftafternoon to make known this government 's attitude . It was understood that M. Arsene-Henry , anticipating the protest , at once assured Mr. Tani that the French Government was taking appropriate measures to insure the voluntary stoppage by Indo-China of any aid to China . The Japanese Government soon will make " friendly representations " to Germany and Italy calling attention to this country 's interest in the future of French Indo-China , according to press reports today . The representations will state that " Japan has a direct interest " in Indo-China because of geography and the close economic relations that long have existed between the Japanese Empire and the French colony , according to the reports . The representations also probably will mention the Netherlands Indies and ask Berlin and Rome for " friendly consideration " of the Japanese viewpoint with regard to this Netherland colony . Government Harassed The decision to make the representations came while Premier Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai 's harassed government was attempting to offset Nationalist demands for the immediate occupation of Indo-China by intensifying its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged the ultra-Nationalists with " insincerity , " alleging that these groups really were not so much concerned with southward expansion as they were with overthrowing the Cabinet . The Nationalists replied that the government must go because of the failure of its " weak-kneed " policy toward Britain and France . The Premier 's strategy , according to his supporters , is to strike crushing blows at Nationalist China and bring the conflict in that country to an early end , " uniting all China under the national government in Nanking . " The reference is to the Japanese-sponsored puppet government of Wang Ching-wei . Public Is Conservative Public opinion , so far as it could he judged by neutral observers , appeared to favor the government 's program . The man in the street is heartily tired of the China war , which will be three years old next month , and is opposed to new military adventures if they can be avoided . One of the strongest of the Nationalist attacks came last night When the ultra-Nationalist Meirinkai organization , composed of retired army officers and extreme Nationalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate occupation of Indo-China . The government , it was believed , would ignore the resolution for the nresent. in line with its fixed polic - of concentrating all national effort on the China conflict . Mass air attacks on Chungking , the Chinese capital , will be continued and the land offensive against General Chiang pressed by , additional Japanese divisions , it was said . Many Islands Affected By HUGH BYAS Wireless to THE NEtc YORK Trnms . TOKYO , June ** most pressing of the questions now raised here is the future of the French possessions in the Far East and the Pacific . These include , besides French Indo-China , some extremely important footholds in the Pacific , such as New Caledonia , Tahiti and the Marquesas and other island groups . At the moment public attention is focused almost exclusively on French Indo-China , in which the Japanese Army is displaying special interest . But undertones of apprehension , lest Germany should acquire the French Fleet and demand France 's South Sea bases are also audible . Japan already holds Germany 's former Pacific islands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them up and Japanese opinion at present is resting comfortably on the conviction that Chancellor Hitler knows Japan 's views too well to claim any South Sea outposts . Some persons here believe that if this question is raised , it is probable that Japan will be found willing to cooperate with the United States in preventing any further European intrusion in the Pacific . But until the fate of the French fleet is known , this question is in the background . The question of Indo-China , however , has been pushed prominently into the foreground by recent statements of the Japanese Army spokesman at Canton . He has insisted that Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek 's resistance is now sustained largely by supplies received by way of Indo-China , and has declared that the elimination of hostile French action is necessary . Denial Not Published The French Embassy here Immediately denied that any munitions were being transported to Chungking over French territory , as soon as this statement was made . The denial , however , does not seem to have been published in the Japanese press , which continues to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nichi Nichi tonight declares that if French aid to Japan 's enemies is not stopped , France will have to bear the responsibility for untoward results . There is a flat contradiction between the Japanese and the French statements . The real truth of the matter , however , is less important in the present circumstances than Japan 's view of the situation . The earlier idea that the China war should be finished before Britain was free to join possible combinations in restraint of Japan has not counted much in Japan 's China plans recently , and it is now entirely abandoned . The prospects of American interference are also believed to have become negligible , in view of America 's present preoccupation with her own security . A stiffer attitude toward the United States is already seen in a message given to Ambassador Joseph C. Grew tonight in answer to Secretary of State Cordell Hull 's representations regarding the bombing of Chungking . Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita simply repeated the advice that he tendered last week , that American nationals should withdraw to places of safety , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday , June 19 ( UP ) ? It was reported in shipping circles today that the British Colonial Government had suspended indefinitely all ship clearances to French Indo-China ports . Japan Held Responsible Special to THE NEW YORK . TIMES . WASHINGTON , June 18 ? The Japanese warning for foreigners to leave Chungking , which has been 1 under repeated aerial bombings , has been circulated to Americans , but Secretary of State Cordell Hull said today that Japan would be held responsible for any injuries . When military forces are advancing and send notice to the general public located in their way , Mr. Hull explained , the public exercises its judgment . as to what it does . Information of this character is always transmitted by the United States to Americans in such places of possible danger , he added , but international law holds any one operating in the military area responsible for injuries and that applies in the present circumstances .                     