@@708018

txt The reconversion of industry from war to civilian output moved its longest step forward today when Donald M. Nelson , chairman of the War Production Board , issued his order empowering local production and manpower officials to permit the manufacture of long-unavailable civilian articles on the basis of local material and labor conditions . On the list are such household articles as vacuum cleaners , electric ranges , garbage cans , washtubs , egg beaters , cooking utensils , can openers , lawn mowers , sewing machines and steel wool . The ruling , the fourth and last in a series of WPB reconversion measures which have been issued since July 15 , largely at the insistence of Mr. Nelson , grants this authority to local officials , beginning tomorrow , under the title of Priorities Regulation No. 25 . Championed by the WPB chairman and a few of his aides , on the one hand , and opposed by the armed services and the War Manpower Commission on the other , the action brings the WPB chief 's disputed reconversion program virtually to fruition . Ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program today as a means to decentralize some of the operations which will be necessary to " take up the slack " in men and materials as cutbacks in war production leave them idle . " Above everything else , " he declared , " it is vital to arrange the machinery so that in the future , when military demands decline or ' change , the men , the facilities and the materials which are set free can speedily be put to other uses . " Accompanying the authorization of civilian output " as local conditions permit , " was a separate " direction " listing seventy-nine limitation ( L ) orders and seven material conservation ( M ) orders currently keeping civilian production on a restricted , wartime basis . Priorities Regulation No. 25 will enable manufacturers operating under any of these orders to appeal to their local WPB offices for permission to exceed the restrictions , or ignore them , to the extent that labor , materials and facilities are available , and the new civilian production will not interfere with the war effort . 250 " Utility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are among the restricted " L " and " M " orders accompanies the " Direction No. 1 " areas receiving a preference rating of AA-5 . Classified as " utility items of importance in civilian production , " this list will receive preference over other articles restricted by the same orders because of their relative essentiality . Thus , vacuum cleaners now get an AA-5 rating , while " gaming and vending machines , " although included in one of the orders due to be relaxed , are not . With the once-postponed ruling finally in effect , speculation as to its probable operation went to extremes . While some observers looked for an immediate resumption of civilian manufacture , others contended , that the directive Issued by James ' F. Byrnes , Director of War Mobilization , granting to WMC officials on local ' committees veto power over civilian output would probably keep actual production to a minimum . In between , however , lay the belief that the first several days or ' few weeks that the order is in effect might see civilian production getting off to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would exert a pressure which manpower officials could not successfully resist . It is understood , also , that Mr. Nelson feels strongly enough about ' the Byrnes ' directive that he will ask for an accounting of its operation a short time after the new re- , conversion order gets ' under way and he has had an- opportunity to judge its effectiveness under the WMC power of veto . Mr. Nelson meanwhile emphasized in his statement accompany. ing the reconversion order today that the whole procedure lifting some of , the curbs on non-war output was in conformity with the Byrnes directive " prohibiting increased civilian production in classified areas where it has not been ascertained that labor for such activity is available . " " Under no circumstances will additional civilian production be authorized if it would divert needed labor or facilities from war or essential civilian production , " the WPB chairman asserted . " Instructions which will be issued to field offices will advise that increased civilian production may not be authorized until such time as labor checks have been made and the area representative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased manufacture of civilian goods will not interfere with either local or inter-regional recruitment of labor for war production . " For the time being it is not anticipated that any large increases in production of civilian goods will be possible . Supplies of steel and copper continue to be short , and as a result little if any new production of these metals will be available for civilian goods output . Some quantities of new production aluminum will be available , in addition to some non-controlled materials . Supplies of idle and excess materials will be available for use under the procedure . " " General policy " to be followed in granting authorizations for civilian production , according to Priorities Regulation No. 25 , will be constructed around these five considerations . 1 . Authorization will " in no case " be granted if production will , in any way , interfere with either war production or production of essential civilian articles . 2 . Labor and facilities to manufacture must be available to the applicant and not required for more essential purposes . The application will be denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with either local or interregional labor recruitment activities . 3 . " More favorable consideration " will be given to applications generally if the articles can be produced from idle , excess or frozen materials and components 4 . Preference ratings of AA-5 will be assigned , but only for the production of utility items of importance in civilian requirements . 5 . Before snaking application , the applicant should investigate the supply . situation of the material and components which he will require . More favorable consideration will be given to applications where the new materials needed to produce the product can be readily ' obtained with an AA-5. rating ( if a utility item ) or without a rating .                     