@@706917

txt More than 1.400 arrests have been made by the Boston Police Department in the past two years in this city 's drive against the betting racket , it was revealed today by Police Commissioner Joseph Timilty as he prepared to submit , to Attorney General Robert T. Bushnell records of all the Department 's anti-gambling activities Since 1941 . " It is going to take a long time , " Commissioner Timilty said , " to compile all the information the Attorney General has requested but I shall do everything possible to make this material available to Mr. Bushnell soon . " Last month the Police Commis , sioner asked the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company to remove telephones which were being used for " gaming purposes . " Up to the present time only five requests have been made by the Police Commissioner , an official of the Telephone Company stated today . All of these requests resulted in the " disconnecting " of the telephones , the telephone representative said . Police Records Developments during the past 24 hours in Boston 's anti-gambling drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's request last night , busy today compiling a complete record of all gambling arrests , prosecutions and investigations in this city during the past two years . Attorney General Bushnell made his request following an earlier statement that police officers of lower rank were " practically helpless when syndicates are allowed to take over . " Police Commissioner Timilty immediately assured the Attorney General of his " full co-operation " and that all records will be made available to Mr. Bushnell 's office . The Attorney General 's unusual request from Mr. Timilty was seen by observers , however , to be an indication that investigation of Police Department activities were being made . Asking for a " complete picture " of Boston 's anti-gambling activities since 1941 the Attorney General prefaced his letter to Mr. Timilty by quoting from a statement the Police Commissioner was said to have issued to the newspapers last month in which was disclosed that the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , at his request , had agreed to remove telephones from horse room and bookies establishments in the city . " Will you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn- plete list of all Boston police officers , of all ranks or grades , that have been assigned to the work you refer in the statement quoted above during the years 1941-42 , and up to and including the present time , " Attorney General Bushnell wrote the Commissioner . " Kindly describe briefly the nature of such instructions given to such officers and their activities . Instructions Sought " If arrests were made , kindly state the date and time and the name of person arrested . " If prosecutions in court followed , kindly indicate In what court , disposition of the cases and dates thereof , with full names of defendants and offenses with which they were charged . " Please state , also , the dates on which officer was assigned to such work , and where an assignment to such work was terminated , the date of such termination . " In order to make this information available as soon as possible , I would suggest that it be collected and forwarded to me for monthly periods , beginning with the past month and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , I wish to have as quickly and as completely as possible an outline of all activities of the Boston Police Department during these years relating to the matters referred to above . If in assembling the data requested you believe any comment or information riot specifically called for would be helpful to a complete understanding of the picture , please feel free to add the same . " In any proceedings which my duties may compel me to take I shall welcome the assistance of the Boston Police Force . In order that the men may realize this fully , I would request that the inclosed statement of my views in this regard be brought to their attention . " The Attorney General enclosed a copy of his statement issued last Wednesday , in which he expressed the hope that the gambling raids and proceedings will not destroy public confidence in the Boston police force as a whole . He also stated that " given half a chance the rank and file will do their duty every time . "       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     