@@711454

txt The present broad lines of United States policy toward the United Nations would be continued if Governor Dewey was elected President , according to indications today from usually well-informed sources . John Foster Dulles , who it is believed would be Mr. Dewey 's Secretary of State , has already been named as a member of the United States delegation to the General Assembly , which meets Sept. 21 in Paris . Thus , it is believed , a Republican victory would not result in any alteration of the objectives to be sought by the United States at the Assembly . The efforts made by Mr. Dewey and Mr. Dulles to obtain Congressional authorization for the $65 , - 000,000 loan for the new United Nations headquarters were welcomed warmly here . Although President Truman had urged passage of the loan , its approval at the recent special session of Congress is attributed mainly to the efforts of Mr. Dulles , who went to Washington to explain the importance of fulfilling the United States pledge . It is believed that Mr. Dulles , if he became Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tactics  --  closer contact between the United States delegation and other delegations . At // past meetings of the General Assembly the United States delegation failed to discuss some important proposals with other delegations before submitting them . Delegation Kept in Dark Last fall , for example , the United States delegation did not know of the proposal for the establishment of the " Little Assembly " until it was announced by Secretary ' of State Marshall in a speech after ! the Assembly had convened . Mr. Dulles , who has been a member of the United States delegation at all regular sessions of the General Assembly , had the responsibility of piloting the " Little Assembly " through the critical committee stage . The acceptance of the proposal was attributed largely to his ability to convince and persuade other delegates . As the dominant military and economic power of - the world , the United States naturally holds a very strong position in the United Nations . Almost any proposal it makes within reason is likely to be accepted . However , associates of Mr. Dulles believe he thinks this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is preferable to talk over important proposals with the other delegates and avoid charges that . the United States was trying to crack a. whip . In particular it is believed that with Mr. Dulles as Secretary of State the United States Government would be more careful to avoid actions giving an opportunity to Soviet propagandists to contend that the United States was " by-passing " the United Nations . Truman Ignored U. N. The United Nations was ignored when President Truman announced the so-called Truman Doctrine a year and a half ago . Only on the intervention of Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , was the omission corrected . Mr. Vandenberg , as Mr. Dulles , served as a member of the United States delegation at San Francisco , and they have been closely associated in the development of a bipartisan foreign policy . The Vandenberg amendment , which the Senate Foreign Relations Committee introduced a few months ago , backed up the efforts the United States delegation was making to eliminate the use of the veto in questions relating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members to the United Nations . However , these Republican leaders are understood to believe that such changes should be made by voluntary agreement , rather than by efforts to amend the Cllarter . Such efforts have no present chance of getting past the Soviet veto . Because of the Soviet veto , the Security Council is powerless now to take action on any question touching Soviet interests . It is understood that Mr. Dulles feels that every effort should be made to take advantage of Article 51 of the Charter , which safegv rds the right of individual or collective self-defense against armed attack . This article was not contained in the Dumbarton Oaks proposals , but Mr. Vandenberg and Mr. Dulles fought successfully at San Francisco for its inclusion in the United Nations Charter . Acting under Article 51 , , the United States and the twenty Latin-American republics agreed last year at Rio de Janeiro to establish a system of treaties of mutual defense under which they would come to the help of any one of them that was attacked . Each of the twenty-one members would retain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but decisions on all measures short of war would be decided by a two-thirds majority . Extension Is Urged The extension of this principle to all countries wishing to take part has been urged by Hamilton Fish Armstrong , editor of the quarterly1 magazine , Foreign Affairs . However ; Mr. Dulles is understood to ' believe that for the time being it would be more effective for th ? United States to support the estab lishment of a number of interlock ing regional defense associations . In testimony before Congress , Mr. Dulles has already urged that the United States take positive steps to support the Western European union . Although he stands back of the basic policy followed by the United States in Germany , some of his friends say that he thinks the Berlin crises should have been postponed until the United States could have given guarantees simultaneously for the support of Western Europe . In this way , it is believed , France and other democracies would not have developed uneasiness over the Ipossibility that United States efforts to help German recovery might leave them without protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Soviet Union . Mr. Dulles will fly to Amsterdam next , weelt to attend the first world assembly of the World Council of Churches , but will return for conferences with other members of the United States delegation to the United Nations General Assembly . The delegation will sail Sept. 13 for France on the liner America , but it was understood that both Mr. Dulles and Secretary Marshall may go over later by air .                     